EXTRACT TAKEN FROM A JOURNAL OF INDIAN TRANSACTIONS.

McKee, Alexander. May 1 - June 10, 1774. Extract from Alexander McKee Esqr's journal of transactions with the Indians at Pittsburgh. Microfilm produced from originals in the Manuscript Division. Washington, D.C.: Library of Congress Photo-duplication Service, 1977. 

May 1,1774
Information having been given that sundry depredations had been committed upon several Indian parties going down the river from this place, by the white inhabitants settled upon the Ohio, near Wheeling and Yellow Creek, the following Message was dispatched to King Custologa, Captains White Eyes and Pipe, and such other Chiefs as were most contiguous to this place:
	BRETHREN: We are under the necessity, from some disagreeable intelligence which we have just received, of calling upon your immediate attendance at this place, where we shall have things of importance to communicate to you, which intimately concerns the welfare of us both. This will be sufficient, we expect, to induce your speedy appearance here, as delays, upon this occasion, may be attended with the most dangerous consequences.' (A string of white wampum.) 

May 3. 
A meeting held at Colonel Croghan's house, at which was present Captain Connolly, the Commandant of the militia, and several inhabitants of Pittsburgh, with Guyashuta, the White Mingo, and a deputation of the Six Nation Indians, who were here upon their way with speeches from Sir William Johnson to the Hurons and Wabash Confederacy.

British speaker (either Colonel Croghan or Captain Connolly): 
	BRETHREN: We are sorry to inform you that we have lately received accounts of some outrages being committed upon several of your people going down the Ohio, by some ill disposed white persons settled upon it; and we take the earliest opportunity of making you acquainted with what we have heard, in order to convince you that we discountenance so barbarous a breach of friendship with you, and we assure you that it has not been done with the intent or knowledge of Government, and we make no doubt your brother, the Governor of Virginia, when he becomes fully acquainted with the circumstances of the unhappy loss you have sustained in so many of your people, that he and his wise men will fall upon the most salutary measures of doing you every justice that can be expected. In the mean time we have to recommend to you, in the most earnest manner, your affording every assistance in your power to accommodate this unfortunate breach which has happened, as you must be sensible that a general war between us must be attended with the greatest calamity on both sides.' (A belt of wampum.) 

After some time the Native delegates returned an answer: 
	Brethren: (the English) We have considered what you have said to us, and as the Chiefs of the Delawares are expected in this night, or tomorrow, we will consult with them, and then know what reply to make. But you may depend upon it, that we shall do everything in our power to keep things quiet, which we make no doubt can be done, from the general peaceable disposition of our own people, provided you will be strong upon your parts, in preventing your rash people from commencing any further hostilities upon the Indians. (A string of wampum.) 

May 4. 
Arrived, Captain White Eyes, Pipe, and Samuel Compass, brother to one of the Delaware Indians lately murdered in the traders' canoe, with several other Chiefs and principal men of the Delawares. The same evening they proceeded to the Six Nation Village, at Pine Creek, in order to consult with the Chiefs there, and be informed of what had already passed between them and us. 

May 5. 
At a Condolence held with the Six Nations, Delawares, Shawanese, Munsies, Mohigans, and Twightwees, who are the several Nations that have been sufferers in the late unfortunate disturbances, present: 
Captain Connolly, Commandant, and a number of other gentlemen. 
SIX NATION INDIANS.—Guyasutha, White Mingo, and the Six Nation Deputies as before mentioned, with a number of other Chiefs, and principal men. 
DELAWARES.—Captains White Eyes,Pipe, Keykewenum,and Samuel Compass, with a number of other Indians of that Nation.

Captain Connolly:
	Brethren: It was with the deepest concern that we informed you two days ago of the late unhappy death of some of your friends, and it adds much to our grief upon this occasion, when we consider that some of our rash, inconsiderate people, have been accessory thereto. We condole with you, and bewail the misfortunes you have suffered, and as a testimony of our sincerity, we deliver you these strings of wampum.' (A string to each Nation.) 

	Brethren: We wipeth tears from your eyes, and remove the grief which this melancholy circumstance may have impressed upon your hearts, that you may be enabled to look upon your brethren (the English) with the same friendship as usual, and listen to them with the like goodness of heart as formerly, when no evil disturbed your minds.' (A string to each Nation.) 

	Brethren: We now collect the bones of your deceased people, and wrap them up in those goods which we have prepared for that purpose, and we likewise inter them, that every remembrance of uneasiness upon this heap may be extinguished and also buried in oblivion.' (Delivered a condolence present.) 

	BRETHREN: We have now, conformably to your custom, condoled with you in the usual manner upon such occasions; and we are to request some of your Chiefs present, who have the most influence with the distant tribes to proceed to them with the greatest expedition with what you have now heard, as it is highly necessary that we should be made acquainted without delay, with the result of their councils upon the present circumstances of affairs, as well as it may be useful for them to be informed of our sentiments thereupon; and that the stroke they have received is not only contrary to the judgment of every wise man amongst us, but all authority, which consequently will be exerted to do them justice; therefore, these facts ought to have great weight in their determination at this time; and as a further proof of our uprightness towards them, two of the gentlemen here present will accompany you in the execution of this good work. (A string of wampum.)

Captain Conolly then addressed the Indians as follows:
	Brethren: I am very sorry to find that a dispute has happened between our people and yours, which has been attended with bad consequences to both parties. You ought to be certain, brothers, that our wise men had no act or part in what has happened, and that it was entirely owing to the folly and indiscretion of our young people, which you know, like your own young men, are unwilling to listen to good advice. As to the particulars of what has happened, we yet do not know; we are sure, however, that people are killed on both sides, but we hope, as the dispute happened only between the young and foolish people, that it will not engage our wise men in a quarrel in which none of us had a part. It is, however, brothers, very unlucky that any difference should have happened between us at this time, as the great Headman of Virginia and all his wise people are just going to meet together to counsel about the settling in this country, bought from you, the Six Nations, and to give orders to their young men, which may come to be your neighbors, to be kind and friendly towards you. And, likewise, I expect they will buy goods to clothe your old people and children, to brighten the chain of friendship between us, and to convince you that we will be as friendly towards you as your late neighbors from Pennsylvania were. And, therefore, I desire you, brothers, not to listen to what some lying people may tell you to the contrary, for although we are always ready to fight our enemies, yet we will show our true and steady friendship upon every occasion when necessary. (A string of wampum.) 

Captain White Eyes, on behalf of the Indians present, made the following answer:
	BRETHREN: (the English,) We have heard with satisfaction the several speeches you have now delivered to us, and we return you our sincere thanks for the friendship and concern you have been pleased to express for us upon this occasion; we cannot doubt of your uprightness towards us, and that the mischief done to us has been done contrary to your intent and desire, which we believe has arose entirely from the evil minded persons who have been the perpetrators of it; therefore it is incumbent upon us to aid you with our best assistance. As the great and good work of peace has been established between us, by the labor and pains of our greatest and wisest men, it ought not to be disturbed by the folly or imprudence of any rash people whatever, who, hereafter, refusing to pay due obedience to good advice, or offering to slip their hands from the chain of friendship, it will be our duty to chastise, should not those examples of violence before their eyes have this effect. Brethren, I will carry your messages to the other Nations; they are intended for myself, as it is too serious to be trifled with, or boys to be employed on; it is the happiness of ourselves, our women and children, and everything dear to us, that we are endeavoring to preserve. Therefore there can be no doubt that I shall speak my sentiments fully and truly to all Nations upon it. (A large string of white wampum.) 

Guyasutha then returned Captain White Eyes thanks on behalf of the Six Nations present, and told him, as he had delivered their sentiments fully in the foregoing speech,it was needless for them to say anything more upon the subject, but desire him to be strong in restoring the tranquillity of the country, and that one of his people should accompany him in this good undertaking. 

May 9. 
A speech delivered by several Chiefs, Six Nations and Delawares: 
	BRETHREN: (the Governor of Virginia,) No doubt you have been informed by the officer commanding at this place of the misfortunes which have lately happened in this country. And we now declare to you, as well as to all our brothers (the English), that we had no suspicion of so much mischief being done, as we have always on our parts made it our constant study to promote the peace subsisting between our brethren (the English) and us, and we also assure you that we still continue to preserve that chain of friendship; and we hope that such of you, our brethren, the white people, who are in authority, will do everything in your power to prevent your rash people from committing further hostilities upon us. 

	BROTHER: We have to request you in a particular manner to be strong, and consider what may be best to be done with those flagrant offenders of our peace. As to us, we have the satisfaction to inform you that we have received a message from the Lower Towns, informing us that all the Indians there remained quiet, and that they have submitted the loss they have sustained to the candor and justice of your wise people. (A belt.) 

May 16.
A message delivered by five principal men of the Delawares from Custaloga: 
	BRETHREN: (the English,) I have received your several messages since the outrages committed upon the Indians, and with respect to my people, I assure you that we are perfectly well pleased with them. Our young men are following their employment as usual, relying entirely upon your sincerity, and the hopes of your great men doing everything in their power to redress the breach in our friendship; therefore, we have also to hope that what you have said to us upon this head comes from your hearts,and not with a design to amuse or deceive us, as we are upon our parts heartily disposed to preserve the strictest friendship with you. (A string.)

May 17. 
Brother: (Custaloga,) We are glad to find by your message that you and your tribe are so well satisfied with our endeavors to reconcile the bad conduct of some rash, unthinking people, so injurious to the peace subsisting between you and us. The measures, however, as well as concern, we have shown you upon this occasion, must be sufficient to convince you of the desire we have to live in amity with all our Indian brethren, and although the folly of a few individuals have given you some cause of complaint, yet the general conduct of your brethren (the English) towards you must evince to you their sincerity as well as justice.' (A string.) 

May 21. 
Arrived, two messengers from Newcomer's Town, and delivered the following speech in writing: 
	Newcomer's Town, May 13, 1774.'This day assembled in Council, King Newcomer, Captain Kill Buck, and Thomas McKee, together with several other chief men of the Delawares. They have received a speech from John Thompson they did not approve of; and they now thought proper to acquaint their brethren at Fort Pitt of him, and would be very glad that our brothers would not take any notice of what he has to say to them, as he only speaks of himself, and there was none of us present; so we would be glad that our brothers of Pennsylvania and Virginia would not hear his speech. He tells us that he will speak to our brothers of Pennsylvania, that they should speak to the people of Virginia, and give them some physic to drink that will bring them to their senses again. This is what he has to say, but we hope that our brothers will not take any notice, or think anything of it, as he cannot speak for us all. 
To our brothers Colonel Croghan, Captain McKee, and Captain Connolly.' 

Returned the following answer: 
	May 21. 
	'Brethren: (Chiefs of the Delawares,) We received your speech of the 13th instant, by the two messengers you sent us, and we return you thanks for putting us on our guard against the bad man you have mentioned in it (though he was known to us before), and you may be assured that we shall not pay any regard to what he says to us, or to any other man that does not come with sufficient authority from you. Brethren, we desire you to be strong, and speak to your grand children, the Shawanese, and let them know that any unruly conduct of theirs at this time will only produce more fatal consequences than has already happened, and that the number of people who yet desire to live and preserve the peace of this country are far superior to those bad people who desire the contrary, so that if they study their real interest they will not delay to inform us of their sentiments, as they must be convinced that our whole country are now collected in bodies, and waiting to hear from them. Brethren, we desire your young men may be informed that we shall be glad to see them come here and trade as usual.(A string.)

May 25. 
White Eyes, after delivering the condolence speeches to the Delawares, at the Newcomer's Town, received the following answer, directed to their brethren, the English:
	BRETHREN : We are glad to receive your messages now delivered to us by Captain White Eyes upon the late disturbances which have happened between our young men, and we return you thanks for the speedy measures you have taken to speak to us upon it. We are entirely satisfied upon this account, and banish everything which could give us uneasiness from our hearts, as you desire us, and we likewise request that you will do the same, that nothing may remain upon either side to discontent us. (A string.) 

	BRETHREN: We have too great a regard for the ancient friendship established between you and us, and which has so long subsisted between our forefathers, to suffer the conduct of foolish men to have any bad effect upon it, or to weaken our good intentions in the least, so as to loosen our hands from the hold we have of it; therefore we do not look towards the evil that has been done, with any resentment in our minds, but with a desire to have it buried in oblivion, as well as everything else which has an appearance of disturbing our future tranquillity. Be strong, brethren, and think favorably of our peace, as we do, and we shall bo too powerful for any bad people, who are not inclined to listen to or preserve it as we do. Brethren, when our wise people concluded the peace which subsists between us, it was mutually agreed between them, that though probably we might lose people on both sides by the rashness or folly of bad men, that it ought not, nor should not, have any evil effect upon the amity settled by them, and this is still what we adhere to. Brethren, last of all spoke to our grandchildren, the Shawanese, upon this head, and desired them to keep their young, imprudent men from doing mischief, and this advice we have again given them at this time. (A belt.) 

	BRETHREN: The road which you have cleared between you and us, we now, by this string of wampum, upon our parts, remove every obstacle that may impede our travelling it with satisfaction, and we desire that our young men may be permitted to continue their trade as usual. Those white people who are in our towns, to the number of eleven, you will see in a few days, who are going to Pittsburgh under the protection of your brethren the Delawares, and as soon as matters wear a more favorable aspect, we shall expect them to return to our town.' (A string.) 

The Shawanese then delivered the following answer to the condolence speeches and message sent them: 
	BROTHERS: (Captain Connolly, Mr. McKee, and Mr. Croghan,) We have received your speeches by White Eyes, and as to what Mr. Croghan and Mr. McKee says, we look upon it all to be lies, and perhaps what you say may be lies also; but as it is the first time you have spoken to us, we listen to you, and expect that what we may hear from you will be more confined to truth than what we usually hear from the white people. It is you who are frequently passing down and up the Ohio, and making settlements upon it, and as you have informed us that your wise people were met together to consult upon this matter, we desire you to be strong, and consider it well. 

	Brethren: We see you speak to us at the head of your warriors, who you have collected together at sundry places upon this river, where we understand they arc building forts, and as you have requested us to listen to you, we will do it, but in the same manner that you appear to speak to us. Our people at the Lower Towns have no Chiefs amongst them, but are all warriors, and are also preparing themselves to be in readiness, that they may be better able to hear what you have to say. "You tell us not to take any notice of what your people have done to us; we desire you likewise not to take any notice of what our young men may now be doing, and as no doubt you can command your warriors when you desire them to listen to you, we have reason to expect that ours will take the same advice when we require it, that is, when we have heard from the Governor of Virginia. 

	Brethren: (of Pennsylvania,) It is some years ago since we had the satisfaction to see you at Pittsburgh, when you came there to renew the ancient friendship that subsisted between our forefathers; and it gave us great pleasure to assist you in the great work, when the path was opened between you and us, and we now tell you that your traders who have travelled it, shall return the same road in peace, and we desire our grandfathers, the Delawares, to be strong in conducting them safe to you. (A string.)

May 26. 
The Indians expressing a desire of hearing their brethren of Pennsylvania speak to them, Captain [Arthur] St. Clair, on behalf of that Province, addressed them as follows: 

	BRETHREN: (Six Nations and Delawares,) We have heard your good speeches, and I am come from your brother of Pennsylvania to thank you for the care and pains you have taken to preserve the general peace. We are determined to do all in our power to maintain the friendship that subsists between us and our brethren the Six Nations and Delawares entire; but as our people are alarmed at what has happened with the Shawanese, we recommend it to you to prevent your people from hunting amongst us for some time, as our people will not be able to distinguish betwixt them and others. We wish, and will endeavor to keep the path open to our brethren, and keep bright that chain of friendship betwixt us which was so long held fast by their and our forefathers. Signed, AR. ST. CLAIR. "The Delawares then returned thanks for the good opinion their brethren of Pennsylvania had expressed of them, and that their sentiments correspond so nearly with their own, with respect to keeping whole their ancient friendship, and they called upon their uncles, the Six Nations, to be witness to their now declaring that they were determined to preserve it unshaken and unhurt from the attacks of bad people. "Guyasutha then told his nephews, the Delawares, that he was rejoiced to find them so determined upon supporting the good order and peace of the country. That they might always depend upon being backed by the Six Nations in so laudable a resolution, who were so strongly linked in friendship with the English, that it was not to be broken; therefore, what they had now heard from them was very agreeable.

May 26. 
A speech delivered the Delawares, upon receiving their answer to the condolence messages that had been sent them, and which was delivered by Captain White Eyes: 

	BROTHERS: We are glad to find that our former friendship is not to be hurt by what has happened between our young people and yours, and as we have been very sorry for it, we now, at your request, remove the trouble from our hearts, and desire that you may do the same, so that nothing but friendship may be thought of between us. 

	BROTHERS: We are glad to find that you are so friendly and considerate as not to allow the rash actions of our young, foolish people to break in upon our former friendship, and as you desire it may be forgot, we hope it will, and that we never have cause of future disturbance. You may be assured that we are strong on our parts to maintain the strictest friendship with our brethren the Delawares, and are sure that we will be able for any bad people that may want to interrupt it; what you observe as to the good understanding between us and you, we have an eye to, and think as you do, that the rashness of foolish young men should not interrupt. We thank you for the pains you have taken to speak to your grandchildren, the Shawanese, and for the advice you have given them. (A string.) 

	BROTHERS: We have heard the Shawanese answer to our message by you, and we understand it; we are sorry that they should be so foolish as not to listen to reason; but since we think they will not, we must desire our brethren, the Delawares, to withdraw themselves from amongst them, that no evil may happen them by accident, which would give us great concern. We, likewise, once more desire such of our brethren, the Six Nations, as may be amongst them to come away also, and listen to their own Chiefs as they have been often desired. We are sorry to think that the Shawanese want to destroy themselves, and be no longer a nation; for if they attempt to kill any of us, for what has happened owing to bad young men, our warriors will fall upon them, and they must expect nothing but chastisement; therefore, I must desire you, my brothers, to remove yourselves from those bad people, that we may know our friends. They say that the traders among them shall return safe. I hope they speak true, as that may be a great means to prevent mischief. (A belt.) 

	Brethren: We clearly see that the road between you and us is open if it were not for bad people, but we hope that will not prevent our intercourse with you as usual. We thank you for the mark of your friendship in bringing in our people, the traders, safe to us; and we promise when matters are better settled, they shall trade with you as formerly. (A belt.)

Captain White Eyes then replied: 
	Brethren: We are very glad to hear what you have now said, and we find that you will willingly preserve the peace. We shall inform all the Nations in friendship with us of what has passed between us at this time, and in one month will be able to complete this design, and then we shall be able to distinguish those who are inclined to listen to our wise people, and preserve the peace, from those that choose to speak by their warriors. This will afford time for those who are inclined to remove themselves to their Chiefs, and give an opportunity to the warriors to speak to one another.

June 1. 
A party of Moravian Indians came in, with one of the missionaries residing amongst them and his family, with a quantity of peltry belonging to our traders. 
	Those Indians say that they were informed on the way hither that a principal man of the Delaware, who had gone to the lower Shawanese Town, after White Eyes' messages were delivered to the Shawanese, in order to hear news, has returned, and brought an account that the traders there were still alive, and that the Shawanese Chiefs there had spoke boldly in defence of them to the Mingoes, who were the only people constantly attempting to put them to death; but that the Shawanese had told the Mingoes that they had brought the traders amongst them, and were determined to protect them in their bosoms until they could return them safe home; and that if the Mingoes could not be satisfied without taking revenge upon the white people for,the loss they had sustained, that they must look for it at a greater distance than in their towns, upon the people whom they had pledged their faith to preserve. Those Indians further say, that the chief disturbances amongst them appears to be only at a small village upon Muskingum, called Waketummakie, composed mostly of the friends of the people who have been killed; and that the Mingoes, as the greatest sufferers, are most enraged; however, that the party collected to strike the Virginians were not gone a few days ago, and that if they could not be prevented from their rash undertaking, that the Newcomer, Chief of the Delawares, was determined to send runners to apprize us of them, as they attempted to proceed to war. 

June 5. 
Two messengers, from the Newcomer, arrived with an account that five days ago one Conner, a white man, who lives at the Snake's Town, upon the Muskingum, had returned home from the place where the traders were making their canoes, and informed them that the traders were all safe, to the number of twenty-seven or thirty, and that the Shawanese had taken great pains in protecting them, and was about sending them off with their peltry, with some of their young men, and some Delawares, to protect them upon their way up to Pittsburgh. 
	These messengers further say, that all the towns, as well as the Shawanese, are now quiet, and that their Chiefs have been able to prevail over their rash and foolish young men, who wanted to take revenge on the white people for their loss, except two small parties, consisting of thirteen men in the whole, who were friends of the Indians that suffered, and could not be restrained, though their Chiefs did everything in their power to prevent them from the bad undertaking; that they hoped their brethren, the English, would not blame them, or think that they countenanced any evil that might be committed by these rash men, who have stole away from them to do mischief, contrary to their Chief's advice, and are chiefly all Mingoes, who have had the most relations killed; that one party has been out eleven days, and was to return in fifteen, and intended against that part of the river where their friends were put to death, or somewhere else below that, upon Virginia. The above party having declared that as soon as they had taken revenge for their people, and returned home, that they would then sit down and listen to their Chiefs. 
	
	The above messengers also say that the day they left home a runner came in there from the five Cherokees that were to be in the day following upon business, and that the Delawares would inform us of it as soon as it was known. And they also said that they heard that one of the before mentioned parties who had gone to take revenge upon the white people were returned, and had killed one man. "They then produced some belts of wampum, which had been delivered to them by Sir William Johnson, several years ago, desiring them to collect themselves together, and sit in the centre between their brethren, the white people, Six Nations, and Western Indians, where they were required to hold fast by the middle of the chain of friendship, and that they were thereby empowered to speak strongly to any Nation who might attempt to disturb it.

Answer: 
	BRETHREN: We return you thanks for the trouble you have taken to bring us the news we have now heard from you, and we esteem it as a proof of your sincerity and good inclination to preserve the peace of the country, as well as those belts you have laid before us, convinces us that you still bear in remembrance the former friendship that has been contracted with you. Be strong, brethren, in doing what you have been desired upon them; you have now an opportunity of exerting your good intentions that way, by speaking to those foolish people, who have not listened to the accommodation our wise people were endeavoring to make of the late unhappy disturbances, for you must bo convinced that every mischief that may be committed at this time, is widening the breach, and of consequence involving us on both sides in greater difficulties. Therefore we have nothing more to say at present, than to recommend to you to follow the advice that has been sent to you by Captain White Eyes, which was to abstract yourselves from bad people who may be obstinate in pursuing their own destruction.' 

Governor of Virginia Lord Dunmore's Answer to the speech of the Indians of the Six Nations and Delawares, dated Pittsburgh, May 7, 1774:

	BROTHERS: I am informed of the misfortunes that have lately happened in the neighborhood of Pittsburgh, and have received your speech on the occasion, and I lament no less those that have befallen my brothers, the Indians, than those that have happened to my fellow subjects, the English. 

	From the accounts I have received. however, the Indians have been the aggressors, and thereby the occasion of the fatal consequences which have ensued. But as you, my brethren, say that you always on your parts have made it your constant study to promote the peace subsisting between you and us, and still continue to preserve that chain of friendship, so I take this opportunity of assuring you that your brethren, the Virginians, do cordially love you, and hope always to live in peace, unity, and good correspondence with you. And to that end, if you can point out the offenders against our peace, we will on our part omit nothing in our power to overtake the transgressors on our side with the punishment due to such crimes. 

	I rejoice in the information you give me of the good disposition of the Indians of the Lower Towns, and you may assure them that their complaints, when they reach us, shall be attended to with that candor and justice to which they submit them, and which is due to them. DUNMORE.  Dated at Williamsburgh, May 29, 1774.

June 9. 
A message sent with Lord Dunmore's speech to the Six Nations and Delawares. 
	BRETHREN: We herewith send you the Headman of Virginia's answer to your message of the 7th May, 1774, who is, you see, much concerned for the unlucky disputes which happened between us and you, and you must observe his speech is very friendly and good towards the Six Nations and Delawares. But, brethren, as the Mingoes and Shawanese have since struck us, notwithstanding our endeavors to restore friendship, we have now. upon this account, again to desire your people to withdraw from amongst them that no injury may happen to you. Brothers, you will send the Headman of Virginia's speech to Captain White Eyes, and our brothers of the Six Nations, in order to show them that he is determined to hold fast by the ancient chain of friendship. By the Honorable John Penn, Esquire, Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Province of Pennsylvania and Counties of New Castle, Kent, and Sussex, on Delaware. 

From JOHN PENN: A message to the Chiefs and Warriors of the Shawanese Indians: 
	BRETHREN: When I heard that you had taken care of our traders, and had sent some of your young men to conduct them home in safety, it made my heart glad, because I was satisfied that you kept fast hold of the chain of friendship which was made between our forefathers, and renewed by us, and you may be assured that I shall always remember this instance of your kindness, and that I shall hold fast that end of the chain which is in my hands so long as you hold yours. But, brethren, it gives me great concern, and my heart is grieved, to hear of the difference between you and our brothers, the people of Virginia. If any of the wicked people of Virginia have murdered any of your people, you should complain of it to the Governor, and he will have them punished. You should not in such cases take revenge upon innocent people, who have never hurt you. It is a very wicked thing to kill innocent people, because some of their countrymen have been wicked and killed some of you. 

	BRETHREN: If you continue to act in this manner, the people of Virginia must do the same thing by you, and then there will be nothing but war between you. Consider, brethren, that the people of Virginia are like the leaves upon the trees, very numerous, and you are but few, and although you should kill ten of their people for one that they kill of yours, they will at last wear you out and destroy you. They are able to send a great army in your country,and destroy your towns and your corn, and either kill your wives and children, or drive them away. Besides, brethren, the Virginians, as well as our people, and you, are the children of the great King who lives beyond the great water, and if his children fall out, and go to war among themselves, and some of them are wicked and will not makepeace with the others, he will be very angry, and punish those who are in fault. Therefore, brethren, let me advise you to forget and forgive what is past, and to send to the Governor of Virginia and offer to make peace. I shall write to the Governor of Virginia, and endeavor to persuade him to join with you in mending the chain of friendship between you which has been broken, and to make it so strong that it may never be broken again. And I hope, brethren, if he be willing to do this good thing, that you will be of the same mind, and then we shall all live together like friends and brothers. (A belt.) 

	Given under my hand, and the lesser seal of the said Province, at Philadelphia, the sixth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventy-four. JOHN PENN, Williamsburgh, Friday, October 14, 1774. 

This day an express arrived from his Excellency, the Governor, who has sent copies of several speeches that passed between him and the Chiefs of the Six Nations and Delawares; wherein they greatly disapprove of the murders and outrages committed by the Shawanese, and promise to use their best endeavors to bring them to a treaty with his Excellency, when it is hoped a permanent peace will be established, and an end put to an Indian war, so ruinous to the frontier inhabitants, as well as expensive to the country.

COUNCIL BETWEEN LORD DUNMORE AND THE INDIANS. 

*NOTE: It will be perceived that there is neither date nor place for this Council. No doubt, however, that it must have been at this place [Pittsburgh], in September 1774, as Lord Dunmore was then here preparing for his expedition against the Indians.

At the Council held with the Indians: Present, his Excellency the Right Honorable the Earl of Dunmore, Lieutenant and Governor of Virginia, &c., Alexander McKee, Esquire, Deputy Agent, &c.: Indians—Delawares, King Custaloga, Captain White Eyes, and Pluggy, a Six Nation Chief, and sundry others. 

Captain White Eyes spoke: 
	First. Brother: I wipe the sweat and dust from your eyes by this string,'and remove the fatigue that you have had during your journey; and also, I clear and open your ears, that you may readily comprehend and hear what your brothers have now to say to you; I also remove every concern from your heart, owing to any bad impressions which have been made upon you during your journey to this place, that you may believe the sincerity of us towards you, and all our brethren the English. (A string.) 

	Second. Brother: I will now inform you of what I know concerning the Shawanese. Our uncles, the Mohawks, have been sent by the Shawanese here, in order to know in what manner they should act, so as to bo admitted to a conference with their brethren, the English of Virginia. Our uncles, the Mohawks, desire to inform you that the principal men of that Nation continue to hold fast by the ancient chain of friendship; but that some foolish young men had loosened their hands therefrom, and that it was not in their power to prevent them heretofore. Brother, I have now told you of what our uncles, the Mohawks, have told us, of what the Chiefs of the Shawanese say, and hope you will be strong, and consider upon what you may have to say to them, that whenever you choose to speak, we may be ready to join you in so doing. 

	Third. Brother: I desire you to listen to your brethren, the Five Nations and Moltawks, the Wyandots, and also your brethren the Delawares. These are the people who have taken pains to keep everything quiet since these unhappy troubles. All the Western Nations are quiet, but keep their eyes fixed on this quarter. Brother, I am rejoiced to see you, as I was troubled and afraid before, but now my apprehensions are dispersed on seeing you, which IB the cause of my pleasure. Brother, I now esteem our women and children restored to life npon your arrival, and that even the foolish young people will have reason to be thankful on the conclusion of the present prospect. (A string.) 

	Fourth. Brother: I desire you to listen to us few of the numerous Chiefs who formerly were of our Nations; as the few now remaining have a due remembrance of the friendship subsisting between our forefathers. Brother, during the trouble which happened, owing to foolish people, I was apprehensive it might be the cause of universal trouble, so as to have shook our amity, and weakened the ancient friendship between us. Brother, I tell you that I am extremely rejoiced at your arrival here, as you are esteemed our elder brother; and I hope that, as you have it amply in your power, you will restore our ancient friendship, and establish it upon the former good footing; to promote which, we will contribute our weak endeavors, by affording all our assistance. (A belt.) 

	This is what your brethren have to say to you who are here present.

His Lordship said: 
	I am much obliged to you for this mark of your friendship, and I will consider of what you have said, and shall return you an answer hereafter.

His Excellency's Answer to the Delaware and Six Nation Chiefs: 
	BRETHREN: I now wipe the tears from your eyes, which you may have shed for the loss of any of your people. I remove the grief from your hearts which it may have occasioned. I also clear your ears from any bad reports, that you may now look upon your brethren, the Virginians, with friendship, and that you may believe what I am about to say to you in your hearts, and receive it with pleasure. (A string.) 

	BRETHREN: With these trifling goods I cover the graves of your deceased friends, that the remembrance of your grief upon that occasion, may be buried in total oblivion. (Condolence present.) 

	Brethren: Your desire is gratified; I do see clearly, and the sweat and fatigue I have experienced on my journey here, will be no cause of complaint to me, when I find an opportunity to convince my brethren, the Delaware and Six Nations, of my good intentions towards them. You may be assured, brethren, that as I am now here present, I shall be able to hear plainly, and to distinguish clearly what is just and unjust between me and my brethren, the Indians. (A string.) 

	BRETHREN: I am much obliged to you for the pains you have taken to heal the sores made by the Shawnee, and would have been very glad to have now given you a more favorable answer as to them; but you yourselves must be well acquainted how little the Shawnee deserve the treatment or appellation of brethren from me, when, in the first place, they have not complied with the terms prescribed to them by Colonel Bouquet (and to which they assented,) of giving up the white prisoners; nor have they ever truly buried the hatchet; for the next summer after that treaty, they killed a man upon the frontiers of my Government; the next year they killed eight of my people upon Cumberland river, and brought their horses to their towns, where they disposed of them (together with a considerable quantity of peltry) to the traders from Pennsylvania. Sometime after, one Martin, a trader from my Government, was killed with two men, on Hockhocking, by the Shawnee, only because they were Virginians; at the same time permitting one Ellis to pass, only as he was a Pennsylvanian. In the year 1771, twenty of my people were robbed by them, when they carried away nineteen horses, and as many owned by Indians, with their guns, clothes, &c., which they delivered up to one Calendar and Spears, and other Pennsylvania traders in their towns. In the same year, on the Great Kanawha, in my Government, they killed, one of my people and his brother; and the year following, Adam Stroud, another of my people, his wife and seven children, were most cruelly murdered on Elk waters. In the next year, \ they killed Richards, another of my people, on the Kanawha. A few moons after, they killed Russel, one of my people, and five white men and two negroes, near Cumberland Gap; and also carried their horses and effects into their towns, where they were purchased by the Pennsylvania traders. All these, with many other murders, they have committed upon my people, before a drop of Shawnee blood was spilt by them; and have continually perpetrated robberies upon my defenseless frontier inhabitants, which at length irritated them so far that they began to retaliate. I have now stated the dispute between them and us, and leave it to you to judge what they merit. (A belt.) 

	Brethren: You desire me to listen to my brethren, the Five Nations, the Mohawks, the Wyandots, and to my brethren the Delaware. I do so with the utmost attention, and am well pleased to return you my thanks for the pains you have taken, and am extremely happy, and exceedingly desirous that the eyes of the Western Nations, and all others, may be continually fixed upon me; for then they will plainly see that my real intention and sincere desire, is only to do justice to all parties. Brethren, I hope our pleasure at meeting is mutual; and you may be assured, from my late proceedings, that my good will towards you is most sincere, and I rejoice equally with you at the new life your women and children have acquired by my arrival; and I most sincerely wish that they may long continue in a full enjoyment of peace and happiness, to which I will most cheerfully contribute my utmost assistance. (A string.) "•BRETHREN: I am very glad to find that the Chiefs of the different Nations have a due and friendly regard to the friendship formerly subsisting between our forefathers, which I shall be happy at all times to continue. I am glad to observe that few, if any, of the foolish people who have been the authors of the late troubles, were in any wise particularly connected with you; and I hope that our ancient friendship is too strongly linked to be broke by a few banditti of a distant Nation. I own I am very much rejoiced at my arrival here, as I hope it will be the means of adding fresh strength to the ancient chain of friendship subsisting between us; and particularly so, as I see your inclinations are to facilitate this good work. I acknowledge myself your elder brother, and shall, on every occasion, manifest my regard as such towards you; and I do expect that you will continually look up to me as your elder brother, from whom you may be assured of the strongest marks of brotherly kindness, either in peace or war. And as you may now be certain of protection from your elder brother, I flatter myself you will continue to tread the ancient path towards him here, when he will be answerable that the most ample justice shall be done you.' (A belt.)

At a conference held with several of the Delaware and Mohawk Chiefs. 

Intelligence received from Captain Pipe: 
	At my arrival at the Lower Shawnee Towns, I was told by the Cornstalk that he was much rejoiced to hear from his brethren, the white people, in the Spring, upon the first disturbances; that he had, in consequence thereof, ordered all his young people to remain quiet, and not to molest the traders, but to convey them safe to their grandfathers, the Delaware, where they would be safe. The Shawnee Chiefs declared they were well pleased to hear from their brethren, the English, and that they had spoke to all their young people to remain quiet. Upon his arrival at the Standing Stone, he sent word to the Shawnee to assemble their Counsellors; but, as they were out a hunting, it could not be immediately effected. The principal warriors always listened to the Chiefs, and had no hostile intentions. The mischiefs which had been done, were perpetrated by the foolish young people; but that now, as soon as they were assembled, they would be able to prevent anything of that nature for the future. The Shawnee told me that a party of one of Tawas, and a party of Wyandots, were as far advanced on their way to war against the white people, as their town; but that they had advised them to return; that they expected the war which threatened them would be extinguished, as they now endeavored at peace.' 
	
Pluggy, a Mohawk, who was questioned whether he knew of these parties, said that some hunters who were of the Wyandots and Tawas, came to the Shawanese Towns, to hear news, but were sent back.

Speech of the Mohegans-to the Shawanese. 
	BRETHREN: Formerly you came to us on the other side of the Mountains, and told us we were your elder brothers, desiring us to come over and show ourselves to your grandfathers, the Delawares, that they might know our relationship. We did so, and as one people held fast the same chain of friendship; but now we see you only holding with one hand, whilst you keep a tomahawk in the other. We desire you, therefore, to sit down and not be so haughty, but pity your women and children. We therefore take the tomahawk out of your hands, aud put it into the hands of your grandfathers, the Delawares, who are good judges, and know how to dispose of it.

Answer of the Shawanese: 
	BRETHREN: We are glad to hear what you have said, and that you have taken the tomahawk out of our hands and given it to our grandfathers, the Delawares; but, for our parts, we are not sensible that we have had the tomahawk in our hands. It is true some foolish young people may have found one out of our sight, hid in the grass, and may have made use of it; but that tomahawk which we formerly held, has been long since buried, and we have not since raised it. 

There was a great deal of consultation amongst the different Nations, while I was at their towns, but nothing particularly relative to what is now in question. 

Colonel Stephen demanded of Captain Pipe how he was received by the Shawanese, who says that he arrived there about noon, and after having cleared their eyes and opened their ears in the common form, that they had a great dance, and afterwards came to him; and, upon hearing what he had to say, expressed their satisfaction by saying they hoped their friendship was now renewed. Though he heard some of the young people expressing a threatening at the Delawares' so much interfering in their quarrel with the white people; that if they had anything to say, they wondered why the white people did not come themselves to speak. 

The Delawares said, that as the sentiments of the Shawanese were now known, that if the Governor had an inclination, they would join him in anything he had to offer them for the promotion of peace, and the restoration of harmony to the country.

Reply of the Mohawks and Delaware Chiefs, to his Lordship's Answer: 
Present: Captain White Eyes, Captain Pipe, Captain Winganum, Delawares; Captain Pluggy and Big Apple Tree, Mohawks.

Captain White Eyes spoke in behalf of the Delawares: 
	BROTHER: Your brethren here present, are very happy to have heard your good speeches, and are glad to find you acknowledge yourself their elder brother. We acquainted yon that our sincere desire was, that the peace between us and our brethren the English, should be upon a lasting footing. We now are convinced that it will be upon a sure and permanent foundation, as our children may have an opportunity of being instructed in the Christian religion. We shall acquaint all the tribes of Indians of what has here passed between us, and we are satisfied that it will be very satisfactory to them to hear the good talk from our elder brother. For my part, I can assure you, brother, that for my tribe I can answer, even for the foolish young people thereof, that they will not be the cause of any disturbance in any manner whatever hereafter, either by theft or otherwise, orgive cause of any trouble to your people. The Chiefs of the other tribes of our Nation will confirm what I have now said, as soon as they have an opportunity. (A string.) 

	BROTHER: As your brethren, the Shawanese, are desirous to speak to you by themselves, I hope you will listen to them. I will desire them to speak to you; and that you may there have an opportunity of speaking together, I would be glad to acquaint them when they could see you to enter into conference. I am much obliged to you for the promise you have given me, that justice shall be done us in the trade here, and that proper persons shall be appointed to see that we are fairly dealt with. I shall acquaint the young men with it, that they may come to trade in their usual manner-.

The Big Apple Tree, Mohawk, spoke: 

	BROTHER: This day it hath pleased God that we should meet together—wo who are sent on behalf of another Nation. The Shawanese told me that they heard there was something yet good in the heart of the Big Knife. They desired me to take their hearts into our hands, and speak strongly on their behalf to the Big Knife. I am glad the Shawanese, my younger brethren, have desired me to undertake this business, if I can serve them; and I am equally rejoiced at the appearance thereof, from your good speeches. You may be assured that, as they have delivered themselves into our care, we shall do our endeavor to induce them to pursue proper measures to restore peace. You may bo also assured that your brother, the Chief of the Wyandots, will also assist me in taking care that our younger brothers, the Shawanese, act a prudent part. Wheresoever, brother, you build your Council Fire, to speak to the Shawanese, you may be assured, that we, the Mohawks, with our brethren, the Wyandots, will come with them to speak also; and that we hope peace then will be restored and established on a permanent footing.' (A string.)

His Lordship's answer: 
	BRETHREN: I shall consider of what you have said, and will give you an answer this afternoon.

His Lordship's answer to their reply: 
	BRETHREN: I am glad to find that what I have said in our late conference has been satisfactory to you; and you may be assured that whatever I have promised shall be confirmed, so that my actions shall convince you of the sincerity of my heart. I am glad to find you have a desire of instructing your children in the Christian religion, which will be the cause of peace remaining between us on a lasting footing, and of adding happiness to your own nation. (A string.) 

	Brethren: I have already informed you of the evil disposition of the Shawanese towards us; but to convince you how ready the Big Knife is to do justice, at all times, even to their greatest enemies, at the request of my good brethren, the Six Nations, and you the Delawares, I will be ready and willing to hear any good speeches which the Shawauese may have to deliver to me, either at Wheeling, where I soon purpose to be, or, if they should not meet me there, at the little Kenhawa, or somewhere lower down the river. (A string.) 

	Brethren: (The Mohawks,) You will hear by my speech to my younger brethren, the Delawares, that I am prevailed upon to listen to the Shawanese, notwithstanding their bad behaviour towards my people, and as I am prevailed upon merely by the confidence I repose in the friendship of my brethren, the Wyandots and Five Nations, I expect this will be looked upon as a strong proof of my regard for them; and as it is your wish, I will meet the Shawanese at one of the places mentioned in my answer to my younger brethren, the Delawares, provided they are led to the Council Fire by my brethren, the Mohawks, the Wyandots and the Delawares, as I shall be satisfied that whatever they may then promise you my brethren will see them strictly adhered to.' (A string.)

The Delawares reply: 
	BROTHER: We are much rejoiced to hear what you have now said, and believe it to be sincere; and you may be satisfied that I, in behalf of my people, will endeavor to convince you that we are so. When the Delawares, the Six Nations, the Shawanese and you, our elder brother, meet together, you will then see who are sincere in their friendship. In a short time it will be seen, for those who are determined on good, will not fail to meet you. I shall speak to the Shawanese, and, if their intentions are equal to their professions, they will see you; but, on behalf of my people, I promise to meet you. This is all I have to say at this time; but you may be certain that myself, Captain Pipe and Captain Winganum will wait on you.