Newcomer's Town, May 13, 1774.  

This day assembled in Council, King Newcomer, Captain Kill Buck,  and Thomas McKee, together with several other chief men of the Delawares. 

They have received a speech from John Thompson they did not  approve of; and they now thought proper to acquaint their brethren at Fort  Pitt of him, and would be very glad that our brothers would not take any  notice of what he has to say to them, as he only speaks of himself, and  there was none of us present; so we would be glad that our brothers of  Pennsylvania and Virginia would not hear his speech. He tells us that he  will speak to our brothers of Pennsylvania, that they should speak to the  people of Virginia, and give them some physic to drink that will bring them  to their senses again. This is what he has to say, but we hope that our  brothers will not take any notice, or think anything of it, as he cannot speak  for us all.  

To our brothers Colonel Croghan, Captain McKee, and Captain  Connolly. 

Returned the following answer :  

Brethren: (Chiefs of the Delawares) We received your  speech of the 13th instant, by the two messengers you sent us, and we return you thanks for putting us on our guard against the bad man you have  mentioned in it (though he was known to us before), and you may be  assured that we shall not pay any regard to what he says to us, or to any  other man that does not come with sufficient authority from you. 

Brethren, we desire you to be strong, and speak to your grand children, the Shawanese, and let them know that any unruly conduct of theirs at this time will  only produce more fatal consequences than has already happened, and that  the number of people who yet desire to live and preserve the peace of this  country are far superior to those bad people who desire the contrary, so  that if they study their real interest they will not delay to inform us of their  sentiments, as they must be convinced that our whole country are now  collected in bodies, and waiting to hear from them. 

Brethren, we desire  your young men may be informed that we shall be glad to see them come  here and trade as usual. (A string.)    

May 25. 
White Eyes, after delivering the condolence speeches to the  Delawares, at the Newcomer's Town, received the following answer,  directed to their brethren, the English :   

(to the English) Brethren : We are glad to receive your messages now delivered to us  by Captain White Eyes upon the late disturbances which have happened  between our young men, and we return you thanks for the speedy measures  you have taken to speak to us upon it. We are entirely satisfied upon this  account, and banish everything which could give us uneasiness from our  hearts, as you desire us, and we likewise request that you will do the same,  that nothing may remain upon either side to discontent us. (A string.)   

	Brethren : We have too great a regard for the ancient friendship  established between you and us, and which has so long subsisted between  our forefathers, to suffer the conduct of foolish men to have any bad effect  upon it, or to weaken our good intentions in the least, so as to loosen our  hands from the hold we have of it ; therefore we do not look towards the  evil that has been done, with any resentment in our minds, but with a desire to have it buried in oblivion, as well as everything else which has an  appearance of disturbing our future tranquillity. Be strong, brethren, and  think favorably of our peace, as we do, and we shall be too powerful for any bad people, who are not inclined to listen to or preserve it as we do.  

	Brethren, when our wise people concluded the peace which subsists between  us, it was mutually agreed between them, that though probably we might  lose people on both sides by the rashness or folly of bad men, that it ought  not, nor should not, have any evil effect upon the amity settled by them, and  this is still what we adhere to. 

	Brethren, last of all, spoke to our grandchildren, the Shawanese, upon this head, and desired them to keep their  young, imprudent men from doing mischief, and this advice we have again  given them at this time. (A belt.)   

	Brethren: The road which you have cleared between you and us,  we now, by this string of wampum, upon our parts, remove every obstacle  that may impede our traveling it with satisfaction, and we desire that our  young men may be permitted to continue their trade as usual. Those white  people who are in our towns, to the number of eleven, you will see in a few  days, who are going to Pittsburgh under the protection of your brethren, the  Delawares, and as soon as matters wear a more favorable aspect, we shall  expect them to return to our town. (A string.)   

The Shawanese then delivered the following answer to the condolence  speeches and message sent them :   

	Brothers : (Captain Connolly, Mr. McKee, and Mr. Croghan,) We  have received your speeches by White Eyes, and as to what Mr. Croghan  and Mr. McKee says, we look upon it all to be lies, and perhaps what you  say may be lies also ; but as it is the first time you have spoken to us, we  listen to you, and expect that what we may hear from you will be more confined to truth than what we usually hear from the white people. It is  you who are frequently passing down and up the Ohio, and making settlements upon it, and as you have informed us that your wise people were  met together to consult upon this matter, we desire you to be strong, and  consider it well.   

	Brethren : We see you speak to us at the head of your warriors,  who you have collected together at sundry places upon this river, where we  understand they are building forts, and as you have requested us to listen to  you, we will do it, but in the same manner that you appear to speak to us.  Our people at the Lower Towns have no Chiefs amongst them, but are all  warriors, and are also preparing themselves to be in readiness, that they  may be better able to hear what you have to say.   You tell us not to take any notice of what your people have done to  us ; we desire you likewise not to take any notice of what our young men  may now be doing, and as no doubt you can command your warriors when  you desire them to listen to you, we have reason to expect that ours will  take the same advice when we require it, that is, when we have heard from  the Governor of Virginia.   

	Brethren : (of Pennsylvania,) It is some years ago since we had the  satisfaction to see you at Pittsburgh, when you came there to renew the  ancient friendship that subsisted between our forefathers ; and it gave us  great pleasure to assist you in the great work, when the path was opened  between you and us, and we now tell you that your traders who have travelled it, shall return the same road in peace, and we desire our grandfathers,  the Delawares, to be strong in conducting them safe to you. (A string.)  

May 26. The Indians expressing a desire of hearing their brethren of  Pennsylvania speak to them, 

Captain St. Clair, on behalf of that Province,  addressed them as follows :   
	Brethren : (Six Nations and Delawares) We have heard your good  speeches, and I am come from your brother of Pennsylvania to thank you  for the care and pains you have taken to preserve the general peace. We  are determined to do all in our power to maintain the friendship that subsists  between us and our brethren, the Six Nations and Delawares entire ; but as  our people are alarmed at what has happened with the Shawanese, we  recommend it to you to prevent your people from hunting amongst us for  some time, as our people will not be able to distinguish betwixt them and  others. We wish, and will endeavor to keep the path open to our brethren,  and keep bright that chain of friendship betwixt us which was so long held  fast by their and our forefathers. Signed, Arthur St. Clair.   

The Delawares then returned thanks for the good opinion their brethren  of Pennsylvania had expressed of them, and that their sentiments correspond so nearly with their own, with respect to keeping whole their ancient  friendship, and they called upon their uncles, the Six Nations, to be witness to their now declaring that they were determined to preserve it unshaken  and unhurt from the attacks of bad people.   

Gujasutha then told his nephews, the Delawares, that he was rejoiced  to find them so determined upon supporting the good order and peace of  the country. That they might always depend upon being backed by the  Six Nations in so laudable a resolution, who were so strongly linked in  friendship with the English, that it was not to be broken ; therefore, what  they had now heard from them was very agreeable.   

May 26. A speech delivered the Delawares, upon receiving their answer to the condolence messages that had been sent them, and which was  delivered by Captain White Eyes:   
	Brothers : We are glad to find that our former friendship is not to  be hurt by what has happened between our young people and yours, and  as we have been very sorry for it, we now, at your request, remove the  trouble from our hearts, and desire that you may do the same, so that  nothing but friendship may be thought of between us.   

	Brothers: We are glad to find that you are so friendly and considerate as not to allow the rash actions of our young, foolish people to break  in upon our former friendship, and as you desire it may be forgot, we hope  it will, and that we never have cause of future disturbance. You may be  assured that we are strong on our parts to maintain the strictest friendship  with our brethren, the Delawares, and are sure that we will be able for any  bad people that may want to interrupt it; what you observe as to the  good understanding between us and you, we have an eye to, and think as  you do, that the rashness of foolish young men should not interrupt. We  thank you for the pains you have taken to speak to your grandchildren,  the Shawanese, and for the advice you have given them. (A string.)   

(From the Englisht to Native leaders) Brothers: We have heard the Shawanese answer to our message by  you, and we understand it ; we are sorry that they should be so foolish as  not to listen to reason ; but since we think they will not, we must desire  our brethren, the Delawares, to withdraw themselves from amongst them,  that no evil may happen them by accident, which would give us great concern. We, likewise, once more desire such of our brethren, the Six Nations, as may be amongst them to come away also, and listen to their own Chiefs as they have been often desired. We are sorry to think that the Shawanese want to destroy themselves, and be no longer a nation ; for if they attempt to kill any of us, for what has happened owing to bad young men, our warriors will fall upon them, and they must expect nothing but chastisement ; therefore, I must desire you, my brothers, to remove yourselves from those bad people, that we may know our friends. They say  that the traders among them shall return safe. I hope they speak true,  as that may be a great means to prevent mischief (A belt.)   Brethren : We clearly see that the road between you and us is open  if it were not for bad people, but we hope that will not prevent our intercourse with you as usual. We thank you for the mark of your friendship  in bringing in our people, the traders, safe to us; and we promise when  matters are better settled, they shall trade with you as formerly. (A belt.)   

Captain White Eyes then replied :   Brethren : We are very glad to hear what you have now said, and  we find that you will willingly preserve the peace. We shall inform all  the Nations in friendship with us of what has passed between us at this  time, and in one month I’ll be able to complete this design, and then we  shall be able to distinguish those who are inclined to listen to our wise  people, and preserve the peace, from those that choose to speak by their  warriors. This will afford time for those who are inclined to remove  themselves to their Chiefs, and give an opportunity to the warriors to  speak to one another.
