SPEECHES BROUGHT TO DETROIT BY Charles Beaubien, Sept. 27th, 1778. 

The 21st September there arrived at the Miamis a man of that nation coming to the river L'Anguille (Eel River) with the speeches of the Chickasaws, Piankeshaws & Virginians. 

The words of the Chickasaws addressing all the people of the Wabash 
as well as the Miamis: My beloved brothers ! We have long desired to see you, but the Virginians have occupied us, & we know that they intend to go to you. We pray you not to receive them but tell them to withdraw from your lands, &c. If you would defend yourselves we will help you. We are worthy of pity, we are not in the enjoyment of an inch of ground for hunting, and if you give them your hand you will be also like us obliged to work the land for a living. We tell you in the name of all the nations our neighbors, You know that for a long time we have worked, that all the brown skins should act as a single man to preserve our lands. We have made peace with all the nations; you are the only ones who will be deaf, you see now, however, that we only work for a good thing. We hope my brothers that you will listen to us.

End of the speech. 
A white metal collar accompanied by two branches. 

The words of the great Chief of the Piankeshaw, and of the son of Tobacco: You other Miamis and all the people of the Wabash, I leave you masters of these words of the Chickasaws. I only tell you that we join ourselves to them and that we would have already struck the Virginians, but we waited your reply. It is our feeling that they should be sent home & not to let them pass. The Loups, the Illinois and the Ottawas think as we do. End of the speech by four branches of black porcelain. 

Speech of the Virginians: My children ! We wait for you with great impatience and we invite you to come promptly for at the end of the other moon we will set off to go to see your English Father who is at Detroit. Come now to look for what you want and you will find all that is necessary for you. We are not doing like your father giving you a little rum ; with us it is as water, we make it ourselves. You may believe that we are numerous and that we will make an end of your father, who is at Detroit. We regard him as a fish which we are about to take on the end of a line. As for the Indians who are with him we regard them as nothing, we will sweep the roads with their bodies, and we will make a passage for you to supply your needs. Hasten to come because we will go with you as far as the Miamis. End of the speech by four branches of white porcelain.

Endorsed Speeches brought by Mr. Charles Beaubin to Detroit the 27th Sept.. 1778. A faithful copy. 

Henry Hamilton, 1778. Come enclosed in Lieut. Govr. Hamilton's letter of the 22nd Sept. to the 3rd October. Read 29th, marked Detroit, No. 17, 


