Acouestchichika by four branches: Warriors & my brothers, listen to what I have to say in this place. My father, give attention if you please, to what I say to you the chiefs & warriors. It is now nearly two years since our nation was first called your children being told, I will render you happy, abandon the chase & do not hesitate to carry out the King's orders. Here is a hatchet on his behalf against the Virginians. serve with courage & your happiness & that of your children will follow your obedience. Whenever we chiefs knew your intentions we put our warriors in the field who have not ceased to strike the enemies, informing them however of the danger to which we were exposed by his (the enemy's) nearness, reminding you that you had reassured us saying I know that the nearness of the Virginians will annoy you; but reassure yourselves only observe their march & if they attempt to cross the Ohio, let me know, & I will immediately come to your help with the nations which surround me. These are your own words. I am deputed to come & take you by the hand & lead you to the enemies who threaten us. we have seen that they have a good fort and in consequence you ought to be ready to march with us, make your entrenchments & assemble some children & when we are all together we will go to meet them, we would let you see the bravery of our young men & the good will which we all have to fight for you and with you. We do not prescribe to you what you should say to the other nations our brothers you know better than we, the reasons which would engage them to Join you for our succor. All the warriors who accompany me wait your answer to go quickly & carry it to our villages; as for me I wait the end of your preparations to follow you whereever you are called. With four strings. My father, in giving you this token of the fidelity of your children in executing your orders deign to promise us abundance for all our needs we need all things & you have no regard for what we ask; we would like to be well clothed & to use the same food as you do & above all drink that liquor has been first drunk with our ancestors by the whites & which we ask to drink at discretion. With a bunch of Tobacco. When God gave us this land as our share, he gave us at the same time this happy plant, which is called tobacco, it furnishes man with good ideas. That is why my father, I ask you to use it so that your thoughts will be conformable to ours. 29th September, 1779. 

Haldimand's Answer to the Chauvrons. 

My children, Chauvrons, I have heard your words & used your tobacco now I will tell you my ideas & my resolutions. Chiefs and warriors, I know what zeal you have shown as your father's children, I congratulate you on your good will to the advice & counsels of your brothers the Five Nations. You say that Governor Hamilton has promised to go to your assistance he can & will go where the need exists, as for me I look to the safety as much as necessary, that is why I continue to build the fort which I have begun. We will also work to keep the communication free. For this purpose I have sent troops to which your brothers, my children, are Joined; they know as well as I do that the source of their wants being closed they would find themselves without help & exposed to the vengence of the enemy. You think the nations here in idleness. You deceive yourselves; they never cease to be in the field & actually as you speak there is nothing but women in the village. Your father, the general, busy with the care of his children, great expenses of the fort, vessels & troops, supplies your wants. You should feel that in going away you have nothing to fear from the Virginians & you may rest assured that in case of their invasions we will defend you. So my children believe that I will do all in my power and that I & the troops will help you. I will go where you call me & will not cease to watch and provide for your wants & those of your families, I will furnish as much as I can for your necessities & a little of that drink you desire so much.