QUEBEC 2 July 1779. 
His Excellency General Haldimand's speech to the Indians resorting to Michilimakinac and in its vicinity.      

After going through the usual ceremony of Condolence with three strings of Wampum to wipe their eyes to see, clear the Throat to speak, & open their ears to hear: go on as follows.

Children the Ottawas, Chippewa, Mississauga, and other Indian Nations at Michilimakinac! Being persuaded that there are among you, as many other Nations, mischievous Birds that whisper into your Ears all manner of bad news and Falsehoods to disturb your wellbeing and unanimity in order to bring you into strife & trouble. I therefore by this String of Wampum earnestly advise you not to give ear to such Birds but give due attention to what I am going to tell you it being meant for your Welfare, and what you may depend upon as Fact and real Truth. A String of Wampum. 

Children- I dare say you are acquainted that the King your Father had at last been obliged to chastise & correct his undutiful & rebellious children the Bostonians for attempting to disown and rise against him who has always been a tender & affectionate Father rearing them from their Infancy with a great deal of care & Expense until they grow strong & able to support themselves. No sooner did they arrive to that state of maturity & ease, but they most shamefully & ungratefully forgot their filial Duty & affection & even when they thought themselves formidable enough, they rose against him in order to dispossess him of a country he legally owned near Two hundred years. Aye become Possessors & Masters both of that and the Indian Country, for which reason you must be sensible that they first began with the Indians upon the Ohio, endeavoring to drive them off & settle this Country by Force of Arms and were they to obtain their end that would soon drive all the Indians from their Lands & become their masters.

But their efforts have hitherto proved ineffectual by means of the King your Father's superior Force both by Sea & Land and they losing ground and growing weaker every day and confused in their Councils they were inconsiderate enough to send a party of their People once more into the Indian Country by way of the Illinois, and I am sorry to say the Indians were so blind to their interest as to suffer them to penetrate as far as St. Vincennes and Tuscarawas whereby they not only run the risk of losing their country but the supplies for every necessary of Life they want which they must get from this country, the rebels being destitute of everything themselves as the King your Father's ships stop up all their ports that no goods can get in; and as the Bostonians know that the river St. Lawrence is open whereby all the Indian Nations in Canada are plentifully supplied with every article in Trade they made an attempt to get possession in their country in order to seize upon the Traders & their goods which is the Reason that I have stopped my People who are trading among you from setting out as early as usual for fear of running the risk 
their Lives & Property & your being deprived of your necessaries. 

Do let me tell you children that if you don’t endeavor to keep our country clear of these People for the future you must expect to do entirely without trade as I won't expose my people's lives & property if they can't go into your country with safety. I think it is the best thing for so numerous a body of People as you are to keep a handful of Bostonians out of it. I for my part have not been idle for these 4 years past to keep this River open that you may have our supplies and defend this country from the Incursions of the Rebels, who make frequent attempts to attack it in order to cut off the communication with you which point if they should gain would deprive YOU of every kind of clothing & ammunition for the King your father's Ships would immediately block up this River that not a single ship of the Rebels or their allies with merchandise could get in, so that you must be convinced that it is for your essential welfare and interest to do your part & keep your country clear of the Bostonians. A large Belt. 

Children, As to the stories these evil birds carry about and whisper into your ears with regard to your former fathers the French coming among you again. I shall tell you the Truth of the matter and you may depend upon it as a Fact for I never told an untruth yet in my Life. The Bostonians seeing themselves not able enough to stand up against their Father the King, sent some of their most cunning men, to your former father the King of France telling him many false stories how rich and able they were to fight against their father the King of England, but that they had no large ships like his. If therefore the French King would only hire them some of his big Ships to fight for them they would pay him well & trade with him. The French would not for a long while agree to their request till they begged and promised him so much that at last they prevailed on him to send outlarge ships to help the Bostonians which was last summer & accordingly they Joined the Bostonian Army at Rhode Island. As soon as the King of England's Ships at New York heard of it they went in search of them and when they came in sight of the French ships they immediately left the Bostonians and went to sea & the English ships pursuing them could not stop them to fight but had some shot at them now and then, since that the French ships went to the West Indies where the English followed them & taking a French Island the French General wanted to take it from them again with his Fleet & army but was beat off with the Loss of 3000 men & run away to another Island where he is now shut up by the English Fleet & dare not come to fight them & your Father the King of England has now such a numerous fleet which within the 12 months has been so successful in the East Indies & everywhere that the French Fleet won’t show itself. Now the King of France is so angry with the Bostonians that they brought them into this Quarrel that he won't send them a ship or a man more, and you won't see him so soon for which reason I have called some of your People that wintered at Montreal to come to this place where I convinced them that there was no French ship here or in the mouth of this River this Spring. I can assure you Children that whenever I find that the French will get the better of this Country I shall act the same part which your late father Vaudreuil as to acquaint you of it myself, till then I beg you will keep yourselves quiet follow your hunting & trade & keep the Bostonians out of your country in order to enjoy peace & plenty.