INDIAN COUNCIL. DETROIT, October 29th 1781. At a Conference held by Major A. S. De Peyster Commandant of Detroit, Dependencies, &c &c &c with a party of Miamis just arrived from the Miamis Town. PRESENT. Major Arendt S. De Peyster Commandant Duperon Baby & Bobin, Interpreters. A Miamis Chief speaks: Father! I am sent into you from our Chiefs in all haste for Powder & Ball, the Dried meat you see here (Seven Scalps) is the produce of our Warriours who desire it to be presented to you. Father! Do not be surprised when you see but young men before you, since we are sent by our Chiefs to address you in their names. Our Chiefs with about Seventy warriours were on their way hither in order to see you, but were obliged to return to our Village immediately, on having had the report from a runner detached from thence that the Enemy was advancing towards the Miami Town from St Vincennes. When we say the Enemy, we wish you should know that it consists of French, Indians and Rebels the courier reports further, that on the arrival of the Rebel forces at St Vincennes, a Kickapoo and a Ottawa Indian were confined, as they were at that place to ask presents.Major De Peyster then said: Children! Your Chiefs acted right in returning home on the report of the Enemies approaching towards your Village. I am happy to inform you that your Brethren the St Joseph Indians are prepared for them so I've sent officers from hence for that purpose. the St Joseph Indians will never forget the Indians who struck on them last year. The ammunition you require shall be delivered to you immediately, and as soon as I find that the report proves true, I shall give my children the Miamis all the assistance in my power, as it will not look well to say anything till then.A Miamis speaks on strings of wampum Father! as the Danger is evident, our chiefs have recommended to us to be diligent & to look upon our journey hither as absolutely necessary, in short to apprize you of the future route of the Enemy and the necessity of forwarding immediately ammunition in order to enable us to defend ourselves, as we are entirely unprovided and can do nothing without assistance. Our Chiefs have recommended to us strongly to pray of you not to think anything too precious for the young warriors, but give them freely which you will do to us as Deputies and warriors who have been this summer for the King's cause against the Enemy, and after you have furnished us all with arms & precious clothing, we hope you'll be good enough to give us in profusion of that Shining Metal, an ornament which draws the attention of the Warriors, which is the true way of engaging them, their lives, and their blood to the King. Father! We pray of you to do agreeable to our desires, and the Demands of our Chiefs by doing which, you'll conciliate their regard. Extract from the minutes.Endorsed: Extract of a Conference held by Major De Peyster Commanding Detroit and Dependencies with a party of Miamis sent from their Town with the Intelligence of the approach of the Rebels -- 29th October 1781. 