INDIAN COUNCIL. At a Council held at Detroit 11th March, 1781, with the Potawatomi from St. Joseph, Terre Coupe, and Coeur de Cerf. Assimut speaks with 4 Strings of Wampum. FATHER, I am hired by the Potawatomi at and near St. Joseph's, to acquaint you with the Reasons of having suffered the Enemy to carry off their Traders. They came to St. Joseph's at a time that all the Indians were yet at their hunt, excepting a few young men who were not sufficient to oppose one hundred white People and Eighty Indians led by Seguinack and Makewine, who deceived them by telling them that it was the Sentiment of the Indians in general to assist the French and Spaniards. Had we assembled in time, we would nevertheless have given them such a stroke as we gave those who came to St. Joseph's a few moons before. We therefore hope our Father will take pity on us and not leave us to the Mercy of the Enemy, who threaten soon to come and destroy our Women & Children.Wawiaghtenou, Chief of the Potawatomi of Detroit speaks in behalf of his Nation, the Ottowas and Chippewas, with six strings Father, I rise to speak in behalf of the Potawatomi of St. Joseph's, I desire in the Name of our Nation, the Ottawas and Chippewas that you will not abandon them to the Mercy of the Enemy. I am convinced they were no ways in concert with the Enemy and therefore hope you will have pity on them.Major De Peyster's answer, with six strings of Wampum. Children, (You see I still call you children since it is the request of the Nations present) I have at different times said so much to you on the subject of the Traders and Goods entrusted with you, by the Governor of Michilimackinac, that it is needless to say any more at present. My words have proved true, you have lost your Traders and I have only to pity you. open your ears and attend now to what I am going to say. The Spaniards tell you they are in alliance with the Virginians and the French, They therefore offer you their Hands, or threaten to destroy your Women and Children. Believe me, they can never destroy them until you are simple enough to shake hands with them. If you adhere to your alliance with the King of Great Britain and his Indian Friends, nothing can hurt you. The Spaniards in the time of your Ancestors, by fair words when they failed by force of Arms, got possession of an Indian Country the other side of the Mississipi, where they Killed Thousands of the Inhabitants to get the stuff that those Bracelets and Gorgets you are now wearing are made of. You have no such Clay in your ground at St. Josephs, but you find fertile Lands which will produce abundance of corn. If therefore you listen to those sugarmouthed Spaniards, what would the Spirits of your ancestors say if they knew that their Burying Grounds were to be levelled by Ploughs, and their Bones disturbed for the Spaniards and Virginians to sow Corn, Whilst you, their descendants, tamely came to Detroit to beg a little piece of Land from the Ottawas to hide yourselves, which must be the case soon unless you are determined to stand firm as the Oak which grows upon your Land. Do not be afraid to trouble the Lands because there are Indians foolish enough to join them. If you are afraid, I am not. Therefore to prevent yourselves the affront, return to St. Josephs and bring me the chiefs Seguinack and Makewine, or I will find others from Michilimackinac to do it. Do you not know that they are the outcasts of their Nations? I once bought those Renegade Chiefs off in hopes that they would return to a sense of their duty. I am now determined no longer to spare them Whilst some of you look out for your Enemies, let others fresh cover the Graves of your Ancestors, and raise the earth so high over them that no plough can level them. Mr. Baby shall furnish you with ammunition and such things as are absolutely necessary. You must not expect ornaments or conveniences till you show yourselves thoroughly deserving of them. Children, the English always have treated you well, and the Indians on the other side the Mississippi are so sensible of the goodness of an English Father that they have invited him to send his troops to drive the Spaniards out of the country. They are now about it, and are helping those Indians to revenge themselves upon their enemies. Tell Nanaquoibe and Betagusliach their old Michilimackinac Father speaks to them. He begs they will also attend to what they soon will hear from Him who is at present at Michilimackinac, as they may expect to hear from him soon.Wawiaghtenou speaks: Father! In calling to mind the Bones of our Ancestors, you draw tears from me. have pity of them, and I'll engage they will raise Mountains over their graves.(Signed) At. S. DE PEYSTER. Commanding. Endorsed:A Council with the Potawatomi of St. Josephs. Detroit 11th March 1781.  