INDIAN COUNCIL. In Council, Detroit 14th June 1782. PRESENT. Major At S. DePeyster, Commandt. Lieut. T. Bennett   Lieut. D. Saumarez I Ensign K. Pollard j Ensign Sheehan J Messrs. D. Baby   C. Baubin Interpreters. I. Chesne J About fifty Chiefs and Warriors of the Kickapoo, Mascouten, Wea, Piankeshaw, Miamis, and Peoria Nations, Major De Peyster addressed the several Nations 	Children! I desire to know from you whether you have received the strings which I sent per the Fleas, or not? As I desired him he should send them among your people, if you have received them I desire that one of your Chiefs may repeat what has been said upon them.A Chief then replies 	Father! Your Strings were just brought to my Cabin which was much to this purport "Take courage my children, the Kickapoo. Listen to my speech and make it circulate among all the Nations who border the Ouabach, desiring them to shut up the Ouabach on the approach of an Enemy and that some of our people should go to reconnoiter towards the Falls of the Ohio.” You said also, that you would open your Heart and your arms to receive us and those who live near us this is all I can recollect.Major De Peyster then said: 	Children! Since you cannot recollect my speech, I shall repeat it over to you again. When your War Chief delivered over to me two of my People, they told me "that the Enemy had left the Post and were gone to the Falls. I said it was well, and that the Indians who border the Ouabach might then enjoy quiet. he asked me for Clothing & Ammunition for his people. I told him he should have some for himself and party but for the absent ones I would not send any until I found they were inclined to act for the King of England. I gave him at the same time a few Strings to deliver to all the Indians Nations on the Ouabach telling them "that since the Enemy was gone from St Vincennes, it was in their power to prevent their returning again, and that I desired to know from them whether or not they were inclined to join me in hindering them from coming in to their country, as my speech is equally addressed to you all I directed that it should be made known to you, requesting an answer to be sent to me by a Deputation of Two Chiefs from each nation, that I would then receive you with open arms.	Children! I am not afraid of the Enemy as I am too strong for anything they can do, it's for your good only that I give my advice that you may become happy and not listen any more to the Rebels, that by their fine speeches they may pass your River and destroy you, as I am well assured they seek your destruction only.	Children! As soon as you have given me Proofs of your Attachment to the British Government I shall then know how to confide in you. You can not say that you were in want of wherewith to execute it, for I took care to provide a Trader for you at the Miami Town, I now give you these Strings and desire to know immediately if you are of these Sentiments which I have suggested to you?	Delivers several strings Major DePeyster then speaks to the Mascouten, telling him as he was present at the time when he delivered his first speech with the Strings, he desired that he would therefore inform his Brethren present whether or not what he just had said was not the subject of the Speech delivered.The Mascoutin answers, 	Father! Where is the necessity of repeating what you told us when we were here before, for what you now say is nothing but the truth.Major DePeyster, tells Pecan, the Miami Chief, that he did not address him with the Strings but the Foreign Indians only he being fully satisfied with the Miami because they think as he does.The Great Member got up and told the other nations that although they were younger and not so great as he was, that he hoped they would speak their sentiments freely, as they were nigh the Enemies Gates it belonged to them to speak first and not to deceive their Father the Commandant.La Mine de Plomb, a Wea speaks 	Father! I salute you in the name of our nation and beg of you to listen to me. We have come a great way to see you and to return you our thanks for the favours we have received, hopeing you'll continue them towards us.		Father! It gave us pleasure when we received your speech for by that we found you thought of us, for 'till then we were in obscurity, you can see by our faces the satisfaction it gave us.	(delivers 4 white strings) The Great Member, speaks on a scalp 	Father, You urged us to make War against the Rebels and bring you marks that we acted as Warriours, you see by this what we have done. I cannot say I made it, however I hope you will accept of it from my hands as it came from my chiefs who sent you some time ago a great Pacquet of papers. I have told our Brethren to follow our example by doing which they would gain your favors. (Delivers the Scalp) he then adds, 	Father! It would be to little purpose to take too much of your time. let it suffice for me to assure you that the Wea, all to a Man are ready to take the War hatchet for the King and do your will.Ne, me, ka, a Wea says 	Father! We the Wea with the several nations here present make but one and we have no other thought but yours. When your speech came to our hands, we all rejoiced, as we only wished to please our father. he then speaks on a Tobaccoe Pipe.	Father! This Pipe I deliver to you as a token of friendship and alliance, since you desire we should make known our sentiments. This will serve to tell you that we are inclined to do whatever you may desire from us and to keep fast hold of your hands that it may not slip from us. (delivers the Tobaccoe Pipe) he then speaks on 8 Beaver Skins. 	Father! We know your sentiments and you know ours, we now hope that you'll not shut your Gates upon us, but permit us to have access to your traders that we may get Goods for the skins we have brought with us. (delivers 8 Beaver Skins) Che, u, pi, nin, a Mascouten speaks 	Father! I remember when I was here before, you gave me a general invitation, telling me, that whenever I came here you would give me a welcome. I have therefore accompanied my Brethern hithera Pianquishaw Chief speaks on a large Tobacco Pipe. 	Father! Our Chiefs and Warriors desire you will accept of this Tobacco Pipe which you may keep as a proof of our friendship and alliance to Great Britain. We have no other thought but yours and we shall no longer listen to the rebels as they were the cause that we, our wives and children are miserable.		Father! We give you the strongest assurances that we shall execute your desires and we hope that you will fulfill ours as we now stand in need of assist ance, we are the youngest of the nations present therefore want your advice to direct us.	Father! We pray of you to allow us to trade with your people as we have packs for that purpose.	Father! Our Chief is greatly enraged against the Rebels for having deceived him. He has lost some of his people in their service and they had not wherewith to cover them, excepting the leaves of the Forest, so great is their poverty. (delivers the Tobaccoe Pipe) Le Marengoin, a Mascouten, speaks in the name of the Peoria	Father! Pray listen to me, I address you in the name of the Peoriaand this man in particular (pointing to one) who's loss he yet laments since the time Lieut. Governor Hamilton was at St. Vincennes, he begs of you to take compassion on him and his people and give them cloathing	Father! The Peoriaare of the same mind as the rest of your children and give you this Tobbaco Pipe as a token thereof. (Delivers a Tobacco Pipe)Major De Peyster then said, 	Children! The Kickapoo, Masconten, Wea, Piankeshaw, Miamis and Peoria, I have listened with impatience, when I say impatience considering I have thrown away the Key of the Council House Door as I am thinking of nothing but war. I have a Vessel fitted out for that purpose which will sail immediately for Sandusky, if there are any among you who are disposed to go that way to assist your Brethern, let them declare themselves and prepare to embark in the Vessel, those who are here to trade I will allow them to do so, that they may return to their Village, to assemble together and oppose all attempts of the enemy should the come up the Ouabach or elsewhere, by doing which you will secure the lives of yourselves, women and children	Children! I do not pretend to enforce your going to St. Dooskey, I should have ill used you did I not pay you the Compliment of inviting you to that Quarter. What I now do is for the good of the Brown Skins in General, as the Enemy seek their destruction and not mine.	My Children the Wea have already given me marks of their being out to War and I have rewarded them. I shall now do so to the person who gave me marks of that nature to day.	The beaver skins you have presented to me this day are marks for the women and not for Warriors. the Vessel being ready you can embark in her for Sandusky where you may enable yourselves to procure such marks as will be acceptable from your hands.(Extract from the Minutes). J. SCHIEFFELIN Secretary. Substance of a Council held at Detroit 14th June 1782 by Major DePeyster Commanding Detroit and its Dependences with the KickapooMascouten Wea Piankeshaw Miami and Peoria