INDIAN COUNCIL. In Council Detroit 22d April 1782. PRESENT. Major Arendt S. De Peyster Commandant Messrs D. Baby &. C. Beaubien, Interpreters Misshikinackwaa, Chief from the Wea. Kickatassia, Chief from the Eel River with a number of their Warriours. Misshikinackwaa speaks on a War Belt: Father ! Since I have undertaken to fight for the English I have received three War Belts and have been out against the Enemy three different times I have been always successful but not quite to your wishes nor my own the great Spirit has ordered it to be so.	Father ! You see here part of those who made the last Campaign, who have done nothing but taking Prisoners and have not as yet spilt Blood, we are now desirous to know from the Indians in this Quarter how we are to act in future. delivers the War Belt.	Father ! You see some of my people who with me think themselves en- titled to demand of you a supply of cloathing and necessaries for ourselves, our Wives and Children as we are the only people from our Village who have acted for the King. Some of our Chiefs and Warriours of our Village are now speaking with the rebels having left the Village with that intent. delivers several strings.	Father ! You see here the fruits of my Campaign (two Prisoners) one of which I had adopted in lieu of a Brother as he is a Loyalist but as I know it will give you pleasure to have him I will therefore forego the happiness by giving him up to you.	Father ! As there are some of our people who have skins with them I have to request of you to permit them to trade with the Traders.	Father ! The long journey in the cold season we have had prompts us to pray of you to order us an ox that we may drink broth. delivers several strings Wampum	Father ! I shall say but a few words more to you which is to beg of you to dispatch us immediately homewards as we are bordering on the Enemies GatesPeck, cossia, spoke a long while on a smoked skin and strings of wampum representing his and peoples misery having lost his son by the Enemy and therefore craves the assistance of his father the Commandant.Kawiyachtaa speaks for Le Bornne. Father! What you have just heard is true and I now am going to speak to you not for myself but for my Chief though he has not been out to War himself he has sent his young men, as his disorder is such that it has prevented his going, but without your assistance what can we do, we have neither Powder nor Ball and are nigh the Enemies Gates Governor Hamilton was our friend for he provided for our wants we are anxious to know what is become of him in the mean time you are our father and we expect you will treat us as he did I will now explain to you what the old man meant to say who spoke last it was to tell you that we had attacked a Pianquishaw and a frenchman between the Post, and the Fall of the Ohio, therefore have com- passion on us for we have acted as good children in doing all in our power for your service.Major De Peyster then address'd Mischikinackwaa the chief from the Wea and those who accompanied him. 	Children! I return you my thanks for the Prisoners you have delivered over to me, it shows your attention to my orders "to take as many Prisoners as possible and avoid spilling the blood of Women & Children when Warriours meet you and they fall in action it is what they must expect and I should be pleased if this day I could hear that the rebels have followed your example but by report from Fort Pitt I find that they have acted quite in a different manner and I begin to fear tor your Chiefs who have imprudent enough to go and speak to them.	Children! I must continue to you to continue to avoid cruelties that the Great Spirit may give success to our undertakings, for be assured he does not take pleasure in them, it will yet turn out that the perpetrators of these acts of cruelty will suffer the vengeance they merit with respect to your demands such as I am used to give to my children I shall order to be provided for you, I have to advise you to get cloathing ammunition or such things that may be necessary for you at home for the skins you have brought here to trade and avoid buying of that pernicious Liquor (Rum) which so often deprives my children of their reason, for such as carry from hence necessaries find the advantage when they arrive at their Village, while those who take rum perceive they gain nothing but indisposition the General with the Indians below have requested that Liquor be withheld as they find that the Indians drink to excess and ruin their constitutions.	Children! Notwithstanding what I've said to you at this time I fear you may let the Enemy pass you unmolested, if you do, be assured that hereafter, you and those who are behind them will become a Sacrifice, should they come and you oppose them at your Village if you find them too strong you can retreat to the Miamis and if overpowered there then come in to me, united we shall be strong enough to defeat all attempts that may be made against us	Children! I address this speech equally to you all with the distinction only that you who have produced Prisoners shall be treated with greater mark of Esteem than those who come here to trade only.(Extract from the minutes) Jacob SCHIEFFELIN [British] Secretary of Indian Affairs. Endorsed: No 24 Extract of a Council held by Major De Peyster Commanding Detroit with the Misshikinackwaa Chief from Wea and those who accompanied him. Detroit 22nd April 1783. 