COL. MORGAN TO CHIEFS OF THE SENECAS. Col. Morgan, the Council House or Sha-na-chasse. To Sha-qui-an, dah, que or All-Face and to Riandewane or the Big-Tree Chiefs of the SenecaAugust 14th 1783. Brothers, Two days ago I spoke to my Friend Sha-qui, an, dah, que who I know to be a very wise man, and, as I know both of you to be wise men, I now speak to you both, and desire you will listen to me.Brothers The Chiefs and Warriors of the Six Nations have been a long time Drunk and possessed with the Evil Spirit They are now getting sober and coming to themselves: therefore I desire you to ask them to sit down, and tell you what they have been about.Brothers Perhaps your Chiefs & Warriours may not love to tell you what they have been about, but you and I know all. They have broke in pieces and destroyed the chain of Friendship which your wise ancestors made with ours They have totally extinguished the Council Fire, which we had lighted up They have struck us, whilst we smoked around that Council Fire, and had fast hold of your chain of Friendship They join'd with the English to make Dogs of us They have found themselves mistaken, and have them- selves submitted to become Dogs to the English. This is what they have done.Brothers, The Great Council of the United States, which we call Congress, have determined to treat all the Indian Nations as Brethren, and will appoint some wise persons to call upon each Nation, in order to make a new Chain of Friendship Therefore I recommend to you, to call all the Chiefs of your Nations together, and consult with yourselves what will be most for your good to do If I can be of any Service, send a Belt for me & I will come to your meeting.Brothers When you have fully considered your situation, and determined what will be best for you to do, for the good of your Women & Children, send a Deputation to Congress with your proposals, and let me advise you to employ some person who is honest, and who can write down what you say, so that you may not be deceived or misunderstood.Brothers I have two of your nephews who live with me as my sons They go to school every day, and I hope they will grow up to be good men I don't keep them as Slaves but as my own children. I desire that you will take good care of our Flesh and Blood which is amongst you, and restore them to me, when we meet, or when Congress send for them.A Belt (signed) GEORGE MORGAN. From Philadelphia  August 14th 1783  Brothers, Altho' the English & Americans have agreed to be separate Nations, we have made a lasting chain of Friendship with them, for which purpose the waters of all the Lakes are to divide us and they are to give us up Michilimac'c Fort Detroit, Niagara, Oswego, &c. Farewell, be strong and wise(signed) GEO. MORGAN Endorsed: Col. Geo. Morgan To All Face & the Big Tree. No 2 August 14th 1783. 