Date: November 18th - September 18th, 1786

INDIAN SPEECH TO THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.   

Speech of the United Indian Nations at their Confederate Council  held near the mouth of the Detroit River, between the 28th Nov. & the 18th  Dec. 1786   

Present the Chief of the Five Nations, the Hurons, Delawares, Shawanese,  Ottowas, Chippawas, Poutawattamies, Twightwees, Cherokees, and the Wabash  Confederates   

To the Congress of the United States of America:   
Brethren of the Thirteen United States of America.   It is now upwards of three years since the peace was made between the  King of great Britain and you, but we the Indians were disappointed, as  matters did not turn out to our expectations, for we thought that after its  conclusion a lasting Friendship would also ensue between the United States  and the Indians, and that we might enjoy that happiness that formerly subsisted between us and our oldest brethren, we have received two very agreeable messages from you the thirteen United States, we at the same time  received a message from the King, whose war we were engaged in, desiring us to  remain quiet, we acted accordingly and all our brethren remained quiet during  the time of this tranquility, we were devising the best method we could to  form as good a reconciliation as possible with you, the thirteen United States  that might be permanent and lasting and at the same time we thought that  we were to make an agreeable reconciliation and lasting friendship with a set  of people born on the same continent with ourselves, and that the quarrel  that was between us was not of our own making.   In the course of our animadversions, we found out one thing that might  occasion a lasting peace between us.   Brothers, We the Indian nations are still of the same opinion as at that  time with respect to the matter that may tend to reconcile us to each other  at this Council. Notwithstanding we had the best thoughts in our minds  during the before mentioned period, nevertheless mischief has happened between you and us. We are however still anxious of putting our laudable  plan of accommodation into Execution, and we shall now inform you of the  matter, which we devised and considered of, as tending to make a peace,  which is, that we intended, whenever we the Indians entered into any negotiations with you, we should be all of one mind and one voice in our  speeches, with the whole of our confederacy of the different languages which  the Great Spirit planted on this ground we meant to finish them in a general  manner.   For we understood that your meaning was, that whenever we should have  a Council that some landed matters were to be transacted at it a matter of  the greatest importance to us, is that respecting our territories or giving  away lands when a division of territory is agreed to by some particular  nations without the concurrence of the whole of our confederacy, we look  upon it as illegal and of no effect, for it is a general concern, and unless it is  transacted with the unanimous consent of the whole, it can never stand  good.   Brothers, we think it is owing to yourselves that the peace between us has  not lasted, and that that essential good has been blended with confusion,  because that you did everything respecting it your own way, you made your  Council fires where you thought proper. Our plan was not followed which  was to speak to you in a general manner and with the voices of all the  Different nations of our Confederacy.   If this had taken place, we are almost certain that you and we, would now  have been on the most amicable footing.   We did everything in our power at the Treaty of Fort Stanwix to pursue  this plan, as our real intentions were at that very time to promote peace and  concord between us, and that we might look upon each other as friends, and  we gave you no cause or provocation to be otherwise.   Brothers, We are still of opinion to pursue those just steps of promoting  tranquility and happiness between us, notwithstanding the mischief that happened we wish you would take it into consideration and let us speak to  you in the manner we proposed.   Let us have a treaty with you early in the spring, let us pursue reasonable  steps, let us meet half way for our mutual convenience. We shall then bury  in oblivion the mischief that has happened, and speak to each other in the  style of friendship.   Brothers, We say let us meet half way and pursue such steps as become  upright and honest men, until which time we beg that you will prevent your  Surveyors and other people from coming on our side of the Ohio River ; we  have told you before we wish you to pursue just steps, and we are determined  that they shall appear just and reasonable in the eyes of the World. This is  the determination of all our Chiefs of our Confederacy now assembled here,  notwithstanding the accidents that have happened in our Villages and when  in Council, where several innocent Chiefs were killed when absolutely engaged in promoting a peace with you the thirteen United States. Although  then interrupted, the Chiefs here present still wish to meet you in the Spring  for the before mentioned good purpose, when we hope to speak to each other  in a style unaccompanied by haughtiness or menaces.   Brothers, We again request of you in the most earnest manner that you  will order your Surveyors and others that march on lands to cease from  crossing the Ohio, until we shall have spoke to you because the mischief  that has recently happened has always originated in that quarter, we shall  likewise preserve our people from going over until that time.   Brothers, It will be owing to your arrogance if this laudable plan, which we  so earnestly wish for, is not carried into execution, in that case the result  will be very precarious and if fresh ruptures ensue, we are confident we shall  be able to exculpate ourselves & most assuredly with our united force be  obliged to defend those immunities which the Great Spirit has been pleased  to give us, and if we should then be reduced to misfortune, the world will  pity us, when they think of the amicable proposals we made to prevent the  effusion of unnecessary blood. This is the purposes of our determinations  and we ardently desire that you will transmit to us, as soon as possible your  answer, be it what it will. 

Done at our Confederate Council here at the Huron Village near the mouth of the Detroit River.   Dec 18th 1786.   

Endorsed. Letter No. 13 Inclo: A. In Lord Dorchesters No. 13 23th Feby 1787.
