INDIAN COUNCIL. 

DETROIT 24th December 1786 

A Council was held with the deputation of the Six Nations and the several Nations of Western Indians.

Mr. McKee opened the Council by saluting the several nations present and passing the ceremonies usual in such occasions Then informed the Indians that were ready to hear anything they had to say, as they had requested this meeting.

Captain Brandt in behalf of the Indian Confederacy returned their grateful thanks for the kind and generous reception we had given them, as well as the attention paid in conformity to the ancient customs of their Forefathers, in opening the Council this day, and continued

Father and Brethren, Listen to us with attention; You are well acquainted that we went to the Shawnese Country to hold Council there, you are also sensible of what happened to us, and what passed afterwards and what obliged us to reassemble at the mouth of this River, our business at these places we shall now explain to you it being final settled. The reason that called us to Council at those different places is that the Americans have given us great trouble since the peace concluded between you and them, in which we, the Indians were left out. Although it was our attachment to you that led us into your disputes, the treatment we have met with from the Americans has involved us in great difficulty and trouble, but we have at last agreed how to act in this important matter, which is to send a letter to Congress and propose for them to come and meet us half way between their conntry and ours, to treat with them on matters which may be mutually beneficial to us both.
If they are so disposed, particularly respecting the Establishing a boundary line, as the only certain means of procuring a lasting peace between them and us We mean to do it on as reasonable terms as Equity and justice to ourselves will permit. The first steps we desire them to take, is to forbid their people crossing the Ohio River till our negotiation will take place, which we propose to be in about four months from this day. we have for this end appointed deputies from our late Councils to go to all the nations both Southward and Westward to make them acquainted with our resolutions, and to require them to be in readiness and to assemble by the time appointed, to defend themselves & their rights if necessity requires, but in the mean time to keep within their own limits untill we see farther.

This, Father and Brethren, is the purport of our late Council at the Huron Village and which we finish on the 18th Instant.

Father and Brethren, We have now told you the heads of the different matters that were transacted at our late Council, and we earnestly beg of you to reflect seriously upon the consequences and our critical situation. It was from an attachment to your interests that we made enemies of the Americans, and we are still involved in hostilities, whilst you are enjoying the blessings of Peace, of which we, your allies, have not hitherto felt the good effects. This you must acknowledge yourselves is a hardship, we again earnestly require your reflections upon our situation. you are not ignorant of the ad vantages the Americans would take of us, had they it in their power

We request as the great Representative of the King is now arrived on this Continent, that the English will give us such ample answers as the importance of the subject requires, we call it a subject of importance as our future welfare depends much upon the present prudent management of our affairs. We beg that there may be no delay on your part, to give us an answer, as our affairs with the Americans must absolutely be determined in about five months. Hence We will be happy if the English would previous to that period give us a determined answer, which we may rely on, and by all means freely to speak their sentiments, as far as it is consistent with the nature of our alliance.

Major Ancrum then answered and told them that he was sorry for the in terruptions they met with and the misfortunes that happened at their first Council fire, and at the same time he was happy to find that their late Council had been conducted with moderation and wisdom, and hoped it would be productive of the desireable end, and that we might all equally enjoy the Blessings of Peace, and that he would likewise take the earliest opportunity to transmit to His Excellency the Commander in Chief the result of their determinations, being always happy to promote that ancient friendship which had subsisted between them and us, and was sanguine in his hopes and wishes for a long continuance.

Mr. McKee closed the Council by telling the Indians that he was happy to find that they had calmly, and at the same time with firmness considered those important points tending to promote their Interests, which could not fail of meeting with the aid and protection of the Great Spirit, as well as the approbation of all disinterested and unprejudiced people, and that he would always be happy to give them every assistance in his power consistent with the directions he received. A present usual upon such occasions was hereupon delivered to the Indians.

(signed) A. McKEE D. A. I. A. 

Endorsed : Letter No. 13 inch : B. la Lord Dorchester's No. 13 of 38th February. 1787. (No 2) 
