Father, I salute you and all these assembled here, I thank the Master of Life for affording me an opportunity of seeing you my English Father which enables me to represent the situation of your children the Potewatemys who have deputed me and my friend Mishpawkissh to represent them. Father, I salute you and our Great Father beyond the Great Lake in the name of your children the Potewatemys. Father. I am instructed by your children to acquaint you that they were the first of all your Indian children who took up the Tomahawk against the Big Knives. They were amongst the first at Chicago, Detroit, River au Raisin, Defiance and Fort Meigs, even so far back as the Tepikono Battle, where several of them fell fighting under the Shawenese Prophet’s Banner is well known to all the World. At the River au Raisin the Potewatemys composed the Right Wing of the Army under the command of Genl. Procter and when 300 of the Enemy under Genl. Winchester made an attempt to out flank our English Father the Potewatemys rushed upon them and cut those 300 into pieces in consequence of which our English Father gained a signal victory for the remainder of the Enemy’s Army surrendered. It is true that some of the Potewatemy nation have taken the Big Knives by the hand, but those people who have done so are men of no influence with the Warriors of our Nation, those who have acted so improperly are the Five Medals & his followers, men of no principles nor bravery, but on the contrary a set of cowardly fellows who have suffered themselves to be bought over to the Enemy’s Interest for a little whiskey. Father. Your children the Potewatemys of St Joseph’s were compelled to take refuge at or about St. Josephs River when they were abandoned by Genl Procter, since that time they have suffered great distress especially last winter and tho they were repeatedly invited by the 5 Medals to go with him to the Big Knives for ammunition, they preferred to suffer rather than treat with those bad people the Big Knives who are the authors of their misery. Father. This last Spring your children sent you paroles request ing you would extend your bounty to them, You was good enough to listen to them & sent Ammunition and some articles of clothing which your children received but Father your children are very numerous, consequently each man’s proportion was small. Father, Misawgawe Shaywaynesee and Miskinaysway War Chiefs thank you in the name of all your children of our nation that remain true and faithful for the supplies you sent to them last Spring and they trust you will continue to relieve them conformable to the promise made them by our Great Father’s representative at Detroit at the time your children showed their fidelity & attachment with their Brethren the Ohippawas & Ottawas in taking up the Hatchet. Father. Our Nation look to this place for succour, you are our Great Father’s representative at this Great Fire, and you have been made acquainted with the deplorable situation of your, children. They would have followed General Procter when he abandoned Detroit, but they were prevented by the Enemy who cut off their communication. Our powerful men & warriors implore your charitable hand & hope you will assist them with ammunition & clothing Our women are almost naked and no Traders in that quarter to afford any article of clothing. St. Josephs & its depens Michigan will furnish 400 men who are true to you. Speech delivered by the same Person on behalf of Neshkagenay main or Bad Sturgeon a Potewatemy. Father, You sent Paroles to the Kickapoos, and Potewatemy‘s of the plains, to assemble at St. Josephs or near that place, but it cannot be done at present my Father. Slfs into the necessary that they should remain at my village near ieagneB S qf bottom of the Tiakikee to attack the Big Knives, who ian Mlchl I understand mean to lay our Country waste and. 1 want your children the Kickapoos to remain with us, in order to fight and maintain our independence, and let those evil spirits the Big Knives' know that we hold our Lands sacred. Had you wanted your children the Kickapoos to assist you at Mackina 1 would have accompanied them at the risk of losing all that is dear to us, but as it is only an invitation for them to settle themselves at St. Joseph’s It is my opinion they are better here, out of reach of the Enemy’s Emissaries. After this explanation I hope Father you will not be displeased at my conduct. Father, I request that you will send me and my warriors some ammunition & clothing. Speech 'delivered by Mishpawkissh in behalf of Ohebainse a Pottewatemy Chief who fought the Enemy at this place the 4th of August last. Father T sent Paroles to the Miamis, Kickapoos, and Delawares to remove to St. Joseph’s agreeable to your desire, and I am now happy to have it in my power to inform you that those nations before mentioned have sent me by a special messenger word that they would remove to this place that the Big Knives were a perfidious nation, that they had repeatedly deceived them, and lately had invited them to a Council at Fort Grenville, holding forth that those who could attend the Treaty would all be clothed, in consequence of which several attended but finding that the Big Knives not inclined to comply with the promises held out by their Emissaries, The Miamis, Kickapoos, & Delawares went away from Grenville. Ruhardville the Pakan Chief of the Miamis & all his family is on his way to this place the rest are to follow. Now My Father I request you provide something for these people that are reclaimed, they will require Ammunition & Clothing. The Kickapoos will be detained by the Bad Sturgeon on the Teakikee. Present at the Council Mishenahnahquit Taytaypendebay Naytokeman Manitoukequk Queen of Sheba & her sister Chip a Chiefs of Saguma accompanied by 30 of their Warriors 