
Jean B DeCoste To George Rogers Clark August 27 1778. 

his 

Jno. Bte. + De Coste. 

mark. 

Ce que J. B. De Coste a payer pour la Societte 

lb» S D 

pay sur leur Billet de son propre 3327. 14. 6 

paye un Billet 120 ^^ peletier 240. 

paye un autre 193 *^ Di 386. 

L 3953. 14. 6 
De Coste a paye Hanson 1976. 17. 3 

3347- U. 3 
135. 



3482. 14. 3 

^ Original manuscript; Chicago Hist. Soc, Cahokia Records. Transcription by the editor. 
These records were formeriy in the treasurer's office of the courthouse in Belleville, 111. 
AlTord, Eighteenth Century French Records^ in Annual Report of Amer. Hist. Assn., 1905, 
>.. 365. 

* Lèvre, which was equivtdent to the modem franc. 



COURT OF THE COMMITTEE AT CAHOKIA» 

[ist sheet] 
Execu . . [MS. torn] . . ecuring any slave so found in the 
•• . . [MS. torn] . . or elsewhere, Contrary to this order, and to in- 
form & prosecute in behalf of the Publick any other person that 
Should act Contrary to the same 

Thursday 31** Dec*" 1778. 

Joseph Bowman Esq*" Capt Touranjeau 

M'^. Langlois M*". Gratiot 

Present' 

Bap^ Bastien Neagor of M*" Saucier alias of Belcour call'd & 

Examined touching his Poisoning the negor of Marie Laurant of 

St Louis as s^ neagor hath Declared.' 

1 Four leaves from the record of the court founded by Georve Rogers Clark in the archives 
of the courthouse at Belleville, 111. They have been bound by mistake with the àiinnUs 
of Général CouH of lUinois Territory, St. Clair Co^ April ttrm, tStt. Transcription by the 
editor. Except for the time of the Vincennes expedition, McCarty was clerk. 

* For the convenience of repeated reference, all biographical notes on those who were living 
in Cahokia in the year 1 787 will be foxmd with the census of that year, p. 624. Notes on others 
will appear in their proper i^ace and may be found by consulting the index. 

Tne full name of Turanjeau was Pierre Godin called Turanjeau. He died in i779- 
The parents of Charles Gratiot were French, but on account of their Huguenot faith were 
dwelling in Switzerland, when their son Charles was bom in the year 1753. Charles Gratiot 
received a mercantile education, and before he reached his majority went to Canada to engage 
in the fur trade. In 1777 he was in Cahokia and in August of the next year opened a store m 
partnership with some British merchants from Canada, although in the month before Illinois had 
submitted to the Virginians. From letters of his it appears that he maintained relations with 
his uncle in Canada and probably with his partners as long as he remained in Cahokia. He 

!;ave financial assistance to Clark, as did all the other French inhabitants. Gratiot was elected a 
ustice of the court established by Claric and later of the court at Cahdria under the county of 
Uinois. Findixig the conditions on the American bank too stormy for his business interests, 
be moved to St. Louis in 1781, where he became wealthy and prominent. His sons held many 
important positions in public life. Charles Gratiot was a cultivated man, traveled extensively 
both in this country and Europe and was favorably known both for his business capacity and 
sodal qualities. Wisconsin Hist. Col., x, ajo et seq.; Menard Col., Tard. Papers; Dillon, 
Annals of St. Louis, I., au, 481 et seq. 

* See Transcripts from the Cahokia Record, p. 13. The following is the translation of a 
document of the Cah. Rec. in the Chicago Hist. Soc. lib.: **The year 1778, the 20th 
day of December at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, in virtue of the order of Don Fernando de 
Leyba, lieutenant governor of the Illinois, which was given me this day, I, Bernard Gibkins, 
physician at this post, betook myself into the house of the wcnnan Laurant, inhabitant of this 
post, in order to examine her negro. I found the said negro in bed, and after a careful exam- 
ination, I perceived that the sickness, by which he was attacked, proceeded from a violent 
poison. His body was in convulsions and his limbs rigid on account of the corrosive poison, 
which had insinuated itself into all parts of his body. The negro is in danger of death ana 
it will be only the result of chance, if he recovers; in which -case the use of his limbs may 
be lost for the rest of his days. In faith of which I give the present report, which I ai&rm 
to be true, to you, M . Lieutenant-Governor. At St. Louis the said day, the apth of December, 
Z778. B. Gibkins." 



•. -• 






< 



• •• «» 



• ••. 






• • • 






• • •• • 

• • • 
••••• 



• •. 



•:.: 



• •••• 



CLARK'S COURT AT CAHOKIA 5 

Questioned whither he gave any Cake or anything Else to eat 
to s^ Neagor. 

answers that s^ neagor met him and after salutations s^ neagor 
says, I am told you intend ûghting with me. I asked for what, on 
acco^ of Martin's wench, oh Brother says I. we shall never 
Quarelle for that your Country people besides she is every ones 
Whore, therefore shall never Quarelle about that, after which 
s^ neagor s^ he had a peine in his Breast. I asked him if he had 
over strained himself, he s^ not unless it was by Carrying 30 
Bush* of Com that day into the Garret, and that he Neither Eat or 
Drank with Him nor gave him Even a pipe of Tobacco. 

Bap* Le Neagor d'M*" Robert. Declare n'avoir Veu Donne 
p^ Bastienne au'cune Gallet ni autre chose a man[ger] ou à Boir 
a la d* Neagor de M^ Laurant. 

B* neagor of M'' Robert Declares that he did not see Bastienne 
give Cake or any other thing to Eat or Drink to M*^ Laurant's 
Neagor. 

the other neagor . . [MS. torn] . . he was at no Place with 
the neagor of M^ Laurant except at his masters house where he 
gave him a Glass of wine as he was going off that he did not 
see Bastienne with him. 

Thursday 7^** January 1779. 
Michel Beauueu vs L' LaCompte 
a Summons to appear fryday 8^^ to answer such alligations 
which shall be made against him with his witness if he has any. 

a summons to appear fryday 8'^ to give Testemony in the 
above Cause. Jean Racette & Haugon La Croix. 

Fryday 8^^ January 1779. 

Jos. Bowman Esq'' M'' Langlois 

Cap* Trottier M^ Graciot 

Present 

M* Beaulieu vs L® LaCompte 
Pit Demands that proves what he has advanced to M'' Lan- 
glois, that he M''. Beaulieu said to his Neagor take care dont 
Confess anything or you will be hanged. 

Defend* say's he heard it from Jean Raccette, who say's he 



6 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTION 

heard it said at the Court house the day the neagor's were punish- 
ed but of whom or from whom he dont kno'. 

Louis Louisgaut Sworn, that M'' LaCroix told him in the street, 
after the neagor of La Croix was whiped that M^ Beaulieu 
staid in the C^ house with him, and that LaCroix said I believe 
Beaulieu tells his neagor not to Confess or you will be hanged. 

[and sheet]^ 

sworn into office as President of the Court of Committee at 

Cahôs. 

Lieu* Perrault, Présidant M»" Girirdin 

M' Graciot M' Trouttier 

Present. 

[MS, torn] . . Complains to the C* that whereas he has . . 
[MS. torn] . . several artecals to M*" Wills & has Received his 
money in Payment thereoff & as the money is now Cried down 
in the Vilage he Demands that the said Wells should gave [sic] 
further security for the goodness of the money before he shoud 
take the affects out of the vilage.' 

M'' Wells in answer says that he Bought the artecals of the 
said Marthan & as he is a man fair from home and on Business, 
therefore he Desires that the C* would Either Prove it and 
Condemn his money to be bad, or if not to Gave [sic] him his 
Effects that he Bought of said Marthan and that he Does not 
understand that the Voice of any Disaffected Person should 
without any LawfuU grounds be hurtfuU to his trading in this 
Country as he has a Proper Passport from all the officers of 
Post on the Ohio River & that he Could Prove that M' 
Marthan Refused to Deliver the affects. 

Mr. Bournes sworn says that this morning s^ Marthan came 
to M^ Wells Lodging and said that s^ marthan Refused to . . [MS. 
torn] . . go out of the Village without . . [MS. torn] . . Further 
security for the goodness of the Currency that wells had Payed him. 

Mr. Wells further says that if any Person would Come before 

^ The first and fourth sheets are in McCarty^s handwriting and the other two were written 
by some one else. 

* On the assurance of the Virginians the French accepted in payment for their supplies the 
continental paper at face value in gold. It was not until the winter of 1779 that they began 
to suspect that they had been deceived. The above is the earliest reference to their mxKpkdaoB. 



CLARK'S COURT AT CAHOKIA 7 

the O and Refuse to take the said money for Pa3anent of Debt that 
upon the same he would Gave good security for his Remain- 
ing in this Place till Col Clark some other officer should Return 
to this Place that was Proper Judges of the s^ money. 

Upon which Mr. Marthan sent for Jos Beautheau whome he 
said Refused to take the money for a note he had Given him s^ 
Beautheau said that he did not Demand his Pa3anent as not Being 
Due till spring Come a Year so he had not Refused any sort of 
Payment that was Lawfull. 

[3d sheet] 
Lieut Perrault President M*". Beaulieu 
Cap* Trouttier M^ Girirdin 

M»" Graciot Present 

Louis Lasoudray Pltf M*" Deneau & "MF LaPadge Deft 
M*" Deneau & M'' LaPadge appeared the third time to satisfy 
themselves of the Crime laid to their Charge [and] no Person 
Came to Prosecute them & They Declared themselves Luiocent 
of The Crime laid to their Charge. The Honorable Court There- 
fore thought Proper to Dis[charge] them and Clare them of the 
said Crime laid [to] their Charge &c ordering that the said 
Lasoudray [shou]ld pay all Cost and Expence whatsoever the 
said [De]neau and La Padge has been at to Justify themselves of 
this Hanious Crime Laid to their charge also Gaving The said 
Deneau & LaPadge Privalage to Prosicute the said Lasoudray for 
the same on the other side. 
Adjourned M»" Perrault. 

Fryday the 2*** day of April 1779. 
C* Oppened. 

Lieut Perrault Présidant M*" Graciot 

Cap* Trouttier M^ Touranjeau 

Present. 

J. B* LaCrodc Plff. vs Michel Charle Deft. 

J. B* LaCroix Complains to the Court that whereas he 

Engaged Micheal Charle in his service for the space of one y[ear] 

and his time of servace not yet Being accomplish[ed] Refuses to 

serve him any longer & Therefore . .[MS, torn]. . to kno. some 



8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTION 

lawful Reason for his so doing, s^ Charle in his defence says 
that the said La[Croix} imposed upon him too hard by ordering 
him to [work] late & Early & in the night which he Refused [MS. 
tarn] upon which they had some Despute after which he the s^ 
Charle Left his house & Refused to serve him any longer. 
After Desputing some time between the . . [MS, torn] 

[4th sheet] 

him do it and that it was with this Depo* Gun. 

C* are of opinion that it was not the shot Caused the Death of 
the . . [MS, torn] 

Pit. to pay costs. 
Jacque Method Pit vs Renoch Locat Deft for his sister M** 
\r^ Method 

Pit Demands the rent of 3 years for a piece of Land Deft has 
occupied amount'g to 99*^ in Pelet[ries]. 

Def* says there is no writing to produce and Desire's to kno 
in whose Name s^ Lands were Cried to hire and B Method Pfts 
Brother held said Land, only for making the fence. 

C^ are unanimous of oppinion that the widow has no Right to 

pay any Part of rent, & Pit to pay Costs. 

C* adjourned to fryday next 30th. Ap' Inst. 

Jos Bowman 
Fryday 30th. April 1779. 

Major J' Bowman Presid^ L* Beaulieu 
Madame Capitaine, by authority from her Husband desires 
to give up a house Bought of Deceased M^ De Lintot, being in- 
capable of paying the same. M^ McCarty the Executor named 
by this Court, in consequence of her giving up same prays that 
the Court will order that said house be sold by publick outcry 
for the paying a Certain Sum due on said house by said M^ 
Delintots Estate, p^ mortgage to Mad™ Detolsey and the over- 
plush If any for the Good of his s^ Lintots Creditors. 

Members not being present Suffirent to form a majority 
ajourned to fryday next the 7th. May. 

Fryday 7th. May 1779. 

Jo" Bowman Presid* Cap* Touranjeau 

Cap^ Trottier L* Beaulieu 

members Present. 



ACT CREATING THE COUNTY OF ILLINOIS». 

AN ACT for eskiblishing the County of IlinoiSy and for the 
mare effectual pwtection and defense thereof. 

Whereas by a successful expedition carried on by the Vir- 
ginia militia, on the western side of the Ohio river, several of the 
British posts within the territory of this commonwealth, in the 
coimtry adjacent to the river Mississippi, have been reduced, and 
the inhabitants have acknowledged themselves citizens thereof, 
and taken the oath of fidelity to the same, and the good faith and 
safety of the commonwealth require that the said citizens should 
be supported and protected by speedy and effectual reinforce- 
ments, which will be the best means of preventing the inroads 
and depredations of the Indians upon the inhabitants to the west- 
ward of the Allegheny mountains; and whereas, from their remote 
situation, it may at this time be difficult, if not impracticable, 
to govern them by the present laws of this commonwealth, until 
proper information, by intercourse with their fellow citizens, on 
the east side of the Ohio, shall have familiarised them to the same, 
and it is therefore expedient that some temporary form of govern- 
ment, adapted to their circumstances, should in the meantime be 
established: 

Be it enacted by the General Assembly y That all the citizens of 
this conmionwealth who are already setded, or shall hereafter 
setde, on the western side of the Ohio aforesaid, shall be included 



1 Heninc, SUttmUs ai Large ( Virginia), ix., 552. A committee was instructed by the Vir- 
npia assembly on Novembn* 10, 1778, to prepare a bill for the formation of the county. 
Tbis was presented to the assembly November 30, 1778, and passed in its final amended form 



00 Decemoer 9th. It was simed by the speaker of the senate on the 17th and subseouently, 
if at all; by the speaker of the nouse of delegates. On the xath of December Governor Patrid: 
Henry issued the instnicticDS in accordance with the provisions of the act. — Jour. H. of Dd. 
(Va.), Oct. Sess.^ 1778, p. 106; Jour, of SenaU (Va.), Oct. Sess., 1778, p. 5a; Rowland, George 
Mason, i^ 307; Boggess, Immigration into lUtnois, 1778-1830 (a thesis in manuscript). Dr. 
Boness was the first to woric out the history of the act, and I am greatljf indebted to him for 
the unn of the thesis, fronvwhidi this note is taken. No writer had previmisly determined the 
exact date of the passage of the act and all but one (Rowland, George M ason)h&ve been indefinite 
or incorrect in giving it. — Winsqr, Westward Movement, laa; Poole, in Winsor, Nar. and 
Cril. Hist^ ti.. 739; Thwaitea, How George Rogers Clark Won the Northwest, 64; Boyd, in 
Hisi. Rev. it., 623; Roosevelt, Winning of the West, ii., x68; and many others. 



lo ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTION 

in a distinct county, which shall be called Illinois county; and 
that the govemour of this commonwealth, with the advice of the 
council, may appoint a county lieutenant or commandant in chief 
in that county, during pleasure, who shall appoint and commission 
so many deputy commandants, militia officers, and commissaries, 
as he shall think proper in the different districts, during pleasure, 
all of whom, before they enter into office, shall take the oath of 
fidelity to this commonwealth and the oath of office, according 
to their own religion, which the inhabitants shall fuUy, and to 
all intents and purposes enjoy, together with all their civil rights 
and property. And all civil officers to which the said inhabitants 
have been accustomed, necessary for the preservation of peace and 
the administration of justice, shall be chosen by a majority of the 
citizens in their respective districts, to be convened for that pur- 
pose by the county lieutenant or commandant, or his deputy, and 
shall be commissioned by the said county lieutenant or command- 
ant in chief, and be paid for their services in the same manner 
as such expenses have been heretofore borne, levied, and paid in 
that county; which said civil officers, after taking the oaths as 
before prescribed, shall exercise their several jurisdictions, and 
conduct themselves agreeable to the laws which the present set- 
ders are now accustomed to. And on any criminal prosecution, 
where the offender shall be adjudged guilty, it shall and may be 
lawful for the county lieutenant or commandant in chief to pardon 
his or her offense, except in cases of murder and treason ; and in 
such cases, he may respite execution from time to time, until the 
sense of the govemour in the first instance, and of the general 
assembly in the case of treason, is obtained. But where any 
officers, directed to be appointed by this act, are such as the inhab- 
itants have been unused to, it shall and may be lawful for the 
govemour, with the advice of the council, to draw a warrant or 
warrants on the treasury of this commonwealth for the payment 
of the salaries of such officers, so as the sum or sums drawn for 
do not exceed the sum of five hundred pounds, anything herein 
to the contrary notwithstanding. 

And for the protection and deffence of the said county and its 



COUNTY OF ILLINOIS ACT ii 

inhabitants, Be it enacted. That it shall and may be lawful for the 
govemour, with the advice of the council, forthwith to order, 
raise, and levy, either by voluntary enlistments, or detachments 
from the militia, ûve hundred men, with proper officers, to march 
immediately into the said county of Uinois, to garrison such forts 
or stations already taken, or which it may be proper to take there 
or elsewhere, for protecting the said county, and for keeping up 
our communication with them, and also with the Spanish setde- 
ments, as he, with the advice aforesaid, shall direct. And the 
said govemour, with the advice of the council, shall from time to 
time, \mtil further provision shall be made for the same by the 
general assembly, continue to relieve the said volunteers,. or militia, 
by other enlistments or detachments, as herein before directed, 
and to issue warrants on the treasurer of this commonwealth for 
all charges and expenses accruing^ thereon, which the said treas- 
urer is hereby required to pay accordingly. 

And be it farther enacted, That it shall and may be lawful for 
the govemour, with the advice of the coimcil, to take such meas- 
ures as they shall judge most expedient or the necessity of the 
case requires, for supplying the said inhabitants as well as our 
friendly Indians in those parts, with goods and other necessaries, 
either by opening a communication and trade with New Orleans, 
or otherwise, and to appoint proper persons for managing and 
conducting the same on behalf of this commonwealth. 

Provided^ That any of the said inhabitants may likewise carry 
on such trade, on their own accounts, notwithstanding. 

This act shall continue and jbe in force, from and after the passing 
of the same, for and during the term of twelve months, and from 
thence to the end of the next session of assembly, and no longer. 



TRANSCRIPTS FROM THE CAHOKIA RECORD. 

Jeudy lo* Juin 1779. 

president pierre Godin B*® Saucier 

francois trotier antoine Girardin 

Charle Gratiaut. michel Beaulieu 

present. 

Catherine négresse a B** Saucier, apprés avoir Eté appelé Et 
examiné a dit que Tanné Dernière son mari ayant demandé a Son 
maitre, pour Sailer promener aux Kas. que lorsque manuel et 
maurau nègre appartenant a Messieurs LeCompte Et baulieu ont 
Sut quils y alloit il luy ont app)orté une Chopine de tafia, disant que 
Setoit pour Son Voyage, Et quil nût pas plutôt but de cette Eau 
de vie quil Se Senti malade Et quil Est encore Jusqua present Et 
que le Jour que les dits nègre ont Eté pris ayant Eté acqusé 
D'avoir Empoisonner plusieurs personne que ses même nègres luy 
ont avoué quils ont Empoisonner Son mary; Elle deClare que le 
nomé Morau luy a dit que manuel vouloit Lorsqu'il Luy a donné 
de la médecine il vouloit le faire mourir subitement, mais quil luy 
avoit repondu quil valoit mieu le faire mourir En lengoeur Et que 
depuis ce tembs il est Languissant La d** négresse Declare Encore 
que maurau luy avoit dit que manuel Voulait apsolument Em- 
poisonner M*" Martin Et Sa femme Et que La négresse dud' Sieur 
Etoit de ce Complot Et qu'un autre nègre nomé Guanga apparte- 
nant aud* sieur Martin ayant Eu nouvelle de cela Leur avoit dit 

* These transcripU were made by the Cahokia clerk for the court at Kaakaskia, which 
exercised superior jurisdiction in this case. They are from the Kaskaskia Records. Tran- 
scription by the editor. 

The e>idence of these records is very interesting, for they explain the two warrants for 
execution of these two negroes to be found in John TodtTs Record-Bock in Chicago Hist. Soc.'s 
Publkaiions, iv., 302 and 303. According to the Record- Book^ Manuel was condemned to be 
burned to death, a punishment against negroes which was permitted the county courts of Vir- 
ginia. — Chitwood, Justice in Cdonial Virginia, in J. II. U. Studies, Series xxiii.. No. 7, p. 
1 01. Although Todd issued the warrant, he repented the next day, crossed the cop^ of the 
warrant out and issued a new one, in which the penalty was hanging. — Kas. Rec. Mason in 
his Chapters from Illinois History, 264, suggested without sufficient authority that the crime 
for which the negroes were punished was voudouism, and he is followed by Roosevelt in his 
Winning of the West, ti., 175, where be compares the prosecution of the negroes in Catholic 

12 



TRANSCRIPTS FROM THE CAHOKIA RECORD.» 

Thursday, June lo, 1779. 

President, Pierre Godin. Bte. Saucier. 

François Trottier. Antoine Girardin. 

Charles Gratiot. Michel Beaulieu. 

Present. 

Catherine, a negrcss belonging to Bte. Saucier, after having 
been summoned and examined, said that last year her husband 
had asked of his master permission to walk to Kaskaskia and when 
Manuel and Moreau, negroes belonging to MM. LeComte and 
Beaulieu, knew that he was going, they brought him a pint of 
tafia' saying that it was for his journey; and that he had no sooner 
drunk of that liquor than he felt sick and that he is still sick up to 
the present; and that the day on which the said negroes were 
arrested on the accusation of having poisoned several persons, 
these same negroes confessed to her that they had poisoned her 
husband; she declares that the named' Moreau told her that 
Manuel, when he gave him the medicine, wished to make her hus- 
band die suddenly, but that he had answered that it was better to 
make him die slowly; and she said that since that time her hus- 
band has been pining. The said negress declares also that Moreau 
had said to her that Manuel positively wished to poison M. 
Martin and his wife and that the negress of the said gentleman 
was in this plot; and that another negro named Guanga belong- 
ing to the said M. Martin, having had news of this, had said to 
them that if they didn't take away the poison, which they had 

niiaois frith that of the white witches of Puritan New England. The denial of sufficient proof 
for this exi^anatioQ of the warrants wa» made in Shea's Life of Archbishop CarroU^ 190. 

' Tafia was a cheap rum, which formed the staple liquor of the West. The word eaurd^vU 
b used throughout the record as the equivalent of liquor, without reference to any particular 
kind. 

* No mm é is used to designate some person named in the proceedings, but not previously 
mentiaoed io the record. 

13 



14 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTION 

que Si il ne retirer pas le poison quil avoit Jette ché Son maître, 
quil les declareroît Se qui ût quil détérairent un poison quUs avoit 
Enteré sous Le Soeul de la porte. 

paul nègre appartenant a M^® Lapencée ayant Eté appelle Et 
examiner a dit quil avoit Entendu dire par tout les nègres qui ont 
déjà donné Leur Deposition que les nomé manuel et maurau 
avoit Empoisonner toute Les personne mentioné Dans La Declara- 
tion qui a Déjà Eté faite par Eux. 

Le nomé Sasa nègre appartenant a mad**® Buet ayant Eté 
appelé Et examiner a dit que ayant Eté dans la Cabane du 
Sieur Martin demender une pipe de tabac a Sa négresse nomé 
Janette Et quelle luy avoit dit daller au chevet de son lit 
quil En trouveroit, Et qu'ayant regarder, il auroit trouver une 
Corne Dans laquelle il y avoit du Sang qui Bouillet, Et 
qu' ayant Eté Surpris il fut demender a la négresse ce que 
Setoit, que la négresse luy dit de ne point toucher a cela, et que 
cetoit manuel qui luy avoit Donné pour faire mourir Son maitre 
Et Sa maîtresse, et que maurau ayant Sut cela lui fut dire; 
Comment tu garde une chose comme cela ché toi Est ce que tu ne 
Sait pas que cette avec Cette Corne que manuel Sest Servie pour 
faire Empoisonner monsieur et madame nicol. il declare de plus 
qu'un nègre nomé Samba appartenant a M*" quenel prit Cette 
Corne Et la fut montrer a maurau que MauRau Luy dit que 
Cetoit la même Corne que manuel luy avoit donné pour faire 
mourir mons^ Et madame Nicol. 

signé pierre Godin. president. 

Pour Copie Conforme a Loriginal reste Sur Le Registre de la 
Court aux Kaos le lo*® Juin 1779. 

fr saucier Greff®*" 

Premiere interogation faite au nègre de M^ Jaquet nomé 
francois, après avoir Etté apelé Et Examiné a dit que Le nègre 
nomé maurau luy avoit dit a luy parlant quil avoit fait mal au 
nègre de M' Laurant, de S* Louis par raport a la negrese de 
mon*" martin nomé Janette Comme ayant quelque Commerce 
tous deux avec elle que cetoit le Sujet pourquoy il luy avoit 
donné Du poison ; Declare encore ledit nègre que des lorsque le 



CAHOKIA TRANSCRIPTS, 1779 15 

thxx>wn into his master 's house, he would denounce them, which 
caused them to dig up a poison which they had buried imder the 
threshold of the door: 

Paul, a negro belonging to Madame Lapancé, after being sum- 
moned and examined, said that he had heard all the negroes, 
who have already given their testimony, say that the named 
Manuel and Moreau had poisoned all the persons mentioned in 
the declaration which has already been made by them. 

The named Sasa, a negro belonging to Mademoiselle Buyat, 
after being summoned and examined, said that he was in the 
cottage of M. Martin to ask for a pipefull of tobacco from his 
n^ress, named Janette, and that she had told him to go to the 
head of her bed and he would find some, and that when he looked 
he had found a horn in which there was boiling blood; and as he 
was surprised, he had asked the negress what it was; that the 
n^ress told him not to touch that, and that it was Manuel 
who had given it to her to put her master and mistress to death; 
and that Moreau, when he knew that, had said to her: "What! 
Can you keep a thing like that in your house ? Do you not know 
that it was this horn that Manuel used to poison Monsieur and 
Madame NicoUe?" He declares furthermore that a negro, 
named Samba belonging to M. Quenel, took this horn and had 
shown it to Moreau and that he said that it was the same 
horn that Manuel had given him to put to death Monsieur and 
Madame NicoUe. 

Signed, Pierre Godin, President. 

Copy conforms to the original spread on the record-book of 
the Court at Cahokia, Jime 10, 1779. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. 

First cross-examination of the negro called François belong- 
ing to M. Jaquet. After having been summoned and examined, 
he said that the negro, named Moreau, had told him in conver- 
sation that he had made the negro of M. Laurant of St. Louis, 
sick on account of the negress of M. Martin, named Janette, 
since both had some intercoiu-se with her, and that this was the 
reason he had given him poison. The said negro declares, also, 



i6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTION 

negre de M^ Laurant a Santi malade Et quil sut bien Etre Em- 
poissoné, il vint trouvé ledit maurau et luy dit, mon pays, ote 
moi donc le mal que tu ma fait, a quoy ledit maurau a repondu 
quil n*etoit plus tems, Ce nest pas a mon pouvoir de te Poter, 
Celuy de Mon^ laurant luy répéta encore que si il vouloit le guérir 
quil le payeroit Bien a quoy ledit maurace repondit quil ne le 
pouvoit pas. et que néanmoins celuy de m^ Laurent en partant 
luy lessa un quatine Et un mouchoire et luy promettant que Si 
il ne mouroit pas quil le Satisferay plus Emplement. 

a une autre interogation Le dit negre du Sieur Jaquet declare 
quapres que le negre du Sieur Laurant Eut Eté traversé quil 
mourut peu de tems appres Et quil fut reprocher au deux negre 
Soupsoné Empoisoner En leurs disant; Comment Voila Encore 
un negre mort que Ion dit que vous aviés Empoisonné a quoy 
ledit maurau luy repondit que Si il lavoit fait il netoit pas Seul 
que Cetoit manuel qui Etoit le chef de la médecine et qui! luy 
en foumissoit Lorsqui^l en avoit Besoin. 

Declare encore ledit negre que maurau ayant demandé 
quelque faveur a la négresse de Mons^ Nicol quil luy promit que 
Si elle le luy accordoit quil luy Donneroit de la Médecine pour 
adoucir sa maitraisse Comme Setant plain a luy quelle Etoit trop 
Méchante Et en donnât pareillement au mari de laditte négresse 
pour Son maitre Et qu' après la mort de feu m^ nicol et sa dame 
ledit maurau demanda ce qu'on luy avoit promis, La négresse 
particulierrement ne voulut point luy accorder ce quelle avoit 
promis ce qui fit led* maurau L'empoisonna et quelle en mourut. 

A dit encore led* negre que lorsque laditte négresse de feu 
sieur nicol Est tombé malade que plusieurs nègres du pays de 
laditte négresse furent trouver maurau pour le Soliciter a guérir 
laditte négresse a quoy ledit maurau repondit quil n'etoit plus 
a Son pouvoir de luy oter ce quil luy avoit donner. 

Cupidon negre a B*® Saucier ayant Etté appelle et interroger, 
a declarer que le nomé maurau Lorsque M*" et M^* Nicol furent 
mort quil dit a leur négresse; tu doit être présentement contante 
voila ton maitre Et la maitraisse morte tu peu te promené et aller 

^ A basin for melting metals. 



CAHOKIA TRANSCRIPTS, 1779 17 

that as soon as the negro of M. Laurant felt sick and he surely 
knew that he was poisoned, he came to find the said Moreau 
and said to him: ^*My countryman, take away the sickness 
which you have given me," to which the said Moreau answered 
that, it was too late "It is not in my power to take it from 
you"; and that the negro of M. Laurant said again that if 
he would cure him he would pay him well, to which the said 
Moreau answered that he could not do it; but, nevertheless, 
the negro of M. Laurant in going away left him a basin^ and a 
handkerchief and promised him that if he did not die he would 
satisfy him more fully. 

At another cross-examination, the said negro of M. Jaquet 
declares that, shortly after the negro of M. Laurant had been 
sent across the river, he died; and that he had reproached the two 
negroes suspected of pK)isoning and said to them: "What! 
There is another negro dead, whom they say you have poisoned"; 
to which Moreau replied that if he had done it, he was not 
alone, for it was Manuel who was the medicine-chief and 
had furnished him poison whenever he had need of it. 

The said negro declares also, that Moreau had asked some 
favor of M. Nicolle's negress and promised her that if she granted 
it to him, he would give her medicine to make her mistress gentle, 
as she complained to him that the I atter was very bad, and he gave 
some likewise to the husband of the said negress for his master; 
and that after the death of the late M. NicoUe and his wife, Mor- 
eau demanded what had been promised to him, and the negress 
did not particularly wish to grant him what she had promised; and 
for this reason the said Moreau poisoned her and she died there- 
from. 

The said negro said also that when the said negress of the 
late M. Nicolle fell sick, several negroes of the country of the 
said negress went to ûnd Moreau to beseech him to cure the 
said negress; to which the said Moreau answered that it was no 
longer in his power to take from her that which he had given her. 

Cupidon, a negro belonging to Bte. Saucier, after being sum- 
moned and cross-examined, declared that, when M. and Madame 



i8 ILLINOIS inSTORICAL COLLECTION 

ou tu voudra, a quoy le mari de lad** négresse dud* sieur nicol 
luy repondit nous ne tavions pas Demander de Les faire moiuir 
nous ne voulion seulement que tu Les adoucissent un peu, maurau 
Demanda a la négresse de luy accorder ce quelle luy avoit promis, 
la négresse luy repondit quil Etoit trop Vieux, et quelle ne Le 
Vouloit pas. ha [sic] dit led* maurau tu me trouve trop vieux et 
bien tu t'en repentira Et que peu de tems après il Pempoi- 
sonna la négresse Suivant la declaration dud* nègre. 

Cette faitte par Les Susdits nègres, a Etté faitte en presence 
de Messieurs trotier, tourangeau, Beaulieu martin Et B*® saucier 
qui on dit que Les Depositions faitte par Les dit nègre ci dessus 
només, quils Etoit de leur opinion quapres avoir Entendu dire 
par divers nègres que les dits manud et maurau avoit fait ce 
dont its Etoient accusé: quil Doivent Etre vrayament Coupable 
aux Cahôs lo Juin 1779, a huit heure du Soir En la Maison de 
B*® Saucier. 

fr. saucier Greffe* Signé pierre Godin. 

Copie Conforme a Torginal resté Sur Le registre de la Court. 

f. Gref. 
The Arraignment by the States Attorney. 

Je Soussigné Procureur P*^ L'Etat de la Virginie au district 
des Illinois à L'honneur de Représenter a La Cour Respectable 
des Kas que par les deposition des diferens Nègres des Kahos il 
Parroit que Les Nègres Moreau & Manuel Sont Effectivem* 
Coupable du Crime Horrible a leurs Charge, et que par toutes 
les declarations & temoinages il Parroit que le nègre Moreau est 
plus Coupable que L'autre ayant Administré les Poisons que 
L'autre luy auroit donné. 

Par les Quels Poisons plusieurs des bons sujets de cette Repub- 
lique & des soldats de la garnison Sont Mort. 

C'est pourquoy au Nom de L'Etat Je pense Messieurs 
que sy vous Trouvé les dits Nègres Coupable vos prononcerés 
leurs Sentence de Mort et en Nommerés le Jour et la manière 
d'Exetion qui ne peut être trop Cruelle pour des Criminels, 

1 This document does noC belong to the records of Cahokia, but since it is ooe ol the acts 
ia the proaecutioa of the negroes, it seemed best to indiide it. It belongs to the Kcs. Rêc. 



CAHOKIA TRANSCRIPTS, 1779 19 

NicoUe were dead, the named Moreau said to their negress: 
"You ought to be content now. There are your master and 
mistress dead and you can take a walk and go where you wish; " 
to which the husband of the said negress of the said M. NicoUe, 
answered: "We did not ask you to make them die. We wished 
only that you make them a little gender;" and that Moreau 
asked the negress to grant him what she had promised and the 
negress replied to him that he was too old and that she did not 
wish to; that the said Moreau said: "You ûnd me too old, and 
well shall you repent of it"; and that shortly after he poisoned 
the negress according to the declaration of the said negro. 

These depositions made by the negroes aforesaid were made 
in the presence of MM. Trottier, Touranjeau, Beaulieu, Martin, 
and Bte. Saucier, who have said that the depositions were made by 
the said negroes aforenamed, and that it was their opinion, after 
having heard it said by divers negroes, that this said Manuel 
and Moreau had done that of which they were accused, and that 
they should be found truly guilty. At Cahokia June 10, 1779, 
at eight p. m., in the house of Bte. Saucier. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. Signed, Piere Godin. 

Copy conforms to the original spread on the record-book of 
the Coiui. 

F. Clk. 
The Arraignment by the States Attorney.» 

I, State's Attorney of Virginia, for the District of Kaskaskia, 
hereunder signed, have the honor to set forth to the honorable 
Court of Kaskaskia that from the testimony of different negroes 
of Cahokia it appears that the negroes, Moreau and Manuel, 
are really guilty of the horrible crime of which they are accused; 
and that from all the declarations and testimonies it appears that 
the negro Moreau is more guilty than the other, since he has 
administered the poison which the other had given him. 

From which poisons several of the good subjects of this Republic 
and soldiers of the garrison have died. 

This is the reason why in the name of the State I think, 
gentlemen, that if you find the said negoes guilty, you should 



20 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

qui ont Comis des Choses sy Extraordinairem* Horrible & 
affreu. 

aux Kaskaskia a 12® Juin 1779. 

J Girault. 

^ For a discussion of the sentence which was found, see sufra^ p. la, n. i. The warrant 
substituted by Todd for the one copied and erased in his record-book reads as follows: "Illi- 
nois to wit. To Richard Winston; Sheriff of Kaskaskia: You are hereby authorized & 
required between the Hours of Nine Ac Eleven in the morning of the Sixteenth of this Instant 
to cause to be executed Manuel a Slave in your Custody by being hung by the neck until 
he be dead & this shall be your Warrant. Given under my hand & Seal the 14th day of 
June 1779. Jno Todd }T.**-^Kas. Rec, Warrants. 

2 Jean Girault was bom on February 24, 1755, in London, of Huguenot parents. With 
his brother he sailed from Liverpool for America, and on the voyage both were sick from 
small-pox, from which the brother died. In New York Jean was employed as derk and 
book-keeper by an importing house. It is said by a descendant that he here mastered the 
Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Enghsh. Spanish and Choctaw languages. — Dr. MSS., ajjt^. The 
account is doubtless exa^erateo, for he probably learned the classical langiiages in his youth 
and he was perfecting himself in Spanish in 1786. The descendant is also responsible for 
the statement that Girault went to Virginia and later raised a company to join Clark in his 
expedition to the Illinois. As a matter of fact, he was in that country the vear before Clark's 
expedition; for on March 17, 1777, he purchased a piece of land in Cahokia from Father 



CAHOKIA TRANSCRIPTS, 1779 21 

pronounce their sentence of death, and name the day thereof and 
the manner of execution which cannot be too cruel for criminals 
who have committed deeds so extraordinarily horrible and 
frightful.» 

At Kaskaskia, June 12, 1779. 

J. Girault.' 

Gibaalt axkd in July of the same year he was appointed notary by Rocheblave. — Kas. Rec., 
C^mt RK»d.folM. 107 and 120. When Clark reached Kaskaskia, he found Girault very 
useful. On July 6, 1778, Girault was appointed interpreter, and wrote Clark's communica- 
tiooB to the r rendi. On the i6th of the same month he received a commission as lieutenant 
in Worthington's company of light horse, an appointment confirmed by the governor of Vir- 
ginia on Drôember lath. Todd appointed him state's attorney June 5, 1779. He was com- 
miwinnrd captain by Govenux* Jefferson June 3, 1781, and on the 9th of the same month 
Giranh appointed Labuzieie state's attorney in his stead. He was made commissary by 
Clark in 1781. He remained in the army till 1783, when he received his honorable dis- 
chaiie. — Dr. Mss^ 27 J30. He then moved from Illinois to New Orleans, and sometime after 
1 786 settled at Natchez. — Girault to Wm. Clark, May S, 1786 ; letter in possession of H. Rob- 
erts» Chester, III. At Natchex he held many imputant offices, both under the Spanish and U. S. 
govemmems. He died in 18x3. 



REGISTRE DE LA COUR DU DISTRICT DES 

CAHOKIAS.» 

a une Court . ,[MS, torn] . . 
President f . ,[MS, torn] . . char, Gr . .[MS, torn] . . 
Michel . .[MS. torn] . . B*® Sauci . .[MS. torn] . . 

ant. Girardin. 
AUGUSTIN RACÉT DemendeuF Senfacon Défendeur. 

une requette présenté par augustin racet Demendeur qui 
Demande que le Sieur Sanfaçon luy prouve quil Est un Coquin 
Et Sa femme une Voleuse Comme il a Eté trété Et accusé par Eux. 

antoine armant a produit Sa Defence Contre augustin racet 
racet [sic] par laquel il accuse Ledit racet Detre venu chés Luy 
Lataquer. 

pierre gatient ayant prêté Serment De repondre a toute Les 
question que La Court Luy feroit Et a dit quarivant Du champ, 
quil a entendu dire par m^*^ racet a M^® Senfacon quelle Etoit 
une Voleuse a quoy m^® Sanfaçon a respondu quelle n'avoit 
jamais Eté volé de lar Chés Lacroix, Et Declare D'avoir Entendu 
Dire par Le Sieur Senfacon quen tout cas Si Lad** Dame racette 
Etoit une voleuse quelle ne tiendray que de famille. 

George hait ay . .[MS. torn] . . a toute Les qu . .[MS, 
torn]. . feroit Et a prou . .[MS. torn] Ecrit . .[A/5, torn]. . 

Gabriel Baron . .[MS. torn]. . De repondre a toute . .[MS. 
torn] . . Luy feroit Et a dit qu . .[MS. torn] . . D'augustin racette 
et ayant eu quelqu . .[MS. torn]. . avec Le dit Sieur quil La voit 
tretté de Coquin a quoy Ledit Baron Luy a repondu quil netoit 
pas Comme Sa belle Soeur qui avoit Volé le lar Ch [sic] 

* Cah. Rec. in Belle\'ille, 111., original manuscript. Transcription by the editor. When 
it first came into my hands, it was unbound. It is made up of six record books, sewed together 
originally. These had been torn apart and some of the leaves separated. I rearranged them, 
and thev have been rebound by the county officials. A few pages only have been lost. The 
size of the pages differs, but the average is i ai by 8 inches. The number of pages is 348, of 
which 48 are blank, 43 of which are at the beginning, when the clerk used only one side of 
the sheet. Beginning with page 145 the pages are numbered, but these numbers are not given 
in the transcription. The water-marks are various. 

22 



RECORD OF THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF 

CAHOKIA.» 

At a Court . . [MS. torn] . . 
President, Fr. [Trottier] Ch. Gifatiot.] 

Michel [Beaulieu.] Bte. Saucier. 

Ant. Girardin. [Present.] 

Augustin Racette, Plaintiff, vs Sansfaçon, Defendant. 

A petition presented by Augustin Racette, plaintiff, who de- 
mands that M. Sansfaçon proVe to him that he is a rascal and his 
wife a thief, as he has been accused and called by them [the 
defendant and his wife.] 

Antoine Harmand' produced his defence against Augustin 
Racette and accused the said Racette of coming to his house to 
assault him. 

Pierre Gatient, having made oath to answer all questions 
which the coiurt should ask him, said that on coming from the 
field he heard Madame Racette call Madame Sansfaçon a thief; 
to which Madame Sansfaçon replied that she had never stolen 
lard from the Lacroix ' house. And he further said that he heard 
M. Sansfaçon say that in any case if the said Madame Racette 
was a thief, she only took after the family. 

George Hait, having [made oath to answer] all [questions 
the court] should ask [proved] . . [MS. torn] . . written. 

Gabriel Baron [made oath] to answer all [questions the coiurt] 
should ask him and said that . . [MS. torn] . . of Augustin Ra- 
cette, and having had some [words] with the said gentleman that 
he had been caUed a rogue, to which the said Baron answered 
that he was not like Racette's sister-in-law who had stolen 
lard from the Lacroix's house and chickens from Sansfaçon's; 

s His full name wm Antoine Harmand called Sansfaçon, and he is called in the record 
cither Hazmand or Sansfaçon. This additional name was very common among the Frendi in 
Ameiica, and sometimes the surname and sometimes the second name has prevailed in the 
family. The oomsct spelling of his sumaroe, Harmand, is obtained from his signature. 

23 



24 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

Lacroix et Les poule a Senfaçon Et le dit racette luy ayant 
demandé quil luy avoit cela quil a repondu aud* racette que 
Cetoit Le S*^ Dau et Sa femme qui luy avoit dit a quoy le dit 
racette a repondu que D'au Etoit un j. P. Et sa femme une 
putin Et qui Le prouveroit. 

Gabriel Constant ayant prêté Serment De repondre a toute 
les questions qui luy seran [sic] faite Et a dit. que Cetant trouvé 
chés Butau quil auroit Entendu demandé a Gabriel Baron par 
racette ou il avoit Entendu dire quils Etoit Des voleur de lar et de 
poule a quoy ledit Baron a repondu quil avoit Entendu dire chés 
Senfaçon. 

Antoine Lusser ayant prêté Serment De repondre a toute Les 
question quon luy feroit Comme témoin pour le défendeur Et 
a dit. que madame Senfaçon ayant Eté chés mad® racette pour 
y chercher une poulie quelle reclamet a Elle, et que m^*^ racette la 
tréte de voleuse et quelle ne vivoit que Des volaye d^autruy a 
quoy m^« Senfaçon luy a repondu quelle ne luy resembloit pas 
quelle n*avoit Jamais volé De lar ches Lacroix Et ce Son dit Mil 
invective. 

La Court Est ajourné après diné a une heure, 
f saucier Greffier. f trottier 

La Court a renvoyé Le présent procès hor De la Court Comme 
une Chose honteuse Et indigne. Et a Condanné Le Demendeur a 
payer Les fraix du dit procès Et quant aux fraix particullier Les 
Deux partis sont Condanner a les payer chaqu'un En particulier. 

Sau 
Charle Gratiot Demendeur contre B*« hautier 

Dit Lacharette. 

Charle Gratiot ayant présenté un b[illet] a la Court Contre le 
Défendeur, ayant apris quil Etoit parti pour le Detroit avec les 
royaliste Demande quil luy Soit accordé de faire vendre des effest 
quil a En garde ches gabriel Constant jusqu'à La Conqurence de 
Sa Somme. 

La Court a accordé a la demende Du S*" charle Gratiot. 

Jan B*®. Lacroix ayant produit un Conte Du par ledit hautier 
dit Lacharette de vingt Livre Et a prêté Serment desus. 



COURT RECORD, 1779 25 

and the said Racette having asked where he heard that, he 
answered that M. Dau^ and his wife had told him. Where- 
upon the said Racette said that Dau was a D. F.' and his wife 
a strumpet and he would prove it. 

Gabriel Constant, having made oath to answer all questions 
which should be put to him, said, that being at the house of Butau 
he had heard Racette ask Gabriel Baron, where he had heard 
that they were stealers of lard and chickens, to which the said Baron 
answered that he had heard it said at Sansfaçon's. 

Antoine Lussier, having made oath to answer all questions 
which should be asked him as witness for the defendant, said 
that, while Madame Sansfaçon was at the house of Madame 
Racette in search of a chicken, which she claimed belonged to her, 
Madame Racette called her a thief and said she lived on other 
people's poultry. To this Madame Sansfaçon replied that she 
was not like her, that she had never stolen lard from the 
Lacroix's house; and they said to each other a thousand invectives. 

The court adjourned till one o'clock after dinner. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. F. Trottier. 

The Court dismissed the present suit from court as a disgraceful 
and shameful thing, and has condemned the plaintiff to pay the 
costs of the suit and each of the two parties to pay his special costs. 

Saucier. 
Charles Gratiot, Plaintiff, vs, Bte. Hautier called 

Lacharette, Defendant. 

Charles Gratiot brought into Court a note against the defend- 
ant, having learned that he had left for Detroit with the royalists, 
and prays that it be permitted him to have the goods, which 
the defendant has stored at the house of Gabriel Constant, sold 
up to the equivalent of the amount of his note. 

The Court granted the suit of M. Charles Gratiot. 

Jean Bte. Lacroix produced, and made oath to, an ac- 
count for twenty livres owed by the said Hautier called La- 
charette. 

^ Possibly thb means Hannand. 

' The French j. f ., or jtan-fess»^ is untranslatable exœpt by some such equivalent vulgarity . 



26 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

La Court Luy a accordé quîl Seroit payer Lors de la vente de Ses 
effest 

une requctte présenté a la Court par marie Lotiise ulim veuve 
de feu J" B*« Degagné Et par pichet, Demandant de nomer un 
tuteur pour les mineurs De feu lapierre pour La Conservation de 
leur peu de bien. 

La Court a ordonné une assemblé Damie pour pour [sic] 
procéder a lelextion D*un tuteur Suivant Les Demande 
Sanfaçon Demandeur Augustin racette Défendeur. 
Un Compte présenté a la Court par Le Demandeur Contre 
le Défendeur De la Somme de vingt Sept livres. La Court a 
ordonné audit racette de payer Ledit Compte sans dellay. 
f saucier Greffier f trottier 

La Court Est ajourné a vendre 29 [sic] 9^® 1779. 

a une Court Vendredy 269 ^^ 1779. 
President M*" f r trotier m*" ant Girardin 

m*" Ch Gratiot m*" B*« Saucier 

Present. 
M*" RENAL Demandeur. M*" Gratiot Défendeur 
m*" renal Demande a la Court que M*" Gratiot, Soit Condanné 
à luy payer une Somme de trois Cent Livres pour une operation 
quil a fait, au nomé racette ayant Eté Envoyé cherché par Ledit 
Sieur gratiot. 

Charle Gratiot repond quil Exposera ses Defence a la Cour 
prochaine, vendredy 3** xbre. 

Le nomé Charloc a produit sa Declaration Contre M*" Hen- 
son sur Sa mauvaise Conduitte avec Les sauvages, Dans la 
traitte. 

Ayant Examiné La Declarition du dit charloc Contre Sieur 
Henson, La Court a décidé quil seroit sinifié au Sieur Henson 
de repondre aujourd^huy a deux heure après midy a La Declara- 
tion faite Contre luy. 

^ In that part of France where the customary law prevailed, the tulelle dative was almost 
universal. It was the law of the cautume de Parût and therefore of Illinois. According to 
this law, the guardians of minors were appointed by a magistrate, but, as in the above case, 
very often ooly after election by the relatives. Under French law, great care was taken of the 

Eiperty of minors, and the ofhce of guardian was regarded as a duty, which should not be 
hty refused, although the service was gratuitous. Two guardians were appointed, the 
second being the surrogate, whose duties were to guard against fraud by the first. The iur- 



/^ > ^ 

/fir On*.. fCnu^Pr^ \ 

«7^v _ ^ " i ;;■>?; 

S-^^aL.— /( -V. 
/^ v.,,,/ /%■'/- ./.i^-'Y- — • ;.•"■'. 

F«.,™rc „, . P. ,^ ,^. ^^ ^, ^^ ■■..., 

Françoii Saucier, Clerk, ..;-; 




COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1779 27 

The Court granted that it should be paid at the time of the 
sale of his goods. 

A petition presented to the Court by Marie Louise Ulim, 
widow of the late Jn. Bte. Desgagné, and Pichet, praying that 
a guardian for the preservation of the small property of the 
minor heirs of the late Lapierre be appointed. 

The Court ordered an assembly of friends to proceed to the 
election of a guardian according to the petition.^ 

Sansfaçon, Plaintiff vs, Augustin Racette, Defendant. 

An account presented to the court by the plaintiff against 
the defendant for the sum of twenty-seven livres. The Court 
ordered the said Racette to pay the account without delay. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. F. Trottier. 

The Court adjourned to Friday, November 26, 1779. 

At a Court, Friday, November 26, 1779. 
President, Fr. Trottier. Ant Oirardin. 

Ch. Gratiot. Bte. Saucier. 

Present. 
M. Reynal, Plaintiff vs. M. Gratiot, Defendant. 
M. Re>Tial prays the Court that M. Gratiot be condemned to 
pay him the sum of three hundred livres for an operation which 
he performed on the named Racette, for which he was summoned 
by the said M. Gratiot. 

Charles Gratiot answered that he would present his defense at 
the next Court, Friday, December 3. 

The named Charloc produced his declaration against M. 
Henson concerning his bad conduct in his trading with the 
savages. 

Having examined the declaration of the said Charloc against 
M. Henson, the Court decided that notice should be given M. 
Henson to answer to- day at two o'clock in the afternoon the 
declaration made against him. 

rogate must be présent when the inventory of property was made, and he represented the ward 
in any suit brought against the guardian. Occasionally the guardians called in the relatives 
fcH- ooQsultatkni, as tcr instance, when the sale of real profxrty was contemplated. Since the 
families in Illinois were naturally small, friends were also invited to attend such family coun- 
cib. — Vlollet, Histoire du droit civil Français, ed. 1905, pp. 576 et seq.\ Glasson, Histoire 
du droit et des iustitutions de la Pranctt vih., 526 et seq. 



28 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

La Court Est ajourné a 2® heure après midy 26® gbre, 1779. 
f saucier greffier. f trottier. 

a une Court du 26 9*^** a 2 heure après midy. 
President Mons' François trottier M^ ant. Girardin 
M*" Charle Gratiot M^ B^« Saucier 

présent. 
La Court a décidé que M"^ Henson Continura son Commerce 
toute fois quii retirera Sa Dame De La quantine puisque Cest 
Elle qui tien De mauvais DisCourt au sauvages suivant Les 
Declaration Du nomé charloc et Celle du peoria, que Cependant 
Le Dit Charloc Sera appelé pour Déclaré En présence dud* 
sieur Henson Et tant qua tout Les accidant qui pourront arriver 
par La Suitte, et qui soit prouvé que ce Soit par sa faute, il En 
Sera toujour responsable En tout Chose. 

La Court Est ajourné a vendredy 3 x^** i779- 

f saucier greffier f trottier 

a une Court Du 10 xbre 1779. 
President M" francois trottier pierre martin 

Michel Beaulieu B^® Saucier 

antoine Girardin charle Gratiot 

Présent. 
M*^ REYNAL Demendeur Charle Gratiot Défendeur. 
Le Demandeur Expose a la cour, par une requette que Le 
Défendeur soit Condanné a luy payer une Somme de trois Cent 
livres de paux de Chevreuil pour L'imputation quil a fait a la 
Jamble [sic] De J" Racet, Comme ayant Eté Envoyé chercher 
par Led^ Sieur Et que led^ Sieur Gratiot avoit promis de 
payer le chirugien moyenant que le nomé parisien a qui Lac- 
cident Etoit arrivé de rembourser ce qui luy En Couteray Et 
que Cela avoit Eté Dit En presence de B^« allary. 

B^* allary ayant paru par ordre Et après avoir prêté Serment 
a prouvé quil n'etoit pas aux Cahôs Lorsque Laccident Est arrivé 
a J" racette. 

Le Défendeur ayant produit Sa Deffence par Laquelle il ne De- 



COURT RECORD, DECEMBER, 1779 29 

The Court adjourned till two o'clock in the afternoon, Novem- 
ber 26, 1779. 

F. Saucier, Clerk. F. Trottier. 

At a Court, November 26, at two o'clock in the afternoon. 
President, François Trottier Ant. Girardin 

Charles Gratiot Bte. Saucier. 

Present. 
The Court decided that M. Henson may continue his business, 
provided his wife shall be withdrawn from the Cantine,* since it 
is she who has been guilty of evil speech with the savages 
according to the declarations of Charloc and the Peorian; that, 
however, the said Charloc shall be summoned to make his 
declaration in the presence of the said M. Henson. The 
Court further decided that for all accidents, which may occur 
as a consequence of this continuance and are proved to be due to 
the fault of the said M. Henson, he shall be held responsible. 
The Court adjourned to Friday, December 3, 1779 
F. Saucier, Clerk. F. Trottier. 

At a Court, December 10, 1779. 
President, François Trottier. Pierre Martin. 
Michel Beaulieu. Bte. Saucier. 

Antoine Girardin. Charles Gratiot. 

Present. 
M. Reynal, Plaintiff, vs. Charles Gratiot, Defendant. 
The plaintiff shows the Court by a petition that the defend- 
ant should be condemned to pay him a sum of three hundred 
pounds of deer-skins for the amputation of the leg of Jean 
Racette which he performed, as he had been summoned by the 
said gentleman ; and the said M. Gratiot had promised to pay 
the surgeon on condition that the named Parisien to whom the 
accident had happened, reimburse him what it cost therefor. 
This was said in the presence of Bte. Alarie. 

Bte. Alarie appeared on summons and, after having made oath, 
proved that he was not in Cahokia when the accident happened to 
Jean Racette. 

I This may mean the Candne, a itxeam near Cahdda. 



30 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

vroit pas Etre Condanné a payer Cette Somme de trois Cent 
Livres, vue que led** Racette quoi que Laccident soit arrivé ches 
Luy Est tout a fait Etranger Et que Dans pareille Cas il Devoit 
Dépêcher quelqu'un pour avoyer chercher un chirugien pour 
Soulage un pauva malheureux, Sans être obligé D'en payer 
Les fraix. 

La Court ne pouvant pas absolument Condanner Le Sieur 
Charle Gratiot a payer au Sieur reynal La Somme de trois Cent 
Livres pour l'imputation faitte a la Jambe de racette, a décidé 
quil Etoit nécessaire D'attendre Larivé du nomé parisien a qui 
L'accident est arrivé. 

une Requette présenté En Cour par pierre Roy Contre m^® 
Courville, pour quil luy Soit Défendu vendre auqu'un biens fonds, 
qu'après avoir fait faire invantaire. Et reconoitre La part De 
Son ûls. 

La Court othaurise Led* Sieur pierre roy a faire un assemblé 
de parens et damis pour faire invantaire Des biens Delessé par 
feux Courville Et quil Sera fait un partage Egal Des biens. Entre 
ma^® veuve Courville Et son fils, Et quil sera Elu un tuteur. 

La Court Est ajourné a vendredy 17*® xbre. 

f saucier Greffier f trottier 

a une Court Du 1 7 xbre. 

ou Etoit présent Messieurs Charle Gratiot Michel Beaulieu 
B**^ Saucier pierre martin Et ant Girardin, tous Cinq Majestrat 
de Lad**<^ Court — assemblé pour interoger Le peoria sur des 
mauvais Discourt quil dit avoir Entendu dire par d'autre nation. 

Ledit' peoria a dit quil avoit Entendu Le Chef du loup faire 
des reproche aux autre Sauvages a legar d'une medail Et un 
Collier rouge quils avoient, il a dit depuis quayant Eté a une 

* One of the several attempts made by the British to arouse the Indians to drive the Vir- 

S'nians out of Illinois. In Dillon, Annals of St. Louis, 19a, is an interesting letter from 
ratrot to Montgomery giving further details about these events. This winter's woA ended 
in the fruitless attack of the British and Indians on St. Louis and Cahokia in May. See 
pp. 58, n. I, 589, and Introduction, p. Ixxxvii. 

' Medals of .silver or bronze were frequently given to Indian chiefs as tokens of alliance. 

* Term used by the Indians to designate the Virginians. 
« The French is ''qu'en cas que." 



COURT RECORD, DECEMBER, 1779 31 

The defendant offered as his defence, wherefore he should not 
be condemned to pay this sum of three hundred pounds, that the 
said Racette, although the accident happened at his house, was 
a total stranger to him, and that in such circumstances it was his 
duty to send somebody to seek a surgeon to relieve an unfortunate 
man without being obliged to pay the costs. 

Since the Court cannot unconditionally condemn M. Charles 
Gratiot to pay M. Reynal the sum of three hundred pounds for the 
amputation of the leg of Racette, it decided that it was necessary 
to await the arrival of the named Parisien, to whom the accident 
happened. 

A petition presented to the Court by Pierre Roy against Madame 
Courville, praying that she be forbidden to sell any land, until 
she has caused an inventory to be made and has recognized her 
son's share. 

The Court authorizes the said M. Pierre Roy to hold an assem- 
bly of relatives and friends to make an inventory of the property 
left by the late Courville and decrees that an equal division of the 
property between the widow, Madame Courville, and her son be 
made, and that there be elected a guardian. 

The Court adjourned to Friday, December 17. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. F. Trottier. 

At a Court, December 17: 

Where were present MM. Charles Gratiot, Michel Beaulieu, 
Bte. Saucier, Pierre Martin and Ant. Girardin, all five magis- 
trates of the said Court — assembled to interrogate the Peorian 
about the evil speech, which he said he had heard used by an- 
other nation.^ 

The said Peorian said that he had heard the Chief Wolf 
reproach the other savages in regard to a medal ' and a red 
belt which they had. He said that later he was at the 
lodge of his savages with Charloc and that a woman asked him 
what he had come for, since the French Big Knife • was charged 
with having killed one of their people. Thereupon the said 
savage told Charloc to go home. This latter answered that 
in case * he was in danger the Master of Life would save him. 



32 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

Loge de Ses Sauvages avec Charloc q*une femme luy dit quesce- 
qu'il venoit Chercher puisque Les francois Grand Coutau Etoit 
taxé D'avoir tué un De leur Gens. Ladessu Ledit sauvages Dit 
a Charloc de sen retourner, se dernier luy fit reponce quen qua 
quil y aye du denger que le maitre de la vie Le Sauveroit, Ledit 
sauvage pé a dit que le chef loup avoit pris Charloc Et Pavoit mis 
Dans le Camp des hommes que la un autre Chef nomé la puce 
ayant pris le fusil D'entre les mains dud* charloc Luy dit pleure 
pour Jay le Coeur rouge Et enseglanté, led^ peoria a dit q'une 
femme luy avoit dit pourquoy Escequ'il venoit a Leur loge puisquil 
ne Se passoit rein de Bon parmi Eux, que tous les jour il se tenoit 
Des Conseil et quil ne disoit rien de bon, il dit de plus que quand 
la femme a Eu fini de luy parler, un Jeune homme Sest mis a la 
porte et que voyant Cela il s'est Sauvé et qu'a linstant tout les autre 
Sauvages se mirent a Crié En voila un qui se Sauve, En plusieurs 
fois différentes, led* peoria a dit encore quand se Sauvant quil 
n'a eu que le tems de prendre Son fusil et a lessé Sa Couverte. 

Le dit Charloc a dit quil a dit au dit peoria si il Vouloit Venir 
avec luy Voir les sauvages Et que le pé Luy repondit quil le vou- 
loit bien il dit de plus quan allant voir ses dits sauvages quils ont 
rencontré un homme et une femme, que l'homme et près de boisson 
quil la fait monter a cheval avec luy et que la femme a Con- 
tinuer la route avec le pé ledit Charloc dit qu'étant arrivé il dit 
audit peoria de desseler son Cheval et D'entrer avec luy dans la 
Loge Sur quoy le pé luy repondit quil ne vouloit pas entré, Seci 
fut dit En présence du pé qui a dit pourquoy Veut tu que Jentre 
mois qui Entans mal parlé Dans cette loge, ledit Charloc dit 
qu'entrant Dans La loge il avoit une bouteille a sa main Voulu- 
rent luy prendre, et quil leur dit prené La je ne m'en Souci pas, le 
peoria dit quil luy ont arraché de force. 

La Court Et ajourné a 2 heure après midi 17 du present, 
f saucier. Ch Gratiot. 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1780 S3 

The said Peorian savage said that the Chief Woif had taken 
Charloc and placed him in the men's camp and that there 
another chief named The Flee seized the gun from the hands 
of the said Charloc and said to him, "Weep, for my heart is 
red and bloody". The said Peorian said that a woman had asked 
him why he came to their lodge, since there was nothing good 
going on among them and that every day there were held councils 
and that nothing good was said. He said further that, when the 
woman had finished speaking to him, a young man started for 
the door and, upon seeing that, he had made his escape; and that 
immediately all the other savages began crying, "There is one 
who is escaping". On several different occasions, the Peorian 
said that in escaping he has had only time to take his gun and 
had left his blanket. 

The said Charloc said that he asked the said Peorian if he 
wanted to come with him to see the savages, and that the 
Peorian answered that he was very willing. He further said that 
in going to see the said savages they met a man and a woman 
and that the man was intoxicated, and that he made him mount 
on the horse with him and the woman continued the route with 
the Peorian. The said Charloc said that on arriving he told the 
Peorian to imsaddle his horse and to enter the lodge with him, 
whereupon the Peorian answered that he did not wish to enter. 
This was said in the presence of the Peorian who said, "Why 
do you want me to enter who understand the evil talk in 
this lodge". The said Charloc said that when he entered the 
lodge, he had in his hand a bottle which the savages wished to 
take from him, and that he said to them, " Take it. I do not care 
for it". The Peorian said that they snatched it by force. 

The Court adjourned until two o'clock in the afternoon the 
17th of the present month. 

F. Sauder. Ch. Gratiot. 



34 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Court 17 x^" 1779. 
m*" Gratiot m'' Martin 

m*" Beaulieu m*" B*® Saucier 

Président 
suivant Les raport, Et Discourt qui ont Eté tenu En Cour, de 
la part Des Sauvages mal intentioné, La Court a ordonné que 
messieurs Les Commandant de millice Donnerons Des ordres pour 
quil soit fait une Visitte generalle Dans toute Les maison pour 
voir Si tout Le monde ont Des armes en Etat et la munition néces- 
saire pour Se Défendre Si Ion Si trouve obligé, Et quil Sera ordon- 
né a Ceux qui n*en n'auront point De Sen pourvoir Sans auqu'un 
pretexe Vue que Suivant toute apparance il y a aux environ Du 
Village Des nations qui tiennent de mauvais propos et qui sont 
suivant le raport de quelque autre Sauvages très mal inten- 
tionnés. 

La Court Est ajourné a vendredy 24 x^^ 
f saucier greffier Ch Gratiot 

a une Cour du 19 Janvier. 1780. 
Président M*^ francois trottier. M*^ B*® saucier 

M*" antoine Girardin M*^ Charle Gratiot 

M*^ pierre martin Présent. 

Le Colonel mongonori ayant fait asemblé La Court pour Savoir 
pour quoy M*" henson navoit pas Eté réprimandé pour Le tor quil 
parroit avoir fait suivant le raport quil luy en a Eté fait par mons*". 
cap* McCarty. 

Le Colonel mongomori repente [sic] a la Cour que Comme Les 
autre village ont foiuiii beaucoup de provisions pour Les troui>e 
au Credit des Etat quil Espère que Ce village cy suivant La Capa- 
cité Des habitant Voudront bien fournir quelque provision tel que 
L*on fait les habitant des autre villages. 

La Court a représenté au Colonel quelle avoit Déjà Eté in- 
formé des plainte porté contre Sieur henson, et quil ny avoit auq*- 
une Chose qui le regardoit Dans Les plainte porté Contre luy et 
quil sestoit justifié pour le Contraire. La Court a Consenty quil 

1 Colonel Montgomery was at this time in command of the forces in Illinois and was sta- 
tioned at Kaskaskia. See ItUrodudioH, pp. Ixxvi., Ixxz. et stq. 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1780 35 

At a Court, December 17,1779. 
M. Gratiot. M. Martin. 

M. Beaulieu. M. Bte. Saucier. 

Present. 
On account of the report and testimony which have been given 
In Court about the evil-intentioned savages, the Court decreed that 
the officers of the militia shall give orders that there be made a 
general inspection of all houses to see if everybody has arms in 
condition and the necessary ammunition for defence, if occasion 
arises, and that orders be given to those, who have neither, to 
provide themselves therewith without any excuse, because, 
to all appearances, there are in the neighborhood of the village 
nations who are holding hostile talks and are very evilly disposed, 
according to the report of some other savages. 
The Court adjoimied to Friday, December 24. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. F. Trottier. 

At a Court, January 19, 1780. 
President, François Trottier Bte. Saucier. 
Antoine Girardin. Charles Gratiot. 

Pierre Martin. Present. 

''^^ Colonel Montgomery* caused the Court to assemble in order to 
learn why Mr. Henson had not been reprimanded for the wrong 
which he appears to have done according to the report made to 
him by Captain McCarty. 

Colonel Montgomery shows [?] the Court that, as the 
other villages have furnished supplies of provisions for the 
troops on the credit of the States, he hopes that this village 
according to the capacity of the inhabitants will be willing 
to furnish some provisions, as the inhabitants of the other villages 
have. 

The Court showed the Colonel that it had already been 
informed of the complaint brought against M. Henson, and that 
there was nothing in the complaint which concerned him and 
that, on the contrary, he had justified himself. The Court agreed 
that a census shall be made and that those who can furnish some 



36 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

sera fait une recaputulation Et que Ceux qui pourront fournir 
suivant Leurs Capacité quelque provisions soit farine ou mays 
seront forcé De Le faire. 

fr saucier Greffier. 

a une Court vendredy 4® février 1780. 
Président M*" trotier. M*^ Martin 

M*^ Gratiot M^ B^® saucier. 

M*" Girardin Présent. 

J**. B^*^ Lacroix Demendeur B*® saucier Défendeur 

Le Demendeur poursuit Le Défendeur pour un billet de Cent 
quatrevingt une livres Dix sols En pelleterie quil Luy Doit payer 
En pelleterie ou farine. 

Le Défendeur représente quil a proposé En Différante occasion 
Le payement dud* billet En pelleterie Et que le Demendeur La 
refusé. 

Disant que le Défendeur Luy avoit promis Du blé, Le Défendeur 
Luy en avoit Effectivement promis toute fois quil ne puisse pas 
avoir de pelleterie a lecheance Dud^ Billet. 

La Court a ordonné que le Défendeur payeray Son Billet a la 
Demende Du Demendeur suivant Sa teneur. 

aplication fait a la Cour par La Dame Veuve Jermain De- 
mandant quil luy soit permis de Se Démettre De la Charge de 
Subrogé tuteur du mineurs Langdoc Dont feu Son marie. 

autre aplication fait a la Court par la Dame Veuve pierre Godin 
disant que feu Son mari ayant Eté Charge de la charge de Subrogé 
tuteur de L*anfant mineur de feu Sieur Labé Elle Demande quil 
luy Soit permis de se Démettre de lad* Charge de Subrogé tu- 
teur que tenoit feu Son mari. 

La Court a ordonné qu*a la demende Des Dames Veuve jer- 
main et pierre Godin qui [sic] Leur Serra permis de faire faire 
une assemblé de parant ou damis pour procéder a lelection De 
deux subroger tuteur qui prendra parfaite Connecence Des in- 
terest Des mineurs. 

La Court Et ajourné a vendre 11 De février. 

f saucier Greffier. 

1 No troops were quartered on the Cahokians this winter, but the {Koole of Kankankia 
complained to Mootgomery that the other villages were not doing their fair snare for the aup- 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1780 37 

provisions, either flour or com, shall be forced to do so according 
to their capacity.* 

F. Saucier, Clerk. 

At a Court, Friday, February 4, 1780. 
President, M. Trottier M. Martin 

M. Gratiot. M. Bte. Saucier 

M. Girardin. Present. 

Jean Bte. LaCrodc, Plaintiff, vs. Bte Saucier, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant on a note of one hundred and 
eighty-one livres ten sols in peltries, which should be paid him in 
peltries or flour. 

The defendant shows that he has proposed on several occasions 
the payment of the said note in peltries and that the plaintiff 
refused it, saying that the defendant had promised him wheat. 

The defendant had in fact promised him wheat, yet only 
in case that he should not be able to obtain peltries at the 
maturity of the said note. 

The Court decreeii that the defendant should pay the note 
according to its terms on the demand of the plaintiff. 

Application made to the Court by Madame Germain, widow, 
praying that she be permitted to withdraw from the office of surro- 
gate guardian of the minor Langdoc, which her late husband held. 
Another application made to the Court by Madame Pierre 
Godin, widow, saying that her late husband had been intrusted 
with the office of surrogate guardian of the minor child of the 
late M. Labbé and praying that she be permitted to withdraw from 
the said office, which her late husband held. 

The Court decreed that in accordance with the prayers of 
Mesdames Germain and Pierre Godin, widows, it shall be per- 
mitted them to summon an assembly of relatives and friends to 
proceed to the election of two surrogate guardians, who shall 
inform themselves perfectly of the interests of the minors. 
The Court adjourned to Friday, February, 11. 

F. Saucier. 

port of the troo|Mi. For that leaaoa Mootgomery made this demand upon the Cahokiana. 
»— /wl w rf ii rt i w p. Izzsii. and ^«tf, p. 545. 



38 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Court du i8, février 1780. 
President M"" trotîer M*" maxtin 

M*" Gratiot M*" B*® saucier 

M*^ Girardin Present. 

J" B^« Lacroix, Demendeur. m*" Levy, Defendeiir. 
. Le demendeur poursuit Le Défendeur pour Deux tombré de 
mays quil a acheter a Pancan de feu Lapierr, pour Le Compte de 
leur Société. 

Le Défendeur raporte quayant acheter Ses Deux tombré de 
mays. En Société avec le Demendeur a L'ancan de feu S*" La- 
pierre, ayant Eté fait par M*", trotier. 

Le Demendeur Et Le Défendeur poursuive Mons*^. trotier pour 
quil Leur Soit fourni une Sertaine quantité de mays a eux adjugé 
aud^ ancan, que leur manque Sur Les deux ditte tombré. 

M*^ trotier raporte que Le Demendeur ou Le Défendeur auroit 
du faire prendre Le mays quil Leur a Eté adjugé aud* ancan, et 
non pas L* avoir Lessé trois ou quatre mois Dans un Grenier a 
La discretion des rats Et que Depuis Ce tems il pouroit bien En 
avoir mangé Se qui s'en manque. 

La Court ayant trouvé que messieurs Lacroix Et Levy, ayant 
manqué très Ecentiellemant De n'avoir pas fait enlever Le mays 
quils avoit acheter aud* ancan, quil Est probable que ne Layant 
Lesser Sous Les Soin de personne Et De L'avoir Lesser un Espace 
De tems aussi Considerable que Les rats ne leurs ayent Causé tout 
le Domage Dont il se plagent. 

Ch^ Ducharme Demendeur pierre Roy Défendeur 

Le Demendeur poursuit Le Défendeur pour une tombré De 
mays quil Luy a Eté adjugé a L' ancan de feu allexis Courville Et 
quil ne luy a point Eté Livré ni Si Etant point trouvé. 

Le Défendeur Raporte quil a Eté Dit Lors de L' ancan quen ca 
que La quantité de mays Crié aud*^ ancan ne Se trouva point que 
Celuy a qui il En Seroit adjugé ne Seroit tenu a payé qu'en qua 
que la quantité Estimé si trouve. 

La Court ayant trouvé que Le Demendeur a trop tardé a faire 
Enlever Le mays que personne n'est Dans Le Cas de La Luy 

1 The tombré was a two-wheeled wooden cart, made without iron, in common use among 
the French. 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1780 39 

At a Court, February 18, 1780. 
President, M. Trottier. M. Martin. 
M. Gratiot. M. Saucier. 

M. Girardin. Present. 

Jean Bte. Lacroix, Plaintiff, vs. M. Levy, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for two cart-loads^ of corn, 
which he bought on the account of their partnership at the auction 
of the goods of the late Lapierre. 

The defendant states that he, in partnership with the plaintiff, 
bought the two loads of com at the auction of the goods of the 
late Lapierre, which was held by M. Trottier. 

The plaintiff and defendant sue M. Trottier that there be fur- 
nished them a certain quantity of com, which was lacking in two 
cart-loads knocked down to them at the said auction. 

M. Trottier reports that the plaintiff or the defendant should 
have had the corn, which was adjudged them at the said auction, 
removed and should not have left it three or four months in the 
granery to the discretion of the rats, and that diuîng that time 
there could easily have been eaten what is lacking. 

The Court found that MM. Lacroix and Levy were very 
D^igent in not having the com, which they bought at the said 
auction, carted away; and that, since they had not left it under 
the care of anyone and had left it for so considerable a length of 
time, the rats had caused all the damage of which they complain. 
Charles DuCharme, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre Roy, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for a cart-load of com which 
had been knocked down to him at the auction of the goods of the 
late Alexis Courville and which was not delivered to him, since it 
could not be foimd. 

The defendant reports that, at the time of the auction, it was 
said that in case the quantity of com cried out at the said auction 
was not found, he, to whom it should be adjudged, would be held to 
pay only in case that the estimated quantity should be found there. 

The Court found that the plaintiff delayed too long in having 
the com carted away, and that no one is bound to fiunish it to 
him, since he left it in the care of nobody; and furthermore that it 



40 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

fournir ne Layant Lessé sous La Garde de personne Et qu'en outre 
il a Eté Dit a L'ancan publiquement que Ceux qui acheteroit du 
mays il ne Luy Seroit livré que D'autant quil Si trouveroit Vu que 
les Estimateur auroit pu Se tromper Dans Lestimation. 

aplication faite En Court par J". B^* H^*^ Lacroix qui Demande 
La vente de quelques Effest appartenant au S'' Sills quil a Entre 
Ses main pour une Somme De quatrevingt trois livres que led* 
Sieur Luy Doit suivant L'état qu'il En a produit En Court. 

La Court ayant observé que le S*" Sills étant parti dici pour le 
Service Des Etat, que led* Sieur Lacroix Est Condanné a atendre 
Vue que ledit Sieur Sills peut revenir au premier Jour. 

La Court a Condanné tout Les perdant de cette Court a payé 
tous Les fraix de Justice. 

La Court Est ajourné a Vendredy 17" mars 1780. 
f saucier, Greffier. f trottier. 

a une Court Vendredy 17 mars 1780. 
Président Monsieur trotier M*^ Beaulieu 

M*" Girardin M*" B*® saucier 

Present. 
M*^ Decostle Demendeur ant Lusser Défendeur 
Le Demendeur poursuit Le Défendeur pour un Compte montant 
a La Somme de deux Cent Soixante et dixneuf Livre En pelleter! . 
Le Défendeur produit un billet de Vingt six Livres En pelle- 
terie passé a Son ordre par le Demendeur qui Declare quaprés 
avoir réglé tout Leur Compte il Luy auroit Consenti Se billet pour 
règlement de tout Compte Le Défendeur produit Le même Compte 
qui Declare avoir Déjà réglé avec le Défendeur montant a la 
Somme de Six Cent Cinquante huit Livres quinze Sols. 

Le Demendeur Est Condanné a payer au Défendeur Le billet 
quil Luy a Consenti de vingt Six Livres En pelleterie et que tant 
qu'a Leur Compte il paroit par led* billet quils ont Eté réglé Et 
que le demendeur Luy redevoit Sette Somme Et a payé Les fraix. 
ANTOINE Lusser, Demendeur. Louigau, Défendeur. 
Le Demendeur poursuit Le Défendeur pour Lavoir taxé Da- 
voir pris ches luy une p*". Dattel. 

^ The clerk has made a slip here and so mixed his plaintiffs and defendants that the passage 
is difficult to interpret. 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1780 41 

was publicly said at the auction that, to those, who bought 
com, there would be delivered only as much as there was, seeing 
that the appraiser might have made a mistake in the estimate. 

An application made to the court by Jean Bte. Hubert LaCroiz 
who requests the sale of some effects belonging to M. Sills, which 
he has in his possession, to pay the sum of eighty-three livres, 
which the said gentleman owes him according to a statement, 
which he has produced in Court. 

The Court, having considered that the said M. Sills has gone away 
on the service of the State, condemned the said M. LaCroix to wait, 
seeing that the said M. Sills will retium on the first possible day. 

The Court condemned all those losing in this session to pay all 
costs of justice. 

The Court adjourned to Friday, March 17, 1780. 
F. Saucier, Clerk F. Trottier. 

At a Court, Friday, March 17, 1780. 
President, M. Trottier. M. Beaulieu. 
M. Girardin. M. Bte. Saucier. 

Present. 
M. Decostle, Plaintiff, vs. Ant. Lussier, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for an account amounting to 
the sum of two hundred and seventy-nine livres in peltries. 

The defendant produces a note of twenty-six livres in peltries, 
made to his order by the plaintiff, which declares that, after having 
squared up their account, he had given this note in final settlement. 
The defendant produces the same account, which declares that he 
had already settled with the defendant [plaintiff?]* to the simi of 
six hundred and fifty-eight livres fifteen sols. 

The plaintiff is condemned to pay the defendant the note for 
twenty-six livres in peltries which he has given him; and as to 
their account, it appears from the said note to have been 
squared up and that the plaintiff stUl owes this sum; and he is 
condemned to pay the costs. 

Antoine Lussier, Plaintiff, vs. Louigaud, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for having accused him of 
having taken a pair of hames from his house. 



42 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

Le Défendeur dit navoir Jamais Dit que le Demendeur Luy 
avoit volé Cette p Dattelle Et qu'on Luy a voit Dit Seulement quon 
avoit Vue une p*^ a peu près pareil ches le Demendeur. 

La Court a renvoyé Le present Comme ne pouvant faire 
auqu'ne Decision Sur Cette affaire Et a Condanné Le Demendeur 
a payer Les fraix. 

La Court Est ajourné a vendredy 7* Dâvril. 
f trottier. f saucier greffier. 

a une Court du 7*® D'avril 1780. 
Présidant Capt. trotier antoine Girardin 

Michel Beaulieu B*« Saucier. 

Présent, 
a La demende Des CReensié de feu Milhomme La Court a 
désidé qu'une Encans Des biens Dellessé par Led* feu Mil- 
homme Sera fait Dimanche prochain 9*® Du Présent mois pour 
Satisfaire a Ses Deptes Et Si plus il y a il Sera partagé a Ses 
Enfans. 

Par ordre f trottier. fr saucier. 

A une Cour du 21 D'avril. 1780. 
Président Capt. trottier pierre Martin 

Michel Beaulieu Bap*® Saucier 

antoine Girardin Présent. 

Représentation fait a La Cour par Joseph lepage a Legar du 
nègre du Mon^ trotier pour une insulte faite par Luy a La garde 
Demandant que Le dit nègre Soit puni Comme il Le meritte ayant 
très mal parlé Et ayant menacé de Ce revenger Contre Ceux qui 
entreprendroit de Sen saisir. 

après avoir Examiné Les plaintes porté Contre Ledit nègre La 
Cour a Décidé que M*" trotier fera Donner a Son nègre vingt Cinq 
Coupt de fouet, pour La Premire faute quil a Comis Et plus a 
lavenir Si il retombe Dans le même cas. 
La Cour est ajourné au Vendredy 5** may. 
f trottier f saucier Greffier. 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1780 43 

The defendant says that he never said that the plaintiff had 
stcden this pair of hames, but that he had been told that a pair 
very similar to his had been seen at the house of the plaintiff. 

The Court dismissed the present suit, since it is impossible to 
reach any decision in this case, and condemned the plaintiff to 
pay the costs. 

The Court adjourned to Friday, April 7. 
F. Trottier. F. Saucier, Clerk. 

At a Court, April 7, 1780. 
President, Capt. Trottier. Antoine Girardin. 
Michel Beaulieu. Bte. Saucier. 

Present. 
On the demand of the creditors of the late Milhomme the 
Court decided that an auction of the goods left by the said late 
Milhomme shall be held next Sunday, the 9th of the present 
month, in order to pay his debts; and if there is a surplus, it shall 
be divided among his children. 

By order, F. Trottier. F. Saucier. 

At a Court, April 31, 1780. 
President, Capt. Trottier. Pierre Martin. 
Midid Beaulieu. Bte. Saucier. 

Antoine Girardin. Present. 

A representation made to the Court by Joseph Lepage in regard 
to a n^ro belonging to M. Trottier on account of an insult made 
by him to the guard, and he demands that the said negro be pun- 
ished as he deserves, since he used very bad language and threat- 
ened to revenge himself on those who should undertake to seize 



After having examined the complaints brought against the said 
neg^f the- Court decided that M. Trottier shall* have the negro 
given twenty-five strokes with the whip for the first offence he has 
committed, and more in the future, if he does it again. 

Tlie Court adjourned to Friday, May 5. 
F. Trottier. F. Saucier, Clerk. 



44 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

Vendredy 5*® may 1780. 
Présidant Capt. trotier pierre Martin 

ant. Girardin B*® saucier. 

Présent. 
Gabriel Constant Demendeur. Janot Lapance Défendeur 

Le demendeur poursuit Le Défendeur pour un Soc quil Luy 
doit. 

Le Défendeur repond quil Devoit Donner un Soc ou trente 
Livres en pelleterie au Demendeur. Et quen outre il Devoit 
payer a M*" trotier Les trente Livres Layant trensporté [sic] pour 
Ce quil devoit a L'ancan de feu Lapierre Ce que le Défendeur 
a fait Sur quoy Mon*" trotier Luy a dit que cela ne pressoit pas 
Et quil L*acceptoit pour Cette Somme. 

Le Deffendeur a prêté Serment quil Etoit Convenu De payer 
au demendeur Dix Ecu En pelleterie ou un Soc ne pouvant 
Donner un Soc il Est Condanner a payer Les Dix Ecu Comptant. 
Et Le Demendeur a payer Les frais. 

application fait par Sieur ant armant Demandant quil Soit fait 
un [word illegible] ancan Des Biens de feu Vadboncoeur Et 
Elir un tuteur au mineurs Et Sexposant a ce que Le Gendre 
dud* Deffucnt Le Soyent disant que Le Deffucnt Vadboncour 
La prier de Sinteresser a Se Sujet. 

La Cour a Demander aud* S*" armant quelque Ecrit, ou quelque 
autre preuve Comme quoy il est Chargé de faire Exécuter Les 
Dernière Volonté de feu vadboncoeur. 

françois alexandre ayant paru et prêté Serment Sur Ce quil 
a Entendu Dire par feu Vadboncoeur a M*" Girardin et a dit que 
quelque tems avant Le dessay de Son beau père il La Envoyé 
Cherché M^ Girardin Et quil Luy a dit a luy parlant quil Le 
prioit de vouloir Bien prendre Les interest de Ses Enfans Le 
Chargant dagir En Consequence pour quil ne leur Soit fait au 
qu^un tort Ce que M*" Girardin a dit avoir promis de faire. 

La Cour a dessidé quil Seroit nomé un tuteur Et Subroger 

* The small piece of iron attached to the plow. 
' The meaning is not clear. 

• The ecu was equal to three livres, or sixty cents. 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1780 45 

Friday, May 5, 1780. 
President, Capt. Trottier. Pierre Martin. 

Ant Girardin. Bte. Saucier. 

Present. 
Gabriel Constant, PlaintiflF vs. Janot Lapancé, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for a plowshare * which he owes 
him. 

The defendant answers that he ought to give a plowshare or 
thirty livres in peltries to the plaintiff; and besides he was to pay 
the thirty livres to M. Trottier, since the plaintiff had assigned it 
for what he owed at the auction of the goods of the late Lapierre. 
This the defendant had done, but M. Trottier had said to him that 
there was no hurry and had accepted the assignment for that sum.' 

The defendant made oath that he had agreed to pay the plaintiff 
ten ecus ' in peltries or a plowshare, and not being able to give the 
plowshare he is condemned to pay the ten ecus in cash. The 
plaintiff is condemned to pay the costs. 

An application made by M. Ant. Harmand, asking that an 
. . [word illegible] . . auction of the goods of the late Vadeboncoeur 
be held and an election of a guardian for the minors be made, 
recommending that the son-in-law of the deceased be guardian, 
and saying that the deceased Vadeboncoeur had begged him to 
interest himself in the subject. 

The Court demanded of the said M. Harmand some writing 
or other proof that he was intrusted with the execution of the 
last wiU of the late Vadeboncoeur. 

François Alexandre appeared and made oath in regard to what 
he heard said by the late Vadeboncoeur to M. Girardin. He said 
that some time before the decease of his father-in-law, the latter 
sent him to bring M. Girardin, and that in the course of their 
conversation the late Vadeboncoeur begged M. Girardin to consent 
to look after the interests of his children, charging him to act so 
that no wrong should be done them. This M. Girardin had 
promised to do. 

The Court decided that there be named a guardian and a sur- 
rogate guardian by plurality vote; and there has been named 



46 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

tuteur a la pluralité Des voix Et a Eté nomé francois alexandre 
tuteur Et antoine Girardin Subroger tuteur, et quil Sera fait un 
invantaire De tous les Biens Et un ancan apprés Si il est a propos 
de le faire. 

Demendeur Louis Pillet Défendeur B*® saucier 

Le Demendeur poursuit Le défendeur pour quil Luy Soit 
remboursé par Le deffendeur six minot de blé Suivant Lesti- 
mation qui En a Eté fait Comme ayant Eté mangé par Les pour- 
ceau qui ont Passé par Sa Clauture. Le deffendeur repond que 
Lorsque Les pourçueau [sic] ont passé Dans les grins quil navoit 
pas Encore acheter de Mons*" S*. Pierre et que Le tort a Eté 
fait avant quil Laye acheter. 

La Cour a renvoyé Le présent procet a Vendredy 26® Du pré- 
sent mois pour que Les deux partis aye a produire Leur preuve 
La Cour Est ajourné a Vendredy 26® may 1 780. 

f trottier fr. saucier Greffier. 

Vendredy. 9 Juin 1780. 
President Capt. trotier. pierre martin. 

M". Cha. Gratiot. B^® Saucier. 

Michel Beaulieu Présent, 

jn gte Mercié ayant produit en Court une requette Contre 
Le nomé George King, pour un Capot Et une paire de boucle 
dargent que ledit King Luy a volé, et demande qu'ne Carabine a 
présent entre Les mains de Mons^ f. trotier Comm*** au d* Lieu 
Soit Vendu, pour Satisfaire au volé qui luy a été fait. 

La Cour a ordonné que la dîtte Carabine Soit vendu en public 
pour payer a M*" Mercié Se dont il luy a Eté prie par led* Geo. 
King Et Si plus il y a il Sera Déposé Entre les mains du cherif 
Jusqu*a Nouvelle ordre. 

Louis Pillet Demendeur B*® Saucier Défendeur 
Le demendeur et Le défendeur ayant produit Leur preuve 
réciproque. 

La Cour a ordonné que Le défendeur rendroit au demendeur 
La quantité de Blé, Suivant Lestimation faîte. 

^ The minci contained three bushels. 

' Manv suits were caused by animals breaking through the fence of the commoa field. 
This was the ctiltivated land, laid out in narrow strips which were owned by individuals. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1780 47 

François Alexandre as guardian and Antoine Girardin as 
surrogate guardian. It has been ordered that an inventory of 
an the goods be made and an auction afterwards, if it is expe- 
dient to hold it. 

Louis PiLLET, Plaintiff, vs. Bte. Saucier, Defendant. , 

The plaintiff sues the defendant that he may be reimbursed by 
the defendant six minots^ of wheat, which, according to estimate, 
is the amount eaten by the pigs, which passed through his fence.' 
The defendant answers that, at the time the pigs passed into the 
grain, he had not yet bought the land from M. St. Pierre, 
and that the wrong was done before he bought it. 

The Court continued the present suit till Friday, the 26th of 
the present month, in order that the two parties have time to 
produce their prçofs. 

The Court adjourned to Friday, May 26, 1780 
F. Trottier. Fr. Saucier, Clerk. 

Friday, June 9, 1780 
President, Capt. Trottier. Pierre Martin. 

Charles Gratiot. Bte. Saucier. 

Michel Beaulieu. Present. 

Jean Bte. Mercier brought into Court a petition against the 
named George King for a coat and a pair of silver buckles, which 
the said King stole, and prays that a rifle at present in the hands of 
M. Trottier, commandant of the post, be sold to indemnify him 
for the theft, which has been made from him. 

The Court decreed that the rifle be sold publicly in order to pay 
M. Mercier for that which had been taken from him by the said 
Geo. King; and if there be a siuplus, it shall be deposited in the 
hands of the sheriff until further orders. 

Louis Pillet, Plaintiff, vs, Bte Saucier, Defendant. 
The plaintiff and defendant produced their proofs severally. 
The Court decreed that the defendant render to the plaintiff 
the quantity of wheat according to the estimate made. 

The whole field was protected by a fence built by the community, each proprietor being 
responaible for that part of the fence on his land. A gate near the village gave access to 
the field. Damages for the injury to crops could be collected from the person through 
whose fenœ stray animah passed. — ileynolcu, Pioneer History^ 31 and 48. 



48 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

La Cour Etant assemblé pour prendre Les arengement Les 
plus convenable pour Les affaires de feu Sieur Bellau. 

Elle a décidé quil Sera fait un exament Exacte de tout Ses 
papier afin de prendre Le plus quil Sera possible Connoissance 
de Ses affaires, Et ensuitte nomera un Sindic pour Gérer toute 
Ses affaires Suivant Comme il Sera ordonné par la Cour. 

La Court Et ajourné a 2 heure après midy 9. Du présent. 

f saucier Greffier. f trottier. 

9. juin 1780. 2 heure après Midy. 
Président Capt. trotier. Pierre Martin. 

M" Ch. Gratiot. B*« Saucier. 

Présent. 
Louis Louigau Demandeur James finne Défendeur 

Le Demendeur pour Suit Le défendeur pour Le payement 
d'un Cheval quil Luy a tué a force de Courir dans La prairie du 
pon Suivant La requette quil En a présenté En Cour. 

Le défendeur dit que C'est par L'ordre du Colonel Mont- 
gomery quil a pris le cheval pour en atrapper d'autre, pour le 
besoin de Tetat. 

Thomas Brady ayant prêté Serment Sur Le S* Evangile de 
Dieu, tout puissant de repondre au question qu'on Luy feroit 
et a dit quil Etoit témoin Lorsque Mons^ James finne a pris le 
cheval de Louis gau et quils ont Eté Ensemble Dans La prairie du 
pon, mais que James finne na point Couru Le dit Cheval, et 
quaprés avoir atrapé une jumen â eux apartenant quil auroit 
Lâché Le cheval, qui Sest Ensuitte Battu avec un autre un Ser- 
tain tems et quaprés cela Voyant que Le cheval avoit beaucoup 
Sué quelqu'n Luy dire quil falloit Seigner Led^ cheval Se qui 
fit Sur Le Champ et que néanmoins il mourut peu De tems 
appres. 

La Cour d'une voix unanime a Condanner m^ James finne 
pour S'être Saisi dud^ cheval Sans auqu'ne ordre a payé au Sieur 
Louigau Son cheval suivant Sa Valeur. 

pierre Gagnon a été nomé par la Cour Sindic pour prendre 
Connoissance des affaires de feu Michel Bellau, et Ensuitte 

1 Prairie du Pont was a hamlet with commons and common field, about a mile south 
of Cahokia. See map at end of this vx>lume, also note i, p. 88. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1780 49 

The Court assembled to take the most expedient measures for 
the affairs of the late M. Bellau. 

It decided that there shaU be made an exact examination of all 
his papers in order to obtain the best possible information of his 
affairs, and that afterwards there shall be named a syndic to con- 
duct all his affairs as he shall be ordered by the Court. 

The Court adjourned till 2 o'clock in the afternoon, the 9th 
of the present month. 

June 9, 1780, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon. 
President, Capt. Trottier. Pierre Martin. 

Ch. Gratiot. Bte Saucier. 

Present. 
Louis Louigaud, Plaintiff, vs. James Finney, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for the payment of a horse, 
which he killed by running it in the Prairie du Pont,^ according to 
the petition which he has presented in Court. 

The défendent says that he took the horse by order of 
Colonel Montgomery in order to catch another for the need of the 
state. 

Thomas Brady having made oath on the Holy Gospels of 
Almighty God to answer the question which was put to him, 
said that he was a witness, when M. James Finney took Loui- 
gaud's horse, and that they were together in the Prairie du Pont, 
but that James Finney did not run the said horse; and that after 
catching a mare belonging to them, he let the horse loose and 
that then it fought with another horse for a certain time; 
and that, after noticing that the horse was very sweaty, some- 
body told him that he ought to bleed the said horse,' 
which he immediately did ; that nevertheless it died shortly after- 
wards. 

The Court unanimously condemned M. James Finney, for 
having taken the said horse without any order, to pay M. Loui- 
gaud the value of his horse. 

Pierre Gagnon has been named by the Court syndic to in- 
form himself of the affairs of the late Michel Bellau, and to 
adçiinister them afterwards in a manner, which he shall believe 



so ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Gerer de la manière quil Croira Etre Le plus Convenable étant 
authorise par la d**® Cour D'agir a ce Sujet. 

saucier Greffier. 

a une Court 19 Juin 1780. 
Président. Cap*, trotier ant. Girardin 

Messieurs Ch. Gratiot Pierre Martin 

Michel Beaulieu B*« Saucier. 

Présent. 
La Court Etant assemblé pour prendre Le Serment de ûdelîté 
ainsi que Celuy doffice, Des Sieur Joseph Lepage J". B** Lacroix 
Clement Langlois ch. Ducharme francois Courié philipe Jervais 
antoine armant, Comme ayant Eté nomé par une assemblé pub- 
lic Dimanche Dernier 18 du Courant, dans La Maison de M*" fr. 
trotier Cap*® Commandant La Milice Des Cahokias, pour prendre 
Leurs place Comme En qualité de Juge dô paix &c. 

Les Suivant Juges Mentioné en L'autre Part par La Dernière 
Election faite, ont prie Le Serment de fidélité aux Etats, ainsi 
que Celuy de Juge de paix &c. Selon leurs liste a lexeption de 
Joseph Lepage absant. 

La Cour a ordonné que fr. Saucier Soit appointé dark de la 
Cour. 

Francois Saucier a pris Serment de fidélité Et doffice Et a pris 
Sa place en qualité de dark. 

Nicolas Chabaut a pris Serment de fidélité ainsi que Celuy 
d'office et a pris Sa place En qualité de Baillif de la Cour. 

Jean B*® Hubert Lacroix a remis a la Cour Sa Comission de 
Cherif. 

President Ch. Ducharme francois Courrié. 

ant. armant. J° B** Lacroix, 

philipe Gervais. Clement Langlois 

Présent 
Ch Gratiot ayant produit En Cour un Compte due par La 
Succession de feu ferant Montant a la Somme de Cinq Soixante 
et huit Livres Seize Sols. 

Mon^ trotier a produit un Sertificat de B** Lamarche par 
Lequel il prove que feu ferrand luy Doit quarante Sept Livres 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1780 51 

most expedient, being authorized by the said Court to act in this 

matter. 

Saucier, Clerk. 

At a Court June 19, 1780. 
President, Capt. Trottier. Ant. Girardin. 
Ch. Gratiot. Pierre Martin. 

Michel Beaulieu. Bte. Saucier. 

Present. 
The Court assembled to receive the oath of fidelity and that of 
office from MM. Joseph Lepage, Jean Bte. LaCroix, Clement 
Langlois, Ch. DuCharme, François Courier, Philippe Gervais, 
and Antoine Harmand, who have been elected by a public assem- 
bly, held last Simday, the i8th of the present month, in the house 
of M. Fr. Trottier, captain commanding the militia of Cahokia, 
in order that they may take their places as justices of the peace etc. 
The following justices, mentioned in the other part as elected 
in the last election, have taken oath of fidelity to the States and 
that of justices of the peace etc. according to the list, with the 
exception of Joseph Lepage absent. 

The Court has ordered that Fr. Saucier be appointed clerk of 
the Court. 

François Saucier took the oath of fidelity and that of office and 
took his place as clerk. 

Nicolas Chabot took the oath of fidelity and that of office and 
took his place as bailiff of the Court. 

Jean Bte. Hubert LaCroix presented to the Court his commis- 
sion as sheriff. 

President, Ch. DuCharme. François Courier. 
Ant. Harmand. Jean Bte. LaCroix. 

Philippe Gervais. Clement Langlois. 

Present. 
Ch. Gratiot produced in Court an account due by the heirs of 
the late Ferrant amounting to the sum of five hundred and sixty- 
eight livres and sixteen sols, 

M. Trottier produced a certificate of Bte. Lamarche by which 
he proves that the late Ferrant owed him forty-seven livres ten sols, 



52 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

Dix quil Luy a prêté Ce qui fait Ensemble La Somme de 
Six Cent Seize Livre Dix Sols Le montant Des effest de feu 
ferand Montant a la Somme de Cinq Cent Vingt neuf Livre 
Cinq. 

La Cour a ordonné que Le S^ charle Gratiot payeroit a Même 
Le produit de La vente Des Dits Effest La Somme de deux Cent 
quatrevingt onze Livres Seize Sols pour Depte privilégié Suivant 
Les Compte a luy présenté Et Le reste Des Deptes Seront tiré au 
mar La Livre. 

Charle Gratiot a produit En Cour un Compte Courant Entre 
luy et feu Michel Bellau de la Somme de Six Cent huit Livres dix 
Sols Sur Lequel il Luy est due deux Cent Cinquante Six Livres 
quatorze Sols par La Balance et Demende a La Cour que Cette 
Somme Luy Soit payé par Le Sindic qui a été nomé par La Cour 
pour régler Les affaires du Dit feu Bellau. 

Charles Gratiot produit encore un Compte En Cour Contre 
Le Sieur Durant montant a la Somme de cinquante Livres dix 
Sols demandant pareillement quil Luy Soit payé Egallement 
Comme L'autre. 

approuvé par La Cour Les Compte présenté par M*" Ch. 
Gratiot. 

La Cour Est Convenu que Les billet Due a S*" Durant Ser- 
viront a payer Jusqu'à La Conqurance Des Deptes faite par 
Michel Bellau ayant acheter Divers Effest ici Des quels il Sest 
Servi pour payer Les Deptes de M^ Durant, et quaqu'un 
Compte ne Sera payer Sans Etre aprouvé De la Cour. 
La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudi 29 juin 1780. 
fr saucier Greffier DuCharme presidans 

a un Cour 29 juin 1780 
Président Charle DuCharme Joseph Lepage 

antoine armant Clement Langlois 

francois Courrié philipe Jervais 

Present 
Joseph Lepage ayant pris Sa place du Magistrat, et a prêté 
Serment de fidélité ainsi que Celuy d'ofice. 

1 A general expression for the payment of a proportional part of one's debts, without any 
indication of the exact percentage. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1780 53 

which he had lent him, which makes altogether the sum of six 
hundred and sixteen livres ten solSf the value of the effects of the 
late Ferrant amounting to the sum of five himdred and twenty- 
nine livres and five sols. 

The Court decreed that M. Charles Gratiot should pay 
directly from the proceeds of the sale of the said effects the sum 
of two hundred and ninety-one livres sixteen sols for the debt 
entided to preference according to the accoimt presented to him, 
and the remaining debts shall be drawn at the rate of a mark in 
the pound. * 

Charles Gratiot produced in Court a ciurent account between 
him and the late Michel Bellau amounting to the sum of six him- 
dred and eight livres and ten sols, on which there is due him two 
hundred and fifty-six livres fourteen sols as a balance and prays 
the Court that this sum be paid him by the syndic, who has been 
named by the Court to setde the affairs of the said late Bellau. 

Charles Gratiot produced also in Court an accoimt against M. 
Durand amounting to the sum of fifty livres ten sols and prays like- 
wise that it be paid as well as the other. 

The accounts presented by M. Ch. Gratiot were approved by 
the Court. 

The Court agreed that the notes due to M. Durand shall serve 
for payment up to the amount of the debts made by Michel 
Bellau, since the latter bought various goods here, which he 
used to pay the debts of M. Durand; and that no account shall 
be paid without being approved by the Court. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, June 29, 1780. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. DuCharme, President. 

At a Court, June 29, 1780. 
President, Charles Ducharme. Joseph Lepage. 
Antoine Harmand. Clement Langlois. 

François Courier. Philippe Gervais. 

Present. 
Joseph Lepage took his place as magistrate and took the oath 
of fidelity and that of office. 

M. Sanguinette, merchant of St. Louis, produced in Court a 



54 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

M''. Sanguinette Nego^ a S^ Louis a produit en Cour un Etat 
de pelleterie prêté a M** Durant demant [sic] que La Même quantité 
de» ci^^*' pelleterie Luy Soit rendu Suivant Leurs Convention. 

Kt a produit Encore une reconnoissance du Sieur Durant pour 
Le voyage d'un homme a Michelimaquina quil luy a fourni et un 
chodiére quil Luy a prêté. 

M*". Sanguinette demande a la Cour de condanner M'' Durant, 
a Luy payer interest des pelleterie prêté Comme Le tens de la luy 
rendre étant echû, ainsi que pour l'homme quil Luy a fourni p<our 
Le Voyage de Michilimaquina. 

La Cour a acordé a M*". Sanguinette que M*" Durant payera 
interest Des pelleterie quil luy prêté, ainsi que pour L'homme quil 
Luy a fourni Comme ayant Besoin de Ses objest présentement, et 
que rinterest Sera payable de Ce Jour. 

Le Sieur Isaac Levy a présenté a la Cour un mandat, tiré Sur 
M' Cerré, par J'on Conn de trente piastre gourde que M' Cerré 
refuse de payé Et Ce mêm manda Luy a Eté remis par Joseph 
Lapensé En payment D'un Cheval quil Luy a Vendu. 

Joseph Lapancé ayant parru a dit quil avoit vendu un Cheval a 
Jonn Conn pour La Somme de trente piastre Gourde par un 
Mandat tiré Sur M^ Cerré. 

La Cour a Condanné Le Sieur Jonn Conn a payé le billet quil a 
consenti de trente piastre Gourde et a payer Les fraise Et a pareil- 
lement Condanné Joseph Lapancé a payer a M*" Levy pareille 
Smmoe Sauve a prendre tel a rangement quil voudront Entre Eux. 

La Cour Est ajourné a jeudi 6. de juillet, 
f saucier Clark DuCharme presidans 

a une Cour jeudi 6. de juillet. 1780. 
Présidant. Ch*« Ducharme Joseph lepage 

ant. arment Clement Langlois 

fran. Courrié philipe jervais 

présent 
FR. MARTIN Demendeur Jo** alary Défendeur 
Le demendeur poursuit Le défendeur Suivant Sa requette pour 

* For notice i>( Cenr^, tee Introduction, p. xx., note a. 

' The piastrt was a Spanish coin equal in value to our dollar. The word gourdin whidi 
appears always in the above combinatioa* aeems to add nothiog to the idea, for pio^lrt and 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1780 55 

statement of peltries loaned M. Durand and prays that the same 
quantity of peltries be returned to him according to their agree- 
ment. 

And he also produced an acknowledgement by M. Durand for 
the journey of a man, whom he furnished, to Michillimackinac, 
and for a copper kettle, which he lent him. 

M. Sanguinette prays the Court to condemn M. Durand to pay 
him interest on the loan of the peltries, since the time for returning 
them has expired, and also for the wages of the man, whom he 
furnished for the journey to Michillimackinac. 

The Court granted M. Sanguinette that M. Durand shall pay 
interest on the peltries, which he loaned him, and also on the wages 
of the man whom he furnished, since he has need of his prop- 
erty now, and that the interest shall be payable from this day. 

M. Isaac Levy presented to the Court a draft drawn on M. 
Ccrré* by John Conn for thirty piastres gourdeSy^ which M. Cerré 
refuses to pay; and this same draft was given him by Joseph 
Lapancé in payment for a horse, which he sold him. 

Joseph Lapancé having appeared said that he had sold a horse 
to John Conn for the sum of thirty piastres gourdes paid by a 
draft drawn on M. Cerré. 

The Court condemned M. John Conn to pay the note for thirty 
piastres gourdes, which he drew, and to pay the costs; and likewise 
condemned Joseph Lapancé to pay M. Levy the same sum, subject 
to making such arrangements between themselves as they wished. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, July 6. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. DuCharme, President. 

At a Court, July 6, 1780. 
President, Ch. DuCharme. Joseph Lepage. 

Ant. Harmand. Clement Langlois. 

^ Fran. Courier Philippe Gervais. 

Present. 
Fr. Martin, Plaintiff, vs, Jos. Alarie, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant according to his petition for a 
rifle, which he left at the house of the widow Germain as security 

pi^tÊn t»md€ are used tynoaymously. It is possible, however, that the word gourée is used 
to dkriaguish bet ire eu the metal pUsin and the paper. 



S6 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

une Carabine quil avoit Lessé Ches Madame Veuve Germain En 
depusit [?] pour une quantité de farine quil Luy devoit et que 
Ledit défendeur a fait Saisir En Son absence Laditte Carabine 
Et Sen est Servie Jusqua Son retour. 

Le deffendeur a produit des Billet pour La La [sic] Somme de 
trois Cent quatrevingt treize Livres En pelleterie qui Luy Sont 
due par Le demendeur Et Echue. 

Le demendeur offre a payer Ses Billet Et que Le deffendeur 
Soit Condanner a Luy payer sa Caribine Cent piastre Comme 
Elle a coûte. 

La Cour a decider que La Caribine du demendeur Sera Estimé 
par trois personne Conoissante Et que Le deffendeur Seroit Con- 
danner a prendre Laditte Carabine au prix de Lestimation a deauire 
Sur Les Billet quil Luy Sont due par Le demendeur Et a payer 
Les fraix de Justice pour Setre Servie de Laditte Carabine. Sauve 
au demendeur a la reprendre Si il Le Veut et a payer Ses Billet. 
Michel dubois Demendeur fr. martin Défendeur 

Le demendeur poursuit Le défendeur suivant Sa requette pour 
quil Luy Soit fait reparation dhonneur pour Lavoir treté d'un 
Coquin et que Setant vue trété de La Sorte il a pris Le parti de Le 
Lesser quoique Son Engagé. Et declare que le Défendeur Luy a 
retenu tout Ce quil avoit dans Sans [sic] voiture Et a deffendu au 
personne qui Se Sont trouvé présent de ne point Le retirer Suivant 
Le Certificat quil a produit En Cour. 

Le deffendeur declare quil est vray quil a treté Le demendeur 
de Coquin Mais que Ce netoit qu^an Cas que Le d* Demendeur 
Venoit a le quitter Vue quil n'auroit pas pue trouver un autre 
homme a Sa place. 

Le demendeur declare Encore qu'après avoir Eté trété de 
coquin et de sclave quil Se trouvoit indigne de rester au Service du 
deffendeur Et demande que Les effest que Led* deffendeur Luy a 
retenu Montant Environ a la Somme de Cent Livres en pelleterie 
Luy Soit renboursé par Le défendeur ainsi que Ses gages. 

prinouvaux ayant paru a prêté Serment de dire La Vérité et a 
dit quil avoit Entendu dire au S^ Cadien Génerallement tout Ce 
quil declare dans Son Certificat. 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1780 57 

for a quantity of flour, which he owed the defendant ; and he says 
that the defendant had caused the aforesaid rifle to be seized 
in his absence and used it until his return.* 

The defendant produced notes for the sum of three hundred 
and ninety-three livres in peltries, which are due him by the 
plaintiff and have matured. 

The plaintiff offers to pay his notes; and prays that the defend- 
ant be condemned to pay him for the rifle the one hundred piastres 
which it cost. 

The Court decided that the value of the plaintiff's rifle shall 
be appraised by three competent persons and that the defendant 
be condemned to accept the rifle at the appraised price and to de- 
duct the amount from the notes, which are due him from the 
plaintiff; and to pay the costs of justice for having used the rifle, 
reserving the right to the plaintiff to take back his rifle if he wishes 
and to pay his notes. 

Michel Dubois, Plaintiff, vs. Fr. Martin, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant, for the purpose, according 
to his petition, that there be made him reparation of honor 
because he has been called a rascal and has been so treated by 
the defendant that he resolved to leave him although in his employ. 
And he further declares that the defendant has retained all he 
had in his boat and has forbidden the people who are present to 
remove it according to a certificate which he brought into Court. 

The defendant declares it is true that he called the plaintiff a 
rascal ; but it was only when the plaintiff was on the point of leaving 
him and because he could not find anyone to take his place. 

The plaintiff further declares that after being called a 
rascal and a slave, he found it demeaning to remain in the service 
of the defendant and demands that his property amounting to 
about the sum of a hundred livres in peltries, which the defendant 
has retained, be given back to him and his wages paid. 

Prenouvau having appeared made oath to tell the truth and 
said that in general he had heard M. Cadien say all that he de- 
clares in his certificate. 

* For further pardculars, see p. 533. 



S8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

alexis Brisson ayant Paru a prêté Serment de dire La vérité et 
a dit quil est vray quils ont treté Le dit demendeur de Coquin mais 
que Ce netoit que Sur Le menace quil Luy fesoit de le quitter dans 
Le tems ou il avoit plus Besoin de luy. 

La Cour après avoir Entendu réciproquement Les deux partie, 
a Condanner Le deffendeur a rendre Exactement au Demendeur 
Les Effets quil luy appartienent Et au demendeur a payer Les fraix. 

Mons*" Gabriel Cerré résidant Sur La rive Espagnol a fait La 
demende a La Cour de La part de M^ Le Commandant de partie 
Espagnol de fournir vingt Cinq homme pour Se Joindre a ime 
même quantité quil fourni pour posser une Garde a Landroit que 
Ton trouvera Le plus propre pour veiller et Evitter toute Siuprise 
de La part de nos Enemis, Et quel Sera relevé tous Les quinze 
Jour. 

La Cour a decider que dici a Lundy prochain il Sera pris Des 
arrangements pour Cette Expedition Vue quil est très a propos de 
Le faire. 

pierre Gagnon a produit En Cour Le Compte Des payement 
quil a fait au Creancié de feu Bellau Suivant Lancan quil a fait 
faire Et a Eté approuvé. 

une requette adressé au majistras Contre Ignace Chatigni pour 
Examinir Si il est Coupable ou non, Des accusation faite Contre 
Luv. 

m 

La Cour a renvoyé La présente Examination a Dimanche neuf 
du Cou*"^ Comme ayant Deux Magistrat de moin. 

augustin ange Sest rendu Cotion de La personne d'Ignace 
chatignie, Jusqu'au Jour ou il Doit Etre interoger. 

La Cour Est ajourné au 9* du Cour°*. 
f saucier Clark DuCharme presdan 

a une Cour du 25 Juillet. 
President M^ Ch. Ducharme Clement Langlois 

ant. armant philipe Jer\ais 

francois Courié 
La Cour Etant assemblé pour prendre Des arengement pwur 
régler Les affaires de feu Jonn Conn, et a nomé francois Saucier 

1 Durioff the summer ci 1 780 tfarre were many rumors of expected attacks by the British, 
aad besides the ooe in May aoocher «tUck 00 the lUmob villaces was actually made on July 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1780 59 

Alexis Brisson appeared and made oath to tell the truth and 
said that it is true that they called the said plaintiff a rascal; 
but it was only after the threat, which he made, of quitting at a 
time when there was great need of him. 

The Court, after having heard severally the two parties, 
condemned the defendant to restore accurately to the plaintiff all 
the property belonging to him, and condemned the plaintiff to 
pay the costs. 

M. Gabriel Cerré, a resident of the Spanish bank of the river, 
requests the Court on behalf of the commandant of the Spanish ter- 
ritory to furnish twenty-five men to join with a like number, which 
he will furnish, for the purpose of placing a guard at a place, which 
will be found most convenient, to watch and so avoid any surprise 
by the enemy; and which guard will be relieved every fortnight.^ 

The Court decided that between now and Monday next it 
will make arrangements for this expedition, since it is very expe- 
dient to undertake it. 

Pierre Gagnon produced in Court the account of the pay- 
ments, which he had made to the creditors of the late Bellau after 
the auction, which he caused to be h^ld; and it was approved. 

Â petition addressed to the magistrates against Ignace Chati- 
gny that an examination be made to see if he is guilty or not of 
that of which he has been accused. 

The Court postponed the present examination till Sunday, the 
ninth of the current month, since there are two magistrates lacking. 

Augustin Angers became bondsman for the person of Ignace 
Chatigny imtil the day he was to be interrogated. 

The Court adjourned to the 9th of the current month. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. DuCharme, President. 

At a Court, July 25. 
President, M. Charles DuCharme. 
Ant. Harmand. Clement Langlois. 

François Courier. Philippe Gervais. 

The Court assembled to make arrangements to settle the 
affairs of the late John Conn; and named François Saucier to 

17th, and was repelled by the French themselves. — Dodge to Jefferson, AuRUSt i, Ka. State 
Papers, i., 368. 



6o n.T.TNOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

pour pftjcr Les Comptes Et Billet qofl [rL] Lay Scroot présenté 
Et prendra Le Serment de duque personne Sar Lear Compte 
et après rcndera Compte Exacte du tous Les pavesscst qoïl aaia 
fait Sur Le produit de Tancan Montant a la Sooliic de 1015^^ 
15. 

f saucier Gref^ DuCharme pcesd 

a une Coor du 14 aous^ 1780. 
Président, Ch^ Ducfaarme philipe Jerrais 
ant. armant V B^ Lacroix» 

Êr. Coarrié Joseph Lepage 

Qement Lan^ob Près' 

tr. Saucier a prcxiuit un billet de M^ Chjjie Gfad*x de La 
Somme de Cinq ME neuf Cent Socxance Et ccLze Livrcs En pd- 
kterîe pa5sé a L'ordre de M* Ctf * Sanyifn^tie, et 1 denaeodeqoe 
Le dit Sieur Gradoc sott Condinné a pavé Son BiHet. 

L'a [sic] Cour a Cocsiinné M- Gradoc a psàj«- Sen d^ Bukt 
Sans deL&T Sauf a prendre des aren^pecaen: Fr^^enrbte Sî M' 
Sanguznecte Le Juge a propdtSw 

La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 17 aocst i?^- 
tr saucier. IKiCbiLme presd 

a une Cour du r3 xocsc 1730- 
Préâdeni Ch-* ducfaanne i?c:iln« Tennis 

ant- arrzjnt J"" B^ Li^rrrrii 

Clemienc I.ergtcts 



L'a ^-i*; Cour ajaz* tift issésibîé r-cs Les Cip^ ie =iîL:oe Et 
autres prlnc£psi:ix iibîriii: ie Ce \l!Lu?î peur Dedcer Ezsecibie 
et prencre Les sictcis Les pt^sî Scr pt:i:r Evirir :jcres Scirpnses 
de La 3ir -ie Leurs Fr-rerr^^ oc: EVcfcé ::u'i^ Ser:tr j.rscL":LZ2*5i: 
nécessaire ie fifre rardr r>j:i Dîi b renne ji-risi rciir iZer aire 
une DecGcrer» Dazs La ri-rierre EV» TT'rr'ris p«:cr ncfîiïr ie re- 
cccncîrre 5l r^::«LrTe!ren: L'jTTné xz:£i':ise E^rcr :i»:us S«:cîzie 
TOBLLoé Est en —.ircrae p-ccir venir E: r^ecLz: ir:"- iuji rê il 
Detadrerrci rjei«^3es peur venir reus ji^rme ^e -^ e ::'^ m paise 
Et Dcursufrrnir Leur rrux pte Loin J'isc':i*i Ce ^:iils Lyz 'jic' 
Dte zc-ureHes Sartains ie L*. 



COURT RECORD, AUGUST, 1780 61 

pay the accounts and notes, which will be presented to him, and 
he shall receive the oath of each person in regard to his account ; 
and afterwards he shall render exact account of all payments 
which he shall have made from the proceeds of the auction, which 
amount to the sum of 1013 livres 15 sols. 

F. Saucier, Clerk. DuCharme, President. 

At a Court, August 14, 1780. 
President Ch. DuCharme. Philippe Gervais. 
Ant. Harmand. Jean Bte LaCroix. 

Fr. Courier. Joseph Lepage. 

Clement Langlois. Present 

Fr. Saucier produced a note of M. Charles Gratiot for the sum 
of five thousand nine hundred and seventy-one livres in peltries 
drawn to the order of M. Ch. Sanguinette, and prayed that the 
said M. Gratiot be condemned to pay his note. 

The Court condemned M. Gratiot to pay the said note with- 
out delay, reserving the right to the two to make arrangements, 
if M. Sanguinette judges it expedient. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, August 17, 1780. 
F. Saucier. DuCharme, President. 

At a Court, August 16, 1780. 

President Ch. DuCharme. Philippe Gervais. 

Ant. Harmand. Jean Bte. LaCroix. 

Clement Langlois. Present. 

The Court caused all the captains of the militia and other 
principal inhabitants of the village to assemble in order to decide 
u()on and take the surest means to avoid any surprise by their 
enemies; * and they decided that it would be absolutely necessary 
to send from here ten chosen men for the purpose of reconnoitering 
on the Illinois River in order to endeavor to find out positively 

1 

if the English army, by which we are menaced, is on the march; 
and that, when they have arrived at Peoria, they shall detach 
some men to come and inform us what is taking place; and 
that the rest shall pursue their route farther, until they have 
certain news of the army, 

1 See p. 58, n. i., 539 note. 



6a ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIOXS 

£i pour Cette Enest il a ExA [ric] Dcôdé D'un plain mocofd 
que Chaqucs habitan: tksïdn dacs Lay Les vmcs nécessaire poor 
Luj et Les Sc«<iat quH aura, cbes Lut peer quinze jour affin d* etze 
en Eta: de pardr au même Tcc^nesii qse Les découvreur nous 
auront IV'Ciié Des nocreile de nos Ennemis. Desiant tous En- 
semble aller au devant pîuioc que de Se Lesser attaquer Et Même 
Les Lesser trop apnxber Les rîllase prévoyant La perte Du pays 
Si îl Les y Lessé arrivé En Ccfisequence toute Lassemblé Espm 
que p^ar Le Seccur unanime Des Deux rive îl Seront a même 
dareccr per Ce moyens tous Les projest De Leurs Ennemis. 

El p»xir n'être pas Embarassé pc<ir Les Voiture il a Eté deckle 
et accordé que route Les voiture qui Sect Dans Ce village Scnxit 
toutes arretté et mis en garde, Jusqua ce qpe L'on Soit Sur de n*en 
avoir point de Besoin. 

La Cour et toute Lassembié ont Eté Daccord quil Scroit a 
prop6s de prier Le Major \^'illiam de Sîntéresser pour pourcâr 
avoir autan: de m^r-cde quil Seroi: pcssibie d'avoir Des Cas. moy* 
enant quu Se fournisse Les vivres et Les voiture nécessaire pour 
Se Joindre au Jens de ce vilLii:e pour Leipécicion vue que Cest 
Le bien de tout Le r«avs e: cua Cette Elnest Q Leur Sera Danné de 
pareils ordres pour Etre prêt a partir Sitôt Les nou\-elle de nos 
Découvreur recue, 

E: pt?ur Cette Eldest il Sera c o-nné Des ordres pour que toute 
Les chauses nécessaire pour Lcii>edition Seront prêt Dici a huit 
Jour Sc'US peine De punfrîo-n. — aux Cabôs Le i6 aoust 1780. 
f trotier. DuChamie presd 

fr sauder Greffier 

a une Cour du 25 aoust 17SC. 
Président Ch. Djcharme ph. Jervais 

T* B-* LiCroix F* Laoa^ 

fr. Coorrler Présen 

Deniendeur Lons tkotier Défendeur .\nt .utMAXT 
Le Der::er.deur poursuit Le défendeur pour trois Cent Livres 
de farine pour une paire de ro-ux quil Luy a fait. 

Le défendeur Dit quiI Eioît Convenu de Luy donner ou 

T .Tûa, W"it7-:s> tr.ypc :àe -««rt vrsw 7«rt br too k ia i>g a »- 



t:OURT RECORD, AUGUST, 1780 63 

And for this purpose it was decided unanimously that each 
inhabitant shall keep at his house provisions necessary for himself 
and the soldiers, whom he shall have with him, for a fortnight, 
so as to be ready to start at a minute's notice, when the reconnoitr- 
ing party gives news of our enemies, since all desire to go to meet 
the enemy rather than allow them to make the attack or even to 
approach too near the village, in view of the loss to the country, 
if they are allowed to reach it. Accordingly the whole assembly 
hopes that by the unanimous succour of both bank they will be 
be able by this means to thwart the plans of their enemies. 

And in order not to be embarrassed by want of boats, it was 
decided that all the boats in this village shall be secured and 
guarded imtil it is certain that there is no need of them. 

The Court and the whole assembly have agreed that it would be 
expedient to ask Major Williams ^ to interest himself in obtaining 
as large a force as possible from Kaskaskia, on condition that 
they furnish themselves with the provisions and boats necessary 
to join the people of the village on the expedition, since it is for 
the good of the whole country; and that for this purpose he 
shall give them similar orders to be ready to set out as soon as 
news from the reconnoitring party is received. 

And for this purpose there shall be given orders so that every- 
thing shall be ready within a week, underjpenalty of pimishment. 
At Cahokia, August 16, 1780. 

F. Trottier. DuCharme, President. 

F. Saucier, Clerk. 

At a Court, August 25, 1780. 
President, Ch. DuCharme. Phil. Gervais. 

Jean Bte. LaCroix. Jos. Lrepage. 

Fr. Courier. Present. 

Louis Trottier, Plaintiff, vs. Ant. Harmand, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for three hundred pounds of 
flour due for a pair of wheels, which he had made for him. 

Cahokia at thU time, having superseded McCarty, after Colonel Montgomery returned from 
the Rode river expedition. — McCart/s letter to Clark in this voittme, p. 620 and also p. 543* 
note 7. 



64 ILLINOIS raSTORIC\L COLLECTIOXS 



pdletoie ou farine mais que Ce tnoavant Cour de farine fl offre 
Soixante Lirres En pelleterie au demendeur pour Ses roux. 

Le demendeur dit que Le défendeur Lut a offert de La pel- 
letoie mais quil Lut aTost dit que Ce n'etoit point de La pel- 
leterie quil Lut deroât que Cetoit de La farine. 

yi' an^ armant a pnixiuit La personne de George hait pour 
teoKHns qui après arcnr prêté Serment a dit quil Etoit présent 
Lorsque M^ armant Et trt>ttier ont fait marcbé pour une p' de 
roux Et que M- armant Lut a dit quil n'aToit point de farine 
a Lut donner aTant Les récolte mais quaprés Les récolte fl Luy 
En ccrmeroh ou Soixante LiTres en peUeterie. 

La Cour -a décidé que Les deux p^artie Setant offert a donner 
Cbaq'un Le^ir Serment, que le deiecdeur pajeroit au demendeur 
La moidé En farine E: Laucre moine en pelleterie. Et pajrcroit 
Chaq'u:^ Leur part des naix. 

cancv"^ sjLucier a rvné plainte Contre Icmace Chadgnîe pour 
une insulte quil a fait a La Cour, arant dit que tout Les majistrat 
Eiciî tous EVes Bene. 

Ignac chatigcîe a}*aiit Pam a dit quil Etoit vraj qufl LaToit 
dit niaîs quil ne CroToit pas que cela Serc-:t répété. 

La Coor a cccider que pour Linsulîe qui a Eté fait par led* 
IcTXîce ChaiisHiie a la Cour cueîîe Souidnessera a M^ trotier 
Coc2=:jLnd* au dî: Lieu ce Le faire neme En prison huit Jour 
et pa\-cra Cinquante LiTies Danenie >>ur Lesdise Et Les fraix. 

La Cour Es: ajourné a leuc: • ce Sei>:er:ibre. 

f 5»àuc:er Gre^^r DuCharme presd 

a une Ccur du :.i* Ser:er:ibre :*Sc. 
Pn^iien: Ch-* Duoiiarzie der::* Langiois 

J ■ B** Lurv^àx rh^ Ter.-ais 

1- L^îr^^ an:. arr:a~: 

Airxis Btoson Derr.Kideur Aro^V axo^Ê Défendeur 
Le rVrte^iiur rvur>u:: Le IVfecieur rour Lut aToir fait 
repr<vhe c'iv ir E:ê La Cause de La :r.."r: du ncdé Dubois, 

• r-.vt :» i:r m»* i^ir»-.»!. r-.ir :» rcTT^r^ vVtsxï. *iw,»ai»»* =ic«5â(d by the 
Ta-i :.- .TUT lï cjar .t jkJl et «^Âksc jr.vt ^^ y vCaKJ wg J ». "Tùf rcxnrsre ^na aot ^ 



COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1780 65 

The defendant says that he had agreed to pay him either peltries 
or flour, but finding himself short of flour offers sixty livres in 
peltries to the plaintiff for his wheels. 

The plaintiff says that the defendant offered peltries, but he 
had said that it was not peltries that the latter owed, but flour. 

M. Ant. Harmand produced the person of George Hait as 
witness, who, after making oath, said that he was present when 
MM. Harmand and Trottier made a bargain for a pair of wheels 
and that M. Harmand told the plaintiff that he had no flour to 
give before the harvest, but that after the harvest he would give 
him flour or sixty livres in peltries. 

The Court decided that, since each party offered to give the other 
his oath,^ the defendant should pay the plaintiff half in flour and 
half in peltries, and that each should pay his part of the costs. 

François Saucier brought complaint against Ignace Chatigny 
for an insult which he had offered to the Court, having said that 
all the magistrates were fools. 

Ignace Chatigny appeared and said that it was true that he 
had said it, but he had not thought it would be repeated. 

The Court decided that on account of the insult, which had 
been offered it by the said Ignace Chatigny, it will make appli- 
cation to M. Trottier, commandant in said place, to have him 
put in prison for a week; and that he shall pay fifty livres fine 
to the church and the costs. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, September 7 . 
F. Saucier, Clerk. DuCharme, President. 

At a Court, September 14, 1780. 
President, Ch. DuCharme. Clem. Langlois. 

Jean Bte. LaCroix. Phil. Gervais. 

Jos. Lepage. Ant. Harmand. 

Fr. Courier. Present. 

Alexis Brisson, Plaintiff, vs. Aug. Angers, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for having reproached him with 
being the cause of the death of the named Dubois and prays 

cuufinu his statentent by oath . I n the above case both parties appeared eoually ready to make 
o^h, and so the judges made a compixxnise. The procedure is illustrated by other examples 
in this volume.— -GlassoD, Hist, du droit et du instUtUions d€ la Prtutcê^ vi., 563. 



66 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Et demande a La Cour que Le Défendeur Luy prouve Se Dont 
il Lacuse avoir fait. 

Le défendeur Déclare quil est Vray quil a dit au Demendeur 
ayant Eu dificulté avec Luy Jusqua moment de ce fraper, quil 
en avoit fait périr un Et quil ne Le feray pas périr Luy, et quil 
est bien Vray quavant La dificulté que Le d* Dubois a Eu avec 
Le Demendeur quil Se portoit Bien et que Depuis Ce tems il 
Sest mis au Lit Et n'en est point relevé et cela a la Connoissance 
de tout Le monde. 

pierre Gatient ayant paru a prêté Sermant Sur Le S*. Evan- 
gille de dieu tout puissant de dire La Veritté Et a dit que il vray 
que Dubois Luy a dit que Brisson Luy avoit Donné une ta|>e et 
quil ne Lavoit Jamais frapé avec Son fusil, et qu'en outre il n* 
avoit jamais Envoyer chercher fr saucier pour Luy Dire tout ce 
quil a déposé a la Cour de Sa part. 

fr. saucier a prêté Serment Sur Le Saint Evangile de dieu tout 
puissant Et a dit quil a Eté Envoyé Cherché par m*" Lionay et 
m*" Longval Et quayant été chés Led* Dubois quil Luy auroit 
Dit que M*" Brisson ayant Eté ches Luy et quil L'avoit frapé 
Luy avoit Cassé Son fusil et Luy a donne un Coup de pied dans 
Le Coté et quil avoit craché Le Sang du Coup. 

M*" Lionay ayant paru a prêté Serment Sur Le S* Evangille 
de dieu tout puissant et a dit quil a Eté envoyé de La part de feu 
dubois chercher m*" Saucier pour Luy Conter La dificulté quil 
avoit Eu avec Brisson Et quil Luy a Dit que Brisson Lavoit 
Battu et quil Croyoit quil n'en reviendray pas. 

La Cour a decider que Suivant Les Deposition qui ont 
Eté fait Contre Le Dit Demendeur quil Sera pris et arrêté 
et Mis En prison pour que Sous huit Jour il aye a donner 
Des preuve plus grande du Contraire de ce dont il Est taxé, 
faute de quoy il Sera fait une Semblé de Juré pour Decider Son 
affaire. 

une Lettre adressé en Cour par M^ Ducharme Signe ch 
Gratiot qui demende que La Cour ne termine aucune affaire 
Contre Luy avant Son retour. 

fr Saucier porteur D'un de Ses Billet a demender a la Cour 



COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1780 67 

the Court that the defendant prove that which he accuses him of 
having done. 

The defendant declares that it is true that he said to the 
plaintiff, at a time when he had a quarrel with him up to the point 
of coming to blows, that he had made one die and that he wasn't 
going to make him. He further said that it is true that before 
the quarrel, which the said Dubois had had with the plaintiff, 
the former was in good health and that after that time he went 
to bed and never got up again and every one knew that. 

Pierre Gatient having appeared made oath on the Holy 
Gospels of Almighty God to tell the truth and said that it is true 
that Dubois told him that Brisson had given him a rap and that 
he had not struck him with his gim; and furthermore he had 
never siunmoned Fr. Saucier to tell him what the latter had 
deposed in the Court on his accoimt. 

Fr. Sauder made oath on the Holy Gospels of Almighty God 
and said that he had been summoned by M. Lionet and M. 
Lonval and that, when he was at the house of the said Dubois, 
the latter told him that M. Brisson had been at his house and had 
struck him, had broken his gun on him and given him a kick in 
the side and that he had spit blood on account of the blow. 

M. Lionet having appeared made oath on the Holy Gospels 
of Almighty God and said that he was sent by the late Dubois 
to sununon M. Saucier so that he might tell him about the quarrel, 
which he had had with Brisson; and that he told M. Saucier that 
Brisson had beaten him and he feared that he would not recover. 

The Court decided that, on account of the depositions which 
have been made against the said plantiff, he shall be appre- . 
hended, arrested and put in prison in order that within a week 
he should give greater proofs to the contrary of that with which 
he has been accused, in default of which there shall be held a 
meeting of jurors to decide his case. 

A letter presented to the Court by M. DuCharme and signed 
by Ch. Gratiot who requests the Court not to terminate any cause 
against him before his return. 

Fr. Saucier bearer of one of his notes prayed the Court for a 



68 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

une Saisi provisionaire Sur tous Les Bien dud* Sieur Gratiot. 
Si il nest pas de retour dans Dix Jour de Cette datte. 

La Cour a accordé a fr. Saucier appres Les dix Jour Expire 
La saisie provisionaire Suivant sa Demande. 

La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudi 21 du cou^. 
fr saucier Greffie. DuCharme presd. 

a une Cour tenue Le 21 Septembre 1780. 
président. Ch^® Ducharme fr. Courier 

]^ B*® Lacroix Clet Langlois 

ant. armant present 

Demendeur S*" ortis Défendeur S^ Henson 

Le demendeur poursuit Le déffendeur pour Des avances 
quil Luy a fait Suivant Ses obligation et Billet. 

Le Deffendre repond par une Lettre adressé a la Cour que 
vue La Situation du tems il Demande pour dellay de Suspendre 
L'exécution Jusqua Noél prochain au défaut de quoy il Sofre a 
Sexecuter Luy même a Ce tems pour tout Dellay. 

H a Eté Décidé et accordé par La Cour que M^ Henson 
Donnera un bon et Sufissant Cotion a M^ ortis pour Ce quil 
Luy doit et aura un terme dici a Noél prochain pour tous Dellay 
a payer ce quil Luy doit Et a payer Les fraix Montant a douze 
Livres Dix Sols. 

Demendeur ant armant Déffendeur Joseph relle 

Le Demendeur pousuit Le Déffendeur pour un Billet Con- 
senti par Luy, a L'ordre de Baptiste Bellan et Dont il Est Chargé 
étant passé a Son ordre. 

Le déffendeur produit un Billet par Lequelle Led* bellan prie 
M*" Sanfaçon de remettre a Joseph relle Le Billet Dont il etoit 
Chargé. 

La Cour ne pouvant pas Condanner Led* Joseph relie a 
payer Led* Billet a Condanner Le demendeur a rendre au Dé- 
fendeur Son Billet montant a la Somme de Soixante Livres en 
pelleterie, et a garder Le billet que bellant Luy écrit pour avoir 
Son recours Sur Luy Comme Le dit billet Etoit passe a Son 
ordre et Le Demandeur a payer Douze Livres Dix Sols pour 
fraix. 



COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1780 69 

provisional attachment on all the goods of the said M. Gratiot, 
if he has not retumec^ within ten days from this date. 

The Court granted Fr. Saucier the provisional attachment 
after the expiration of ten days, in accordance with his prayer. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, the 2 ist of the ciurent month. 
Fr. Sauder, Clerk. DuCharme, President. 

At a Court held September 21, 1780. 
President, Ch. DuCharme. Fr. Courier. 
Jean Bte. LaCroix. Clem. Langlois. 

Ant. Harmand. Present. 

M. Ortis, Plaintiff, vs, M. Henson, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for advances, which he 
made him, according to his obligation and note. 

The defendant answers by a letter addressed to the Court that 
in view of the conditions of the times he prays for a stay of execu- 
tion till next Christmas and in default of payment at that time 
he offers to sell his property himself without further delay. 

It was decided and granted by the Court that M. Henson shall 
give good and sufficient surety to M. Ortis for what he owes him 
and he shall have the term till Christmas and no longer in which 
to pay what he owes; and he is to pay the costs amoimting to 
twelve livres ten sols. 

Ant. Harmand, Plaintiff, vs, Joseph Relle, Defendant. 

The Plaintiff sues the defendant on a note made by him to the 
order of Baptiste Bellan and with which the plaintiff is charged, 
as it has been assigned to his order. 

The defendant produces a letter in which the said Bellan 
begs M. Sansfaçon to return to Joseph Relle the note with which 
he was charged. 

The Court, not being able to condemn the said Joseph Relle 
to pay the said note, condemned the plaintiff to return to the 
defendant his note, which amounts to the sum of sixty livres in 
peltries, and to keep the letter which Bellan wrote him in order 
to have recourse against the same, since the said note was assigned 
to his order. The Court condemned the plaintiff to pay twelve 
livres ten sols for costs. 



70 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

Demendeur M*^ levasseur Deffendeur prenouvaux 

Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur pour un Difficulté 
Entre Eux a Legar d'un Echange D'un Canon de fusil quil 
Changoit avec Le deffendeur moyenant Cinq Livres En pelleterie 
de retour pour Le Canon et quinze Livres pour Le remonter, 
mais Comme Le deffendeur Se refuse a Luy remettre Les Cinq 
Livres quil Etoit Convenu pour L'échange il Luy a rendu Son 
canon de fusil et demende que Le deffendeur Luy paye La 
monture quil avoit fait a Son fiisil ne pouvant pas Servire a 
l'autre. 

Le deffendeur dit quil Etoit Convenu de donner au demendeur 
une Ecus de retour Seulement. 

Les deux partie Setant offert Lun et Lautre de prêter Serment, 
et nayant aucun témoin La Cour Les a renvoyé a payer La 
moitié chac'un Des fraix. et Le Demendeur a perdre La moitié 
de Ce quil demande pour La monture du fusil. 

La Cour Est ajourné Jeudy 5 8^**. 

DuCharme presd* 

La Cour Etant Encore assemblé, et a pris Le Serment des 
Douze Juré qui ont Eté nomé Comme il a Eté accordé a une 
Cour^ du 14® du present pour Juger Laffaire Entre Brison et 
ange et ont a Linstant demendé que Les declaration fait a ce 
Sujet Leur Soit Lue Ce quau même moment a Eté fait et ont 
appres Le tout Bien Examiner; que par La Declaration faitte 
Sous Serment par pierre Catien qui prouve Le Contraire de La 
Dénonciation de dubois Luy même Et faitte a D'autre pareille- 
ment* et nayant aucune preuve du Contraire nous Soussigné 
Juré En vertu de Lordre qui nous a Eté Donné par La Cour de 
Decider Laffaire de Brisson et D'engé nous n'avons trouvé auqu'ne 
preuve Suffisante pour Condanner Led* Brisson a auqu'ne 
Chose que se Soit Et que La Cour Condannera qui elle Jugera 
a propos aux frais Depends &c. aux Cahôs Le 21*® 7 bre 
1780. 

1 The clause '*El faitte a D*aittre pareillement" was not originally written by the clerk 
that way. The "Et" is an insertion and after ** pareillement" a contraire was inserted and then 
crossed out. 

3 As far as is known, this was the first jury trial in Illinois or the Northwest, certainly the 
first recorded one. The system of trial by jury was not introduced by the British government. 



COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1780 71 

M. Levassexts, plaintiff, vs. Prenouvaux, Defendant 

The plaintiff sues the defendant on account of a difficulty 
betv^een them in regard to an exchange of a gim barrel, which he 
changed with the defendant in consideration of ûve livres in 
peltries to boot for the barrel and fifteen livres for making a stock 
for it; but since the defendant refused to pay him the five livres 
to which he agreed for the exchange, he had returned his gun 
barrel and demands that the defendant pay him for the stock, 
which he had made for the barrel, because he is not able to use it 
on another. 

The defendant says that he agreed to give the plaintiff only one 
ecu to boot. 

Since both parties offered to take oath and they had no wit- 
nesses, the Court dismissed them, ordering each to pay half the 
costs and the plaintiff to lose half of what he demands for the gun 
stock. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, October 5. 

DuCharme, Près. 

The Court being still assembled received the oath of the twelve 
jurors, who were named in accordance with the order of the 
Court of the 14th of the present month, to judge the case between 
Brisson and Angers. And they now demanded that the declara- 
tions, which were made, be read to them, and this was immediately 
done. After a careful examination they decided that the affi- 
davit of Pierre Gatient made imder oath proves the contrary of 
the accusation of Dubois himself which was made to others also; ^ 
and since there is no other proof to the contrary, they return this 
verdict: "We the undersigned jurors, in virtue of the order 
given us by the Court to decide the cause of Brisson and Angers, 
have not found any proof sufficient to condemn the said Brisson 
on any count whatsoever; and recommend that the Court con- 
demn whomever it judges proper to pay the costs etc." ' 

At Cahokia, September 21, 1780. 

as has been freouently said. — Kas Rec, Edict of Colonel Wilkins. In this edict Wilkins ga^e 
tht court of judicature, established by him in 1768, jurisdiction in criminal matters, but he 
said that the people were not sufficiently familiar with English law to permit trials by jurv. Tha 
use of trial by jury in the courts of the county of Illinois was due to the influence of the Vix^ 
ginians. — IneroiuctioHt p. Iziii. 



72 



ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 



[Signed.] 
Sa 
Chi« + Butau 
marque 

sa 
B** H- Lussier 
marque 

sa 
fr H- prenouvaux. 
marque 

sa 
B*« + Baron 
marque 



Ch 



G. Blin 



B. Saucier 



Sa 
Pierre + Gramon 
marque 

sa 
rap^ H- Gagné 
marque 

sa 
f. H- cretien 
marque 

sa 

Louis H- chatel 

marque 



21". ybre 1780. La Cour Setant rassemblé pour Examiner 
L'opinion Des Juré Si Dessu nomé president CW® Ducharme, 
J" B** Lacroix Clement Lenglois, ant. armant, tous quatre 
present Et ont Condanné et Condanne Le S*" augustin ange aux 
fraîx qui auront Eté fait, &c nayant pas produit Sufisante preuve 
Contre L'ataque quil a fait a alexis Brisson. 

f saucier Greffier. 

a une Cour du 15 8bre 1780. 
président Ch^* Ducharme clement Lenglois 

B*® Lacroix philipe Jervais 

près* 
a La demende de plusieurs personne de ce Village poiu: avoir 
Des permis pour aller ou Leurs petite affaires Les appellent, La 
Cour Sest assemble pour Ce Sujete et a décidé quil Sera donné 
Des permis a quelque personne d'une reputation et Caractère 
reconnu et quil Sera Défendu très Expressément a qui que Se Soit 
D'importer avec eux aucime Boison anivrente Et Donneront 
Cotion qui repondera de toute malversation de Leur par. 

pierre Gatien ayant prêté Serment Sur LeS Evangille de rien 
faire ni faire auqu'ne Chose Contraire aux Etat Et a Donné La 
personne de m^ fr trotier pour Cotion il Luy a Eté accordé 
im permis pour aller Dans Le mississipy ou Ses affaires La- 
pellent. 

La Cour Est ajourné Jeudy 19, 8^^*. 

fr saucier Gref DuCharme prd. 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1780 



73 



his 

Charles -f Buteau. 

mark 

his 
Bte. H- Lussîer. 
mark 

his 
Fr. H- Prenouvau. 
mark 

his 
Bte. -f Baron, 
mark 



CH. 



G. Blin. 



B. Saucier. 



his 
Pierre + Grandmont. 
mark 

his 

Raph. -f Gagné. 

mark 

his 
F. H- Chretien, 
mark 

his 
Louis -f Chatel. 
mark 



September 21, 1780, The Court reassembled to examine the 
opinion of the jurors above named. President Charles DuCharme, 
Jean Bte. Lacroix, Clement Langlois, Ant. Harmand all four 
being present; and has condemned and does condemn M. Augustin 
Angers to pay the costs of the trial, since he has not proved his 
accusation against Alexis Brisson. 

F. Saucier, Clerk. 

At a Court, October 15, 1780. 
President, Ch. DuCharme. Clement Langlois. 
Bte LaCroix Philip Gervais. 

Present. 
On the petition of several persons of this village for permission 
to go where their private business calls them, the Court assembled 
to consider this subject, and decided that permission-shall be given 
to some persons of recognized reputation and character, and that 
it shall be very expressly forbidden everybody to import with them 
any intoxicating liquor, and that those to whom permission to go 
is given shall present bondsmen who will be responsible for all 
misdemeanors on their part. 

Pierre Gatient made oath on the Holy Gospel to do nothing and 
to cause nothing contrary to the interests of the State and presented 
the person of M. Fr. Trottier for bondsman. He was granted 
permission to go on the Mississippi, where his business calls him. 
The Court adjourned to Thursday, October 19. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. DuCharme, Près. 



74 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

26 S^" 
President J^ Lepage ant. armant 

Jn B*« Lacroix ph^* Jervais 

clem* Langlois Present 

Pierre Dorion Demendeur Ch^® Ducharme Deffendeur 

Le demendeur poursuit Le défendeur pour avoir Cotioné 
pour Le nomé Joseph Déloge a qui il a Gagné quartre Cent 
Livre au Jeu de Carte et dit navoir Joué avec Luy que Sur Les 
assurance de Son argent que que [sic] Le deffendeur Luy donnoit 
par Son Cotionnement. 

Le deffendeur declare avoir Servie de Cotion a Joseph Déloge 
pour Jusqu'à La Sonune de quatre Cent Livres, Mais que Le 
d' Déloge Luy a dit quil ne Les avoit point perdu. 

La Cour a renvoyé Le présent procès pour Etre Décidé a La 
Cour prochaine Et Estre Led* Déloge pourcuit par Le Demen- 
deur avant que d'attaque Le Cotion Deffendeur. 

B*« Saucier Demendeur Jo^ Asselin Deffendeur 

Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur, pour nayant pas pu un 
Jour aller Livrer de la chau d'un foumau quils avoient fait En 
Commun Sans auqu'un marché ni Convention que Sur Leur 
parole, que Le Deffendeur Luy fait payé un Compte de travau 
quil a fait faire au foumau après Etre Cui Sans Le prévenir de 
Louvrage quil alloit y faire faire. 

Le Deffendeur declare avoir Eté une fois dire au demendeur 
d'aller Livrer de La chau ne pouvant pas cy aller Luy même. 
>»J L»e Demendeur repette quil a dit au deffendeur Cette Joumé 
La que Le foumau periray plutant que de quitter Louvrage quil 
avoit. Et quil pouvoit prendre un homme Et L'envoyer a Sa 
place Et Lui Le payeroit. 

La Cour a Condanner Le deffendeur a Livrer au Demendeur 
La moitié du foumau Et a payer tous Deux Les fraix qui ont 
Eté fait pour La Conservation de Leur foumau Et payeront 
Egalement La fraix De Justice. 

La Cour Est ad joumé Jeudy 2>® de çbre. 
fr saucier Greffier Jh lepage presidan 

' The popular gambling game among the French at this time was Vingt-et-un . 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1780 75 

October 26. 
President J. Lepage. Ant. Harmand. 

Jean Bte LaCroix. Phil. Gervais 

Clement Langlois. Present. 

Pierre Dorion, Plaintiff, vs, Ch. DuCharme, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for having given bond for the 
named Joseph Desloges, from whom the plaintiff won four hundred 
livres at cards*. He says that he played with Desloges only because 
of the assurance of his money which the defendant gave by his 
surety. 

The defendant declares that he acted as bondsman to Joseph 
Desloges up to the sum of four hundred livres, but says that the 
said Desloges told him that he had not lost that amount. 

The Court continued the present suit to be decided at the next 
Court and ordered that the said Desloges be sued by the plaintiff' 
before suit is brought on the surety of the defendant. 

Bte. Saucier Plaintiff, vs, Jos, Asselin, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant because he was not able to 
go one day and draw off the lime from a kiln which they had made 
together without any contract or agreement except their word; 
and he says that the defendant made him pay a bill for work, 
which he had ordered done on the kiln after it was fired, without 
informing the plaintiff of the work he intended to have done on it. 

The defendant declares that he went one time to tell the 
plaintiff to go and draw off the lime, since he was not able to go 
himself. 

The plaintiff repeats that he told the defendant that day that 
the kiln might go to ruin before he would leave the work he was 
doing; and that he could get a man to send in his place and 
that he would pay him. 

The Court condemned the defendant to give the plaintiff half 
the kiln, and both to pay the expenses which had been made for 
the preservation of the kiln, and to pay equally the costs of justice. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, November 2. 

F. Saucier, Clerk. Jos. Lepage, President. 



76 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

a une Cour du i6 çbre 
Président Jos^ Lepage ant. armant 

Ch" Ducharme fr. Courrié 

jn gte Lacroix Present 

Demendeur Pierre martin Défendeur Ch'* Lacroix 

Le Demendeur poursuit Le Deffendeur pour un pourceau quil 
a pris Dans La prarie Du pon Et quil a renfermé Ches Luy, Et 
Demande quil Luy Soit rendu. 

Le demendeur dit Encore que M^ pierre roy a dit au deffend- 
eur Lorsquil a pris et amener Led* pourceau Ches Luy quil ne 
Luy appartenoit pas quil Etoit au demendeur a quoy Led* def- 
fendeur a repondu que Celuy quil Le reclameroit Le Viendroit 
Cherché. 

Le Deffendeur Dit quil Croyoit Bien Le d* pourceau a Luy 
Lorsquil a pris Et que Si Le Demendeur Donne Des preuve quil 
Soit a Luy quil Consent a Luy rendre. 

Le Demendeur a produit Deux témoins qui ont fait La Visite 
au dit pourceau pierre roy et Louis Chatelle ont prêté Serment 
Sur Le Saint Evangile de dieu tout puissant de repondre au ques- 
tion qu on Leur feroit, et ont Dit qu'après avoir Visité Le pour- 
ceau quils ont reconue que La marque Etoit Celle du demendeur 
quoiquil paroit quil aye Eté un peu Déguisé Soit par la gelé ou 
par quelque Branche mais que malgré cela que Leurs opinion 
Est quil Croye que cest La marque du demendeur. 

La Cour a D*un plain accorde Condanné Le deffendeur a 
rendre au demendeur un pareille Cochon Comme Etoit Celuy 
quil Lui a pris Sujet a Etre visité par Celuy quil L*a vue Lors- 
quil a Eté prie Et a payer Les fraix. 

Jean B*® Lacroix Demande a la Cour quil Luy Soit permis 
de faire vendre quelques Effest appartenant au Sieur Sills, pour 
une Somme de quatrevingt et quelque Livres quil Luy doit. 

La Cour a permis a Mons^ Lacroix La vente Des dits Effest 
dud* Sills dimanche prochain. 

La Cour Est ajourné Jeudy 7 x^^ 
f saucier Greffier Jh lepage pre 




COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1780 77 

At a Court, November 16. 
President, Jos. Lepage. Ant. Harmand. 

Ch. DuCharme. Fr. Courier. 

Jean Bte. LaCroix. Present. 

Pi£K&£ Mastin, Plaintiff, vs. Ch. LaCroix, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for a pig, which he had taken 
in the Prairie du Pont and shut up at his house and demands that 
it be returned to him. 

The plaintiff further says that M. Pierre Roy told the defend- 
ant at the time he captured and carried the pig away to his 
house that it didn't belong to him but to the plaintiff, to 
which the defendant answered that he who claimed it might 
come to fetch it. 

The defendant says that he really believed the said pig his, 
when he took it; but if the plaintiff gives proof that it belongs 
to him, he would consent to return it. 

The plaintiff produced two witnesses, who have inspected the 
said pig. Pierre Roy and Louis Chatel made oath on the Holy 
Gospels of Almighty God to answer the question which was put 
to them; and said that, after examining the pig, they recognized 
that the brand was that of the plaintiff, although it appeared to 
have been somewhat disguised either by frost or some branch, 
but that in spite of that their opinion is that it is the brand of the 
plaintiff. 

"The Court unanimously condemned the defendant to return 
to the plaintiff a pig similar to the one he had taken, subject to 
inspection by him, who saw the pig when it was taken, and to 
pay the costs. 

Jean Bte. LaCroix prays the Court to be permitted to have 
sold some goods belonging to M. Sills for a sum of eighty odd 
livres which the latter owes him. 

The Court permitted M. LaCroix to hold the sale of the said 
goods of the said Sills Simday next. 

The Comt adjoiuned to Thursday, December 7. 

F. Saucier, Clerk. Jos. Lepage, Près. 



78 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

a une Cour du 23 9^"* 1780 
President Jo Lepage Clem Langlois 

Ch. Ducharme philipe Jervais 

ant armant J° B*® Lacroix 

près* 
un Compte présenté En Cour par J° B** Lacroix de Joseph 
matelot Due a B*® Lamarche Et Demande que Le cheval dud* 
matelot Soit vendu pour payer une Somme de Cent Vingt Deux 
Livre que Led* Lamarche Luy doit Et a renbourser Le Surplus 
Si il Est Vendu plus. 

La Cour a accordé a J** B** Lacroix La vente du Cheval pour 
payer Le Compte de J** B*® Lamarche et autre Si il Sen trouve 
après toute fois que J° B*® Lacroix aura tiré Soixante Et dix 
Livres En pelleterie quil a payé a Pierre S* martin pour avoir 
amené Led* cheval et quarante Livres au même pour Led* 
Lamarche. 

un autre Compte présente par J*^ B*® Lacroix de Samuel 
Silles Montant a la Somme de soixante Et dix huit Livres. 

Et a produit aussi La vente de Ses Effest montant a la Somme 
de Cent dix livres dix sols. La Cour a acordé a J** B*® Lacroix 
soixante Et dix huit Livres En pelleterie, Et Le [sic] que Le reste 
Sera Déposé Entre Les main du Cherif pour payer Les fraix et 
autre Créancier Si il Sen trouve. 

La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 7 X^'* 

a une Cour 19 X^^ 1780. 
President Joseph Lapage ant armant 

J° B*® Lacroix philipe Jervais 

près* 
Demendeur fr. trotier Défendeur pierre martin 
Le Demendeur poursuit Le Deffendeur pour un Cheval quil 
Luy a Changé pour un Boeuf Et que Le Deffendeur refuse de 
Luy donner. 

Le deffendeur repond que Le demendeur Luy avoit promis 
de Luy donner un bon Boeuf tel quil Luy avoit demender pour 
apareillié un Des Sien. 




COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1780 79 

At a Court November 23, 1780. 
President Jos. Lepage. Clem. Langlois. 

Ch. DuCharme. Philippe Gervais. 

Ant. Harmand. Jean Bte. LaCroix. 

Present. 

Jean Bte. Lacroix presents in Court an account of Joseph 
Matelot due to Bte. Lamarche and demands that Matelot's horse 
be sold to pay a sum of one hundred and twenty-two livres, which 
the said Lamarche owes him and that the surplus, if it sells for 
more, be returned. 

The Court granted to Jean Bte. Lacroix the sale of the horse 
to pay the account of Jean Bte. Lamarche and another if there 
is any, but only after Jean Bte. LaCroix shall have deducted 
seventy livres in peltries, which he paid to Pierre St. Martin for 
having brought the said horse, and forty livres to the same for the 
said Lamarche.^ 

Jean Bte. LaCroix presented another account of Samuel Sills 
amounting to the sum of seventy-eight livres and presented also 
the statement of the sale of his goods amounting to the simi of 
one hundred and ten livres ten sols. 

The Court granted to Jean Bte. LaCroix seventy-eight livres in 
peltries, and ordered that the balance be deposited in the hands 
of the sheriff for the payment of expenses and other creditors, if 
there are any. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, December 7. 

At a Court December 19, 1780. 
Presidents Joseph Lepage. Ant. Harmand. 
Jean Bte. LaCroix. Philippe Gervais. 

Present. 
Fr. Trottier, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre Martin Defendant 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for a horse, which he ex- 
changed with him for an ox and which the defendant refuses to 
give him. 

The defendant answers that the plaintiff promised to give him 
a good ox, such as he had demanded, to match one of his own. 

* Thus sparing Matelot these expenses. 



8o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Vue Les Difficulté des partis La Cour a demendé Des preuve 
par témoin de Leur Echangé. 

pierre roy ayant prêté Serment a dit que martin a dit a M*" 
trotier que Son Boeuf navoit jamais tiré Et que M*" trotier Luy a 
dit quil gageroit Le Boeuf quil av[oit] tirré. 

appres avoir Entendu Les parties réciproquement La Cour, 
a Condanné Le deffendeur a tenir Lechange avec Le demendeiu:. 
Et quand a Leur gajur Elle a Eté renvoyé Sans auq'une Condan- 
nation, Et quand au fraix de Justice il Sont Condanné a En 
payer Chaqu'n La moitié. 

La Cour Est ajourné Jeudy 21 xbre. 

1" 

fr saucier Greffier Jh lepage presidan. 

a une Cour du i8*« Jenvier 1781. 
président J^ Lepage J° B*« Lacroix 

ant armant Ch** Ducharme 

présent 
Demendeur B** Baxgeon Deffendeur alexis tabaut 
Le demendeur poursuit Le Deffendeur au Sujet d'une acte 
de Donnation de toutes Ses biens moyenant que Le Deffendeur 
ne manque pas a aucune chause Dont il Etoit oblige par Lad*^ 
Donnation Et quau Contraire quil est Sorti de Ches Luy Sans 
Seulement L'en avertir ni San Savoir pourquoy Et demande que 
Le Deffendeur Luy paye un Dedomagement, ou que La Dona- 
tion aye tourjour Lieu. 

Le Deffendeur repond par requette quil Est Sorti de La 
maison du Demendeur pour Eviter a lavenir accident fâcheux 
Vue que Led^ Demendeur a fait Son possible pour pousser Son 
Exés de Libertinage et de subornation envers La femme Du 
deffendeur et deraende La Cassation de La ditte Donation Et quil 
Luy Soit Livre de Sortir de la maison dud* Demendeur avec Ses 
effest Et Le Condanner a payer Sa pention et Blanchichage 
depuis quil Est a Ses sarge 

La Cour a accordé au Sieur tabau suivant sa demande La 
Cassation de Lad**® Donnation Et a ordonné au S"^ Bergeron de 

^ This kind of donation was very common, 'the donor conveyed by deed of gift all his 
property to the donee in return for board, lodging, etc., for life. Ferricre, Coutume de Paris, 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1781 81 

In view of the difficulty between the parties the Court demanded 
proofs by witnesses of their exchange. 

Pierre Roy took oath and said that Martin told M. Trottier 
that his ox had never drawn and that M. Trottier answered that 
he would warrant the ox that it had drawn. 

After having heard bpth parties, the Court condemned the 
defendant to hold to the exchange with the plaintiff and as to 
their pledge [ ? ] it has been dismissed without any condemna- 
tion, and as to the costs of justice they are each condemned to 
pay half. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, December 21. 

F. Saucier, Clerk. Jos. Lepage, President. 

At a Court, January 18, 1781. 
President, Jos. Lepage. Jean Bte. LaCroix. 

Ant. Harmand. Ch. DuCharme. 

Bte. Bergeron, Plaintiff, vs. Alexis Tabeau, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant in regard to an act of donation 
of all his goods made on condition that the defendant should fail in 
nothing, to which he was bound by the said donation.^ Con- 
trary to the agreement the defendant has left the plaintiff's house 
without giving notice and without the plaintiff's knowledge of 
the cause. He now demands that the defendant pay him a com- 
pensation or that the donation continue in force. 

The defendant answers by petition alleging that he left the 
plaintiff's house to avoid any future disagreeable accidents, because 
the plaintiff tried his hardest to extend his excessive licentiousness 
and subornation to the defendant's wife; and he demands 
the annulment of the said donation and that he be free to go forth 
from the plaintiff's house with his property and that the plaintiff 
be condemned to pay his board, lodging and washing, since he is 
bound to support him. 

The Court granted M. Tabeau, in accordance with his prayer, 
the annulment of the said donation and ordered M. Bergeron to 
return to the said Tabeau whatever he might have belonging to 

iii., 1017 et seq.; Alvord, lUinois in the Eightetnth Century, Bulletin of HI. State Hist. Lib. 
ml. i.. No z 



82 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

remettre aud* tabau ce qui peut avoir a luy appartenant Ches 
Luy et a payer trois mois de pention aud* tabau et Blanchissage 
a raison de trente Cinq Livres par mois et a payer Les fraix de 
Justice Le tout Contant. 

B*« Bargeon Demendeur Michel Chartier Défendeur 

Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur pour Le Loyer d'un 
terrin quil a occupé pour faire du tabac moyenant quinze Livres 
de tabac que Le deffendeur devoit remettre au Demendeur: et 
quil refuse de faire aujourdhuy. 

Le deffendeur repond quayant Louer Le terrin Du Demend- 
eur et y ayant mis du tabac, que quel que tems après Le demend- 
eur a pris un homme chés Luy et que Son Cheval Luy a fait un 
tor Considerable Et que L*ayand[5ir] d* au demendeur il Luy 
auroit repondu qu'un cheval ne mange pas de tabac Le deffend- 
eur dit que le demandeur ne devoit pas permettre a qui que se 
soit De mettre aucun animal dans un terrin des quil Le Loue. 

Le demendeur repond qu'il a permis de mettre Le cheval de 
r homme quil avoit chés Luy dans Le terrin Mais quil Luy avoit 
Deffendu de Le Lesser Livre. 

La Cour a Condanner Le demendeur a payer Les fraix de 
Justice et a perdre Les quinze livres de tabac que le deffendeur 
Devoit Lui Livrer. 

La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy i^*^ février 

Jh lepage presidan 

a une Cour du i février 1781 
Président Joseph Lapage ant. armant 

Ch Ducharme philipe Jervais 

Jn B*® Lacroix fr. Courrié 

present 
J° B*® Lacroix Demendeur Lefevre Deffendeur 
Le demendeur poursuit Le Deffendeur pour une somme de 
trente trois Livres En pelleterie que le nomé Jan marie trotié Luy 
devoit Luy ayant repondu de Luy payer Comme ayant Ches 
Luy un peu de mays a luy appartenant. 

Joseph Bissonette ayant parru a prêté serment et a dit quil Etoit 
témoins Lorsque m^ Lefevre a promis de payer a m*^ Lacroix 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1781 83 

the latter at his house and to pay three months' board, lodging and 
washing for the said Tabeau at the rate of thirty-five livres a month, 
and to pay the costs of justice, all in money. 

Bte. Bergeron, Plaintiff, vs. Michel Chartier, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for the rent for land, which 
he occupied for the cultivation of tobacco. The rent, which the 
defendant was to pay the plaintiff, was fifteen pounds of tobacco, 
which he refuses to pay to-day. 

The defendant answers that some time after he had rented 
the land of the plaintiff and had set out his tobacco, the plaintiff 
brought into his own house a man, whose horse had done the plants 
considerable damage; and when he told the plaintiff about it, the 
latter had answered that a horse did not eat tobacco. The defend- 
ant says that the plaintiff ought not to permit any one to put an 
animal in a field after he rents it. 

The plaintiff answers that he permitted the man, who was at 
his house, to put his horse in the field; but that he had forbidden 
him to let it loose. 

The Coiul; condemned the plaintiff to pay the costs of justice 
and to lose the fifteen pounds of tobacco, which the defendant 
was to pay. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, February i. 

Jos. Lepage, President. 

At a Court, February i, 1781. 
President, Joseph Lepage. Ant. Harmand. 
Ch. DuCharme. Philippe Gervais. 

Jean Bte. LaCroix. Fr. Courier 

Present. 
Jean Bte. LaCrodc, Plaintiff, vs, Lefevre, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for a sum of thirty-three livres 
in peltries, which the named Jean Marie Trottier owed him, and 
for the payment of which the defendant was responsible, since 
he had at his house some com belonging to the said Trottier. 

Joseph Bissonette appeared and made oath. He said that he 
was a witness, when M. Lefevre promised to pay M. LaCroix 



84 ILLINOIS.raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS • 

trente trois Livres en pelleterie que J'* marie trotier Luy devoit Ce 
a quoi M*" Lefevre a consenti, moyenant que Le mays quil avoit 
ches Luy aud* trotier Luy resteroit. 

La Cour a Condanné Le Sieur Lefevre a payer au Sieur 
Lacroix trente trois Livres en pelleterie Comme il paroît quil a 
repondu de Le faire par Le témonis qui a prêté Serment et a gar- 
der Le mays qui peut Luy rester apartenant aud* feu trotier et a 
payer Les fraix. 

La Cour Est ajourné au 8 du Cour* 

f . saucier gr Jh Lepage P 

A une Cour du 8 mars 1781. 
Président. Ch. Ducharme Clement Langlois 

J** Lepage Present 

Demendeur J° B*« Lacroix 
Le Demendeur présente En cour un Billet de feu Jean B** 
amellin de La somme de Cinq Cent une Livre qui Lui est Due, Et 
Demende quil Soit fait une vante Des Effest Dud* feu amellin 
pour Satisfaire a Se quil Luy Est Du. 

La Cour a accordé quil Soit fait une vente par Encan public 
des Effest dud* feu amellin pour Satisfaire a Ses Déptes, aux 
Illinois Et par privilège a Ce qui peut Etre Due au Demandeur 
pour pension et fourniture quil Luy a fait Et que Lad"® Vente 
Soit faitte Dimanche 11 Du présent, Et ont a Cette Effest EUu 
La personne de M*" J° B*« Lacroix pour Gérer et régler Les 
Compte Dud* feu amelin, Et Lobligeon de De [sic] rendre Compte 
de Lad*® Succesion Lorsquil En Sera requis. 

fr. saucier DuCharme présd. 

a une Cour du 29 mars 1781. 
President, Jos^ Lepage ant Armant 

Charle Ducharme J° B*« Lacroix 

Près 
M Laurant Duroché présente a la Cour un Billet de huit 
Cent Soixante Et Douze Livres en pellterie a L'ordre de M' 

^ Hamelln was undoubtedly the J. Bte. Hamelin who led the expedition against St. Joseph 
in the fall of 1780. — Introductumy p. xdi. 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1781 85 

thirty-three livres in peltries which Jean Marie Trottier owed the 
latter, provided the com at his house, belonging to the said 
Trottier, remained his. 

The Court condemned M. Lefevre to pay M. LaCroix thirty- 
three livres in peltries, which he had become responsible for doing, 
as appears from the testimony of the witness, who has made 
oath; and to keep the com, belonging to the late Trottier, which 
might be left and to pay the costs. 

The Court adjourned to the 8th of the present month. 

F. Saucier, Jos. Lepage, President. 

At a Court, March 8, 1781. 
President; Ch. DuCharme. Clement Langlois. 
Jos. Lepage. Present. 

Jean Bte. LaCroix, Plaintiff. 
The plaintiff presents in Court a note of the late Jean Bte, 
Hamelin for the sum of five hundred and one livres, which is 
due him; and prays that there be made a sale of the goods of 
the said late Hamelin to satisfy what is due him.^ 

The Court granted that there be held a sale by public auction 
of the goods of the late Hamelin to satisfy his debts in Illinois, 
and by preference what may be due the plaintiff for board and 
lodging, and supplies which he has furnished him, and decreed 
that the said sale be made Sunday, the nth of the present month. 
For this purpose they have elected M. Jean Bte. Lacroix to 
carry out the sale and to settle the accounts of the said late 
Hamelin; and we bind him to render account of the said 
estate, when it shall be required. 

Fr. Saucier. Ducharme, President. 

At a Court, March 29, 1781. 
President, Jos. Lepage. Ant. Harmand. 

Charles Ducharme Jean Bte. LaCroix. 

Present. 
M. Laurent Durocher^ presents in Court a note for eight 
hundred and seventy-two livres in peltries drawn to the order 
of M. Cerré and owed by the late Jean Bte. Hamelin, and 

> Laurent du Rodier was a merchant in St. Louis. 



86 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

Cerré Due Par feu Jean B*« amellin Et demande que Led* Billet 
Luy Soit Payé par La Succession dud* feu amellin. 

La Cour a accordé au Demendeur quil Luy soit remis par 
J" B*« Lacroix Le reste de ce que pouroit se trouver Due a feu 
J^ B*« amellin après lavoir^ et payé que cera Endocé Sur Son biUet 
comme il a Eté accordé par La Cour. 

ant. armant présente a la Cour un Billet de Cent Cinquante 
Livres en pelleterie qui Luy son due par Jaques Vasseur, et 
Demande quil Luy Soit permis de faire Vendre Ses Effest pour 
Satisfaire a Son d* Billet. 

La Cour accordé quil Soit fait une vente par Encan Public pour 
Satisfaire a Ses Deptes au illinois. Et que Le reste Si il y a Soit 
remis Entre Les mains du Cherif, pour Etre remis a qui il appar- 
tiendra. 

fr saucier Greffier Jh lepage présidan 

a une Cour du 19 avril 1781. 
Président Ch Ducharme Clem* Langlois 

ant armant phi Gervais 

Jos^ Lepage fr Courier 

Présent 
Nicolas boimenu Demendeur contre La Succession de J° 

B*« AMELLIN 

La Demendeur demande a la Cour que m*^ B*« Lacroix chargé 
des affaires de B*« amellin quil Luy soit payé douze pot de tafia 
que led* feu amellin Luy doit En Echange d'un Cheval quil a fait 
avec Le demendeur en allant a S* Joseph. 

Les nommé ignace et Saint michel ont parru Et ont pretté 
Serment quils Etoient témoins Lorsqu'amellin a fait Le d* 
Echange En alant a S* Joseph Et quil devoit donner icy Les dits 
Douze pot de tafia a boimenu. 

La Cour a ordonné a M*" Lacroix Chargé Des affaires de B*« 
amellin de remettre a nicolas Boimenu onze pot de tafia quil 
a reconnu devoir aud* feu amellin et aux Cas quil Survienne 

1 The "après lavoir*' was inserted by the clerk, who made the mistake of pladng the sign 
of insertion before instead of after the "<<." 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1781 ly 

prays that the note be paid by the estate of the late Hamelin 
aforesaid. 

The Court granted to the plaintiff that there be given 
him by Jean Bte. Lacroix the balance that is due the late 
Jean Bte. Hamelin and ordered that after having paid^ it 
there shall be endorsed on his note that it was granted by the 
Court. 

Ant. Harmand presents in Court a note for one himdred and 
fifty livres in peltries, which are due him by Jacques Vasseur, 
and prays that he be permitted to have the latter's effects sold 
to satisfy his note. 

The Court granted that there be made a sale of his effects 
by public auction to satisfy his debts in the Illinois; and that 
the balance, if any, be deposited in the hands of the sheriff to 
be delivered to whomever it belongs. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. Jos. Lepage, President. 

At a Court, April 19, 1781. 
President, Ch. Ducharme. Clem. Langlois. 
Ant. Harmand. Ph. Gervais. 

Jos. Lepage. Fr. Courier. 

Present. 
Nicolas Boismenu, Plaintiff, 

vs, THE Estate of Jean Bte. Hamelin. 
The plaintiff prays the Court that M. Bte. Lacroix, in 
charge of the estate of Bte. Hamelin, pay to him a dozen jugs of 
tafia, which the said late Hamelin owed him in exchange for a 
horse, which exchange was made with the plaintiff while they 
were going to St. Joseph. 

The named Ignace and Saint Michel appeared and made 
oath that they were witnesses when Hamelin made the said ex- 
change on the way to St. Joseph, and they said that he was to 
give the said dozen jugs of tafia to Boismenu here. 

The Court ordered M. Lacroix, trustee of the estate of Bte. 
Hamelin, to deliver to Nicolas Boismenu eleven jugs of tafia, which 
have been acknowledged to be due from the said late Hamelin, 
and in case there remains anything of the estate of the late 



88 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

quelque Chause a la Succession de feu amellin Led* S*" Lacroix 
Sera obligé de tenir Compte aud* boimenue de Lautre pot de tafia 
qui Luy reste être du. 

Ducharme presd 

a une Cour du 23 avril 1780 [sic]. 
Président Ch. Ducharme Clement Langlois 

Jos^ Lepage fr. Courrier 

B*« Lacroix philipe Jervais 

ant. armant Present 

La Cour Etant assemblé pour Examiner une requette pré- 
senté par Les habitant Des Cahôs Contre mons*" Girrandin pour 
Les terre quil conséde Et Le tor que cela fait au village Et 
demande quil Soit Deffendu aud* Sieur Girardin de passer outre 
n'ayant aucun Droit de former un village et de Conseder Des 
terres qui ont Eté réservé pour Ce village ou de produire Les 
droits quil a de faire Le tor quil Causera par La Suitte a ce 
village En agissant comme il fait. 

La Court apprés avoir Examiné Les plaintes porté En La 
requette Contre m*^ Girardin De la part Des habitant il a Eté 
accordé que La ditte requette Et Santance Si dessus Sera Sinifié 
a M*" Girardin, quil aye a produire Le droit quil a de Conseder 
et former un village par La Suitte a la prairie du pon Et a deffaut 
de preuve Suffisante il Luy est Deffendu de Conseder auq'ime 
terre ni de former auqu*n Etablissement que pour Son utillité 
a Luy propre Comme Grange Engar ou maison. 

Du Charme presd 
a une même Court du 23 D'avril il a Eté présenté un Compte 
par Louis Gauts il a Et [sic] ordonné au Sieur B**^ LaCroix de 
Luy payer soixante neuf Livres dix Sols quil Luy Est du par 
B*« amelin Et qui a Eté Déjà présente Si devant. 

DuCharme presd 

1 Antoine Girardin bought in 1764 the plantation, a seigniory it was called, from the missioQ 
of St. Sulpice. This was situated at Praine du Pont, where the missionaries had built a mill. 
Reynolds, in his Pioneer History, 48 and 54, says that the village of Prairie du Pont was estab- 
lished in 1760. There could have bosn at that time little more than a settlement of the work- 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1780 89 

Hamelin, the said M. Lacroix shall be obliged to render account 
to the said Boismenu for the other jug of tafia, which remains 
due to him. 

DuCharme, President. 

At a Court, April 23, 1780. 
President, Ch. DuCharme. Clement Langlois 
Jos. Lepage. Fr. Courier. 

Bte. LaCroix. Philippe Gervais. 

Ant. Harmand. Present. 

The Court assembled to examine a petition presented by the 
inhabitants of Cahokia against M. Girardin on account of the 
land, which he is conceding, and the injury, which that does 
the village ; and they demand that M. Girardin be forbidden to 
continue, since he has no right to form a village and to concede 
lands, which have been reserved for this village, or that he 
show what right he has to do the village this injury which he 
will cause as a consequence of his present actions. 

The Court, after examining the complaints made in the peti- 
tion against M. Girardin on the part of the inhabitants, granted 
that the said petition and above decree shall be served on M. 
Girardin, that he show what right he has to concede land 
and form a village subsequently at the Prairie du Pont; and in 
default of sufl&cient proof it is forbidden him to concede any land 
or form any establishment other than is for his own use as bam, 
shed or house. ^ 

DuCharme, President. 
At the same Court April 23, there has been presented an ac- 
count by Louis Gaud; and M. Bte. LaCroix was ordered to pay 
him sixty-nine livres ten sols, which are due him by Bte. Hamelin, 
and which account has been presented before. 

DuCharme, President. 

iogmen oo the plantation of the mission. The above record and others in this volume show 
that during this period the land of the village was taken up by the inhabitants of Cahokia. 

Pp- «53. '59. 565. 591 



90 ILLINOIS HISTORICVL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du 17 Mav. 1781. 
Président Ch. Ducharme ant. armant 

B^ Lacroix Clem- Langiois 

ph'* Gervals Jos- Lepage 

present 
Jean Lapevcx Demendeur Jos- pelletié Dcffendeu* 
Le demendeur poursuit Le Decfendeur pour Six Jeux, de 
raj qui Luy a pris Dans Le bois de la grand cheniere Et Comme 
Les ditte ray ont été trouvé ches Le denendeur. Le demendeur de- 
mande quelle Luy Soit rendu ou payé Suivant Lestimation qui 
en Sera faitte par Des ou\Tié. 

Le défendeur declare quH est vray quil a pris de quoy Si 
faire une paire de roux Et que Le nomé Lemé En a pris aussi Sans 
Savoir La quantité. 

Le nomé Lemé a^-ant paru a deClaré En avoir pris ime vin- 
tenne. 

La Coiu^ a Condanné Les nomé Lemé Et pelletié a rendre ou a 
payer La quantité de ray que Le Demendeur I>eclare Luy avoir 
Etépris par part Egalle.ainsi que Les fraix. 

m*^ BiLLELE Demendeur xeveux Défendeur 
Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur pour ime Somme de 
Cent Soixante neuf Livres en pelleterie que Le défendeur reste 
Luy Devoir par Son Billet que Le demendeur a produit a La 
Cour. 

a une même Cour Le Sieur Clement Langiois a présenter 
un autre Billet de Cent Livre de Castor due par Le même. 

La Cour ayant Su que le Défendeur a En sa possession un 
Cheval et quelque pourceau il a Eté Condanné a payé Les deux 
billet que vienne D'Etre présenté Et a Eté accordé aud* Demend- 
eur une Saisi Sur tout se que peut appartenir aud* neveux, pour 
Etre vendu, au deffaut de payement. 
La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 7 Juin. 

Du Charme presd. 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1781 gi 

At a Court, May 17, 1781. 
Président, Ch. DuCharme. Ant. Harmand. 
Bte. LaCroix. Clament Langlois. 

Phil. Gervais. Jos. Lepage. 

Present. 
Jean Lapance, Plaintiff, vs. Jos. Pelletier, Defendant. 
Tlîe plaintiff sues the defendant for six sets [?] of spokes, 
which he had taken in the woods of the Big Mushrooms; and, 
since the said spokes have been found at the defendant's house, 
the plaintiff demands that they be returned to him, or paid for, 
according to an appraisement, which shall be made by workmen. 
The defendant declares that it is true that he took some to 
make a pair of wheels and that the named Lemay took some also 
without knowing the quantity.* 

The named Lemay appeared and declared that he took a score. 

The Court condemned the named Lemay and Pelletier to 

return the spokes or to pay in equal parts for the quantity, 

which the plaintiff declares to have been taken, and to share the 

costs. 

M. BiLLELE, Plaintiff vs. Neveux, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for a sum or one hundred 
and sixty-nine livres in peltries, which the defendant still owes 
on his note, which the plaintiff produced in Court. 

At the same Court M. Clement Langlois presented another 
note for one hundred pounds of beaver skins due by the same. 

Since the Court knows that the defendant has in his posses- 
sion a horse and some pigs, he has been condemned to pay the 
two notes, which have just been presented ; and there has been 
granted the plaintiff a seizure on all the possessions of the said 
Neveux, which are to be sold in default of pa)anent. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, June 7. 

DuCharme, President 

1 To make wheels for a tombri. 



n J rV03 HETOilC^L COLLZCTÎOX5 



dis*' T^r-cVâ* 



F. Sui 
Leoue zxx Ma ad 



I 
Doboq-je x Lan 

19 Jgfnr 173:. 
I>irhange ar.r arrant 

B^ Lacrotz phi Gerrais 

Clem^ La22gloÎ5 fr. Courié 

Pres 
La Cour Etant assemblé p)our Prciidre Les Serments de 
ûddité ainsi que d'ofice des Sieurs George Biîn. raphael Gagné. 
Fient Granmon Joseph Cecirc Baptiste Saucier. Jean B** 
Hubert Lacroix et Jean B'-* Ehxbuc Com. -ne a>-ant Eté nomé par 
une assemblé publique faitte Le dix de Ce mois en La mais<»i de 
m' fr. trottier Comd* de ce village pour remplacé Les magistrat, 
ci de'/ant nomé. 

Let Suivant Juges mentioné ci desus par La dernière Elextion 
faits ont pris Le Serment de fidélité aux Etats ainsi que Celuv 
d'office de Juge de paix &c. Selon leurs liste. 

a une Cour tenue pour Le dbtrict des Cahokia du \illage des 
Cahokia Le 19 Juin mil Sept Cent quatrevingt im. 

a ordonné que h. Saucier Soit apointé clark de cette Cour. 
Francois Saucier a pris le Serment de fidélité Et doffice et a 
pris Sa place en qualité de Clark. 

' When fint vxn, the Record had faJkn to pieces and some of the pages were lost. With 
the excepiioa of the few paces at the ***t''***''*f ^ôd these few pages here, the record is complete . 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1781 93 

At a Court, May 31, 1781. 
President, Ch. DuCharme. Fr. Courier. 
Jos. Lepage. Ant. Harmand. 

Bte. LaCroix. Phil. Gervais. 

Clem. Langlois. Present. 

The Court assembled to demand from M. Girardin* 

[Page or pages missing.] 

June 19, 1 781' 

F. Saucier, Clerk. 
Lepage m Maud 

Gervais iiii Jan 

Lamarche i 
Grandmont i 
Dubuque i The year. 

June 19, 1781. 
President, Ch. Ducharme. Ant. Harmand. 

Bte. LaCroix. Phil. Jervais. 

Clem. Langlois. Fr. Courier. 

Present. 
The Court assembled to receive the oaths of fidelity as well as 
those of oflSce from MM. George Blin, Raphael Gagné, Pierre 
Grandmont, Joseph Cesirre, Baptiste Saucier, Jean Bte. Hubert 
LaCroix and Jean Bte. Dubuque, who have been elected by public 
assembly held the tenth of this month in the house of M. Fr. 
Trottier, commandant of this village, to replace the magistrates 
named above. 

The following judges, mentioned above and made by the 
last election, have taken the oath of fidelity to the States as 
well as that of office of justices of the peace etc. according to 
their list. 

At a Court held for the district of Cahokia in the village of Ca- 
hokia, June 19, 1781. 

It was ordered that Fr. Saucier be appointed clerk of this Court. 

3 This entry is given a whole pa^e. Is it a ballot sheet ? Ballot ^eets at Kaskaskia were 
more elaborate than this, but even tnere the number of voters was very small, in 1781 only 
twenty-seven and in the next year only twenty-one. 



94 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

nicolas Chabot a pris le Serment de fidélité Et doflSce et a pris 
Sa place en qualité de Cherif pour Le distric de Ce village. 

Jean B**^ Bargeon ayant dit a S* Louis, quil devoit partir dicy 
pour aller a michilimakin[a] avec quelquantre Suivant Comme 
il a Eté rap[orté] icy. B** Bargeon ayant paru a dit quil pouvoit 
avoir Dit quelque chose a Ce Sujet mais que Ce netoit quen 
Badinan avec quelqu'n de Ses amis. 

vue Le tems et La Sirconstance present La cour a ordonné 
que B** Bargeon Seroit mis En prison Vingt quatre heure pour 
Cette fois Et a Lavenir Si il tenoit quelque disCour pareille il 
Sera puni Sévèrement Et a Eté aussi Condanné a tous fraix Et 
Depanc. 

a La Demande de m^ fr. trottier au nom du public Les Sieurs 
Langlois et méchante ont été Condanné a produire Chaq'un im 
Cotion, qui repondron Deux Corps pour Corps Le tens qui 
Seront icy. 

La Cour a ordonné que Led* Langlois Et méchante oront Le 
fort pour prison Et a Eux deffendu de Sabsenter Sans permission 
du Comd* de ce village, Led* méchante a produit pour Son Cotion 
La personne de m'" Louis Lecomte, et Led* Langlois La personne 
de m^ ant. armant qui durera Jusqua nouvelle ordre. 
La Cour est adjoumé Jeudy Le 5 Juillet, 
fr. Saucier clark G. Blin Présidant. 



a une Cour du 21 Juin 1781. 
Pres^ Geo. Blin B*« Saucier 

raph^ Gagné B** Lacroix 

Pierre Granmon B*® Dubuque 

Jos^ Cecire Présent 

M^ fr. trottier ayant fait assemblé La Cour Et a porté Des 
plainte Contre Le nomé B** Bargeon ayant Eté Condanné par 
Lad** Cour a vingt quatre heure de prison pour des propos tenu 

1 Since MichiUimackinac was in British territory, such talk was treasonable, particularly 
H British agents were at the time in St. Louis attempting to raise troops in the French villages. 
See next note. 

* These men were agents of the British government sent here to raise troops and to detach 
the French from their allegiance. They had gone first to St. Louis, where they were arrested 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1781 95 

François Saucier took the oath of fidelity and of office and 
took his place as derk. 

Nicdas Chabot took the oath of fidelity and of office and took 
his place as sheriff for the district of this village. 

Jean Bte. Bergeron is reported to have said at St. Louis that he 
ought to set out from here to go to Michillimackinac with some one. 
Bte. Bergeron appeared and said that he might have said some- 
thing on that subject; but that it was only in joke with some one 
of his friends.* 

In view of the times and the present circumstances, the Court 
decreed that Bte. Bergeron should be imprisoned twenty- four 
hours for this time, and in the future, if he makes similar speeches, 
he will be severely punished; and he was also condemned to 
pay all costs and expenses. 

On the demand of M. Fr. Trottier in the name of the public MM. 
Langlois and Méchante were condenmed to find bondsmen, who will 
be personally answerable for them during the time they shall be here.' 

The Court ordered that the said Langlois and Méchante shall 
have the fort for a prison and forbade them to absent themselves 
without the permission of the commandant of this village. The 
said Méchante offered for his bondsman the person of M. Louis 
Lecompte and the said Langlois the person of M. Ant. Har- 
mand, who shall continue to act until new orders. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, July 5. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin, President. 

At a Court, June 21, 1781. 
President, Geo. Blin. Bte. Saucier. 

Raph. Gagné. Bte. LaCroix. 

Pierre Grandmont. Bte. Dubuque. 

Jos. Cesirre. Present. 

M. Fr. Trottier assembled the Court and brought complaint 
against the named Bte. Bergeron, who was condemned by the said 
Court to twenty-four hours' imprisonment for his idle talk, be- 

bjr the Spanish commandant and a letter addressed to the Illinois French was found on them. 
Tlie Spanish commandant made a report of the event to the American commandant, but 
permitted two of the agents under the mdicated conditions to go to Cahokia. A short time 
after this Harmand asked the court uybe released from his bond,and Antoine Girardin took his 
place. For particulars, see pp. 553, 5571 559i uid IniroduciioH, p. cv. 



96 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

par Led* Bargeon, et que L'ayant volu faire Conduire dans Lad*® 
prison Led* Bargeon auroit Désobéi au ordre qui ont Eté Donné 
a ce Sujet, Et Luy auroit manqué particule™' Et en Conse- 
quence a demandé a La Cour que Led* Bargeon Son [sk] puni 
plus sévèrement quil n*avoit Eté Condanné. 

. La Cour a Condanné Led* Bargeon a quinze Jour de prison, 
A La Consideration de m*" trotier. qui Le trouve assé puni après 
Ce tems Et a payer Les fraix tant de justice que Denprisonne- 
ment. Et Ce avant de Sortir de prison Sous peine dy rester plus 
longtems. 

La Cour Est ajourné au 5 de Juillet, 
fr saucier Grf . G Blin 

a une Cour du 24 Juin 1781. 
George Blin Bap** Saucier 

Raphaël Gagnier Bap** LaCroix 

Pierre Granmon Bap*® Dubuque 

Joseph Cessire President, [sic] 

une requêtte présentée a la Cour par francois xavier lapensée 
dattée de ce Jour aux fins de luy permettre une assemblée de 
Parens et d'amis pour luy nommer un Curateur pour prendre 
Ses Intérêts Causes et actions &c. 

à Eté apointé Lad*® requête quil Soit fait suivant sa Demande 
Les Jour et an que de V autre part. 

Pierre Prévost ayant paru a prêté serment sur Le Saint Evan- 
gille tout puissant de se Comporter vrayement et fidèlement dans 
tous ces Ecrits tant en Cour qu'ailleurs Concernant La Succes- 
sion de feu mad® LaPensée en Sa qualité de greffier Commis. 
La Cour Est ajournée à Jeudy prochain Cinq Juillet. 

G. Blin. 

* After reaching his majority a young man might recei\T a curator, who did not manage 
the estate for him, but did give him assistance in law- suits, in the settlement of his account 
with the guardian and in other matters. — Viollet, Hist, du droit civil FranffOis, sqi. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1781 97 

cause, when he wished to have him conducted to the said prison, 
the said Bergeron disobeyed the orders, which were given on this 
subject, and had insulted him in particular; and in consequence 
he prayed the Court that the said Bergeron be punished more sev- 
erely than he had been condemned. 

The Coiut condemned the said Bergeron to two weeks' im- 
prisonment, out of consideration for M. Trottier, who thinks he 
wiD be sufficiently punished after this time, and to pay the cost 
both of justice and imprisonment before leaving prison, under 
penalty of remaining there a longer time. 

The Court adjourned to July 5. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

At a Coiut, June 24, 1781. 
President, George Blin. Bte. Saucier. 

Raphael Gagné. Bte. LaCroix. 

Pierre Grandmont. Bte. Dubuque. 

Joseph Cesirre Present. 

A petition presented to the Court by François Xavier Lapancé, 
dated this day, praying that it be permitted him to hold an assembly 
of relatives and friends to name a curator to take care of his inter- 
ests, causes and actions etc.^ 

The said petition was referred that it may be done according 
to his prayer, this day and year as on the other part.* 

Pierre Prévost app)eared and made oath on the Almighty Holy 
Gospels to conduct himself truly and faithfully in all these writ- 
ings, as weU in court as elsewhere, concerning the estate of the 
late Madam Lapancé in his character of deputy clerk. 
The Court adjourned to Thursday following, July 5. 

G. Blin. 

This expression, "l'autre part" refers to the side of the sheet of paper on which the 
petition to the court was written, the decision of the court being written either below or on the 
reverse of the sheet. 



98 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

a une C^ du 5 Juillet 
President. G Blin B** Saucier 

raphael Gagné B** Dubuc 

pierre Granmon B^ Lacroix 

Jos^ Cecire Présent 

Demendeur AUGUST racette Deffendeur Joseph vaudry 
La Cour Etant assemblé Et ayant Siégé Jusqu'à neuf heure 
passé, Et après avoir fait apeller Le demendeur par Le Cherif 
par trois fois Different Et nayant point paru a renvoyé Le d^ 
procès a La Cour prochaine et Le demendeur a payer tous Les 
frais de Celle cy. La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 2. août. 

fr saucier Clark. G. Blin 

ime Cour du 2 août 1781. 
Pres^ Geo. Blin. B** saucier 

rap. Gagné B** Lacroix 

p" Granmon B** Dubuc 

Jos. Cecire Présent 

Demendeur ]^ B** Lacroix Deffendeur Isaac Levy 
Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur pour Le rembourse- 
ment d'une Somme de cen quarante neuf livres cinq sols en 
pelleterie par un Billet quil a Consenti a fr. Ivont pour reste de 
Ses gages et que Son Commis, m' Lerou a acquitté a Michelima- 
quina et Dont Le demendeur produit Des preuves. 

Joseph Clermont ayant paru et après avoir prêté Serment 
Sur Le S^ Evangille de Dieu tout puissant a dit quil a été Jusqua 
michelimaquina avec Le canot du demendeur Et quen arivant 
il a Eté témoin que Led^ Billet Si mentioné a Eté payé par Le 
Commis du demendeur et que cest une negligence de Son Commis 
de ne l'avoir pas retirer. 

Sur Le témoignage que Joseph Clermont Donne que Led^ 
Billet a Eté payé par Le Commis dud^ Demendeur, que Le 
défendeur soit Condanné a renbourser au demendeur Le montant 
du Susd* Billet. 

m*" fr. trottier demande a la Cour que tous Les Effest que Sont 
ches ch^* Lefevre apparten* a Jean marie trottier soit vendu 
pour Luy payer une Somme que led* trottier Luy Doit, La Cour 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1781 99 

At a Court, July 5. 
President, G. Blîn. Bte. Saucier. 

Raphael Gagné. Bte. Dubuque. 

Pierre Grandmont. Bte. LaCroix. 

Jos. Cesirre. Present. 

August Racette, Plaintiff, vs. Joseph Vaudry, Defendant. 
The Court assembled and sat till past nine o'clock, and after 
summoning the plaintiff by the sheriff three different times and 
when he did not appear, postponed the hearing of the said suit till 
next Coiut, and condemned the plaintiff to pay all the costs of this 
session. The Court adjourned to Thursday, August 2. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

At a Court, August 2, 1781. 
President, Geo. Blin. Bte. Saucier. 

Raph. Gagné. Bte. LaCroix. 

Pierre Grandmont. Bte. Dubuque. 

Jos. Cesirre. Present. 

Jean Bte. LaCrodc, Plaintiff, vs. Isaac Levy, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for the repayment of a simi of 
one hundred and forty-nine livres and five sols in peltries for a note 
which he drew to the order of Fr. Ivont for the balance of 
his wages and which the plaintiff's clerk, M. Lerou, paid at Mich- 
illimackinac, of which the plaintiff produces proof. 

Joseph Clermont appeared and, after having made oath on the 
Holy Gospels of Almighty God, said that he went up to Michilli- 
mackinac with the plaintiff's canoe and that on arriving he was 
witness that the said note was paid by the plaintiff's clerk and that 
it is negligence on the part of his clerk not to have withdrawn it. 

On the testimony which Joseph Clermont gives that the said 
note was paid by the said plaintiff's clerk, the defendant is con- 
demned to repay to the plaintiff the amount of the note afore- 
said. 

M. Fr. Trottier prays that all the goods belonging to Jean 
Marie Trottier, which are at the house of M. Lefevre, be sold to 
pay him a smn, which the said Trottier owes him. The Coiut 
decreed that Charles Lefevre shall deliver imder oath all the 



loo ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

a ordonné que Charle Lefevre remettra Sous Serment tous Les 
Effest que Sont Ches Luy apartenant aud* ]^ M* trottier pour 
Etre vendu pour Satisfaire a Ses debtes. 

Demendeur at a&mant défendeur Jos^ Cecire 

Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur pour un payement 
quil Luy a fait en pelleterie, disant quayant été ches Luy cherché 
Lad** pelleterie quil Luy auroit Demendé Si La pelleterie etoit 
Bonne que Le deffendeur Luy avqit dit quil L'avoit reçue pour 
Bonne. 

Le deffendeur dit quil est vray quil a dit au demendeur quil 
avoit reçue La ditte pelleterie poiu: Bonne, et quil en pouvoit faire 
faire La recette et que Si elle ne valoit rien de Luy renvoyer mais 
que Le demendeur L'ayant gardé six Jour; et quil ne vouloit 
plus La reprendre. 

La Cour a Condanné Le demendeur a garder Le payement 
que Le deffendeur Luy a fait pour ne Lavoir pas renvoyé sur Le 
Champ puis quil nen netoit pas Contant et a payer Les fraix. 

La Cour Est ajourné a 6** y^^. 
f saucier Gf G Blin 

une Cour du 21 aoust 1781. 
Président G. Blin Jo^ Cecire 

raphaël. Gagné B** Dubuc 

p. Granmon B** Saucier 

présent 
une requette présenté en Cour par Louis Clermont demendant 
quil Luy Soit permis un assemblé de parens et d'amis pour La 
nomination d'un Curateur. 

La Cour a accordé a Louis Clermont ses demendes. La 
Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 6** de Septembre. 

G Blin 



COURT RECORD, AUGUST, 1781 loi 

effects belonging to the said Jean Marie Trottier, which are at 
his house, in order that they be sold to satisfy his debts. 

Ant. Hasmand Plaintiff, vs. Jos. Cesir&e, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for a payment, which the latter 
made him in peltries. The plaintiff says that when he was at the 
defendant's house to get the said peltries, he asked the defendant, 
if the peltries were of good quality, and that he answered that he 
had received them for good ones. 

The defendant says that it is true that he said to the plaintiff 
that he had received them for peltries of good quality and that he 
might have the receipt made for them, and if they were not worth 
anything, to send them back to him; but the plaintiff kept them 
six days and he no longer wished to take them back. 

The Court condenmed the plaintiff to keep the payment which 
the defendant made him, because he did not send the peltries 
back immediately, since he was not content with them, and 
to pay the costs. 

The Court adjourned to September 6. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

At a Court, August 21, 1781. 
President, G. Blin. Jos. Cesirre. 

Raphaiel Gagné Bte. Dubuque. 

Pierre Grandmont. Bte. Saucier. 

Present. 
A petition presented in Court by Louis Clermont praying 
that he be permitted to hold an assembly of relatives and friends 
for the nomination of a curator. 

The Coiut granted Louis Clermont his request. The Court 
adjourned to Thursday, September 6. 

G. Blin. 



I02 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du 20 7*^" 1781. 
Présidant G. Blin pierre Granmon 

B** Lacroix B** Saucier 

Près. 

Demendeur m. Delinctot Défendeur Joseph biaisonville 

Le demendeiu: poursuit Le défendeur pour une Jument quQ 
dit avoir acheté au pé point Etenpé, Et que le deffendeur reclame a 
Luy Layant pris ches m' Janis a qui Le Demendeur L'avoit 
changé. 

Le deffendeur repond que La Jument que Le demendeur 
reclame Luy appartien Comme Layant amené Du poste Et que 
Laditte Jument Luy a Eté volé au petit village par Les Sauvage 
Et a produit plusieurs Sertificat comme Lad*** Jument Luy 
appartient, Et offre Encore de produire D'autre preuve tant Des 
Jens du poste que Ceux des Cas. 

La Cour a renvoyé Les dittes partis a faire Dessider Leur 
Causes au Cas vue que Laditte Jument y est Et quil f)euvent 
produire de plus grande pour terminer Leur differens. 

La Cour Est ajourné au 4** S^^ 1781. 

f saucier Greff. G. Blin. 

a une Cour du 18. 8bre 1781. 
President. Jn B** Lacroix raphele Gagné 
jn gte Dubuque pierre Granmon 

Près* 
Demendeur Joseph asselin Deffendeur pierre Durbois 
Le Demendeur poursuit Le defandeur pour une Jumint quil luy 
avoit remis En avance Sur Les Gages quil Etoit Convenu de Luy 
Donner pour decendre a la N^^* Orleans, Et Comme Led* demen- 
deur Se trouve dans le Cas de ne point tenir Son Engagement il 
reclame La ditte Jument que led* Deffendeur pretens Garder 
pour Dedomagement Sauf a Etre Condanné par La Cour a Luy 
en payer un. 

^ Godcfroy Linctot was, I think, a Cahcdcian Frenchman. He raised the first company 
for Clark among the inhabitants of tliat village. Wlien Clark was expecting to attack Detroit 
Major Linctot was sent by way of the Illinois River. He was at the time Indian commissioner 
for the region of that river. He was later regularly employed as commissioner by the state of 
Virginia and his knowledge of the Indian languages made him a %'ery useful omcer. There 
is a letter from him to Clark printed on page 553. Before the end of the war he was killed. 
— Va. Stat4 Pap. ii., 325, 405, 428; Kngiiwi, ComqueU of the Nortkwtst^ t., 370 



COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1781 103 

At a Court, Septerdber 20, 1781. 
President, G. Blin. Pierre Grandmont. 

Bte. LaCroix Bte. Saucier. 

Present. 
M. DE LmcTOT,* Plaintiff, vs. Joseph Maisonville, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for a mare, which he says 
he bought unbranded at Peoria, and which the defendant 
claims and has taken at the house of M. Janis with whom the 
plaintiff had exchanged her. 

The defendant answers that the mare, which the plaintiff 
claims, belongs to him, as he brought it from the Post;' and 
that the said mare was stolen from him at the LitUe Village* 
by the savages; and he produced several certificates that the 
said mare belongs to him, and offers to produce other proof 
both from people of the Post and of Kaskaskia. 

The Court dismissed the said parties to have their cause 
decided at Kaskaskia seeing that the mare is there and they can 
produce greater [proof] to terminate their differences. 
The Court adjourned to October 4, 1781. 
F. Saucier, clerk. G. Blin. 

At a Court, October 8, 1781. 
President, Jean Bte. LaCroix. Raphael Gagné. 
Jean Bte. Dubuque. Pierre Grandmont. 

Present. 
Joseph Asselin, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre Dubois, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for a mare, which he had 
advanced on the wages, which he agreed to give the defen- 
dant for going down to New Orleans; and since the said plain- 
tiff finds it impossible to keep his engagement, he reclaims the 
said mare, which the said defendant pretends to keep for damages ; 
imless he is condemned by the Court to pay the defendant one 
for damages. 

The defendant answers by a petition that the plaintiff did a 
considerable injury to him in failing to keep his engagement, 

' Vincenncs. 
«SLPhiUppe. 



I04 ILUNOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Le deffendeur repond par une requette que Ledit Demendeur 
Luy fait un tor considerable de manquer a Ses Engagement vue 
quil auroit pu Sengager a d'autre, et que Laditte Jument quil La 
reçue En avance Luy reste pour Dedomagement. 

Le Sieur ant. Girardin Demendeur pour Jos^ asselin, demende 
a la Cour de renvoyer Le dit procès a La Cour prochaine, pour 
que Le dit asselin paroisse Luy même. 

La Cour a ordonné que Le Susdit procès Soit renvoyé a la Cour 
prochaine. 

Le Sieur ant. armant Demende a La Cour de ce déchargé du 
Cotionnement quil a Donné poiu: Le nomé Langlois, nayant point 
Eu un terme ûxé. 

La Cour a Déchargé Led^ Sieur armant Dud^ Cotionnement 
Et a remis a M** trotier Led^ Langlois pour En faire ce que Bon 
Luy Semblera. 

fr. saucier Clark J B H LaCroix 

a une Coiu: 25. octobre 1781. 
Président J"* B^* Lacroix raphele Gagné 

pierre Granmon Jos^ Cecire 

Present 
Demendeur Jos^ assixin Deffendeiu: pierre durbois 
Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur pour qui Luy donne 
des preuve du tor quil Luy a fait En ne tenant point Le 
marché quils avoit fait Ensemble de decendre a la n^^* 
Orleans. 

Le deffendeur repond quil a reffusé quarante piastre de M*". 
Motart pour decendre a la N^^* Orleans pour ne pas manquer a 
langement [sic] quil avoit fait avec Led* demendeur. 

La Court a Condanné Le deffendeur a rendre au demendeur 
La Jument quil Luy avoit Donné En avance. Et que Le Service 
quil a Eu de Laditte Jument passe pour Son dedomagement Et 
quil Sera Libre de Sangager a d'autre Si Bon Luy Senble Et au 
demendeur a payer tous Les fraix. 

Demendeur ]^ B** Laurins Deffendeur Jos^ Dubé 
I^ demendeiu: poursuit Le deffendeur pour une quantité de 
Six Cent Livres de farine quil Luy doit poiu: un cheval quil Luy 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1781 105 

seeing that he would have been able to engage himself to another, 
and that the said mare, which he received in advance, should 
remain his as damages. 

M. Ant. Girardin, plaintiff for Jos. Asselin, prays the Court 
to continue the said cause to the next Court in order that the said 
Asselin may appear himself. 

The Court decreed that the above suit be continued to the 
next court. 

M. Ant. Harmand piays the Court to release him from the 
bail-bond, which he gave for the named Langlois and which did 
not have a fixed term. 

The Court released M. Harmand from the bail-bond and 
delivered the said Langlois to M. Trottier to do with him what 
shall seem to him best. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. Jean Bte. Lacroix. 

At a Court, October 25, 1781. 
President, Jean Bte. Lacroix. Raphael Gagné 
Pierre Grandmont. Jos. Cesirre. 

Present. 
Jos. Asselin, Plaintiff, vs, Pierre Dubois, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant, demanding that he give him 
proof of the injury that the plaintiff did him in not keeping the 
agreement, which they had made, to go down to New Orleans. 

The defendant answers that he refused forty piastres to go to 
New Orleans, offered by M. Motard, in order to keep the engage- 
ment which he had made with the plaintiff. 

The Court condemned the defendant to restore to the plaintiff 
the mare, which the latter had given him in advance, deciding 
that the service, which he had had from the said mare, would 
do for damages. The Court decreed that the plaintiff shall 
be free to engage himself to another, if he so desires, and con- 
denmed him to pay all the costs. 

Jean Bte. Laurins Plaintiff Jos. Dube Defendant 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for six hundred pounds of 
flour, which the defendant owes the plaintiff for a horse the 



io6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

a vendu Sur Laquelle ditte quantité Le demendeur En a reçue 
cinquante Livres. 

Le deffendeur repond quils Etoient Convenu avec Le demen- 
deur de Six Cent Livres de farine ou Cent vingt Livres de paux de 
chevreuU au deffaut de farine. 

Le demendeur produit trois témoins qui disent avoir Entendu 
dire au deffendeur quil devoit six cent Livres de farine pour un 
Cheval quil avoit acheté du demendeur. 

nayant point de preuve ny Pun ni Lautre a «produire La Cour 

Les a prêté a Serment Et Setant refusé l'un a Leur Serment La 

Cour a renvoyé Le présent proses ne pouvant Les Condanner, Et 

ont Eté condanné Seulement Lun et L'autre a payer Les fraix. 

Demendeur Jos^ plante Deffendeur Jos^ vaudry 

Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur disant que L'ayant 
Engagé pour chasser En decendant a la N^^* Orleans, Et quand 
concequence il auroit vendu bien des chose quil Luy etoit très 
utile maime Jusqua Son mays, Se qui Etoit dune grande recourse ' 
pour Luy, Et que présentement Le deffendeur Se dédit de Ses 
Conventions Se qui Luy fait un tor considerable Et demende que 
led* deffendeur Soit Condanné a Luy payer un dedomagement. 

Le deffendeur repond quil a averty Le demendeur La veille du 
Jour quil devoit partir quil ne I^uy etoit pas possible de Continuer 
son voyage. 

Le demendeur dit quil auroit demendé au Deffendeur Cinq Jour 
pour finir quelque petit ouvrage quil avoit a différante personne Et 
que dans Cette intervale il auroit demende au deffendeur Si il Etoit 
bien Sur de faire Le voyage quils etoit Convenu de faire a quoy il 
luy a tourjour repondu quil devoit ce croire Engagé et quil parteroit 
En Consequence il L'auroit renvoyé plusieurs ouvrage quil na pa 
pu finir, et a vendu ce quil avoit icy tant qu'en un Canot mays Sel 
et autre chose quil Luy Seroit aujourdhuy D'un grand Secour. 

La Court a Condanner Le deffendeur a rembourser au de- 
mendeur Soixante Livres En Darée, pour dedomagement Et a 
payer Les fraix. 

La Cour est ajourné a Jeudy 8. gbre 

f . saucier. Clark J B H LaCroix 



CAHOKIA RECORD, OCTOBER, 1781 107 

latter sold him, of which said quantity the plaintiff has received 
fifty pounds. 

The defendant answers that he had agreed with the plaintiff 
for six hundred pounds of flour or one hundred and twenty pounds 
of deer-skins, in default of flour. 

The plaintiff produces three witnesses, who say that they 
heard the defendant say that he owed six hundred pounds of 
flour for a horse, which he had bought of the plaintiff. 

Since neither has proof to offer, the Court put them to oath ; 
and since each refused to take the other's oath, the Court dis- 
missed the present cause, not being able to pass judgment, 
and both have been condemned only to pay the costs. 

Jos. Plante, Plaintiff, vs. Jos. Vaudry, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant saying that the latter engaged 
him to hunt while going down to New Orleans, and that in 
consequence he had sold many of his goods, which were very useful 
to him, and even his com, which was a great resource to him, 
and that now the defendant has backed out of his agreement, 
which does the plaintiff a considerable injury and he prays that 
the said defendant be condemned to pay him damages. 

The defendant answers that he informed the plaintiff the 
evening before he was going to start that it was not possible for 
him to continue his journey. 

The plaintiff says that he had asked the defendant for five 
days to finish some little jobs, which he had for different persons, 
and that during this interval he had asked the defendant, if he 
was very sure of making the journey which they had agreed to 
make, to which the latter always replied that he should consider 
himself engaged and that he would start. In consequence he had 
given up several jobs, which he could not finish, and sold 
what he had here as well as in a canoe, com, salt and other things, 
which would be of great assistance to him to-day. 

The Court condemned the defendant to reimburse the plaintiff 
sixty livres in kind for damages and to pay the costs. 

The Court adjoumed to Thursday, November 8. 
F.i Saucier, Clerk. J. B. H. Lacroix. 



io8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

a une Cour du 5 Qbre 1781. 
Président G. Blin B*« Dubuc 

B** Lacroix pierre Granmon 

B** saucier Present 

Demendeur aug* ange Deffendeiu: ch«" Gratiot 
Le demendeiu: poursuit Le défendeur poiu: Luy rendre Compte 
de ce que feu Dubois Luy doit Comme ayant Eu Ce qui a resté 
après La mort dud^ dubois. 

Le défendeur repond que Lorque L'on a Eté poiu: faire 
L'ancan de feu dubois qu'avec L'aprobation de M^ Joseph 
Lepage Juge de la Cour a retirer tous Les articles qui restoit de 
ce quil avoit vendu a feu dubois, et que le reste a Eté vendu Et 
dont La vente Doit Etre Entre les mains de M^ Ducharme Comme 
ayant Luy même faire faire La vente, Et demande a la Cour de 
Luy nomer un Jour, D'un autre Coiu: afin quil produise Les 
Compte quil a Contre Led^ Dubois, nayant point Eté prévenu 
de Cette affaire. 

La Cour a accordé au S' Charle Gratiot, de paroitre, a La Cour 
prochaine Jeudy 8*® du coiu:* afl&n quil produisse Ses Compte 
Suivant sa demande. 

a une même Court il a Eté Deffendu a LoUis Lemé de Se 
rétablir a La prairie du pont Luy ayant Déjà Eté deffendu. 
La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 8. gbre 
f. saucier. Clark G. Blin 

a une Coiu:* du 8. gbre. 
Prés^* G. Blin J. B*« Dubuc 

J. B*® Lacroix raph«^ Gagné 

p. Granmon Jos'* Cecire 

Présent 
Demendeiu: J. B*« Lacroix Charle Lefevre Deffendeur 
Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur pour trois haChe quil 
Luy a donné a racomodé. Et que le deffendeur Luy a cassé en 
racomodant, disant quil ne Doit pas payer Le racomodage. 

Le deffendeur repond que Si Les hache ont manqué par 
L'ouvrage quil a fait quil ne demende rien, mais quelle Sont Cassé 
aillieur. 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1781 109 

At a Court, November 5, 1781. 
President, G. Blin. Bte. Dubuque. 

Bte. LaCroix. Pierre Grandmont. 

Bte. Saucier. Present. 

Aug. Angers, Plaintiff, "w.' Ch. Gratiot, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant in order that he render him an 
account of what the late Dubois owed him, since he had had the 
property, which remained after the death of the said Dubois. 

The defendant answers that when they were on the point of 
holding the auction of the goods of the late Dubois, he withdrew, 
with the approval of M. Joseph Lepage, judge of the Court, all 
the articles remaining of those which he had sold to the late 
Dubois, and that the rest had been sold and that the proceeds 
of the sale must be in the hands of M. DuCharme, since he had 
caused the sale to be made. He prays the Court to name a day 
at another Court that he may produce his account against the 
said Dubois, since he was not forewarned of this suit. 

The Court in accordance with his prayer granted Charles 
Gratiot till the next Court, Thursday, the 8th of the present 
month, to appear and produce his account. 

At the same Court Louis Lemay was for bidden to settle at 
Prairie du Pont, as it had been already forbidden him to do. 
The Court adjourned to Thursday, November 8. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

At a Court, November 8. 
President G. Blin. J. Bte. Dubuque. 

J. Bte. LaCroix. Raphael Gagné. 

P. Grandmont. Jos. Cesirre. 

Present. 
J. Bte. Lacroix, Plaintiff, vs. Charles Lefevre, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for three axes, which he had 
given him to. mend, and which the defendant broke in mending 
and says that he ought not to pay for the repairing. 

The 'defendant answers that if the axes were spoiled by 
the work, which he did, he would not demand anything; 
but that they broke elsewhere. 



no ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

La Cour a renvoyer Le présent procès a être décidé par Des 
ouvrier Et ont Condamné Les dittes partie a sen raporter a leur 
décision, Louvrier ayant visiter louvrage a Dit quelle ne valloit 
rien et quelle ne Devoit pas Etre payé, La Coiu* a Condanné Le 
défendeur a payer Les fraiz. 

AUG. ANGE Demendeur ch. Gratiot Deffendeur 

Le deffendeiu* ayant Eté renvoyé a La présente Cour poiu: 
produire Ses Compte Contre feu duboîs Et Les ayant produit La 
Court a ordonné au demendeur de produire Les Siens Et a prover 
Comme La farine quil a retirer Luy appartient et a Cette Effest a 
nomée francois saucier pour faire Le recouvrement de la vente de 
Ses Effest ainsi que la farine qui reste Etre due poiu: ensuitte 
payer a qui il appartiendrie. 

B^. Lacroix Demendeur P. Martin Deffendeur 

Le demendeiu: poursuit Le deffendeiu: pour La somme de 
vingt neuf Livres quil Luy doit poiu: L'ancan de L'acharette. 

Le deffendeur dit avoir payé Les vingt neuf Livres a M'. 
Gratiot En réglant de Compte avec luy. 

m^ Gratiot ayant produit Ses Compte quil avoit réglé avec le 
deffendeur ou il n'est point Mention dud^ payement. 

La Coiu: a Condanné Le deffendeur a produire un recuet 
Comme il a payé Les dit vingt neuf Livres, au deffaut 
de quoy il est condanné a payer au demendeur La Ditte 
Somme. 

La Coiu: Est ajourné a Jeudy 8 x^®. 

f saucier Clar G. Blin 

a une Coiu: du 15 gbre. 
Prés^ G. Blin B*« Saucier 

p. Granmon B*« Dubuque 

Près, 
une requette présenté par m^ fr. trottier, disant quayant Eté 
nomé tuteur des Enfans de feu Lapierre, quil a Exercer Jusqu'à 
présent Cette Charge, Et demende a en Etre déchargé, Et que la 
Cour nome un autre tuteiu:. 

La Coiu: a acordé a M' Fr Trottier de Se déchargé de Sa 

> See previous sesnon. 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1781 m 

The Court dismissed the present suit to be decided by work- 
men and condemned the said parties to refer the cause to their 
decision. The workmen having inspected the work said that 
the axes were worth nothing and that they ought not to be 
paid for. The Court condemned the defendant to pay the 
costs. 

Aug. Angers, Plaintiff, vs. Ch. Gratiot, Defendant. 

The defendant, having been dismissed to the present Court to 
produce his accounts against the late Dubois, has brought them. 
The Court ordered the plaintiff to produce his accounts and to 
prove how the flour, which he withdrew, belonged to him, 
and to this end named François Saucier to make the recovery 
from the sale of his goods and also of the flour, which remains 
due, in order afterwards to pay it to whom it may belong.* 

B. LaCroix, Plaintiff, vs, P. Martin, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for the sum of twenty-nine 
livres, which he owes him for the auction of the cart. 

The defendant says that he paid the twenty-nine livres to M. 
Gratiot in settlement of accounts with him. 

M. Gratiot produced the accounts, which he had settled with 
the defendant, and there is no mention of the said payment. 

The Court condemned the defendant to produce a receipt 
showing that he had paid the said twenty-nine livres, in default of 
which he is condemned to pay the plaintiff the said sum. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, December 8. 

F. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

At a Court, November 15. 
President, G. Blin. Bte. Saucier. 

P. Grandmont. Bte. Dubuque. 

Present. 
A petition presented by M. Fr. Trottier, in which he says that 
he was named guardian of the children of the late Lapierre and 
has exercised this charge up to the present; and now he re- 
quests that he be relieved and that the Court name another 
guardian. 

The Court granted that M. Fr. Trottier be relieved of his 



112 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

tutelle En Consequence Elle a ordonné quil Soit fait un assemble 
de parens Et damîs pour Le règlement des Compte, ainsi que 
pour La nomination dun nouvaux tuteur. 

f saucier dark, G. Blin 

a une Cour du 6 X^« 1781. 
présidant G Blin raphle Gagné 

J. B*« Lacroix B^ Dubuc 

pierre Gramon Jos^ Cecire 

pres^. 
Les Compte due par feu Jos^ metote ont Eté présenté a la 
Coiu:. il a Eté ordonné que fr. Saucier face Le recouvrement de 
Son ancan ancan [sic] Et payer Les dits Compte, qui Seront 
raporté En Cour poiu: Etre aprouvé. 

La Coiu: Est ajourné a jeudy 3. de Janvier. 
F. saucier dark G. Blin 

a une Cour du 10** janvier 1782. 
président george blin raphad gagné 

J. B^® Lacroix pierre grandmont 

B*® Saucier Joseph Cecirre 

B*® Dubuc present 

demendeur Isaac levy défendeur michel butau 
Le demendeiu: poursuit le deffendeiu: disant que layant traite 
pour une maladie moyennant la Somme de quatre cent livres et 
quapprés un certain temp le deffendeur luy at assuré quil ne 
Sentoit plus aucuns Simptomes de Sa maladie il a cessé de le 
Soigner et luy demandant Son payement par la Suitte le deffend- 
eur luy a refusé disant quil ne lavoit pas guéris entièrement. 

B^* dumais appres avoir fait Serment de dire la vérité Sur les 
Convention entre le demandeur et le deffendeur at assurré que le 
demendeur devoit parfaitement guérir le deffendeur et quil at 
entendu dire au Deffendeur quil netoit pas guérit quil netoit que 
Seulement Soulagé. 

Le deffendeur dit que le demandeur etoit obligé de le guérir 
parfaitement et quil ne Sest point trouvé et ne Se trouve point 
guérit quil a Semplement Senti quelques Soulagements par les 
premier traitement Du demendeur. 



COURT RECORD, DECEMBER, 1781 113 

guardianship; and in consequence ordered that there be held an 
assembly of relatives and friends for the settlement of accounts 
and the nomination of a new guardian. 

F. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

At a Court, December 6, 1781. 
President G. Blin. Raphael Gagné. 

Jean Bte. Lacroix. Bte. Dubuque. 

Pierre Grandmont. Joseph Cesirre. 

Present. 
The accounts due by the late Jos. Methot have been presented 
to the Court. It was decreed that Fr. Saucier make the recovery 
by auction and pay the said accounts, which shall be reported in 
Court to be approved. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, January 3. 

F. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

At a Court, January 10, 1782. 
President, George Blin. Raphael Gagné. 

J. Bte. LaCroix. Pierre Grandmont. 

Bte. Saucier. Joseph Cesirre. 

Bte. Dubuque. Present. 

Isaac Levy, Plaintiff, vs. Michel Buteau, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant saying that he treated the 
defendant for a sickness for the sum of four hundred livres and 
after some time the defendant assured him that he no longer felt 
any symptoms of his sickness. He ceased caring for him and 
afterwards, when he asked for his pay, the defendant refused, 
saying that he had not cured him entirely. 

Bte. Dumay, after having made oath to tell the truth concern- 
ing the agreement between the plaintiff and the defendant, affirmed 
that the plaintiff was bound to cure perfectiy the defendant and 
that he heard the defendant say that he was not cured, but only 
relieved. 

The defendant says that the plaintiff was obliged to cure him 
perfectly and that he was not and is not cured; that he only 
felt some relief from the first treatment of the plaintiff. 

Augustin Angers, after having made oath to tell the truth 



114 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

augustîn angers apprés avoir fait Serment de dire la vérité Selon 
Ses Connoissances dit que le deffendeur etoit dans les desseins 
daller aux Kas Se faire Soigner et quil auroit dit que le demandeur 
lavoit arrêté disant quil etoit capable de le guérir et quil luy aiuroit 
conseillé de Se mettre entre les mains du demendeur. et que quelque 
temps apprés. ayant demandé au deffendeur létat de Sa maladie il 
auroit répondu quil alloit très bien, et quen suitte de le temps, le 
deffendeur luy auroit dit quil etoit malade, et que le demandeur 
lessoit de le Soigner. 

le deffendeur at déclaré par Serment n'avoir jamais Connu 
aucunes femmes depuis le premier temps que le demandeur lat 
Soigné jusqua ce que jour. 

la Cour at Condanmé le demendeur de Continuer de Soigner 
le deffendeur jusqu'à ce quil soit guérit Sous Condition que le 
deffendeur Se Comporterat Conformément a Ses ordonnances et 
ne feras rien qui puisse estre nisible au médicaments du demand- 
eur, Sous peine de payer la Somme demandé par le demandeur et 
destre abandonné de luy. 

la Cour a Condanné le deffendeur de payer la Somme de Cent 
Seize livre quinze Sols que le demandeur a produit Selon Son 
Compte Courrant. 

la Cour a Condanné le demandeur a payer touts les fraix de 
justice. 

la Cour est ajourné au 7"** febrier 
f. saucier clark G. Blîn 

a une Cour du 28 Janvier 1782. 
president G Blin Jn B*® Saucier 

Jn B*« Lacroix Jn B*« Dubuc 

Demendeur Joseph Motar Défendeur augu*. ange 
Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur pour Savoir Le Sujet 

pour Lequel il a défendu au Sieur ducharme de Le payer Et de 

régler Ses Compte avec Luy. 

Le deffendeur repond que Si il La fait Ce na Eté que parceque 

Le demendeur Luy a Saisi un Canot dans Lequelle il devoit 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1782 115 

according to his knowledge, says that the defendant was intending 
to go to Kaskaskia to be attended, and that he had said that the 
plaintiff had stopped him, saying that he was capable of curing 
him; ai^d that he [Angers] had advised him to put himself 
under the care of the plaintiff; that some time afterwards, when 
he asked the defendant about the sickness, he answered that he 
was getting along very well ; but later the defendant had told 
him that he was sick and that the plaintiff had ceased attending 
him. 

The defendant declared on oath that he had not known any 
women from the time the plaintiff began taking care of him up 
to the present time. 

The Court condemned the plaintiff to continue attending 
the defendant until he should be cured, on condition that 
the defendant acts according to orders and does nothing that 
can counteract the medicines of the plaintiff, under penalty 
of paying the sum demanded and of being abandoned by 
him. 

The Court condemned the defendant to pay the sum 
of one hundred and sixteen livres ûfteen sols, a bill for which 
in accordance with his current account the plaintiff has pro- 
duced. 

The Court condemned the plaintiff to pay all the costs of 
justice. 

The Court adjourned to February 7. 

F. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

At a Court, January 28, 1782. 
President, G. Blin. Jn. Bte. Saucier. 

Jn. Bte. LaCroix. Jn. Bte. Dubuque. 

Present. 
Joseph Motard, Plaintiff, vs. Aug. Angers, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant that he may know the reason 
why the latter has forbidden M. DuCharme to pay him and to 
settle his accoimts with him. 

The defendant answers that if he did it, it was only because 
the plaintiff seized a canoe in which he was going away, saying 



ii6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

partir disant quîl Luy devoît Se que Le Défendeur ny et offre de 
Le prouver. 

Le demendeur repond quayant vendu Soixante pot de taûa a 
raison de deux piastres Le pot Siu: Laquelle ditte quantité Le 
Sieur Ducharme Luy En a payé Cinquante pot Comme ayant re- 
pondu de Le faire, Et que Comme Le défendeur Se trouvoît 
redevoir au demendeur vingt piastre pour Les dix pot restant, et 
quaprés Luy avoir demendé plusieurs fois il auroit refusé de le 
Satisfaire il aiuroit par ordre de m'' Le Commandant de st Louis 
de faire aretterLe Canot du deffendeur Seulement pour Jusqua ce 
quelque Juge En décidé Et a produit Son Compte par Lequel Le 
d^ deffendeur Luy est redevable de la Somme de Cent Livres. 

Le deffendeur repond que dans Laffaire présente avec Le de- 
mendeur il netoit point Convenu d'aucume quantité de taôa que 
Leur Convention Etoit d'une Demy Banque poiu: Le prix de Cinq 
Cent Livres Et quil n'etoit Convenu aucunement d'aucun prix 
pour Le pot. 

Le demendeur repond que Si Lusse promit soixante pot de 
tafia au deffendeur pour une Demi Banque il n'auroit pas pré- 
sence du deffendeur valter Led* tierson qui Contenoit Soixante 
pot Et que Le deffendeur Si Seroit oposer Si lusse entendu avoir 
Soixante pot de tafia pour Cinquante. 

Le deffendeur offre antoine Lamarche pour témoin de Leur 
Convention. 

antoine Lamarche ayant paru a prêté Serment Sur Le S* 
Evangille De repondre au question qu'on Luy feroit, et a dit quil 
n'a d'autre Connoissance que d'avoir Entendu dire par m^ mo- 
tar quil Donneroit au S' ange une Demy Banque de tafia pour La 
quantité de Cent piastre. 

Le demendeur a prêté Serment Sur Son Compte. 

après avoir mûrement Examiné Les demendes Et deffences 
vue Le témoins Et Sa Declaration La Cour a Condanné Le deffen- 
deur a payer au demendeur Le Surplus des Cinquante pot de 
tafia a raison de deux piastre Le pot qui Ce Sont trouvé dans Le feu 
quil a reçue du demendeur, Comme L'ayant valté En La présence 
du Deffendeur et Le Deffendeur a payer Les fraix de Justice. 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1782 117 

that the defendant was in debt to him, which the defendant denies 
and offers to prove. 

The plaintiff answers that he sold sixty jugs of tafia at two 
piastres the jug and that M. DuCharme paid him for fifty jugs of 
this, for which he had held himself responsible; and since the 
defendant was indebted to the plaintiff twenty piastres for the ten 
remaining jugs and had refused to pay after many demands, he 
had, by order of the commandant of St. Louis, caused the 
seizure of the defendant's canoe only until some judge should 
decide, and he produced his account according to which the 
defendant is indebted to him for the sum of one hundred livres. 

The defendant answers that in the present affair with the 
plaintiff there was no agreement on any quantity of tafia, that 
their agreement was for a half-cask at five himdred livres^ and 
that there was no agreement on any price per jug. 

The plaintiff answers that if he had promised the defendant 
sixty jugs of tafia for a half-cask he would not in the presence 
of the defendant have measured [?] the said barrel, which con- 
tained sixty jugs ; and that the defendant should have objected 
thereto, if he had understood that he was receiving sixty jugs 
instead of fifty. 

The defendant presents Antoine Lamarche as a witness of 
their agreement. 

Antoine Lamarche appeared and made oath on the Holy 
Gospels to answer the question, which is put to him, and said that 
he had no other knowledge than that he had heard M. Motard 
say that he was giving M. Angers a half-cask of tafia for a hun- 
dred piastres. 

The plaintiff made oath to his account. 

After having carefully examined the prayers and the defences 
and considering the witness and his testimony, the Court con- 
denmed the defendant to pay the plaintiff for the surplus above 
the fifty jugs of tafia, which were in the consignment of firewater 
which he received from the plaintiff, at the rate of two dollars a 
jug, since it was measured [ ?] in the presence of the defendant, 
and condemned the defendant to pay the costs of justice. 



ii8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

Demendeur Isaac Levy Deffendeur michel butau 

Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur disant que La Cour 
Dernière il auroit Eté Condanné de Continuer a médicamenter Le 
deffendeur Jusqu'à Sa parfaite guerison pour parvenir au paye- 
ment que Le deffendeur Est obligé a Luy donner, mais il prouve 
que Le deffendeur na pas Suivie Ses ordonnance ni même prise 
Les remèdes quil Luy a donné puisq'un Jour il dit Luy avoir don- 
né Soixante pilule pour En prendre Sept Le premier Jour Et a au- 
guemender d'une tout Les Jour, Jusque La fin mais Le Demen- 
deur Dit que Le Lendemain ayant Eté Le voir, il Luy a demendé 
Si il En avoit prix Se Jour La, Le deffendeur Luy a repondu que 
non et quil ne Savoit pas de quoy Etoit devenu Les ditte pilule quil 
Croyoit que Les Enfans de la maison Les avoit perdu. Et que 
Le Sur Lendemain il y auroit Encore retourné, Luy en reporté 
quinze autre Des même pilule Et a recommander au S' B*® alary 
de faire attention Si Le dit deffendeur ne Le trompoit point Dans 
Les remèdes quil Luy donnoit Et L'apres midy Le deffendeur a 
dit au demendeur, après Luy avoir dit que Les Enfans avoit gas- 
piller Les ditte Soixante Et Sept pillule quil Les avoit toute prise 
chose inposible que Le demendeur représente, parceque Cetoit 
assé pour Le faire mourir. Et m^® B*® alary ayant paru a dit que 
Led^ deffendeur na pas voulu prendre aucune des ditte pilule que 
Le demendeur avoit recommendé De Luy faire prendre. 

Le deffendeur ayant paru a dit quil avoit prix toute Les pilule 
que Le demendeur Luy a a [sic] donné que voyant que Les remède 
ne Le guerissoit pas aussi vite quil L'auroit voulu quil Les a toute 
prise dans Deux Jour. 

La Cour a Condanné Le deffendeur a payer au demendeur 
Le prix quil etoit Convenu de luy donner Comme n'ayant pas 
Suivie Ses ordonnances, anisi que tous Les fraix. 

La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 7. février, 
fr. saucier, clark. G. Blin. 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1782 119 

Isaac Levy, Plaintiff, vs, Michel Buteau, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant, saying that at the last Court 
he had been condemned to continue to treat the defendant until 
his perfect cure in order to obtain the payment, which the 
defendant was obliged to give him; but he proves that tne 
defendant has not followed his prescriptions nor even taken the 
remedies, which he gave him; for, he says, he gave him one day 
sixty pills, seven of which he was to take the first day and to 
increase the number by one each succeeding day until all were 
taken; but the plaintiff says that on the next day he went to 
see the defendant and asked if he had taken the pills that day, 
and the defendant answered, "No", and said that he did not 
know what had become of the said pills; but that he believed 
that the children of the house had lost them. The plaintiff 
further says that on the following day he returned and brought 
fifteen more of the same pills; and he requested M. Bte. Alarie to 
watch and see if the said defendant did not deceive him about 
the medicine he had given him; and in the afternoon the 
defendant said to the plaintiff, after having told him that the Chil- 
dren had thrown away the said sixty-seven pills, that he had 
taken them all, which is impossible, the plaintiff maintains, 
because that was enough to kill him. Madame Bte. Alary 
appeared and said that the defendant aforesaid did not wish to 
take any of the said pills, which the plaintiff charged him to 
take. 

The defendant appeared and said that he had taken all the 
pills that the plaintiff gave him; but since the remedies did not 
cure him as quickly as he had wished, he took them all in two 
days. 

The Court condemned the defendant to pay to the plaintiff 
the price which he had agreed to give him, since he has not fol- 
lowed the prescriptions, and also to pay the costs. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, February 7. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 



I20 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du 7 février 1782. 

President G. Blîn raph. Gagné 

B^ Saucier J^ B*« dubuc 

Pres^ 

G. Blîn représente a la Cour que Le nomé pierre Lafleur ayant 

fait Chanter une Grande messe par M^ Gibeaute, il Luy auroit 

demendé plusieurs fois de Satisfaire a La fabrique Se quil a refusé 

de faire. En Consequence il demende de faire Saisir quelq'un de 

Ses meubles poiu: Jusqu'à La Conqurence de ce quil doit. 

La Cour a ordonné que Le nomé pierre Lafleur Soit assiné a 

La Cour prochaine pour repondre a la plainte porte Contre Luy. 

La Cour Est ajourné au 7 mars. 

f. Saucier. Clark 

a une Cour du 21 février 1782. 
Président G. Blin Jos^ Cecirc. 

p. Granmon B^® Saucier. 

J. B^* Lacroix B*« Dubuque. 

Present 
Jean B*® Lacroix a produit a la Cour Le règlement du 
Compte de la Succession de feu Jean B^® amelin qui a été aprouvé 
ainsi que Les autre papier Dont il Etoit Chargé Comme ayant 
Eté nomé par Laditte Cour de régler Laditte Succession. Et Les 
dit papier ont Eté remis au Gref . 

Le Sieur ant Girardin de La part de madame veuve mercié. a 
fait demende En Cour de faire faire invantaire de tous Ses Biens 
pour régler avec Ses mineurs. 

La Cour a accordé a M^® mercié Suivant sa demende. 
a une même Cour pierre roy a présenté une requette a la Cour 
poiu: quil Soit nomé un tuteur au mineurs mitote 

La Cour a ordonné quil Soit fait ime Assemblé de parens Et 
damis pour L'elextion d'un tuteur au Susdit mineurs, ainsi que 
poiu: le règlement de Leur Succession. 

a une même Cour philipe Gervais ayant obtenu une saisi Sur 
Soixante Gerbe de blé appartinant a Glaude Gagné pour ime 

1 The vestry-board was composed of church wardens elected by the parish to take charge 
of the temporal affairs of the church. 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1782 121 

At a Court, February 7, 1782. 
President, G. Blin. Raphael Gagné. 

Bte. Saucier. Jean Bte. Dubuque. 

Present. 
G. Blin shows the Court that the named Pierre Lafleur 
had had a high mass sung by M. Gibault, and that he had asked 
the latter several times to pay the vestry-board,* which the latter 
refused to do. Therefore he prays that some of his movables, 
up to the equivalent of what he owes, be attached. 

The Court ordered that the named Pierre Lafleur be sum- 
moned to the next Court to answer the complaint brought against 
him. 

The Court adjourned to March 7. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. 

At a Court, February 21, 1782. 
President, G. Blin. Jos. Cesirre. 

P. Grandmont. Bte. Saucier. 

J. Bte. Lacroix. Bte. Dubuque, 

Present. 
Jean Bte. Lacroix brought into Court the settlement of the 
account of the estate of the late Jean Bte. Hamelin, which was 
approved, and also the other papers with which he was intrusted, 
as he was named by the said Court to settle the said estate. And 
the said papers were filed in the clerk's office. 

M. Ant. Girardin on behalf of Madame Mercier, widow, made 
prayer in Court to have an inventory made of all her goods in 
order to settle with her minor heirs. 

The Court granted the request of Madame Mercier. 
At the same Court Pierre Roy presented a petition to the 
Coxirt in order that there be named a guardian for the minors 
Methot. 

The Court decreed that there be held an assembly of relatives 
and friends for the election of a guardian for the above mentioned 
minors, and also for the settlement of their estate. 

At the same Court Philippe Gervais, who has obtained a writ 
of seizure on sixty sheaves of wheat belonging to Claude Gagné 



122 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Somme de Soixante Et quinze Livres quil Luy. Et demendé 
a La Cour d'ans faire faire La vente. 

La Cour a accordé au S^ Gervais La vente du Blé suivant sa 
demende. 

fr. Saucier a demendé a la Cour quil Luy Soit permis de faire 
vendre Environ deux tombré de mays appartenant a Glaude 
Gagné pour Satisfaire a une Somme de cent soixante et trois Livres 
quil est due par son Billet. 

La Cour a accordé a fr. Saucier quil soit fait Suivant sa de- 
mende. 

fr. Saucier a produit En coiu: Le règlement des Compte de la 
Succession de feu Joseph Metote, qui ont Eté aprouvé. 

La Coiu: Est ajourné a 7 de mars, 
fr saucier Clark G Blin 

a une Cour du 7*® mars 1782. 
President G. Blin. Jos^ Cecire 

p. Granmon B** Saucier 

raphael Gagné B*® Dubuc 

Present 
Demendeur Louis trottier Deffendeur J° B** Lacroix 
Le demendeur poursuit le deffendeur pour un Cochon quil Luy 
a Eté tué Dans Les Champs Et demende quil luy Soit payé ayant 
passé par Sa Cloture, Suivant La declaration de M' Baullieu qui 
En a fait La visite. Et qui declare que Les d* pourceau ont passé 
Sa cloture. 

[Certificate attached] Je Soussigné Sertifie a tous quil appar- 
tiendra qu'ayant Eté Envoyé par le Sindic faire La visite des Clo- 
tiure, que J'auray trouvé un pieux de Cassé dans La Cloture de 
Monsieur Lepage Et qu'en presense de deux témoins Je ne me 
Suis point aperçu quil y aye passé auq'un animaux Et quensuite 
nous aurions trouvé ime Brèche a Celle de m^ Lacroix nous nous 
Sommes aperçu quil y avoit passé Des pourçeu, Et avons aussi vue 

* The certificate is stitched to the page of the Record. 

* From the earliest times of the French regime the inhabitants elected a syndic to look 
after the commons and common field. This officer was also the legal representative of the 
community on all occasions. The villages of France had a similar officer. — Babeau, H., 
Les assemblées générales des communautés d^habUants en France^ 146 et seq. Babeau, A., 
Le xnUage sous P ancien régime, cfa. iii. 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1782 123 

for a sum of seventy-five livres^ which the latter owes him, prays 
the Court to have the sale made thereof. 

The Court granted to M. Gervais the sale of the wheat accord- 
ing to his prayer. 

Fr. Saucier prayed the Court to permit him to have sold about 
two wagon loads of com belonging to Claude Gagné to satisfy 
the sum of one hundred and sixtv-three livres which is due on his 
note. 

The Court granted to Fr. Saucier that it be done according 
to his prayer. 

Fr. Saucier produced in Court the settlement of the accounts 
of the estate of the late Joseph Methot, and it was approved. 

The Court adjourned to March 7. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

At a Court, March 7, 1782. 
President, G. Blin. Jos. Cesirre. 

P. Grandmont. Bte. Saucier. 

Raphael Gagné Bte. Dubuque. 

Present. 
Louis Trottier, Plaintiff, vs. Jean Bte. LaCrodc, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for his pig, which was killed 
in the fields, and demands that he be paid for it, since it passed 
through the defendant's fence according to the affidavit of M. 
Beaulieu, who made the inspection and declares that the said 
pigs passed through the defendant's fence. 

[Certificate attached^] I, the undersigned, certify to all whom 
it may concern that when I was sent by the syndic' to inspect 
the fences, I found a stake broken in the fence of M. Lepage and, 
in the presence of two witnesses, I have not seen any animals 
pass through there; and afterwards we found a break in M. La- 
Croix's fence and saw that some pigs had passed through it; and 
we also saw a broken stake in Louis Trottier's fence, but up 
to that time nothing had passed through there. This I declare 
to be the truth and have signed the present certificate to serve 
in case of need. At Cahokia, March 7, 1782. 

Beaulieu. 



124 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

un pieux Cassé a la Cloture de louis trottier ou Jusqua Lors il ny 
avoit Encore rein passe Ce que Je declare veritable Et a Signé 
Le present pour Servir au Besoin Sera aux Cahôs le 7 mars 1782. 

beaulieu 

Le deflFendeur repont que Les témoins qui Sertifie que le Cochon 
a passé par Sa cloture q'un en fasse Serment, quil Se Condanne a 
Le payer puisquil y avoit ce jour La plusieur Brèche aux cloture. 

La Cour a ordonné q'un Des témoins qui déclare que Les pour- 
ceaux ont passé par La Cloture de d^ Lacroix En fasse Serment 
Et Le defFendeiu: alors Sera Condanne a payer Le d^ Cochon au 
demendeur Et Les fraix. 

a une même Cour m^ motar Expose a la Cour que Dans une 
affaire quil a eu avec Le Sieur ange Et qui auroit Eté Condanne 
par laditte De luy payer une Somme Suivant Son Compte il 
auroit . Jusqu'à present attendu led* payement led* Sieur motar 
représente aussi que la Cour Luy ayant ordonné de ramener un 
Canot quil avoit fait Saisir appartinan audit ange a S* Louis, il 
auroit obéi aux ordres qui Luy ont Eté present a ce Sujet. 

Mais Comme Led* ange Se trouve apsent il Demende a la 
Cour de faire vendre son d* Canot pour Satisfaire a ce que led* 
ange Luy doit. 

La Cour a accordé a m*" motar La vente du d* Canot, moy- 
enant que Se Sera a La veille de Son depart. Espérant que led* 
ange pouroit venir avant ce tems. 

La Cour Et [sic] ajourné Jeudy 4 avril. 

f saucier Clark G Blin 

a une Cour du 8 de mars 1782. 
Président Geo. Blin Jn B*® dubuque 

• p. Granmon Jn B*® Saucier 

raph. Gagné Josh^ Cecire 

Present 
Le Sieur Jean B*® Lacroix présente une requette a la Cour par 
Laquelle il demende une permission pour faire La traitte avec 
Les Sauvages qui viendront ches Luy. au Condition que toutte 
Les viandes. Suif huile dours et paux de ChevTuil quil traittera 
après Sa provision faitte dans cedder aux Citoyens de ce Village 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1782 125 

The defendant answers by requesting that, since there were 
several breaks in the fence on that day, one of the witnesses, who 
certify that the pig passed through his fence, should make oath, 
and he will accept judgment to pay for the pig. 

The Court decreed that one of the witnesses, who declare that 
the pigs passed through the fence of the said LaCroix, should 
make oath thereto, and the defendant will then be condemned 
to pay the plaintiff for the said pig and the costs. 

At the same Court M. Motard shows the Court that in the 
cause, which he had with M. Angers and in which the latter had 
been condenmed by the said Coiu*t to pay him the sum 
according to his accoimt, he had up to the present waited for the 
said payment. M. Motard also shows that the Court decreed 
that he should bring back a canoe belonging to the said Angers of 
which he had made seizure at St. Louis, and that he had obeyed 
the orders which were given him on this subject. 

But since the said Angers is absent, he prays the Court to 
have his canoe sold to satisfy the debt, which the said Angers 
owes him. 

The Court granted to M. Motard the sale of the said canoe 
on condition that the sale shall be made on the evening of his 
departure, as they hope that the said Angers may return before 
that time. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, April 4. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

At a Court, March 8, 1782. 
President, Geo. Blin. Jean Bte. Dubuque. 

P. Grandmont. Jean Bte. Saucier. 

Raph. Gagné. Jos. Cesirre 

Present. 
M. Jean Bte. LaCroix presents a petition to the Court in which 
he requests a permit to trade with the savages, who shall come 
to his house, on condition that all meats, tallow, bears' oil 
and deer-skins, which he shall receive in trade, after making pro- 
vision for himself, he will sell to the citizens of this village at a 



126 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

* 

a un prix qui Sera fixé par La Cour Et qu'en outre il Sera Loisible 
aux habitans de Ce village de venir ches Luy quand il y aura 
Des Sauvages, faire La traitte pour des denrés Et quil ne Leurs 
Soit point permis dy traitter de L'eau de vie, il Représente en 
outre quil ne versera point d'eau de vie dans ce village a aucun 
sauvages. 

a La demende du Sieur Jn B*® Lacroix La Cour Luy a accordé 
La permission de La traitte avec Les Sauvages moyenant quil 
ne donnera point a Boire au Sauvages dans le village Et quil 
vendra aux habitans de ce village par privillége après Sa pro- 
vision faitte, Savoir. 

Lhuille a trois Livres dix Sols. 

Le Suif a une livre dix Sols. 

Les plats Cotes a Sept Livres dix Sols. 

Le chevreuil En viandes Dix livres. 

Les paux Boucannée Cinq Livres. 

Et Les habitants auront vingt quatre heure après Le depart 
des Sauvages pour venir acheter Leurs Besoin ches Mond* Sieur 
Lacroix, Et quapres Ce tems il Sera maître de le vendre a tout 
autre Ce a quoy il Est convenu. 

La Cour Est ajourné a 4 D'avril. 

fr saucier. G Blin 

La Cour Est ajourné au 1 1 avril, Extraordinaire. 
Président Jen. B*® Lacroix B*® Saucier 
raph^« Gagné B*® Dubuque 

Présent 
ANT. ARMANT Demendeur Josp^ Butau Défendeur 
Le demendeur poursuit Le défendeur Disant quil Luy auroit 
Donné une paire de Jeune Boeuf a dompter moyenant quil feroit 
Ses Semences avec, mais Le Demendeur dit ne sen Etre servis 
que quatre Jour Et a nouri Les Dits Boeuf trois semaine au foin 
Et maiy [sir] Et que Comme Le défendeur aujourdhuy Luy 
reprend Ses Boeuf avant Ses Semences faitte il demende que led* 
Deffendeur soit Condanner a luy payer Le tems quil a noury Ses 
Boeuf Et La peine de les avoir fait Dompter. 

For further particulars about this license to trade sec pp. 575, ai.^, a 15, 607. 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1782 127 

price which shall be ûxed by the Court; and furthermore that 
it shall be lawful for the inhabitants of this village to come to 
his house, when savages are there, to trade for provisions; and 
that it shall not be permitted them to trade there for liquor. 
He shows, furthermore, that he wiU not serve liquor in this 
village to savages. 

At the prayer of M. Jean Bte. Lacroix, the Court granted 
him the permit to trade with the savages, on condition that 
he will not give them drink in this village, and that he will give 
the preference to the inhabitants of this village in selling, after 
provision is made for himself, at the following prices, to wit: 

Oil at three livres ten sols. 

Tallow at one livre ten sols. 

Spare ribs at seven livres ten sols. 

The meat of deer at ten livres. 

Smoked hides at five livres. 

And the inhabitant shall have twenty-four hours after the 
departure of the savages in which to buy what they need at M. 
Lacroix's; and after that time he shall be permitted to sell to 
all others. To this he has agreed.* 

The Court adjourned to April 4. 
Fr. Saucier. G. Blin. 

The Court adjourned to April 11, for special session. 
President, Jean Bte. LaCroix. Bte. Saucier. 
Raph. Gagné. Bte. Dubuque. 

Present. 
Ant. Harmand, Plaintiff, vs. Jos. Buteau, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant, saying that the latter had 
lent him a pair of young oxen to break in return for the use of 
them during his sowing; but the plaintff says that he had used 
them only four days, after he had fed the said oxen three weeks 
on hay and corn, and that, since the defendant took his oxen 
back to-day before he had finished his sowing, he therefore prays 
that the said defendant be condemned to pay him for the time 
that he fed his oxen and for the trouble he had in breaking 
them. 



128 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Le deffendeur repond quil a pris Ses Boeuf parceque il Setoit 
aperçu que L'on menoit mal Ses Boeuf. 

Le demendeur produit un témoin qui dit que le deffendeur avoit 
Donné Ses Boeuf au demendeur pour tous le tems de Ses semences. 

LaCouraCondanner Ledeffendeur a payer au demendeur Vingt 
franc pour Le tems quil a nouri Ses Boeuf Et a payer Les fraix. 

a ime môme Cour Clement alary demende quil soit hautorizé 
de faire rendre Compte a piere Chauvin du Bien que peut revenir 
au mineiu^ Buat Labecace du Cotte de leur mere. 

La Cour a accordé a La demende de Clement alary pourvu 
que Les tuteur des dits mineurs y Soyent présent. 

La Court Est ajourné au 2*« may. 
fr saucier, dark. J B H LaCroix 

a une Court du i8 avril 1782 par extraordinaire. 
Président George Blin B*® Saucier 

raphael Gagné Piere Granmon 

jn gte Lacroix B*® Dubuque 

Jos** Cecire Présent 

La Court Etant assemblé au nom des habitants pour repondre 
a la requette a Eux présente par antoine Girardin Sur La pro- 
position quil Leur fait pour L'abandon de Son moulin Et aussi 
pour donner toutte Les Connoissances a M^ Richard Winston 
Lieutenant Gouverneur Civile pour la Conté Des Illinois, de 
toutte Les affaires qui Ce Sont passé avec led* Girardin Et Les 
habitants affin den venir a une Conclusion. 

Veu que La requette présenté aud* habitant En General La 
Cour a renvoyé aux habitant a En faire réponse. 

fr saucier. G Blin 

a une Cour du 9 may 1782 Extraordinaire. 
Président G Blin Jos*» Cecire 

pierre Granmon B*® Saucier 

raphael Gagné J° B*® Dubuque 

jn B*® Lacroix présent 

monsieur fr trottier ayant fait assemblé La Cour, au nom du 
public pour Demender a m^ T Brady Les pouvoir quil a de faire 
Des Deffences au public. 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1782 129 

The defendant answers that he took the oxen away because 
he noticed that they were treated badly. 

The plaintiff produces a witness, who says that the plaintiff 
had given the oxen to the defendant for all the time of sowing. 

The Court condemned the defendant to pay the plaintiff 
twenty francs for the time he fed his oxen and to pay the cost. 

At the same Court Clement Alarie prays that he be author- 
ized to make Pierre Chauvin render account of the goods, which 
may accrue to the minors Buyat Lahecasse from their mother. 

The Court granted the prayer of Clement Alarie, provided 
the guardians of the said minors are there present. 

The Court adjourned to May 2. 
Fr. Saucier, Clerk. J. B. H. Lacroix. 

At a special session of the Court, April 18, 1782. 

President, George Blin. Bte. Saucier. 

Raphael Gagné Pierre Grandmont. 

Jean Bte. LaCroix. Bte. Dubuque. 

Jos. Cesirre. Present. 

The Court assembled in the name of the inhabitants to make 
response to the petition presented to them by Antoine Girardin, 
in which he proposes to them to abandon his mill and to give full 
cognizance of all the causes between himself and the inhabitants 
to Mr. Richard Winston, lieutenant civil governor of the county 
of Illinois, that a conclusion may be reached concerning them. 

Considering that the petition is presented to the inhabitants 
in general, the Court referred it to the inhabitants to make 
response thereto. 

Fr. Saucier. G. Blin. 

At a special session of the Court, May 9, 1782. 
President G. Blin. Jos. Cesirre. 

Pierre Grandmont. Bte. Saucier. 

Raphael Gagné. Jean Bte. Dubuque. 

Jean Bte. LaCroix. Present. 

M. Fr. Trottier assembled the Court in the name of the public 
to demand of M. Brady what power he had to publish prohibir 
tions to the public. 



I30 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Thomas Brady ayant paru a dit qu'en Sa qualité de député 
pour les Sauvages quil fesoit Deffence de la trétte de tafi&a avec 
Eux. 

La Cour Luy a représenté quelle fesoit Elle même Ses deffences, 
Et que Si il a quelque plainte a faire Contre quelqu'un de Ce 
village au Sujet des Sauvages de le faire Et non pas de faire 
aucune deffence a Ce Sujet sans que la Cour en Soit instruit, 
f saucier Clark. G. Blin 

a une Cour 20 Juin 1782. 
Président Geo. Blin Jos** Cecire 

piere Granmon B*® Saucier 

raph^® Gagné B** Dubuque 

J° B*® Lacroix Présent 

La Cour Etant assemblé pour prendre Le Serment des Juges 
nomé par La novelle Ellection faitte Le 16 du Court par une assem- 
blé En la maison de m'" trottier Savoir Les Sieurs Geo. Blin pierre 
Granmon B*® Dubuque, B*® alary, B*® Baron, Gabriel Baron Et 
Louis Lebrun. 

Les Suivant Juges Savoir George Blin &c. Les dits Juges cy 
dessus mentionné ont pris Le Serment de fidélité aux Etats ainsi 
que celuy de Juge de Paix &c selon Leurs List. 

a une Cour tenue pour le district des [sic] du village des 
Cahokia Le 20 Juin 1782. 

a ordonné que fr Saucier soit apointé clark de Cette Cour, 
fr Saucier a pris le Serment de fidélité Et d'office Et a pris 
Sa place En qualité de Clark. 

a une même Cour a Eté ordonné que niColas Chabot Continu- 
roit Sa charge de Cherif de la Cour. 

nicolas Chabot a pris le Serment de fidélité Et doffice. 
Louis PILLET Demendeur Jos. asselin Deffendeur 
Louis pillet présente un marché passé Entre Luy Et Le def- 
fendeur pour ouvrage que le deffendeur devoit faire a Sa maison 
parceque le deffendeur refuse [?] de le Suivre. 

Le deffendeur Expose que nayant pas fait L'ouvrage autant dit 
non pas par sa fautte puisquil na Jamais été forcé par le demend- 

^ Brady was Indian commissioner for the state of Virginia. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1782 131 

Thomas Brady appeared and said that in his office of deputy 
for the savages he prohibited trade in tafia with them.* 

The Court shows that it published itself such a prohibi- 
tion; and demands that, if there is any complaint to make against 
any one of this village on the subject of the savages, he is to make 
it, and not to publish prohibitions on the subject without inform- 
ing the Court. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

At a Court, June 20, 1782. 
President, Geo. Blin. Jos. Cesirre. 

Pierre Grandmont. Bte. Saucier. 

Raph. Gagné. Bte. Dubuque. 

Jean Bte. LaCroix. Present. 

The Court assembled to receive the oath of the judges elected 
by the new election, which was held the i6th of the present 
month in the house of M. Trottier, namely MM. Geo. Blin, 
Pierre Grandmont, Bte. Dubuque, Bte. Alarie, Bte. Baron, 
Gabriel Baron, and Louis Lebrun. 

The following judges, namely George Blin, etc., mentioned 
above, took the oath of fidelity to the States and also that of 
justices of the peace, etc., according to the list. 

At a Court held for the district of the village of Cahokia, June 
20, 1782. 

The Court ordered that Fr. Saucier be appointed clerk of this 
Court. 

Fr. Saucier took the oath of fidelity and also that of office, 
and took his place as clerk. 

At the same Court it was ordered that Nicolas Chabot should 
continue his commision of sheriff of the Court. 
Nicolas Chabot took oath of fidelitv and of office. 

Louis Pillet, Plaintiff, vs. Jos. Asselin, Defendant, 
Louis Pillet presents an agreement entered into by himself 
and the defendant for work, which the latter was to do on his 
house, because the defendant refuses to keep it. 

The defendant explains that he has not done the work as said, 
but not through his fault, but because he has never been com- 



132 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

eur de Le faire, Et que Comme il y a Cinq ans que Led^ marché 
Est passé il trouve que le prix Est trop mediocre il demende aug- 
mentation. 

La Cour a Condanné Le demendeur a remboursé a defFendeur] 
La Somme de Soixante Et dix Livres pour n'avoir pas obligé Le 
defFendeur a faire Son ouvrage au tems Echus Et a payer Les 
fraix Entre Eux. 

Demendeur G. Constant Deffendeur at arment 

Le djmendeur poursuit L défendeur disant que Sous Le 
prête::. : (lit il que Son Enffant Luy auroit manqué quil L'auroit at- 
taqué En Luy disant, va mon ûls dire a ton père quil a mangé Le 
cochon de Granmon, Ce que Le demendeur demende quil Luy 
prouvé par Sa partie adverse quil L'en acquse. 

Le defFendeur dit quil a Entendu dire a m^ Granmon quil 
pensoit que le demendeur auroit pu Le faire. 

m^. Granmon dit queffectivement quil la pensé mais quil ne 
L'en accusoit pas positivement n'en Etant point Sure. 

La Cour a renvoyé Le Demendeur Et le defFendeur Sans aucune 
Dessision puisque le demendeur nest pas Juste dans ces demendes 
Et pour Les Sotises quils ce Sont Dit Sont Condanné a payer 
tous Les deux Les fraix. 

LEMé Demendeur Jo Cecire DefFendeur 

a ime même Cour une requette présenté par Louis Lemé 

■ 

habitant de S* philipe pour un soque quil luy a Eté oté de Sa 
charu par m' Cecire Sous le pretex dit il que ledit lemé Luy devoit 
quinze franc. Ce qui La mis hor detat de faire Ses Semence Et 
de les faire faire Dont il Luy En a Coûté Suivant Le Sertificat 
de m^ Ch. Cadron Cent franc pour faire Sa Semence. 

Joseph Cecire dit quil Est vray quil a pris Le Soque mais que 
ce n'est que par ce que led^ Lemé Luy devoit quinze franc pour 
avoir Eté Emprisonné ches Luy Et que Si il Lut paye il ne L'au- 
roit pas fait. 

La Cour a Condanner Le Sieur Secire a remboiu^er au de- 
mendeur Ce qui Luy en a Coûté pour faire faire Ses Semences Et a 

^ There was no prison in Caholua, and the fort was sometimes used for that purpose, 
but not always. A prisoner was more often placed in the custody of an officer. Since no 
case in whidi Lemay was sentenced to imprisonment occurs in the Rtcord^ the imprisonment 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1782 133 

pelled to do it by the plaintiff; and that, as it was five years 
ago that the bargain was made, he finds that the price is too 
low and demands an increase. 

The Court condemned the plaintiff to reimburse the defend- 
ant the sum of seventy li'vres for not having compelled the defend- 
ant to do his work in the expired time and both to pay the costs. 
G. Constant, Plaintiff, vs. Ant. Harmand, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant, saying that under the alleged . 
pretext that his child had put a slight upon the defendant, the 
latter had assaulted hhn and said: **Go, my son, and tell your 
father that he ate Grandmont's pig"; and the plaintiff prays 
that this, of which he is accused, be proved by the opposing 
party. 

The defendant says that he heard M. Grandmont say that 
he thought that the plaintiff might have done it. 

M. Grandmont says that in fact he thought it; but that he 
did not pK)sitively accuse him thereof, because he was not sure. 

The Court dismissed the plaintiff and the defendant without 
passing judgment, since the plaintiff is not just in his demands; 
and for the abusive language they have used, they are both con- 
demned to pay the costs 

Lemay, Plaintiff, vs. Jos. Cesirre, defendant. 

At the same Court a petition was presented by Louis Lemay, 
inhabitant of St. Phillippe, for a plowshare, which had been 
taken from his plough by M. Cesirre under the alleged pretext 
that the said Lemay owed him fifteen francs. This put him out 
of condition to do his sowing, and the cost of having it done, ac- 
cording to the certificate of M. Ch. Cadron, was one hundred 
francs. 

Joseph Cesirre says that it is true that he took the plowshare, 
but only because the said Lemay owed him fifteen francs for 
his imprisonmeht at his house and that, if he had paid him, he 
would not have done it.* 

The Court condemned M. Cesirre to repay to the plaintiff what 
it had cost him to have his sowing done, after retaining the fifteen 

may date back to the British period, when Cesirrc's father was judge and commandant at 
Cahokia. 



134 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

rendre au demendeur Sa charue garni tel quel Etoit Lorsquil y a 
touché. Et ce ches Luy a S* philipe. Et Le defFendeur a payer 
Les fraix. après avoir retenu quinze Livre que le Demendeur 
Luy Doit pour L'emprissonnement ches luy. 

f. saucier Clark G. Blin 

a ime Cour tenu Le 8 aoust 1782. 
président G. Blin Louis Lebrun 

piere Granmon Gabriel Baron 

B*« Baron B*« Dubuque 

B*« Alary Présent 

Demendeur Gabriel Cerré Deffendeur ant armant 
Le demendeur poursuit le deflFendeur pour une Somme de 
mil Six Cent quarante Six livres tant pour un nègre que pour une 
terre quil Luy a été adjugé a L'ancan de feu Sieur nicol Suivant 
Son obligation, Et Expose en outre Led^ sieur demendeur quîl 
auroit déjà fait Sinifié audit Deffendeur de payer Son obligation 
Et L'ayant refusé de faire, il demende L'interest depuis deux 
ans que La Demende En a Eté faitte. 

Le deffendeur repond par Sa requette que Ladite [sic] Nègre 
ayant Eté après trois mois dachap attin [sic] Et Convincu d'avoir 
Empoisonné son maitre Et Sa maitresse quil a Eté Contrain 
par ordre de Livrer Led* nègre a la Justice Et quil ne Devoit 
pas Le payer. 

Le demendeur repond Encore que Lorsque Le nègre a Eté 
vendu quil avoit été Jusquil a Connu pour im Bon Sujet, et que 
Si le Deffendexir ne lut point acheté un autre L'auroit fait. 

La Cour ayant examiné Les demendes Et Deffence L'obli- 
gation du Sieur ant armant Elle L'a Condanner a payer au de- 
mendeur Son obligation ainsi que L'interest dud* obligation 
depuis Son Echéance et les fraix. 
La Coiu* Est ajourné au Jeudy 5 ybre. 
fr saucier Clark G Blin 

1 The name of the negro was Pompée, and he was under arrest at the time Manuel 
and Moreau were convicted for poisoning the Nicolles. See mpra, p. 13 et seq. This case 
occupies the attention of several sessions. See pp. 137, 193, 196, m i. 



COURT RECORD, AUGUST, 1782 135 

livres which was owed him for imprisonment at his house, and 
to return to the plaintiff the plow in the same condition it was 
in when he meddled with it, and this at his house in St. Philippe; 
and the defendant is to pay the costs. 

F. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

At a Court held August 8, 1782. 
President, G. Blin. Louis Lebnm. 

Pierre Grandmont. Gabriel Baron. 

Bte. Baron. Bte. Dubuque. 

Bte. Alarie. Present. 

Gabriel Cerré, Plaintiff, vs. Ant. Harmand, Defendant 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for a sum of one thousand 
and forty-six livres^ according to his obligation given for a negro 
and a plantation which were adjudged him at the auction of the 
late M. Nicolle^s property; and the plaintiff further shows that 
he has already notified the defendant to pay his obligation and, 
since he has refused to pay, he demands interest for the two years 
since the demand was made. 

The defendant answers by a petition in which he affirms that' 
the said negro, three months after purchase, was arrested and 
convicted of having poisoned his master and mistress; and that 
he had been compelled by order to deliver the said negro to 
justice, and therefore be ought not to pay for him.^ 

The plaintiff answers that when the negro was sold, he had been 
known for a person of good character; and that, if the defendant 
had not bought him, some one else would have done so. 

The Court, after examining the prayers, the defence and the 
obligation of M. Ant. Harmand, condemned him to pay to the 
plaintiff his obligation and the interest, since its maturity, and 
the costs. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, September 5. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 



136 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du 9 ybre 1782. 
Président Geo. Blin Louis Lebrun 

Pierre Granmon Gabriel Baron 

B** Baron Jean B*® Dubuque 

B*« alary Present 

Demendeur Gabriel Ce&re DefFendeur ant a&uant 
Le demendeur représente a la Cour qu'en vertu de La San- 
tance qui a Eté rendu Contre Le Deffendeur La Cour dernière, 
il auroit fait Siniûer La ditte Sentance aud^ DefFendeur mais 
quayant refFusé de payer Son obligation, il demende une 
Saisi Sur tout Les biens du deffendeur Et une Execution pour 
parvenir au parfait payement. 

Le deffendeur repond que tant qu'a L'article dune terre qui 
Luy a Eté adjugé quil Est prest a La payer, mais que pour le 
nègre il en veut rapeller a La Virginie et demende quil Luy Soit 
permis de la faire. 

Le deffendeur ayant Eté Condanné a la cour dernière de payer 
Son obligation ainsi quil Est Expliqué dans La Santance. Et 
ne L'ayant pas fait La Cour a accordé au demendeur une Exe- 
cution Sur Les Biens du deffendeur pour Etre vendu Jusqu'à 
La Somme de son obligation ainsi que Linterest Et Les fraix. 
Sauf au deffendeur après a en rapeller ou Bon Luy Semblera. 
La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 3®. 8bre. 
f. saucier Clark G Blin 

Président G. Blin Louis lebrun 

pierre Granmon Gabriel Baron 

Bt« Baron B^« Dubuque 

B*® alary Present 

Joseph travercy ayant paru a pris Le Serment de fidélité 
ainsi que celuy de cherif de la cour. 

Joseph Lepage présente une requette par laquelle il demende 
une assemblé de parens et damy pour La nomination d'un tu- 
teur a Leon Lepage. 

La Cour a accordé au Sieur Lepage Suivant Sa demende. 
fr. saucier G. Blin 

1 No dmte given. 



COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1782 137 

At a Court, September 9, 1782. 
President Geo. Blin. Louis Lebrun. 

Pierre Grandmont. Gabriel Baron. 

Bte. Baron. Jean Bte. Dubuque. 

Bte. Alarie. Present. 

Gabriel Cerre, Plaintiff, vs. Ant. Harmand, Defendant. 
The plaintiff shows the Court that in virtue of the decree 
which was rendered against the defendant at the last Court, he 
had served notice of the said decree on the said defendant; but 
since he refused to pay his obligation, he prays for a writ of 
seizure on all the goods of the defendant and an execution in 
order to obtain full payment. 

The defendant answers that as to the item of a plantation 
which was adjudged him, he was ready to pay for that; but that he 
wishes to appeal to Virginia in regard to the negro, and prays 
that he be permitted to do so. 

Since the defendant was condemned at the last Court to pay his 
obligation, as was explained in the decree; and since he has not 
done so, the Court granted the plaintiff a writ of execution on the 
goods of the defendant in order that they be sold up to the sum 
of the obligation, interest and costs, saving to the defendant the 
right to appeal wherever it shall seem best to him. 
The Court adjourned to Thursday, October 8. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

President G. Blin. Louis Lebrun. 

Pierre Grandmont. Gabriel Baron. 

Bte. Baron. Bte. Dubuque. 

Bte. Alarie. Present.* 

Joseph Travercy appeared and took oath of fidelity and also 
that of sheriff of the Court. 

Joseph Lepage presents a petition, in which he prays for an 
assembly of relatives and friends to name a guardian for Leon 
Lepage. 

The Court granted this to M. Lepage according to his 
prayer. 

Fr. Saucier. G. Blin. 



138 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du 7" gbre 1782. 
Président G. Blin B*« Dubuque 

P. Granmon Gabriel baron 

L lebrun Present 

une requette présenté par M^ £r. trottier qui demende La vente de 
la maison de veuve lapierre, Suivant L'opignon des parrens et amy. 

La Cour a accordé aud^ Sieur trottier Suivant Sa demende. 

a tme même Cour xme Comission de procureur des Etat présenté 
par M' Labuxierre demendant Lenregistrement de la ditte Comis- 
sion dans Les registre de ce Siege, Et a prêté Serment de Son office. 

La Cour a accordé aud^ Sieiu* Labuxiere Suivant Sa demende. 

a ime même Coiu* Joseph Belcour Demende par une requette 
Son Ementipation dage pour Jouir de Ses Biens Et Se faire rendre 
Compte. 

La Cour a accordé aud^ Belcoiu* suivant Sa demende. 

Demendeiu- Louis trottier Deffendeur J. B*« Lacroix 

le demendeiu* poursuit Le deffendeur pour un Cochon quil 
Luy a Eté tué dans Prairie comme ayant Passé par sa Cloture. 

Le deffendeiu* repond que le même Jour que les Cochon ont 
passé par les Cloture quil y avoir deux autre Brèche aux autre 
autre [sic] cloture une a celle de L. trottier Et a celle de 
cadien une autre Et quil pouroit Ce faire que Les Cochons 
aiu'oit par d'autre Brèche que par celle de sa Cloture, Le 
demendeiu* fait Serment quil na rien passé par La Brèche de 
Sa Cloture m' Gagné fesant La visite Ce Jour La ayant paru 
a fait Serment quil ne Se point aperçu quil auroit passé de 
Cochon par dautre Cloture que Celle de J" B*® Lacroix. 

Vue Des demendes et deffance le Sertificat de louis trottier La 
declaration de raphael Gagé Son Serment La Cour a Condanné Le 
deffendeur a rendre un Cochon pareil au deffendeur ou a luy payer, 
démendeur L. trottier Deffendeur B*« Saucier 

a une même Cour le démendeur poursuit le deffendeur pour 
un Cochon qui a passé par la Bariere Comme Son nègre en est 
le gardien. 

^ The comrol<%sion U printed on p. 487. 

3 The gale was situated near the village close to the Jarrot house, which at the present 
time is used as a convent school, and gave entrance to the common field. 




COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1782 139 

At a Court, November 7, 1782. 
President G. Blin. Bte. Dubuque. 

P. Grandmont. Gabriel Baron. 

L. Lebrun. Present. 

A petition presented by M. Fr. Trottier, in which he prays for 
the sale of the house of Madame Lapierre, widow, in accordance 
with the vote of relatives and friends. 

The Court granted this to M. Trottier according to his prayer. 

At the same -Court a commission of state's attorney was pre- 
sented by M. Labuxiere, who prays for the registry of the said com- 
mission in the records of this Court; and he took oath of ofl&ce.* 

The Court granted this to M. Labuxiere according to his prayer. 

At the same Court Joseph Belcour prays by petition for his 
writ of livery to enjoy his property and to have accotmt rendered. 

The Court granted this to the said Belcour according to his 
prayer. 

Louis Trottier, Plaintiff, vs. Jean Bte. LaCroix, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for a pig of his, which was 
killed in the prairie, and declares that it passed through the de- 
fendant's fence. 

The defendant answers that on the same day that the pigs 
passed through the fence there were two other breaks in other 
fences, one in L. Trottier's and another in Cadien's and points 
out that it might have happened that the pigs passed through 
another gap than through that in his fence. The plaintiff made 
oath that nothing passed through the gap in his fence. M. 
Gagné, who made the inspection that day, appeared and made 
oath that he had not seen the pigs pass through other fences than 
that of Jean Bte. LaCroix. 

In view of the prayers, the defence, the certificate of Louis 
Trottier and the declaration under oath of Raphael Gagné, the 
Court condemned the defendant to deliver a similar pig to the 
plaintiff or to pay him 

L. Trottier, Plaintiff, vs. Bte. Saucier, Defendant. 

At the same Court the plaintiff sues the defendant for a pig, which 
passed the gate,' of which the defendant's negro is the guardian. 



I40 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Le deffendeur repond que led* Cochon a profité du moment 
que legre [sic] ouvroit la Bariere au charette qui vont Et viene 
Et néanmoins il auroit fait Son possible ainsi que le fis de Jo^ 
mesonville a empêcher de passer led* Cochon a quoy il n'ont 
pas réussir. 

Le deffendeur produit un Sertificat de m^ laflame qui declare 
que le nègre a fait tout Son possible pour ramener Led* Cochon 
ainsi que les Enfans dud* demendeur Et quelle auroit entendu 
dire par M^ trottier revené La truye reviendra Sessoir. 

Veu Les demendes Et dcffence Le Sertificat La Cour a Con- 
danné le demendeur a perdre Son Cochon vue que Cest une 
chose que Ton a pas pu prévoir Et en outre que Sa femme ne 
devoit pas les rapeller, Et faire que peut Etre il auroit ramener 
Led* Cochon. 

La Cour Est ajourné a jeudy 7, Dexenber 1782. 

fr. saucier dark. G Blin 

a une Cour du 27 Qbre Extraordinaire. 
Président Geo. Blin Louis lebrun 

pierre Granmon Gabriel Baron 

B*« Baron B*« Dubuque 

Present 
Demendeur M*^* Beaulueu Deffendeur ant armant 
Le demendeiu* poursuit le deffendeur pour une somme de 
quartorze cent livres En pelleterie qui luy Sont due, Et Echu de- 
puis quelque tems. 

Le deffendeur repond qui ne luy Est pas possible de faire cette 
Somme vue L'impossibilité de trouver de la pelleterie Et que 
qu'une même Sil venderais tous Ses Biens il ne Suffiroit pas pour 
faire Laditte Somme. 

La Cour a ordonné au Deffendeur de prendre des arenge- 
ment avec le demendeur. 

Le deffendeur a prix des arrengement avec m' trottier a qui 
qui Le demendeur Doit pour La ditte Somme et est par ce moyen 
liquider avec le demendeur. 

f . saucier dark G Blin 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1782 141 

The defendant answers that the said pig profited by the mo- 
ment that the negro opened the gate for a cart which goes and 
comes, and yet the negro had done his best, as had also the son of 
Jos. Maisonville, to hinder the said pig from passing, in which 
they had not succeeded. 

The defendant produces a certificate by Madame Laflamme, in 
which she declares that the negro and also the children of the said 
plaintiff did their very best to drive the pig back; and that she had 
heard Madame Trottier say: "Come back, the sow will return 
this evening". 

Considering the demands, the defence and the certificate, the 
Court condemned the plaintiff to lose his pig, seeing that what had 
happened could not be foreseen, and furthermore that his wife 
ought not to have recalled the children, and ought to have acted 
so that they might, perhaps, have brought the said pig back. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, December 7, 1782. 
Fr. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

At a special session of the Court, November 27. 
President Geo. Blin. Louis Lebrun. 

« 

Pierre Grandmont. Gabriel Baron. 

Bte. Baron. Bte. Dubuque. 

Present. 
Madame Beaulieu, Plaintiff, vs. Ant. Harmand, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for the sum of fourteen htm- 
dred livres in peltries, which are due her and since some time fallen 
due. 

The defendant answers that it is impossible to make up this 
sum because of the impossibility of finding peltries and that even 
if he sold all his property, it would not be sufl&cient to make up the 
said sum. 

The Court ordered the defendant to make some arrangement 
with the plaintiff. 

The defendant made arrangements with M. Trottier, to 
whom the plaintiff is indebted for this sum, and who will settle 
with the plaintiff by this means. 

F. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 



142 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

a une Cour 14 xbre par extraordinaire. 
Président George Blin Louis Lebrun 

pierre Granmon J"* B** Dubuque 

Present 
Demendeur rené Bouvet Deffendeur Louigau 

Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur pour avoir Sans Luy 
avoir porté aucune plainte contre Son nègre Et Luy avoir donné 
un Si mauvais Coup a la tête D'un Coup de Baton qui le 
m'est or detat de travaillé, Et demende quil soit trété au depend 
du deffendeur, Et le tor que sela luy fait étant dans Des 
travaux. 

Le deffendeur repond quil auroit frapé le nègre après luy avoir 
dit par différentes fois de sortir de chés Luy Comme il alloit de- 
mende a Son frère ce quil luy devoit Et que n 'ayant pas voulu Le 
faire il L 'auroit frapé. 

Le demendeur représente que le Deffendeur n 'auroit pas 
due frapé Son nègre d 'un Coup Si dangereux, Et que Si il 
luy etoit venue porté Ses plainte quil luy auroit donné toutte 
satisfaction. 

Le deffendeur repond que Si le nègre nut pas En Son absance 
pri deux rat de Bois malgré sa 'femme Sous Le prétexte que 
Cetoit son frère qui les avoit atrapé Et qui devoit au nègre du 
demendeiu*. 

Le nègre ayant paru a dit que M^^ Louigau Luy avoit dit de 
Les prendre et quil ne les auroit pas pris Sans Cela. 

Madame Louigau ayant paru a prêté Serment de dire La Vérité, 
Et a dit que le nègre est venu ches elle luy demendé ou etoit Son 
Beau frère, a qui il avoit Loué Son cheval pour de La viande Et 
que n 'ayant trouvé que deux rat de Bois Sur Sa table que Son 
Beau frère Luy avoit donné quil Les auroit pris malgré Elle, et 
Etant retourné une Seconde fois, ches elle Et après avoir répété 
a Son mari La façon d 'agir du nègre En Son absence, Et qu'après 
avoir dit au nègre de Sortir de chés Luy plusieur fois Et que 
n 'ayant pas voulu Le faire il L 'auroit frapé led* nègre. 

La Cour a ordonne que le deffendeur payeroit au demendeur 
Cinquante franc, pour avoir maltretté Son nègre de la façon quil 




COURT RECORD, DECEMBER, 1782 143 

At a special session of the Court, December 14. 
President, George Blin. Louis Lebrun. 

Pierre Grandmont. Jean Bte. Dubuque. 

Present. 
René Bouvet, Plaintiff, vs.Loxns Gaud, Defendant. 

The Plaintiff sues the defendant for having struck his negro, 
without having made any complaint against him, so severe a stroke 
on his head with a club that he could not work; and he prays 
that the negro be cured at the defendant's expense and that the 
latter pay him for the injury to his work, which that loss of time 
did him. 

The defendant answers that he had struck the negro after having 
told him several times to leave his house, when he demanded of 
his brother what the latter was owing him; and that, when the 
negro was unwilling to obey, he struck him. 

The plaintiff shows that the defendant ought not to have 
struck his negro so dangerous a blow, and that, if he had come 
to make complaint to him, he would have given entire satisfaction. 

The defendant answers that the negro should not have taken 
in his absence two raccoons in spite of his wife, under pretext 
that the defendant's brother, who was in debt to the plaintiff's 
negro, had trapped them. 

The negro appeared and said that Madame Louis Gaud had 
told him to take them, and that he would not have taken them 
otherwise. 

Madame Louis Gaud appeared and made oath to tell. the 
truth, and said that the negro came to her house and asked 
where her brother-in-law was, to whom he had let his horse in 
exchange for meat; and that having fotmd on her table only 
two raccoons, which her brother-in-law had given to her, he took 
them in spite of her; and when he returned a second time, 
after she had told her husband of the action of the negro in his 
absence, her husband told the negro several times to leave; and, 
when he wouldn't do it, he struck the said negro. 

The Court decreed that the defendant should pay the plaintiff 
fifty francs for having maltreated his negro in the way he did ; 



144 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

La fait Et Le demendeur fera Donné a Son nègre vingt cinq Coup 
de fouet poiu* punir insolance, et payeront Les fraix de Lextraor- 
dlnaire Entre eux deux. 

La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 2 Janvier. 

GBlin 

a une Cour du 3" avril 1783. 
Président G. Blin Louis lebrun 

B*® Baron Gabriel Baron 

B*« alary B*« Dubuque 

Present 

une requette présente par le Sieur fr. trottier demendant a la 
Cour quayant Eté nomé avec Les Sieurs Cecire Beaullieu et nicol 
pour lexecution du testament de feu portemay, et que par le decés 
de Ses trois dernière il nauroit pu rien faire a Ce Sujet et que Com- 
me le feu Sieur Beaulieu En Etoit Lexecuteur testamenter il Suplie 
Laditte Cour de vouloir Bien En nomer d 'autre aflin de visiter 
Les Comptes dud* sieur Beaullieu a Ce Sujet Et luy faire rendre 
Compte Suivant Comme Le Cas L 'exige; demende En outre led* 
Sieiu* trottier par Sa ditte requette que Se trouvant obligé par Ses 
affaires de quitter Le village pour quelque tems il il [sic] prie très 
humblement Laditte Cour de vouloir Bien luy tenir de lieu et place 
En Sa qualité de Comd* aud* lieu, poiu* mintenir La Bonne 
intelligence Et Lunion telle quelle a toujour régné. 

La Cour a nomé a Leffet de L 'execution du testament de feu 
portemay Les Sieur B*® LaCroix G. Blin Et B*® Saucier Suivant 
La Demende du Sieiu* trottier accorde ainsi que Ses autres de- 
mendes. 

a une même Cour le Sieiu* pierre roy, porte plainte, que plusieurs 
habitant refuse de faire Cloture Commune, Ettant obligé d'en 
faire Comme d 'autre, au non et Comme Sindic. 

La Cour a ordonné au Sindic de faire faire Les dittes Clotures au 
depans de ceux qui le refuse, Lotorizant par nôtre ordre de le faire. 

La Cour Est ajourné au i*® de may Jeudy. 

fr. saucier Clark. G. Blin 

' Nicolie was poisoned in 1778. Michel Palmier called Beaulieu died in 1780 and 
Joseph Cesirce about 17 79- 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1783 145 

and that the plaintiff have his negro given twenty-five strokes 
with the whip to punish his insolence; and that both shall 
pay the costs of the special session. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, January 2. 

G. Blin. 

At a Court, April 3, 1783. 
President, G. Blin. Louis Lebrun. 

Eté. Baron. Gabriel Baron. 

Bte. Alarie. Bte. Dubuque. 

Present. 
A petition presented by M. Fr. Trottier, in which he prays the 
Court, since he had been named with MM. Cesirre,* Beaulieu 
and NicoUe to execute the last will and testament of the late 
Portemay, and by the decease of these last three he had been able 
to do nothing in the matter, and since M. Beaulieu was the testa- 
mentary executor, that the said Court be willing to name another 
to examine the accounts of the said M. Beaulieu in the case 
and to have account rendered to him, as the case requires. 
Furthermore the said M. Trottier prays the Court very humbly 
that, since he is obliged by his private affairs to leave the 
village for some time, the said Court will take his place as 
commandant of the said village in order to maintain good har- 
mony and union, such as has always reigned.* 

The Court named with a view to the execution of the last 
will and testament of the late Portemay MM. Bte. Lacroix, G. 
Blin, and Bte. Saucier, in accordance with the prayer of M. 
Trottier, and granted him also his other prayers. 

At the same Court Pierre Roy, personally and in his oflB.ce as syn- 
dic, makes complaint that several inhaitants refuse to build the com- 
mon fence, although obliged to make part of it as are the others. 

The Court ordered the syndic to have the said fences made at the 
expense of those who refuse, authorizing him by our order to do so. 
The Court adjourned to Thursday, May i. 
Fr. Saucier, Clerk. G. Blin. 

* Trottier was prrF>aring to go to Kentucky to appear before the Virginia commissioners 
to prove his and his neighbors' daims to payment for supplies furnished the Virginia troops. 
See Introduction^ pp. cziz. et stq. 



146 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du 8 may. 
Président B*« dubuc B^« alary 

B*« Baron Ga^ Baron 

Present 
un [sic] requette présenté a la Cour par philipe Laflame représen- 
tant que Comme il ny a point Eu D'invantaire de faitte des Biens 
delessé par feu Charle Laflame Son père Lorsque marie Joseph 
Larché Ses [sic] remarié En Seconde noce Son age ne luy per- 
mettent point de prendre Ses propre interest, il demante quil soit 
Elu im Curateur, Et que led* invantaire Soit fait. Pour parvenir a 
partage. 

La Cour accordé a la demende de philipe Laflame. 
La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 22 du Cour*, 
fr. saucier Clark B Dubuque 

a ime Cour du 26 may 1 783 . 
B** Dubuque B*« alary 

Pierre Granmon Louis lebrun 

B** Baron Gabriel Baron 

Present 
La Cour Etant assemblé pour prendre les Serment des Sieurs 
Jos** Bellefeuil Louis lebrun fr Courié Jen. B*® dehay, ant La- 
marche, pierre Quenel, et Jo** Lapencé, pour prendre leur place En 
qualité de majistrat ayant Eté nomé par le Sufrage des voix pour 
remplacer les Encien majistrat. Les Susdit S*^ Bellefeuil lebrun 
Courié dehay Lamarche quenel Et Lapancé ayant paru ont pris le 
Serment de fidélité ainsi que Celuy d 'office Et ont pris leurs Place 
En qualité de majistrat. 

a une même Court Joseph traversy a prix le Serment de fldelité 
Et doflce de Bailif de la ditte Cour. 

fr. saucier a prix le Serment de fidélité ainsi que celuy d 'office 
En qualité de Greffier de la ditte Coiu*. 

a une même Cour une requette présenté par Gabriel Baron 
tant en Son nom que Comme ayant Epousé Marie Louise Butau 
demendant que le retrait liage Soit accordé a Sa femme en faveur 
dime maison que M^ Butau Son père a vendu au S*^ Lacroix 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1783 147 

At a Court, May 8. 
President, Bte. Dubuque. Bte. Alarie. 
Bte. Baron. Gabriel Baron. 

Present. 
A petition presented in Court by Philippe Laflamme showing 
that there never was made in fact an inventory of the property 
left by hi» father, the late Charles Laflamme, when Marie 
Joseph Larché entered into second marriage, since his age did not 
permit him to look after his own interests; and he prays that a 
curator be elected and the said inventory be made in order to 
arrive at a partition. 

The Court granted the prayer of Philippe Laflamme. 
The Court adjourned to Thursday, the 22nd of the present 
month. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. B. Dubuque. 

At a Court, May 26, 1783. 
Bte. Dubuque. Bte. Alarie. 

Pierre Grandmont. Louis Lebrun. 

Bte. Baron. Gabriel Baron. 

Present. 
The Court assembled to receive the oaths of MM. Jos. 
Belief euil, Louis Lebrun, Fr. Courier, Jean Bte. Deshayes, 
Ant. Lamarche, Pierre Quenel and Jos. Lapancé that they 
may take their places as magistrates, having been elected by 
the votes to replace the former magistrates. The above men- 
tioned MM. Belief euil, Lebrun, Courier, Deshayes, Lamar- 
che, Quenel and Lapancé appeared and took the oath of 
fidelity and also that of office and took their places as magis- 
trates. 

At the same Court Joseph Traversey took the oath of fidelity 
and of office as bailiff of this Court. 

Fr. Saucier took the oath of fidelity and also that of office 
as clerk of the said Court. 

At the same Court a petition presented by Gabriel Baron 
both in his name and as having married Marie Louise Buteau, in 
which he prays that the right of lineage repurchase of a house be 



148 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Comme Etant le propre heritage de Sa mere qui ne doit point 
sortir de la famille en remboursant le prix dachat, aux même 
terme Et Condition quil La acheté. 

La Cour a ordonné que Gabriel Baron aura La possession de 
laditte maison Et remboursera au S*^ Lacroix le prix dachat au 
même terme et Condition quil L 'a acquis. 

Le Sieur Butau ayant paru a demendé a la Cour Si il Luy 
auroit Eté permis de ventre Sa maison a un de Ses Enfans que Son 
intention Etoit de le faire, mais ayant Ecrit a M*" Labuxiere (auffet 
des Loix) a ce Sujet et quil luy auroit dit quil ne pouvoit pas le 
faire. 

La Cour a renvoyé la présente affaire a Jeudy prochain netant 
point de Sa Competance ou L 'on y fera paroitre Monsieiu* Labux- 
iere. 

La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 5 Juin, 
fr. saucier Greffier pierre quenel 

a tme Cour du 5 Juin 1783. 
président pierre Quenel Louis lebrun 

fr. Courrié Joseph lapancé 

ant Lamarche Joseph Bellefeuil 

Jn B^« Dehay Présent 

Joseph Belfeuil ayant paru a prêté le Serment de fidélité, aux 
Etats, ainsi que Celuy de majistrat Et a pris Sa place En sa dite 
qualité de majistrat. 

TRAVERSY Demendcur pour m*" reynal deffendeur m*" 

Granmon. 
Le demendeur poursuit le deffendeur pour un Compte de medi- 
cament montant a 27^^ Le deffendeur repond quil na point de 
Connoissance du d* Compte qu 'en partie, offrant dans faire 
Serment. 

La Cour a renvoyé Le present procès a la cour prochaine ou 
M'', reynald paroirtra pour prouver son Compte. 

* The ** retrait lignager** (inconrctly spelled in the Record) was a survival in French law 

Jrom more primitive times, when property belonged to the family. After the individual's land 

was separated from that of the family, it might be alienated by sale, but according to the 

right of retrait lignager the nearest of kin might rcpucchase the land by repaying the purchase 

money. Other methods of alienation of limd were not subject to this right. The retrait 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1783 149 

granted to his wife.' The petitioners explain that their father 
sold the house to M. LaCroix, although it was the heritage of 
their mother and should not have gone out of the family; and 
that they are ready to pay back to M. LaCroix the purchase 
money on the same terms and conditions that he bought it. 

The Court ordered that Gabriel Baron shall have the possession 
of the said house and shall repay to M. LaCroix the purchase 
price on the same terms and conditions, that he bought it. 

M. Buteau appeared and asked the Court if he would be per- 
mitted to sell his house to one of his children. He says that he 
intended to do so, but wrote on the subject to M. Labuxiere, who 
is acquainted with the law, and who said that he could not do so.' 

The Court, not being competent to answer, postponed the 
present affair to next Thursday, at which time they will have M. 
Labuxiere appear. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, Jtme 5. 
Fr. Saucier, Clerk. Pierre Quenel. 

At a Court, Jime 5, 1783. 
President Pierre Quenel. Louis Lebrun. 

Fr. Courier. Joseph Lapancé. 

Ant. Lamarche. Joseph Bellefeuil. 

Jn. Bte. Deshayes. Present. 

Joseph Bellefeuil appeared and took the oath of fidelity to the 
States and also that of magistrate and took his place as magistrate. 
Traversy, Plaintiff for M. Reynal, 

vs, M. Grandmont, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for an accoimt for medicine 
amounting to 27 livres. The defendant answers that he has no 
knowledge of the said account except in part, and offers to take 
his oath thereto. 

The Court continued the present suit to the next Court, when 
M. Reynal will appear to prove his bill. 

lignager was abolished in July, 1^90. — De Farriere, Coutume de Paris, ii., 587 el seq.\ 
Viollet, Hist, du droit civil Françau, 609; Glasson, Hist, du droit ef des instituttons de la 
France, vii., 561 el seq. 

> Probably because of the complexity of legal rights growing out of the union of two or 
more communities of goods. 



ISO ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Demendeur traversy pour M. reynal deffendeur, M*^®. 

Henson 

Le demendeur poursuit le deffendeur pour une Somme de 
Cent huit livres suivant im Compte de medicament.pour la maladie 
de feu Son marie Et pour Eux. 

le deffendeur a Etté assigné de paroitre pour deffendre Sa 
Cause Et nayant point paru La Cour a ordonné que led*« [sic] 
deffendeur payera Le demendeur Suivant son Compte. 

Demendeur B*« dumay Deffendeur pierre malet 

Le demendeur poursuit le deffendeur disant quil auroit at- 
trapé un poullin au bout de la prairie de legle Sous le pretex dit 
il quil le Croyoit maron Et Comme Se poulin n *a Eté réclamé 
de personne Et que le demendeur a En perdu un de même age 
Et Couleur en Consequence il produit a la Cour deux Sertiôcat 
qui disent avoir vue a la Suitte de la Jument du demendeur un 
pareil poulin de même age Et Couleur que celuy que le deffendeur 
a attrapé. 

La Coiu* a ordonné au deffendeur a livrer au demendeur Led* 
poulin, Comme paroissant luy appartenir Et a deffendu aud* 
deffendeur de ne prendre aucun animal Dans la Comune point 
marqué qui ne Soit Bien Sur quil luy appartienne nayant Eu 
aucun droit de prendre celuy cy. Et au deffendeur a payer 
Les fraix. 

a une même Cour une requette présenté par Gabriel Baron 
Et sa femme qui demende Lexecution de la Sentance rendu par 
laditte Coiu* au Bas dune requette qui demende le retrait Lignager 
des Biens fonds vendu par le S*" Butau Leur père au S^ Lacroix. 

En Consequence la Cour a ordonné quil Sera Siniûé au Sieur 
turgeon de Déguerpir de laditte maison Sans delay moyenant que 
les retreyanc luy fourniront un Logement pour trois mois telle que 
led* Baron loffre dans Sa ditte requette En datte de Ce Jour, notre 
oppignon Etant qui ne Soit pas nécessaire quil Soit només arbi- 
trages, La Loix Décidant Clerment de Ce Cas. 

La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 2*® de Juillet. 

fr. saucier Clark pierre quenel president 

' See suprot p. 149. 




COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1783 151 

Traversy, Plaintiff for M. Reynal, 

vs. Madame Henson, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for the sum of one hundred 
and eight livres according to an account for medicine for the 
sickness of her late husband and for herself. 

The defendant was summoned to appear and defend her cause; 
and not appearing, the Court ordered that the said defendant 
shall pay the plaintiff according to his accoimt. 

Bte. Dumay, Plaintiff, vs, Pierre Mallet, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant, saying that the latter had 
caught a colt at the end of the Eagle Prairie pretending that he 
believed it wild; and since this colt had been reclaimed by no 
one and the plaintiff had lost one of the same age and color, he 
produced in Court two certificates from persons, who said that 
they had seen following the plaintiff's mare a similar colt of the 
same age and color as that which the defendant caught. 

The Court ordered the defendant to deliver to the plaintiff 
the said colt, since it appeared to belong to him, and forbade 
the defendant to take in the commons any immarked animal which 
he was not sure belonged to him, as he had no right to take 
this one; and ordered the defendant to pay the costs. 

At the same Court a petition presented by Gabriel Baron and 
his wife, in which they pray for the execution of the judgment 
rendered by the said Court at the bottom of a petition demanding 
the right of lineage repurchase of the landed property, which was 
sold by M. Buteau, their father, to M. Lacroix.* 

Accordingly the Court decreed that notice shall be given M. 
Turgeon to give up the possession of the said house without de- 
lay, in return for which the repurchasers shall furnish him lodgings 
for three months, such as the said Baron offers in the said 
petition dated this day. It is our opinion it is not necassary to 
name arbitrators, since the law decides clearly in this case.* 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, July 2. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. Pierre Quenel, President. 

2 One of the few cases where a body of law is mentioned. In this case the law referred 
to is the Coutume dt Paris. 



15a ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

a une Cour du i x Juin par Extraordinaire. 
La Cour a Eté assemblé au nom du public pour chaq 'im faire 
Homcr une quantité de terre dans la prairie du pont, Chaq 'un 
Suivant leur Besoin pour la culture, ainsi que pour La Comune. 
La Cour a dessidé, unanimement, quil Sera Dressé une acte Das- 
scmblé Signé des habitant ou les Limites des terres, Et autre Con- 
ventions Seront prescritte. 

a une Cour du 3** Juillet 1783. 
président pierre quenel J. B*« dehay 

fr. Courié Louis lebrun 

ant. Lamarche Pres^ 

Demcndeur Claude Gagné Deffendeiu- J B*« Gaffé 
Le dcmendcur poursuit le deffendeiu* pour une Somme de 
Cent Cincjuante livres En pelleterie pour avoir Eté Engagé par 
M. Brisbois son Comis pour aler Jusq'ua chicagou Suivant le 
mandat tirré Sur luy par son dit Comis. 

Le defTcndcur repond quil n'avoit point autorisé Son Comis 
a Engagé personne luy ayant donné le monde nécessaire pour 
le voyage Et que led* Demendeur auroit Son recoiu* sur son Com- 
mis pour ladittc Somme de Cinquante Ecus, Exépté trente livres 
En argent que le demendeur a Eté Convenu D'avoir poiu* aller 
Jusq*uapayssa. 

l-.a Cour a Condanné le deffendeur a payer au demendeur La 
Somme do Cinquante Ecus Suivant L'engagement du demendeur 
\vxr M. BrisBois Son Commis pour avoir Eté Jusqua chicagou y 
mener Ses voiture, Sauf au Deffendeur a avoir recoiu* Sur son 
Commis si il y a Eu tor de le faire, Et a payer les Fraix. 
Ia\ Cour Est ajourné aux 7^* aoust. 
fr. saucier Greffier, pierre quenel 

' 'llwrp AIT ivintrd in thb ntlume srvenl documents in rrgvxl to the settlemmt of Prairie 
du r^mt The n^ht <4 (hr nlUc^rs to the IxnA rr»trd on â cvmcrMii^ made to the Seminary 
<)f Kvri^n Mi«M.v\« i« June a. 17a». The nlbfrrs werr obliged to defend their tî^hta 
•(AÎQ4I vwr»l vM her cUimAQts, but anally the Und was cuourmed to them by the United States. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1783 153 

At a special session of the Court, June 11. 
The Court was assembled in the name of the public in order 
to have each establish the boundaries of a quantity of land in the 
Prairie du Pont according to his needs for cultivation, and also 
to lay out the commons. The Court decided imanimously that 
there shall be drawn up an act of assembly signed by the inhabi- 
tants, in which the limits of the lands and other agreements 
shall be written.^ 

At a Court, July 3, 1783. 
President, Pierre Quend. J. Bte. Deshayes. 

Fr. Courier. Louis Lebrun. 

Ant. Lamarche. Present. 

Claxtde Gagne, Plaintiff, vs. J. Bte. Gaffe, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for a sum of one hundred and 
fifty livres in peltries for a trip to Chicago, for which he was hired 
by M. Brisbois, the defendant's clerk, according to a draft 
drawn on the defendant by the said clerk. 

The defendant answers that he did not authorize his clerk to 

engage any one, since he had furnished him the men necessary for 

the journey; and that the said plaintiff should have recourse against 

. his clerk for the said sum of fifty ecus^ except thirty livres in cash, 

which the plaintiff has agreed to pay him for going to Pavssa.' 

The Court condemned the defendant to pay the plaintiff fifty 
ecusj in accordance with the agreement with the plaintiff made 
by M. Brisbois, the defendant's clerk, for conducting his boats 
to Chicago, reserving to the plaintiff the right of recourse against 
his clerk, if there was wrong in making the agreement, and to 
pay the costs. 

The Court adjourned to August 7. 

Fr. Saucier, Qerk. Pierre Quend. 

Amer. State Papen, Public Lands, ii., 194; this vol., pp. 88, 581. The court parceled the 
land among those who wished to settle there. See below, pp. 159, 565, 591. 

* Situated^about oppoAtt the mouth of the Missouri River. 



154 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

a une Cour du 4 çbre 1783. 
Président pierre Quenel Louis lebrun 

fr. Courier Jos^ Lapancé 

ant. Lamarche Près. 

Demendeur Clement alary Deffendeur Joseph Cecire 

Le demendeur poursuit le deffendeur Disant quayant Eu Son 
Enfant ches luy auquel Sa femme auroit porté tous ses soin 
pendant lespace de Six mois Et au bout duquel tems il auroit 
retirer son d* Enfant. Sans vouloir payer aud* demendeur Se 
qui convient pour Ses peines. 

Le deffendeur repond que Si il a Donné son Enfans a la femme 
du Demendeur que Ce na Eté que par les Solisitation de la femme 
du demendeur de prendre Son Enfans. disant que Cetoit le 
dernier Service quelle pouvoit rendre a Sa mere delver Son Enfans. 
Et quil ne luy en Couteroit rien. Et que néanmoins Son inten- 
tion netoit pas de lesser Son Enfans Sans Satisfaire les personnes 
qui En prenoit Soin. 

La Cour a Condanner le Deffendeur a payer Six cent Livres 
de farine pour Les Six mois que Son Enfans a Eté ches le demen- 
deur. Et a payer Les fraix. 

Demendeur m*"** durand deffendeur fr arnous 

le demendeur poursuit le deffendeur disant quayant Engagé 
le deffendeur pour aller dans riviere des Illinois moyenant un 
Cheval quil luy donnoit a Son retour, mais qu'en ayant reçue un 
dans la riviere des Illinois duquel il etoit Contant, Et qu'après 
il auroit dit au nomé Laforce chargé de faire La traitte pour le 
demendeur que Si il vouloit traitter un Cheval que les Sauvages 
avoit amené a eux [ ?], quil le changeroit avec durant, moyenent du 
retour, En consequence led^ cheval auroit Etoit acheté par led* 
Laforce Et qu'après il auroit Commender aud* francois de L'aller 
En ferger a luar Et de revenir Ensuitte au Canot Et a la 
traitte. Et que pandant Ce tems led* Cheval auroit Eté voler par 
les Sauvages. Et demende Que le cheval luy Soit payé par led* 
francois ou laforce. 

Le Deffendeur repond qu'en Effet il auroit dit au nomé Laf- 
force quil Changeroit Led* Cheval avec durant. Si il le vouloit 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMER, 1783 155 

At a Court, November 4, 1783. 
President, Pierre Quenel. Louis Lebrun. 

Fr. Courier. Jos. Lapancé. 

Ant. Lamarche. Present. 

Clement Alarie, Plaintiff, vs. Joseph Cesirre, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant saying that he has had the 
latter's child at his house, and that his wife gave it all her care 
for the space of six months and at the end of that time the de- 
fendant had taken his child away without being willing to pay 
what is right for their trouble. 

The defendant answers that if he gave his child to the defend- 
ant's wife, it was only because of her earnest request to take the 
child, saying that the last service she could render its mother 
was to bring up her child; and she said that it would cost him 
nothing; and yet he said that it was not his intention to leave his 
child at the plaintiff's without satisfying those who took care of it. 

The Court condemned the defendant to pay six hundred 
pounds of flour for the six months that his child was at the 
plaintiff's and to pay the costs. 

Marie Durand, Plaintiff, vs. Fr. Arnoux, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant, saying that he had engaged 
the defendant to go to the Illinois river in return for a horse, 
which he gave him upon his return; but that he had received 
one, with which he was content, at the Illinois River; and that 
after he had said to the named Laforce, who was commissioned 
to conduct the trade for the plaintiff, that if he wished to trade 
for a horse, which the savages had brought them, that he 
would trade it with Durand and get something to boot, the 
said horse had been bought by the said Laforce in conse- 
quence; and afterwards the latter had ordered the said François 
to go and tie it with withes and return immediately to the canoe 
and to his business; and that during this time the said horse had 
been stolen by the savages; and he demands that he be paid for 
the horse either by the said François or Laforce. 

The defendant answers that as a matter of fact he had said to 
the named Laforce that he would exchange the said horse with 



iS6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

mais que Comme durant ny Etoit point il nont fait auq'un 
Echange Sertin Et quil avoit a Get Effets Exécuter Les ordre 
dud^'Laforce, quil avoit mis le d* cheval ou il luy avoit Eté ordonné 
Et quapres Etre revenu au Canot led' Cheval auroit été repris par 
les Sauvages Suivant Comme il paroit puisquil na pas pu le 
retrouver Et dit quil ne pouvoit pas En repondre ayant fait Ce 
qu'on luy avoit ordonné. 

La Cour a Condanné led* demendeur a payer au deffendeur 
un Cheval tel quil Est Convenu Sauf avoir Son recour sur led' 
Laforce Si il a manqué a ce quil Etoit obligé de faire En Sa place 
Et a payer Les fraix. 

fr. saucier, Greffier pierre quenel 

a une Cour du 4 septbre 1783. 
Président pierre Quenel Louis lebrun 

francois Courié Jos** Lapancé 

ant. Lamarche Près' 

ime représentation fait a la cour par Mons. trottier disans que 
Sur les deffences qui ont Eté faitte par la ditte Cour de traitter de 
leau de vie au Sauvages dans le village sous peines de Confisca- 
tion, Et quayant Su par des plainte qu'on luy a porté que M^ 
Isaac Levy a fait fait [sic] traitter dans le village Et enivré tous 
Les Sauvages il auroit fait Saisir un tierson de tafia ches m^ Levy, 
Et Comme il n'en a fait auq'un usage, il demande a laditte Cour 
ce quelle ordonnera a ce Sujet La Cour a authorize M"^ trottier a 
faire Ce quil jugera a propos a Ce Sujet vue quil n'a fait quex- 
ecuter Les deffence qui ont Eté fait pour Ce Sujet. 
La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 2® S^^. 
f . saucier Greffier pierre quenel 

a une Cour du 29 Janvier 1784. 
Presid' J. B'« Lacroix J^ Lapancé 

]o^ Belfeuil J B'« Dehay 

Louis lebrun Present, 

ime requette présenté par m*" ant Girardin demandant que 
Chaque habitant fasse chaq'un Leur cloture Des terre quils ont 

^ I bave found no explanation for the ce^sation of the meetings of the court between 
September and January, rresident Quenel died during this period . 



COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1783 157 

Durand, if he wished it, but as Diu^nd was not there, they have 
not made any certain trade; and that he had in these matters 
executed the orders of the said Laforce, and had put the said horse, 
where he was ordered; and after he returned to the canoe, 
the said horse had been retaken by the savages, as it appeared, 
since he could not find it; and he said that he could not be held 
responsible, since he had done what they ordered. 

The Court condenmed the said plaintiff to pay the defendant 
a horse, such as he had agreed to give, reserving to him recourse 
against the said Laforce, if he has failed in what he was bound 
to do in his place; and to pay the costs. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. Pierre Quend. 

At a Court, September 4, 1783. 
President, Pierre Quenel. Louis Lebrun. 
François Courier. Jos. Lapancé. 

Ant. Lamarche. Present. 

A report made to the Court by M. Trottier, in which he says 
that on accoimt of the prohibitions which were made by the said 
Court in regard to trading in liquors with the savages in the vil- 
lage under pain of confiscation, and because he had learned from 
complaints made to him that M. Isaac Levy was carrying on 
trade in the village and intoxicating all the savages, he had caused 
the seizure of a cask of tafia at the house of M. Levy; and as he 
has made no other use of it, he asked the said Court what it will 
decree on this subject. The Court authorized M. Trottier to do 
what he shall judge best in this matter seeing that he had only 
put into execution the prohibition which had been made. 
The Court adjoiuned to Thursday, October 2. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. Pierre Quenel. 

At a Court, January 29, 1784.^ 
President, J. Bte LaCroix. J. Lapancé. 
Jos. BeUefeuil. Jean Bte. Deshayes. 

Louis Lebrun. Present. 

A petition presented by M. Ant. Girardin, in which he prays 
that each inhabitant should make his own fence along the front 
of the land which he has taken up in Prairie du Pont, and that the 



158 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

pris dans la prairie du ponds Et chaq'un Sur La deventure a 
leur terre Et que la Cour aye a ordonné auxd'* habitant un tems 
fixe pour lad*** cloture Et que les vielle Cloture du cul de Sac Se 
relevé pour Etre transporté au bout des autres. 

La Cour a ordonné que chaque habitant qui ont pris des terres 
dans La prairie du pond y fasse Leur Cloture dicy a la fin d'avril, 
Et Quêtant qu'au trensport des vielle Cloture il En cera décidé 
par la pluralité des voix des habitant qui ont des terres dans le cul 
de Sac pour Eviter toutte dificulté. 

La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 5 de février 1784. 

a une Cour du i avril, 1784. 
Près*** J. B*® Lacroix Louis lebrun 

fr. Courrié J^ Lapancé 

ant Lamarche J^ Belfeuil 

J. B*« Dehay Present 

La Etant assemblé pour prendre le Serment de fidélité ainsi 
que celuy d'huissier de la Cour, de Caspar Marchand. 

Caspar Marchand ayant paru a prêté Serment de fidelté ainsi 
que Celuy Dhuissié de la Cour. 

Demendeur B*® dumay Deffendeur pierre malet 
Le demendeur fait Sa représentation a la cour Contre Le 
Deffendeur disant qu'en vertu d'une santance rendu le 5 de 
Juin Dernier Contre led* Deffendeur au Sujet d'un Cheval quil 
a Eté ConDanné par Laditte Sentance a Luy rendre Et quaprés 
il auroit Changé pour une vache, mais quU y a quelque Jour que 
led* Deffendeur Est venu ches Luy prendre Laditte vache malgré 
Luy Et la mené ches Thomas Brady. 

La Cour a ordonné que la vache du demendeur Soyt par Le 
demendeur remené a l'endroit ou Elle a Eté prise, Sous vingt 
quatre heurs Et Condanné a payé tout fray Depend domage Et 
intérêt, Et En outre Laditte vache Sur Ses risques Jusqua ce quelle 
Soit remiser. 

Demandeur J. B** Gaffe' Deffendeur Th. Brady 
a une même Cour Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur 
disant, quil auroit a la demende dud* deffendeur Lessé son cheval 

1 See supra p. 153, note i. 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1784 159 

Court should fix for the said inhabitants a limit of time to make 
the said fence; and that the old fence of the cid de sac be taken 
up and moved to the end of the others. 

The Court decreed that each inhabitant, who has taken up 
land in the Prairie du Pont, should build his fence there between 
now and the end of April; and, in order to avoid all difficulties, 
that it shall be decided by the plurality of the votes of the inhabi- 
tants, who have land in the cul de sac, in regard to removing 
the old fence.* 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, February 5, 1784. 

At a Court, April i, 1784. 
President, Jean Bte. LaCroix. Louis Lebrun. 
Fr. Courier. Jos. Lapancé. 

Ant. Lamarche. J. Belief euU. 

Jean Bte. Deshayes. Present. 

The Court assembled to receive the oath of fidelity and also 
that of huissier of the Court from Gaspard Marchand. 

Gaspard Marchand appeared and took the oath of fidelity 
and also that of huissier of the Court. 

Bte. Dumay, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre Mallet, Defendant. 
The plaintiff makes his representation to the Court against 
the defendant, in which he says that, by virtue of a decree 
rendered the 5th of June last against the said defendant, he had 
been condemned to deliver to the plaintiff a horse, which after- 
wards the latter had exchanged for a cow; but that a few days 
ago the said defendant came to his house and took the said 
cow in spite of him and had led it to Thomas Brady's. 

The Court decreed that the plaintiff's cow be brought back 
within twenty-four hours by the defendant to the place from which 
he had taken it; and condemned him to pay all costs, expenses, 
damages and interest; and furthermore that he should be respon- 
sible for the cow imtil it was returned. 

J. Bte. Gaffé, Plaintiff, v5. Thomas Brady, Defendant. 
At the same Court the plaintiff sues the defendant, saving that 
he had, at the request of the said defendant, left his horse in 
the latter 's care at his house, on condition that he would take 



i6o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

pour en prendre soin ches Luy Sous Les Condition quil prendroit 
trois voyage de foin dans La Grange de B*® Saucier. Et quapres 
40 ou 45 Jour il Luy auroit rendu son d* Cheval disant quil 
n'avoit plus de foin. En Consequence Le demendeur représente 
quil nest pas possible quen ci peu de tems Son cheval aye pue 
menger tout Ce foin Et quen outre, il auroit Eté déjà arbitrer pour 
Cette affaire par les Sieurs J. B^* Lacroix pascal Pillet Henry 
Biron Et Joseph Bissonette ou led* deffendeur naurait pas voulu 
paroitre que Dans les deux voyage de foin que led* deffendeur 
avoit Enlevé il En pouvoit avoir le moin trois Edemy [sic] par le 
tems quil a Eté Dans La grande Et vue La differance quil y a 
venant des champs. 

Le deffendeur ne repond autre Chose Sinon quil Luy Soit per- 
mis de nomer Des arbitres ainsi que sa partie adverse pour decider 
Leur Differanc. La Cour a accordé a sa demende Et ardonné 
[sic] que Celuy qui perderoit par Larbitrage payeroit Les fraix 
de Justice. 

La Cour Est ajourné au 6 de may prochain, 
fr saucier Greffier J B H LaCroix 

a une Cour du 13** avril 1784 Par Extraordinaire. 
Président J B*® Lacroix Louis lebrun 

ant Lamarche Jo^ Lapancé 

J B*« Dehay p Belfeuil 

Présente 
une requette représenté par philipe Gervais disant qu'au nom 
Et Comme Subrogé tuteur de leon lepage il demende quil soit 
nomé une personne pour faire Le recouvrement de L'encan 
présentement Echu. 

La Cour a ordonné quil soit fait une assemblé de parans Et 
damis pour le Contenue En La ditte requette. 

1 The method of arbitration for ending litif^ation was very common under French law. 
and frequent examples of the procedure occur m the Record. The great majority of civil 
suits might be arbitrated, exceptions being such as the spiritual rignts of benefices, the 
status of persons, validity of marriages, etc. It was required that both parties a^^ree to 
submit their dispute to arbitrators, who were obliged to render their decision within a 
determined time. One or more persons were chosen by the parties to act in this capacity. 
These were empowered, if the number of arbitrators was even, to choose another All free 
males of sound mind and of age might act, but judges in whose court the suit was pending 
were debarred. A.s far as the persons of the litigants and the question in dispute were con- 
oemed the arbitrators had the same powers as judges; but they could not constrain witnesses 
to appear before them. They might base their oecision on other considerations than exact 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1784 161 

three loads of hay in Bte. Saucier's bam; and that after 40 or 
45 days he had brought the horse back to him, saying that he 
had no more hay. Accordingly the 'plaintiff shows that it is 
impossible that his horse could have eaten in so short a time 
all that hay; and furthermore that this cause would have been 
already arbitrated by MM. J. Bte. LaCroix, Pascal Pillet, Henry 
Biron and Joseph Bissonette, if the defendant had not been 
unwilling to appear. Furthermore he says that the defendant 
could have taken three and a half loads of hav in the two load- 
ings, judging by the time it had bj^n in the bam and considering 
the difference there is between such and that coming from the 
ffelds. 

The defendant makes no other answer than to request that 
he be permitted to name arbitrators, as well as his opponent, to 
decide their difference. The Court granted his request and 
ordered that the one losing by arbitration should pay the costs of 
justice.* 

The Court adjoumed to the 6th of May next. 
Fr. Saucier, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix. 

At a special session of the Court, April 13, 1784. 
President, J. Bte. LaCroix. Louis Lebrun. 
Ant. Lamarche. Jos. Lapancé. 

J. Bte. Deshayes. Jos. Bellefeuil. 

Present. 
A petition presented by Philippe Gervais, in which he says that 
in the name and as surrogate guardian of Leon Lepage he prays 
that there be named some one to make recovery of the notes given 
at the auction, now due.' 

The Court ordered that there be held an assembly of relatives 
and friends to decide on what is contained in this petition. 

justice. They mi^ht, also, make either of the litigants take oath and permit their dedaioii to 
turn thereon, as did the judges. They had no power to put their verdict into execution. This 
was done by the judge who confirmed it. Appeal was permitted to either party, provided he 
had not signed the verdict. Jousse, TraUU de V administration de la justice^ il., 683 el Mf. 
This method of deciding suits, to which the French were accustomed, was adopted by 
the British commandants in Uie Northwest.who were empowered by their government to take 
diarge of both the military and dvil matters in their localities. — Howard, Local Constitutional 
History of the United States, i., 430. ^ 

' It appears to have been the common custom to gite credit to the purchasers of goods at 
auctiona. 



i62 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

a une même Cour une requeue présenté par mad* veuve Le- 
page demendant de ce décharge de la tutelle des mineurs Barsa- 
lous dont Son deffunt marie Etoit Chargé. 

La Cour ayant Examiné que les dit mineurs Barsalou nont 
point de parans plus près que le S' ant Boyé Elle Conclu quil 
Soit Chargé de la ditte tutelle Et que m^ V® Lepage En Soit 
Déchargé. 

a une même Cour une requette présenté par mad® G Blin 
demendant quil soit nomé une personne pour Lexecution testa- 
mentaire de Michel Gaudimcire Dont son deffunt marie Etoit 
Chargé. 

La Cour ayant Examiné quil ny avoit personne plus Cap- 
able que M*" J B^® Lacroix pour substitué au Lieu et place du def. 
Sieur Blin, En Consequence Elle la nomé pour laditte Execution. 
Demendeur pierre roy Deffendeur Jo*^ Lember 

Le demendeur poursuit le deffendeur pour un Billet quil luy 
a Consenty, Sous sa marque fait En pelleterie, mais Comme Led* 
deffendeur croyoit Le devoir en argent, il demende au deffendeur 
de faire Serment que les Effest quil luy a Vendu que Se soye 
En pelleterie quil Le Luy a vendu Le deffendeur ne voulant 
pas faire serment a Diminuer moitié Sur led* Billet. Et Le 
deffendeur a payer Les fraix. 

a une même Cour fr. Saucier porte plainte que Bien Des per- 
sonne Se refuse a payer Les fraix de Justice, En Consequence il 
demende a la Cour quil Soit maitre de Ce faire payer par Celuy 
qui ataquera quelque procès Si il Est plus En Etat de payer 
ou maitre Dexiger un Cotion Des parties pour repondre Des 
fraix Et tous Les fraix payer En pelleterie suivant L'encien 
tarifa 

fr. saucier J B H LaCroix. 

' A note for peltries was worth half as much as one for a similar amount of money. 
The ccmnection of the oath with the case is not clear, but no proof was needed, since the note 
was made out for peltries. 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1784 163 

At the same Court a petition presented by Madame Lepage, 
widow, praying for her discharge from the guardianship of the 
minors Barsalous, with which her deceased husband had been 
intrusted. 

The Court having inquired and learned that the said minors 
Barsalous have no relative closer than M. Ant. Boyer, decided 
that he be charged with the said guardianship, and that Madame 
Lepage be discharged. 

At the same Court a petition presented by Madame G. Blin 
praying that there be named some one to put into execution the 
will of Michel Guadimcire, with which her deceased husband was 
intrusted. 

The Court, after inquiry, decided that there was no person 
more fitted to be substituted for M. Blin than M. J. Bte. Lacroix, 
and therefore appointed him to put into execution the said will. 
Pierre Roy, Plaintiff, vs. Jos. Lember, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for a note to which he has 
consented over his mark, and which is made out for peltries; but 
as the defendant [plaintiff?] believes that the debt is in money, 
he demands that the defendant make oath that the goods which 

* 

the plaintiff sold him were sold for peltries. The defendant 
not wishing to make oath has diminished his note by half.^ 
The defendant was condemned to pay the costs. 

At the same Court Fr. Saucier brings complaint that many 
persons refuse to pay the costs of justice, and he therefore prays 
the Court that he be empowered to make the party bringing any 
suit pay, if he is better able to pay, or be empowered to exact 
surety from the parties to answer for the costs and that all costs 
be paid in peltries according to the former rate.* 

Fr. Saucier. J. B. H. LaCroix. 

' The practice of making the most responsible party i>ay the cost of the suit caused great 
criticism at Vincennes, but in Cahokia the rule, which commonly prevailed from now on, that 
the successful litigant iMiy the costs and be reimbursed by the loser seems to have worked with* 
out friction, or. at least, did not hinder litigation. 



i64 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Court du 6** may 1784. 
Président, J. B** Lacroix Louis lebnin 

fr. Courrié Jos** Lapance 

J B** Dehay ant. Lamarche 

Près* 
Demendeur J B*« Lacroix Deffendeur fr. Gerome 

Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur pour une somme de 
douze Livres quinze Sols pour sa part d*un tierçon de vin Dont 
plusieurs autres En ont payé Leur part Et Comme led* deffend- 
eur si Est trouvé Le demendeur Demende Egalement sa Code 
par. 

Le deffendeur repond que Si paul poupar ne Lut inviter de 
Si trouver sans luy dire ce quil luy En couteroit ni même qui devoit 
Luy En Coûter aucune chose. Cest La raison qui Luy fait dire 
qui ne veut rien payer. 

La Court a ordonné que puisque paul poupar Lavoit invité a 
venir Souper ches m^ Lacroix quil tiendray Compte Luy même 
de la Somme reclamé par Le demendeur, Et le deffendeur a 
payé Les fraix. 

a une même Cour Joseph Billet d* Grolet Demendeur poursuit 
charle Lefevre deffendeur pour La Somme de Cinquante livres 
pour saler d'un foumau quil luy a fait. 

Le deffendeur repond que le demendur na pas remplis Les 
Engagement quils avoit Ensemble Et Comme les preuve ne Sont 
pas présentes, ils demande que leur différends Soit décidé par 
Des arbitres. La Cour a accordé a leur Demende, Et au perdant a 
payer tous fraix. 

a une même Cour Joseph Cecire poursuit pierre Granmon au 
Sujet dune petite ûUe orpheline que prenouvau Luy a Lesser ches 
luy, sous les Convention verbal de La Garder Jusqu'à ce quelle 
se produisse, Et que led* Granmon a retirer de ches Luy. 

pierre Granmond ayant Paru a dit que led* prenouvau luy a 
lesser un pouvoir de retirer Laditte pettitte fille Si elle netoit pas 
Bien ches led* Cecire, Et Soffre a produire Led* pouvoir Et Les 
preuve du manu vais traittement quil fesoit a Laditte pettitte 
fille. 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1784 165 

At a Court, May 6, 1784. 
President, J. Bte. LaCroîx. Louis Lebrun. 
Ant. Lamarche. Jos. Lapancé. 

J. Bte. Deshayes. Fr. Courier. 

Present. 
J. Bte. LaCroix, Plaintiff, vs. Fr. Gersome, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for the sum of twelve livres 
fifteen sols for his share of a cask of wine, for which several others 
have paid their shares; and, as the said defendant was present, 
the plaintiff demands an equal share from him. 

The defendant answers that if Paul Poupar had not invited 
him to be present without telling him what it would cost him or 
even saying that it was going to cost him anything; and that is 
the reason that he said he would pay nothing. 

The Court decreed that, since Paul Poupar had invited the 
defendant to supper at M. LaCroix's, he shall be held accountable 
for the sum claimed by the plaintiff. The defendant was con- 
demned to pay the costs. 

At the same Court Joseph Billet called Grolet, plaintiff, sues 
Charles Lefevre, defendant, for the sum of fifty livres for wages 
for work on a kiln, which the defendant made for him. 

The defendant answers that the plaintiff did not fulfill the 
agreement, which they had made; and since there are no proofs 
to present, they pray that their difference be decided by arbitra- 
tors. The Court granted their prayer and ordered the loser to 
pay all costs. 

At the same Court Joseph Cesirre sues Pierre Grandmont in 
regard to a little orphan girl whom Prenouvau left at his house, 
with the verbal agreement that he was to keep her until she could 
support herself, and whom the said Grandmont has withdrawn 
from his house. 

Pierre Grandmont appeared and said that the said Prenouvau 
left him the authority to withdraw the said little girl, if she was not 
well treated at the said Cesirre's, and offers to produce the said 
authority and the proofs of bad treatment, which the plaintiff gave 
the little girl. 



i66 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

La Cour a ordonné qu'a La Cour prochaine Led^ Granmon 
produissent ses preuvent [sic] Et aux perdans a payé Les fraix. 
La Cour Et ajourné a Jeudy 13**' du Cour*, 
f . saucier Greffier J B H LaCroix 

a une Cour du 20** may 1784. 
Président J. B** Lacroix. Louis lebrun. 

fr. Courié. Jos** Lapancé 

J. B** Dehay. ant Lamarche. 

Prés* 
par une Nouvelle Ellection pour remplacer Les majîstrat cy 
dessus Nommé a Etté, nommée Les Sieurs J. B*« Lacroix J B**. 
Saucier, J B** Dumay, Joseph Bissonnette Louis Chatel pierre 
roy, Et Louis pillet. 

J B*« Lacroix B** Saucier B*« Dumay Jos** Bissonnette Louis 
Chatel pierre roy Et Louis pillet ayant parus ont prêté Serment 
de fidélité ainsi que celuy d^office, Et ont pris Leurs place En 
leurs Qualité de majistrats. 

fr. Saucier demende Qu*en vertu de la Saisie quil a optenu Sur 
Cent vingt Et une livres De Suif Et neuf pot Et painte d*huille, 
appartenant a B** Lamarche D'Etre hotorizé a faire vendre lesd** 
articles pour Etre La Somme Endocé sur son Billet. 
La Cour a acordé aud* fr. Saucier sa Demande. 
La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 3** Juin. 

J B H LaCroix. 

a une Cour du 3** Juin 1784. 
Président J B** Lacroix Jos*^ Bissonette 

Pierre Roy B^* Saucier 

J B** Dumay Louis chatel 

Présent. 
Le S^ John Reeve produit une Sentance arbitrale Entre 
Luy Et Le S' pierre Lagauterie demandant Quelle Soit approuvé 
par La Cour Et mis en Execution. 

a une môme Court Pierre Prévost au nom Et Comme fesant 
pour Gabriel Cerré poursuit pierre Lafleur dans Sa requette 
disant Quêtant Condanné par M*" Le comd* de St Louis de faire 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1784 167 

The Court decreed that at the next Court the said Grandmont 
should produce his proofs, and the loser was to pay the costs. 
The Court adjourned to Thursday, the 13d of the current month. 
F. Sauder. J. B. H. LaCroix. 

At a Court, May 20, 1784. 
President, J. Bte. LaCroix. Louis Lebrun. 
Fr. Courier. Jos. Lapancé. 

J. Bte. Deshayes. Ant. Lamarche. 

Present. 
To replace the magistrates above named there have been 
elected by a new election MM. J. Bte. LaCroix, J. Bte. Saucier, 
J. Bte. Dumay, Joseph Bissonnette, Louis Chatel, Pierre Roy and 
Louis Pillet. 

J. B. LaCroix, Bte. Saucier, Bte. Dumay, Jos. Bissonnette, Louis 
Chatel, Pierre Roy and Louis Pillet appeared and took oath 
of fidelity and also that of office and have taken their place as 
magistrates. 

Fr. Saucier prays that, in virtue of the seizure, which he has 
obtained, of one hundred and twenty-one poimds of tallow and 
nine pots and a pint of oil, belonging to Bte. Lamarche, he be 
authorized to have the said articles sold to obtain the sum 
endorsed on his bill. 

The Court granted Fr. Saucier his prayer. 
The Court adjourned to Thursday, June 3. 

J. B. H. LaCroix. 

At a Court, June 3, 1784. 
President J. Bte. LaCroix. Jos. Bissonnette. 
Pierre Roy. Bte. Saucier. 

J. Bte. Dumay. Louis Chatel. 

Present. 
M. John Reeve produces a decree by arbitration between him- 
self and M. Pierre Lagauterie and prays that it be approved by 
the Court and put into execution. 

At the same Court Pierre Prévost, in the name of and as acting 
for Gabriel Cerré, sues Pierre Lafleur in his petition, in which he 
says that he [the plaintiff] had been condemned by the comman- 



i66 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

racomoder une voiture appartenant au S*" Ducharme Quil avoit 
pris dans La rivierre des Illinois Et Sans ordre, ou La payé, Si 
elle Etoit or d Etat de TEtre mais Quêtant venu pK>ur le faire Et 
nayant pas trouvé Laditte voiture, et ayant Sur que Cetoit led* 
Lafleur qui La voit prise pour charoyé de la pierre ()areillement Sans 
ordre de personne demande led* Prévost que led* Lafleur soit 
Condanner a racommoder lad** voiture ou La payé Si elle Est 
or d Etat de Tetre, Et a tous dépens. 

pierre Lafleur repond quil Est vray quil a pris la voiture, mais 
que Setoit par La permission de B** Baron Comme Croyant 
Lad** voiture au S*" L. DuCharme. 

B** Baron ayant paru a dit quil n'avoit point permis aud* 
Lafleur de la prendre Quil Luy avoit Seulement dit aud* Lafleur 
de la demender a Charle Lefevre Comme Luy ayant Eté adressé 
icy, mais disant toujour que led* Baron luy En avoit donné 
La permission Et led* Baron disant toujour que non, led* Lafleur 
demande aud* Baron son Serment Et qualors il Si Conformera. 

B** Baron ayant paru a fait Serment quil n^avoit Pas d* aud* 
Lafleur de prendre Laditte voiture Comme appartenant a M*" 
Ducharme mais Quil luy Seulement dit de la demender a Ch^® 
Lefevre Comme L'ayant Sous Sa garde. 

La Cour a Condanné led* Lafleur a mettre La Ditte voiture 
En Etat de faire routte ou a La payer, Conformenent a la requette 
dud* Prévost. Et led* prevost payera les fraix de Justice pour 
Sen Etre Servis Sen ordre. 

a une Cour du 6*® de may dernier il a Eté ordonné que pierre 
Granmon produiroit ses preuve pour avoir retirer La petitte fille 
de prenouvau de ches Jos*^ Cecire. 

Pierre Granmon ayant paru a produit un pouvoir dud* pre- 
nouvau de retirer sa fille de ches Jos^ Cecire Si elle Etoit maltreté 
maie a propos. Et a produit pierre Charpantier pour témoigner 
Les mauvais traitement faitte a la d** petitte fille par Jos^ Cecire 
et Sa femme. 

Pierre Charpantier ayant paru a prêté Serment de dire La 

I Voiture had generally in the Mississippi valley the meaning of a large tlatboat; but, 
since it is also the common word for boat, I have not translated it as a particular kind . On 
page i8a it is used as synonymous with pirogue, which is a large dugout. 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1784 ' 169 

dant of St. Louis to have repaired a boat * belonging to M. Dû- 
Charme, which he had taken without permission into the 
Illinois River, or to pay for it, if it was beyond repair; but that 
when he came to do it, he had not found the said boat; and, 
since he has learned that the said Lafleur had taken it to carry 
stone, likewise without permission of anyone, the said Prévost 
prays that the said Lafleur be condemned to repair the said boat 
or pay for it, if it is beyond repair, and to pay all expenses. 

Pierre Lafleur answers that it is true that he took the boat; 
but that it was with the permission of Bte. Baron and because he 
believed that the boat was M. L. DuCharme's. 

Bte. Baron appeared and said that he had not permitted the 
said Lafleur to take it; that he had only told the said Lafleur to 
ask permission from Charles Lefevre, who had been sent to him 
here. But since Lafleur persisted in saying that the said Baron 
had given him permission, and the said Baron persisted in saying, 
''No", the said Lafleur demands of the said Baron his oath, and 
says that then he will agree. 

Bte. Baron appeared and made oath that he had not told the 
said Lafleur to take the said boat, since it belonged to M. Du- 
Charme; but that he had only told him to ask permission of 
Charles Lefevre, who had charge of it. 

The Court condemned the said Lafleur to put the said boat 
in condition for use, or to pay for it, according to the petition of 
the said Prévost. And the said Prévost shall pay the costs of 
justice for having made use of the boat without permission. 

At a Court of the 6th of May last, it was decreed that Pierre 
Grandmont should produce his proofs to justify his withdrawal 
of Prenouvau's little daughter from the house of Jos. Cesirre. 

Pierre Grandmont appeared and produced an authority from 
the said Prenouvau to withdraw his daughter from Jos. Cedrre's, 
if she was undeservedly badly treated, and brought forward 
Pierre Charpentier as witness of the bad treatment given the said 
little girl by Jos. Cesirre and his wife. 

Pierre Charpentier appeared and made oath to tell the truth 
in answer to the questions put to him, and said that he was present 



X70 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

vérité Sur Les question qu'on luy feroit, Et a dit, quil s*«st trouvé 
présent plusieurs fois aux movais traitement que recevoit la ditte 
petitte fille ches Cecire, même Dans La rigeur du frois mal vêtu 
Et Etre obligé de Soufrir des cruauté Et sans humanité de la part 
de Cecire Et Sa femme. Suivant le pouvoir donné aud^ Granmon 
pan prenouvau La declaration de pierre charpantier La Cour Est 
Dopignon que led^ Granmon gardera La petitte fille Et condahe 
led* Cecire a payer tous fraix de Justice. Le déboutant de touttes 
ses demandes a ce sujet. 

Joseph L'ember poursuit Joseph Pelletié pour une terre Dans 
La prairie du pond Suivant Laccord Entre Les habitant, mais 
Comme il S'est trouvé une Grande difficulté pour la Clauture de 
cett ditte terre même dans le tems le plus prière, il a Eté Convenu 
par une assemblé pour la Sûreté des dittes Clauture que 
Celuy qui n'assureroit pas de faire Sa Clauture Seroit donné 
a une autre, En Consequence m^ Girardin accompagné d'un 
témoin demandé a tous Ceux qui avoit des terres Si il vouloit 
Claure ou abandonner leur terre, led* Lember ne luy ayant 
Donné aucune reponce assuré, Suivant sa declaration la fait faire 
par un autre Et qui Jouit de la terre. 

La Cour Est Dopignon que Les parties prendrons des arbitres 
pour terminer Leurs différants Et aux perdant a payer Les fraix 
de Justice. 

La Cour Est ajourné a Jeudy i*« Juillet. 

J B H LaCroix 

a une Cour Extraordinaire du 9**^ Juin 
Pres^* J. B*® Lacroix. Jos^ Bissonnette 

Louis Chatel. B*® Saucier 

pierre roy Louis Fillet 

B*® Dumay Près* 

Demendeur M^*^ Beausolieil Deffendeur ant armant 
une requette présenté par M*" Labuxiere au nom Et Comme 
Chargé du pouvoir de M^® pourré Beausoleil de poursuivre le 
S' ant armant pour Somme de deux Mil Cinq Cent quarante 
livres tant En argent q'en Pelleterie Et Neuf Cent quatre Livres 
de farine le tout par Ses Billet. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1784 171 

several times, when the little girl was badly treated at Cesirre's, 
that he had seen her in the rigour of cold badly clothed, and that 
she was obliged to suffer cruelties and without pity from Cesirrc 
and his wife. In consideration of the authority given the said 
Grandmont bv Prenouvau and of the declaration of Pierre 
Charpantier, the Court is of the opinion that the said Grandmont 
shall keep the little girl, and condemns the said Cesirre to pay 
aU the costs of justice and denies all his prayers on the subject. 

Joseph Lember sues Joseph Pelletier for a piece of land in the 
Prairie du Pont, which was taken up in accordance with the 
agreement among the inhabitants; but as there was found to be 
great difficulty about the fence of this said land even in the 
longest time requested, it was decided by an assembly that for 
the siu*ety of the said fences, if anyone should not secure his 
land by building his fence, it would be given to another. Conse- 
quently M. Girardin, accompanied by a witness, demanded of 
all those, who had lands, if they wished to build the fences or 
abandon their land. Since the said Lember gave no definite 
answer, according to M. Girardin's affidavit he had had it built 
by another, who is enjoying the land. 

The Court is of the opinion that the parties should take arbitra- 
tors to settle their difference, and condemns the loser to pay the 
costs of justice. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, July i. 

J. B. H. LaCroix. 

At special session of the Court, June 9. 

President, J. Bte. LaCroix. Jos. Bissonnette. 

Louis Chatel. Bte. Saucier. 

Pierre Roy. Louis Pillet. 

Bte. Dumay. Present. 

Madame Beausoleil, Plaintiff, vs. Ant. Harmand, Defendant. 
A petition presented by M. Labuxiere in the name of, and 
as commissioned with power from, Madame Pourré Beausoleil to 
sue M. Ant. Harmond for the sum of two thousand five himdred 
and forty livres both in money and peltries and nine hundred and 
four pounds of flour, the whole amoimt as shown by his notes. 



172 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Led* ant. armant ayant paru a produit un Compte Contre 
La ditte dame Bausoleil de la somme de six Cent Soixante Et 
neuf livres douze sols En arg* Et quatre vingt huit livres En 
pelleterie, Lesquels Comptes ont Eté affirmé sous serment par 
led* ant armant. 

La Cour Est Dopignon que led* antoine armant soit Condanner 
a payer ses Billet tant en arg* qu'en pelleterie tel quil Sont Expliqué 
dans le Cour du présent moy pour tous Delay ainsi que La farine 
moyenant quil luy Soit déduit six Cent Soixante Et neuf livres 
douze sols En arg* Et quatrevingt huit Livre en Pelleterie 
Suivant Ses Comptes, ordonnons quil luy Soit Sinifié de prendre 
Des arangement avec Lad**® Dame Beaussoleil ou Son fondé de 
pouvoir, Soit par un Bon Cotion ou autres assurances quil demen- 
derons, Et Condannons Led* armant a tous fraix Et interest 
Et faute par luy de Se faire Sous vingt quatre heure nous 
accordons a laditte Dame Beausoleil une Execution Contre Led* 
ant armant. 

La Cour est ajourné a Jeudy 1**^ Juillet. 

fr saucier Greffier J B H LaCroix. 

a une Cour du i6**^ Juin 1784 Extraordinaire. 
Présid* J B*« Lacroix B*«^ Dumay 

B*® Saucier pierre roy 

Prés* 
Demendeur ant. armant Deffendeur Joseph Billet 
Le Demendeur poursuit Le Deffendeur pour une somme de 
Cent Cinquante Six livre En argt quil Luy doit. 

Le deffendeur ayant Paru a déclaré devoir La ditte somme aud* 
Demendeur, mais quil se voit haur d'Etat de le Satisfaire attendu 
quil Luy Est du aussi Et dont il ne peut rein retirer, Et demande 
pareillement a la Cour que les Personne quil luy Doivent soient 
Pareillement Condanné a Le payer. 

La Cour a ordonné au deffendeur a payer Les Cent Cinquante 
six livres quil Doit and* demendeur sauf a luy a poursuivre Les 
personne quil Luy Doivent. 

a une même Cour ant. armant poursuit Les Nommé Bequet 
Et Durant, pour un marché passé Entre Eux le 30*® aoust dernier. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1784 173 

The said Ant. Harmand appeared and produced an account 
against the said Madame Beausoleil for the sum of six hundred and 
sixty-nine livres twelve sols in money and eighty-eight livres in 
peltries, which accounts were afl&rmed under oath by the said 
Ant. Harmand. 

The Court is of the opinion that the said Antoine Harmand 
should be condemned to pay his bills in money and peltries, as 
they are shown, in the course of the present month at the longest 
and also the one for flour, on condition that there be deducted six 
hundred and sixty-nine livres and twelve sols in money and 
eighty-eight livres in peltries according to his accounts. We 
order that he be notified to make arrangements with the said 
Madame Beausoleil or her representative either by giving surety 
or other assurances, which they shall demand ; and we condemn 
the said Harmand to pay all costs and interests; and in case he does 
not do this within twenty- four hours, we grant to the said Madame 
Beausoleil a writ of execution against the said Ant. Harmand. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, July i. 
Fr. Saucier, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix. 

At a Court, June 16, 1784, special session. 
President, J. Bte. LaCroix. Bte. Dumay. 
Bte. Saucier. Pierre Roy. 

Present. 
Ant. Harmand, Plaintiff, vs. Joseph Billet, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for the sum of one hundred 
and fifty-six livres in money, which he owes him. 

The defendant appeared and declared that he owed the said 
sum to the said plaintiff; but that he was not in a position to 
satisfy it, because there is due to him money also, which he cannot 
collect; and he prays likewise of thç Court that the persons 
owing him be likewise condemned to pay. 

The Court ordered the defendant to pay these one hundred and 
fifty-six livres, which he owes the said plaintiff, reserving to him 
the right to sue the persons, who owe him. 

At the same Court Ant. Harmand sues the named Becquet and 
Durand on account of an agreement passed between them the 



174 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

Et Comme il paroit quîl y a autant de tor de part Et D'autre 
après avoir mûrement Examiné Leurs dire La Cour Est Dopignon 
que led^ armant prendra tout le Bois quil y a d'Ecaris Suivant 
Lestimation qui En Sera fait par Des ouvrié qui Seulement 
observeront qu led' armant a Nouri Les d' Bequet Et Durant 
Le tems quils ont mis a faire Le Bois, Et a payer entre Eux les 
fraix. 

La Cour Est ajourné au i Juillet 1784. 

fr saucier. J B H LaCroix. 

a une Cour du 34 aoust 1784. 
Président J B*® Lacroix Louis Chatel 

pierre roy Louis Pillet 

J B*« Dumay Joseph Bissonette 

Près' 

Demendeur ant. Lamarche Deffendeur Joseph Cecire 

Le demendeur poursuit Le deffendeur Disant quayant Cotioné 
pour ant. armant de la Somme de deux mil Et quelque Cent Livres 
quil redevoit a M^* Beausoleille. Mais quil ne Lavoit fait que Sur 
La promesse que Joseph Cecire avoit fait de luy payer une Somme 
de Sept Cent Et quelque Livres quil Doit aud' ant armant 
En Consequence il prie La Cour dobliger led' Cecire a payer 
Laditte Somme afin de pouvoir Satisfaire a Celle dud' ant 
armant. 

Le demendeur [sic] repond quil Est vray quil doit cette Somme 
a ant. armant Mais quil Etoit Convenue avec luy de le payer En 
ouvrage, Et que Si y nut Consenti a cela quil ne Ce Seroit pas 
is fort En Dette. 

vue Les deffence du deffendeur Envers le dit ant armant, 
absens, La Cour a ordonné aud' Jos^ Cecire de payer au de- 
mendeur trois Cent Livres En argent, pour Le présent En attand- 
ant le retour dant. armant pour terminer Les Convention quils 
ont fait Ensemble. 

La Cour Est ajourné au 2** de 7^**. 

fr. saucier Greffier J B H LaCroix. 

Eccrir^ French-Canadian word, meaning to cut posts square. 



COURT RECORD, AUGUST, 1784 175 

30th of August last; and since, after carefully examining their 
testimony, it appears that there was as much wrong on one side 
as the other, the Court is of the opinion that the said Harmand 
shall take all the wood which has been cut square * at the price 
of the appraisment, which shall be made by workmen, who are to 
notice only that the said Harmand boarded the said Becquet and 
Durand during the time they have taken in cutting the wood, 
and that the parties shall pay the costs between them. 
The Court adjourned to July i, 1784. 
Fr. Saucier. J. B. H. LaCroix. 

At a Court, August 24, 1784. 
President, J. Bte. LaCroix. Louis Chatel. 
Pierre Roy. Louis Pillet. 

J. Bte. Dumay. Joseph Bissonnette. 

Present. 

Ant. Lamarche, Plaintiff, vs Joseph Cesirre, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant saying that the former acted 
as bondsman for Ant. Harmand for the sum of two thousand 
and some hundred livres, which he owed Madame Beausoleil; 
but that he had done it only on the promise, which Joseph 
Cesirre had made to pay him a sum of seven himdred and 
some livresy which Cesirre owes to the said Ant. Harmand. 
Therefore he begs the Court to compel the said Cesirre to pay 
the said siun, so that he can satisfy the debt of the said Ant. 
Harmond 

The plaintiff [defendant ?] answers that it is true that he owes 
that sum to Ant. Harmand; but that he had agreed with the 
latter to pay him in work, and that if he had not agreed to that, 
the defendant would not be so greatly in his debt. 

Considering the defence of the defendant against the said 
Ant. Harmand, who is absent, the Court ordered Jos. Cesirre to 
pay the plaintiff three hundred livres in money for the present, 
while waiting for the return of Ant. Harmand to terminate the 
agreement, which they have made together. 

The Court adjourned to September 2. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix. 



176 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du 2»« y^^ 1784. 
Présid^ J B*® Lacroix Louis Pillet 

J B**^ Du may Pierre roy 

Present 
Demendeur M*^ Motard Deffendeur Jos^ vaudry 
Le demendeur poursuit le deffendeur pour une Somme de 
Cent quatrevingt huit Piastre Gourdes Et quatre Escalin suivant 
Son Billet Echu du mois de x^*^ passé, Et demende un hypoteque 
sur ses Biens En donnant deux mois pour Le payment, au deffaut 
de quoy quil luy Soit accorde de faire vendre Lesd^ Biens hypo- 
teque. 

Le deffendeur repond que nayant pas pu decendre En ville il 
na pas pu payer Son Billet, Mais quil offre a M*" motar Thvpoteque 
sur sa maison deux arpent de terre a la prairie du pond Et une 
Grange avec Son terrin sur le Cotau des renards. Et que m*" motar 
pour faire vendre si il ne le paye pas dicy au terme quil luy 
Donne. 

La Cour Est Dopignon que M*" motar accepte L*offre que luy 
fait vaudry Et quil Luy fasse vendre les d' Effest quil offre Luy 
même En hypoteque faute de payement. 
La Cour Est ajourné au 7** 8^". 
fr. saucier G J B H LaCroix. 

a une Cour du 25 8^"^ 
Président, J B*® Lacroix Louis pillet 

Pierre roy Jofe^ Bissonette 

Louis chatel J. B'*^ Saucier 

prt 

a une même Cour Pierre troge a prêté le Serment de fidélité 
ainsi de Celuy dofîîce dhuissié de La Cour. 

MoNS^ Levy Demendeur Joseph Belcour Deffendeur 

Le demendeur Poursuit le deffendeur pour une Somme de deux 
Mille deux Cent livres En argent quil Luy doit par son Billet. 

Le deffendeur repond que depuis quelque Jour il avoit tué 

* Eicali», Xctherlan'J coin, equivalent to the English shilling. 
' Arpent, about equal to an acre. 



COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1784 177 

At a Court, September 2, 1784. 
President, J. Bte. LaCroix. Louis Pillet. 
J. Bte. Dumay. Pierre Roy. 

Present. 
M. MoTARD, Plaintiff, vs, Jos. Vaudry, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant for the sum one hundred and 
eighty-eight piastres gourdes and four escalin^ according to his note 
of the month of December last, which has fallen due, and demands 
a mortgage on the defendant's goods, if he gives him two months 
for the payment ; in default of which payment he prays that there be 
granted him permission to have the said mortgaged goods sold. 

The defendant answers that because he could not come down 
into the village, he has been unable to pay his bill; but he offers 
M. Motard the mortgage on his house, two arpents* of land in the 
Prairie du Pont and a bam with its yard on Fox Hill; and that M. 
Motard may have them sold, if he does not pay within the time 
he gives him. 

The Court is of the opinion that M. Motard should accept 
the offer which Vaudry makes him and that he may make the 
latter sell the said property, which he offers him in mortgage, 
in default of payment. 

The Court adjourned to October 7. 
Fr. Saucier, C. J. B. H. LaCroix. 

At a Court, October 25. 
President J. Bte. LaCroix. Louis Pillet. 
Pierre Roy. Jos. Bissonnette. 

Louis Chatel. J. Bte. Saucier. 

Present. 
M. Levy, Plaintiff, vs. Joseph Belcour, Defendant. 
At the same Court Pierre Troge took the oath of fidelity and 
also that of office of huissier^ of the Court. 

The Plaintiff sues the defendant for the sum of two thousand 
two hundred livres in money which he owes him on his note. 

' Since the Record uses different words for the name of the officer who executes the 
decrees and serves the writs of the court, etc., it has seemed best to retain the French name, 
huissier, when it occurs. There are times in the history of Illincns when the opposition to the 
Americans expresses. itself in an emphasis on French law and institutions. Kas. Rec., LtiUrs. 
The duties of the huissier were not different from those of the sheriff. 



178 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

quelque animaux desquel il na Encore pas Eté payé Se qui 
La mis Jusqua présent or d'etat de satisfaire a Son Billet. Et 
demande un delay de quinze Jour pour donner un accompte de 
Mil Livres. 

La Cour a acordé au deffendeur quinze Jour pour remettre au 
demendeur Mil Livres En argent, tel quil le demende se qui a Eté 
accepté par led' demendeur, promettant donner Credit pour le 
reste. Mais au deffaut de payement, Sous Ls dits quinze Jours, 
le Demendeur Est autorizé a faire vendre des Biens dud' deffen- 
deur Jusqua Sa Somme. 

M' Sarpy Contre Ch^*^ Lacroix 

a une même Cour Monsieur Sarpy produit un Compte a Luy 
transporté par M^* veuve Lepage Contre Charle Lacroix de 
la Somme de dix neuf Cent quartoze livre Sept Sols, Sauf 
a déduire Les accompte quil pouroit avoir Donné depuis le 
33 de Ce mois datte dud' Compte Et demande que Led' Lacroix 
Soit Condanné Sans delay a Luy remettre La Ballance dud' 
Compte. 

Led' Lacroix ayant Eté assigné de paroitre Cejourd'huy Ce a 
quoy il a manqué. Et après trois apel par Lussier. Ne Setant 
trouvé ny Sa Personne ny auqu*un represantant pour Luy La 
Cour La Condanner a payer son Compte sans delay Et a Payé 
tous fraix de Justice. 

a une même Cour Mons' Charle Sanguinette présente deux 
Billet fesant La Somme de quatre Cent quarante Sept Livre 
et demy de Paux de Chevreuil que le nomé Joseph langlois 
Luy doit En Consequence il Demende a la Cour de Luy ac- 
corder une Saisy Sur Les Biens dud' Langlois, Jusqua Ce quil 
aye Prix des arangem' avec luy pour Lassurance de Ce quil luy 
doit. 

La Cour a accordé a M*" Ch^* Sanguinette La Saisy quil de- 
mende Contre led' Langlois Et ordonne aud' Langlois de prendre 
tel arrangement que led' Sieur Sanguinette Luy demandera pour 
assurer se quil Luy doit Et par fautte de ce faire quil soit Con- 
danner a payer sans delay. 

a une même Cour m^ fr trottier a produit les Compte de Balance 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1784 179 

The defendant answers that a few days ago he had killed 
some animals for which he had not yet been paid, which put him 
till now out of position to satisfy his note; and he prays for a 
delay of of fortnight to make an instalment of a thousand livres. 

The Court granted the defendant a fortnight to pay the plaint- 
iff one thousand livres in money, as he prays, and these terms were 
accepted by the plaintiff, who promises to give credit for the bal- 
ance. But in default! of payment within the said fortnight, the 
plaintiff is authorized to have goods of the defendant's sold up 
to that sum. 

M. Sarpy vs. Charles LaCrodc. 

At the same Court M. Sarpy produces an accoimt assigned to 
him by Madame Lepage, widow, against Charles LaCroix for the 
sum of nineteen hundred .and forty livres seven sols^ saving the 
deduction of the instalments, which he may have paid since the 
22nd of this month, the date of this account; and prays that 
the said LaCroix be condemned to pay him the balance of the said 
account without delay. 

The said LaCroix was summoned to appear to-day, which he 
failed to do. And after three summonses by the huissier and 
when neither his person nor anyone representing him was foimd, 
the Court condemned him to pay his account without delay and 
to pay all the costs of justice. 

At the same Court M. Charles Sanguinette presents two notes 
amounting to the sum of four hundred and forty-seven and a half 
pounds of deer-skins, which the named Joseph Langlois owes 
him; and consequently he prays that the Court grant him a writ 
of seizure on the goods of the said Langlois until he should 
have made arrangements with him for the security of what he 
owes him. 

The Court granted to M. Ch. Sanguinette the writ of seizure 
which he prays for against the said Langlois and orders the said 
Langlois to make such arrangements as the said M. Sanguinette 
shall demand to secure what he owes him ; and in default of doing 
so condemns him to pay without delay. 

At the same Court M. Fr. Trottier produced the accoimts of 



fV. ILLLVOLS HLSTORICAL COLLECTIO.VS 

d« U Viudlt 4t^ miMriTi IjSLpierrtf Suivant La prttniert ve&ce Et 
'lui a fst^ a(4^ro«iy^. 

1^ ^>yiir f^t sijf/mTié au 4»* de y'" Jeudy, 

fr. >Au/.i«r J B H LaCroîz. 

a urifc Cour du 4** 9"=^ 17^4- 
Fr&iUifJii J W^ \jài.T<Àx L//uiâ pîilet 

Vitm*: roy Jfiseph BL*» v^nette 

J B** f>umay Prcs* 

fiirmirridirijr J B**. Oaf FK Oeflfendeur axt armant 

I^ dtf:rriirrid«rur [Xiur>)Uit le deffendeur p^iur une voiture quil Luy 
avoîtf/rel^l^iur [^iur [wV] aller dans Lpa Belle riviere. Et quil soit 
oUifré de la luy remettre Kn I^tat quelle Etoit avec Les agrès 
Kt Sujet a visite \fttur f.onstater Ijts reparation de laditte voiture 
[M»ur mettre Kn même Etat ou Elle Etoit L/jrsquil La Luy a 
preti^. 

lAi rleflerideur re|>ond que le demendeur Etoit Convenu 
avec lu luy de prendre un (*anot d'ecorce pour La dîtte 
voiture. 

Ia: demendeur re|>ond quil Est vray quil a Dit a deffendeiir 
quil firendroit un (*anot si il Se trouvoit En avoir Besoin avant 
le retour de Sa ditte voiture Et a pnxluit M'' Girardin pour 
témoins. 

.Vf' («inirdin ayant Paru a prêté Serment de dire La vérité Et a 
dit ((uil El(;il témoins Lors de Larengemcnt de M^" Gaffé Et ant 
iirniant, Kt (juil a Kntue [.mV] que m** Gaffé prêté Sa voiture 
aud^ armant, sous Ia*s (!onditions ({uil Prenderé un Canot 
Si il se trouvoit ICii avoir Besoin avant son arrivé pour aller a 
Mit liilimaquina Kt ({uensuitte si Le Canot Luy Convenoit il le 
(larderoit. 

fr Sau* icr ayant fait Serment de dire la vérité au quesiton quon 
luy feray a fait Kxactemeni La même Declaration que M*" ant 
(lirardin. 

J B^*" Bcqurt ayant aussi Paru a prêté Serment de dire La 
vérité a dit ((uayant Kté un Jour ches Le S<^ ant armant Et quayant 
vu l^^s Canot dud^ armant En Perditions quil demenda au 
Nome Ciassien pourquoy il ne Les metoit pas En Lieu de Sûreté, 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1784 181 

the balance of the guardianship of the minors Lapierre after the 
first sale, and they were approved. 

The Court adjourned to, Thursday, November 4. 

Fr. Saucier. J. B. H. LaCroix. 

At a Court, November 4, 1784. 
President J. Bte. LaCroix. Louis Pillet. 
Pierre Roy. Joseph Bissonnette. 

J. Bte. Dumay. Present. 

J. Bte. Gaffé, Plaintiff, vs. Ant. Harmand, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sues the defendant for a boat, which the former 
had loaned him to go to the Ohio and which he was bound to 
return to the plaintiff with its equipments in the condition that 
it was, and subject to inspection to determine the repairs neces- 
sary to put the said boat in the same condition that it was, when 
the plaintiff loaned it to him. 

The defendant answers that the plaintiff had agreed with 
him to take a bark canoe for the said boat. 

The plaintiff answers that it is true that he said to the defendant 
that he would take a canoe, if he was in need of it before the return 
of the said boat, and brought forward M. Girardin as witness. 

M. Girardin appeared and made oath to tell the truth and said 
that he was a witness at the time of the arrangement between 
MM. Gaffé and Harmand, and that he understood that M. Gaffé 
loaned his boat to the said Harmand on the condition that he 
would take a canoe, if he found himself in need of going to 
MichiUimackinac, before the latter's return, and that afterwards, 
if the canoe suited him, he would keep it. 

Fr. Saucier made oath to tell the truth in answer to the question 
put to him, and made exactly the same declaration as M. Ant. 
Girardin. 

J. Bte. Becquet also appeared and made oath to tell the truth 
and said that he was one day at the house of M. Ant. Harmand, 
and, having noticed that the canoes were in ruins, asked the 
named Gassien why he did not put them in a place of safety, to 
which the latter replied that he was expecting M. Gaffé to choose 
one in order to safe-guard the other. 



i82 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a quoy se demier luy répondit quil attandoit que led^ Sieur Gaffé 
En aye Choisi un pour Garantir Lautre. 

Led* armant produit Pierre Gassien Et après avoir prêté Ser- 
ment de dire La vérité a dit qayant Envoyé Cherché M' Gaffé, 
quil luy auroit dit de Choissir un canot sur Les deux appartenant 
a M"^ ant. armant sur quoy Led* Sieur Gaffé Luy ayant dit Et 
fait voir Celuy quil prenderoit, quil Luy auroit Dit quil Etoit Sur 
Ces risque a quoy Led* Sieur Gaffé na rien repondu. 

M^ ant armant produit un Sertiôcat de fr. duchenau qui declare 
quil a Connoissance que M' Gaffé a Eté ches led* armant avec 
Dubois un de Ses homme Et quils avoit Choisi un Canot pour la 
pirogue sans néanmoins L'avoir Déplacé. 

Led* armant Produit Le Nome Dubois pour témoins Et après 
avoir prêté Serment de dire La vérité a dit. quil Est vray que mon- 
sieur Gaffé La mené Ches M*" Sanfaçon pour choisir un Canot 
Et quil Etoit quil avoit choisi celuy qui Croyoit le meilleur Mais 
que m'' Gaffé avoit dit quil le prendroit si il En avoit Besoin, mais 
quil ne sen Est Point Ser\'i. 

La Cour a ordonné que Suivant les accorde de m'" Gaffé Et 
armant Et que led* S' Gaffé ne Setant point Servy du Canot, tel 
quil Ce paroit que sa voiture luy Soit rendu, En même nature, et 
led* harmant a payer Les fraix. 

m' Levy Et chartiê 

a une même Cour M' Levy poursuit Michel Chartié, pour 
avoir dix Sept planche que Le nomé Charpantier avoit vendu a 
M' Marchessaux, Et que Ce demier avoit transporter aud* Levy, 
Led* Chartié ayant revandu ces même planche, sous le pî*etexe 
que led* Charpantier Etoit de Société Et quil luy devoit. La 
Cour a ordonné que led* Chartié soit condanné. Comme Elle le 
condanne a rendre Les Susditte Planche aud* sieur Levy Et a 
payer tous Les fraix de Justice. 

BiSSONETTE Et QUENEL 

a une même Cour Jos^ Bissonette poursuit Pierre quenel pour 
un Cochon quil luy a Eté tué dans Les Grains Et qui avoit passé 
par La Cloture dud* quenel. Led* Cochon ayant Eté Estimé par 
Pierre roy Et fr Courrié a la Somme de Cent Livres, Et led* Bis- 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1784 183 

The said Harmand brings forward Pierre Gassien, who, after 
having made oath to tell the truth, said that he had summoned M. 
Gaffé and told him to choose one of the two canoes belonging to 
M. Ant. Harmand, upon which M. Gaffé had pointed out the 
one, which he would take; and that he, the witness, had said 
to M. Gaffé that it was at his risk, to which M. Gaffé made no 
answer. 

M. Ant. Harmand brings forward a certificate of Fr. Duchenau, 
in which he declares that he knew that M. Gaffé was at the said 
Harmand' s with Dubois, one of his men, and that they had chosen 
a canoe for the pirogue without, however, taking it away. 

The said Harmand brings forward the named Dubois as a wit- 
ness; and after having made oath to tell the truth, the latter said 
that it is true that M. Gaffé took him to M. Sansfaçon's to choose 
a canoe and that he had chosen the one which he believed the 
better; but that M. Gaffé had said that he would take it, if he had 
need of it; but that he had made no use of it. 

The Court decreed that, in accordance with the agreement 
between MM. Gaffé and Harmand and since it is apparent that 
M. Gaffé did not use the canoe, his boat should be returned to 
him in the same condition, and condemned the said Harmand to 
pay the costs. 

M. Levy and Chartier 

At the same Court M. Levy sues Michel Chartier for having 
seventeen planks which the named Charpentier had sold to M. 
Marchessaux and which the latter had transferred to the said Levy; 
but the said Chartier had resold these same planks on pretext that 
the said Charpentier was in partnership with him and owed him 
money. The Court decreed that the said Chartier be condemned, 
as it does condemn him, to return the planks aforesaid to the 
said M. Levy, and to pay all the costs of justice. 

BiSSONNETTE and QUENEL 

At the same Court Jos. Bissonnette sues Pierre Quenel for a pig 
which was killed in the grain and which had passed through the 
said QuenePs fence; and he says that the said pig was appraised by 
Pierre Roy and Fr. Courier at the sum of one hundred /tx/r^^; and 



i84 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

sonette demandant quil Luy Soit rendu un pareil Cochon que 
Celuy qui Luy a Eté tué. 

La Cour a condanné led* quenel a rendre un Cochon tel que 
Celuy de Bissonette qui sera Estimé siuvant La grosseur de l'autre 
par Les même Estimateur, sauf aud* Bissonette avoir le Choix ou 
Des Cent livres Destimation ou le Cochon Estimé, Et Led* quenel 
Condanné a Payer Les fraix. 

Louis Gaut Et Louis Lecomte 

a une même Cour Louis lecomte poursuit Louis Gaut pour 
Cinquante Livres En argent payable En Daré [sic] pour une 
Charette quil Luy a vendu Et que luy ayant demendé plusieur 
fois. Led* Louis Gaut repond quil auroit offert une tomberé de 
mays moyenant quil la luy Paye Cinquante Livres Comme 
Elle vaut, mais que led* Lecompte ne voulant Pas La payé plus 
de quarante livres led* Louis Gaut luy a offert de Largent, Et offre 
de luy En donner. 

La Cour a condanner Led* Lecomte a prendre son payement 
En argent puis quil a refusé de payer La tomberé de mays Ce prix 
quelle vaut Et a payer Les fraix. 

La Cour Est ajourné au deux du mois X^*"^. 

fr. saucier Greffier J B H LaCroix Près* 

a une Cour du 22. g^^* 1784. Par Extraordinaire 
Présidant M*^ B*^ Dumay 

Jean B*^ LaCroix Joseph Bissonette Près* 

Pierre Roy 
Demendeur p*"* prevost deffandeur Antoine Armand 

deffendeur [su] 
Le demandeur poursuivant Le deffendeur Conclud par Sa 
requête de ce jour a ce que led* s*" armand Soit condanné a payer 
Sans delay ou a luy livrer mille quatrevingt quinze livres de farine 
pour restant de ses Billets Echus Et Seize cent quarante six livres 
en argent par son obligation hypotequaire Echue et dont Sentence 
de condamnation a Eté cy devant Rendue contre led* s*" armand. 
ouy aussi le deffendeur en Ses deffences qui a observé a la 

1 The petition was always drawn up in formal language, the last paragraph of which was 
the conclusion, in which the formal demand for justice was made. The conclusion, therefore. 
contained the exact statement of the demand made in the petition. 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1784 185 

the said Bissonnette demands that there be returned to him a 
similar pig to the one that was killed. 

The Court condemned the said Quenel to return a pig like 
Bissonnette's and that it shall be appraised according to the 
weight of the other by the same appraisers, reserving to the said 
Bissonnette the right to chose either the hundred livres appraised 
or the pig; and the said Quenel is condenmed to pay the costs. 

Louis Gaud and Loins Lecomte. 

At the same Court Louis Lecomte sues Louis Gaud for fifty 
livres in money payable in commodities for a cart, which he sold 
the latter, and which he had demanded several times. The said 
Louis Gaud answers that he had offered a load of com on condition 
that Lecompte should pay him for it fifty livres, as it was worth; but 
that, since the said Lecomte was unwiUing to pay for it more 
than forty livres, the said Louis Gaud offered him money and 
offers to give it to him. 

The Court condemned the said Lecomte to take his payment 
in money, since he refused to pay for the load of com the price 
that it was worth and to pay the costs. 

The Court adjourned to December 2. 
Fr. Saucier, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, President. 

At a Court, November 22, 1784, special session 

President, Bte. Diunav. 

Jean Bte. LaCroix. Joseph Bissonnette. 

Pierre Rov. Present. 

Pierre Prévost, Plaintiff, vs. Antoine Harmand, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant and concludes* by his petition 
of this day that the said M. Harmand should be condemned to pay 
without delay or to deliver to him one thousand and ninety-five 
pounds of flour for the balance of his matured notes, and sixteen 
hundred and forty-six livres in money on his matured mortgage 
obligation, and for which judgment has been already rendered 
against the said Harmand. 

The defendant was also heard in his defence and brought to 
the notice of the Court that in so evil times as the present, when 
the crop has totally failed, he was not in a position to pay without 



i86 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Coiir que dans un tems si malheureuse comme il se trouve présen- 
tement la récolte ayant manqué totalement il Etoit hors detat 
de pouvoir payer sans exposer sa famille dans la dernière néces- 
sité, que ses Biens Etoient tous existants tels quil les avoit hypo- 
tequés aud* S*" Ceré quil suplioit la Cour de luy accorder un de- 
lais jusques au mois davril, offrant aud^ tems de payer ladite 
somme portée en son obligation ainsi que la farine avec les inter- 
est suivant lusage. 

Le tout vu et considéré avec les pieces a Nous produites par 
les parties Et après mûrement examiné la Circonstances du 
tems. La Cour a accordé aud* S*" armand deffendeur le délais 
jusques dans le Cour davril de lannée prochaine pour payer la 
somme portée En Son obligation hypotequaire ainsy que les dix 
sept cent livres de farine quil livrera aud^ tems faute de quoy la 
payera a raison de Soixante dix livres le Cent En argent Et en 
outre les interest depuis Lecheance de Ses Billets, Le tout Sans dcs- 
roger a Ihypoteque que led* S*^ Ceré a Sur les Biens dud* S^ ar- 
mand laquelle Nous hotorizons dabondant par ces présentes, Et 
En cas que led* s^ prevost faisant pour led* s' Ceré ne trouve pas 
les Biens dud* S*" harmand suffisant pour repondre desdites som- 
mes Et farines permis a luy de demander Caution aud* S^ harmand 
p*" sa plus grande sûreté, a quoy nous condamnons led* s*" harmand. 
Et en outre en tous les fraix et dépens de Lextraordinaire qui 
seront avancés sans délais par led* S*" prevost suivant le Mé- 
moire qui luy En sera fourni par le greffier sauf son recour pour 
son remboursement Contre led* S^ armand. 

La Cour est ajourné au 2 du mois de décembre prochain. 

J B H LaCroix. 

a une Cour du 8*^ Jenvier 1785. 
Président B** Saucier Joseph Bissonette 

Louis Chatel Pierre rov 

Louis Pillet Present 

Demendeur Nicolas turgeon Deffendeur Philipe Gervais 
Le demendeur poursuit le deffendeur Disant quayant Donné 
un Capot de Couverte a Son nègre que Celuy du deffendeur 

^ The handwriting, language and orthography of the record appear to be those of Joseph 
Laburiere, who was appointed clerk the next year, June 30. 1785. Probably Sauder was 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1785 187 

exposing his family to dire need, and that all his present property 
was already mortgaged to the said M. Cerré; and he begs the 
Court to grant him a delay till the month of April, at which time 
he offers to pay the said sum carried in his note and also the flour 
with interest according to usage. 

After considering ever3rthing and viewing the documents pro- 
duced before us by the parties and after carefully examining the 
circumstances of the time, the Court granted M. Harmand, the 
defendant, the delay until during the course of April of next year 
to pay the simi entered in his mortgage obligation and also the 
seventeen hundred pounds of flour, which he shall deliver at the 
said time, in default of which he shall pay for it at the rate of 
seventy livres the hundred in money and besides the interest since 
the maturity of the notes, the whole without vitiating the mort- 
gage which the said M. Cerré has on the property of the said M. 
Harmand, which we suflftciently authorize by these presents; and 
in case that the said M. Prévost, who is acting for the said M. 
Cerré, does not And the property of the said M. Harmand sufà- 
cient to be answerable for the said sums and flour, he is per- 
mitted to demand surety from the said M. Harmand for his 
greater security, and we condemn the said M. Harmand to this, 
and furthermore to pay all costs and expenses of the special 
session, which shall be advanced without delav bv the said M. 
Prévost according to the memorandum which will be fiunished 
him by the clerk, reserving to him recoiu^e for his reimbursement 
against the said M. Harmand. 

The Court adjourned to the 2nd of the month of December 
next.* J. B. H. LaCroix. 

At a Court, January 8, 1785. 

President, Bte. Saucier. Joseph Bissonnette. 

Louis Chatel. Pierre Roy. 

Louis Pillet. Present. 

Nicolas Turgeon, Plaintiff, vs, Philippe Gervais, Defendant. 
The plaintiff sues the defendant saying that he gave his negro 
a blanket coat and that the defendant's negro had come to his 

absent and his place was supplied by this trained notary-derk. For an account of him, see 
p. 6a5, note x6. 



i88 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

auroit ete Ches Luy le Prendre Sous le pretex dit il que le negre 
dit demendeur luy devoit, Et quayant Eté ches led^ deffendeur 
pour ravoir led^ Capot quil auroit d* au d^ Demendeur quil ne Ce 
meloit point de Ces affaires La. 

Le deffendeur répond que Son negre auroit vendu de La toil 
au negre du demendeur pour du coton En Echange Et que ne 
L'ayant pas fait Cest qui a fait que Son negre aie [sic] prendre 
Le Capot pour Jusqua ce quil Soit Payé. 

La Cour a ordonné que le Capot du negre dud' Demendeur 
Soit rendu par le negre du deffendeur Et que tant aux marché 
que les deux negre ont fait Ensemble que Les maitre prêté La 
main a ce quil Soit payé. Et aux Deffendeur a payé Les fraix. 

a une même Cour M*" ant. Girardin represntj a la Cour quay- 
ant déjà mesuré une Sertaine quantité de terre a la fontaine du 
pain de Sucre pour y faire une habitation, suivant sa requette, 
qui até [sic] appointé. 

La cour Est ajourné a Jeudy 3*® février. 

f. saucier Greffier B Saucier 

a une Cour du 3*® février 1785. 
Président B^* Saucier Pierre roy 

B^* Dumay Jos** Bissonette 

Louis Pillet Present 

Robert Watts Demendeur 
une requette Présenté par m*" Robert Watts Demandant une 
Demy lieu de terre En quaré quil Bornera Luy même au Premier 
ruissau qui Passe Plus Loin que le Chemin qui monte Les cottes 
au marais Des Bute, Et qui a Eté appointé suivant sa demande. 
La Cour Est ajourné 3*® mars. 

B Saucier 
Bequet et Granmon. 
a une même Cour B'* Bequet porte plainte Contre Pierre 
Granmon pour une Somme de Cent vingt cinq Livres pour Lavoir 
traitté Dans sa maladie, Granmon ayant Eté assiné a refusé de 

* I have found very little about Robert Watts outside of what is contained in this volume, 
for which see Index. He came to Illinois in the year 1782, and was the principal settler at 
Grand Ruisseau. He was appointed commandant of that post by the ma^^isirates of Cahokia. 
Sec pp. 2QS, SQ7; Papers oj Old Cong., xlviii., 177. 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1785 189 

house and taken it, under pretext, he said, that the negro [of the] 
said plaintiff owed it to him, and that when he went to the defend- 
ant's house to get the said coat that the defendant had told the 
said plaintiff that he never mixed himself up in these affaires. 

The defendant answers that his negro had sold some cloth 
to the plaintiff's negro in exchange for some cotton; and that since 
the latter did not keep his agreement, his negro went and took the 
coat to hold until he should be paid. 

The Court decreed that the coat of the plaintiff's negro be re 
turned by the defendant's negro, and that the masters take a hand 
and see that the bargain, which the two negros have made, is 
carried out; and the Court condemned the defendant to pay the 
costs. 

At the same Court M. Ant. Girardin shows the Court that he 
has already measured a certain piece of land at the Sugar Loaf 
Spring for the purpose of making a dwelling there according to his 
petition, which was granted. 

The Court adjourned to Thursday, February 3. 

At a Court, February 3, 1785. 
President, Bte. Saucier. Pierre Rov. 

Bte. Dumay. Jos. Bissonnette. 

Louis Pillet. Present. 

Robert Watts,' Applicant. 
A petition presented by M. Robert Watts, in which he asks for 
a half league square of land, of which he will lay out the limits 
himself at the first creek crossing the road which goes up the hill 
to the swamp of the bluffs; [?] and it was granted according to 
his petition.* 

The Court adjourned to March 3. 

B. Saucier. 
Becquet and Grandmont. 
At the same Court Bte. Becquet brought complaint against 
Pierre Grandmont for a siun of one hundred and twenty-five livres 
for having treated him during his sickness. Grandmont was sum- 

' The grant was at Gr.ind Ruisseau. It wis recommended for confirmation by the U. S. 
land commissioners. — Amrr. State Pap., Public Lands, ii., axo- For Grand Ruisseau, see 
map; Introduction, pp. cxxii., cxlviii., and post pp. 317, aiQ, 307. 



iço ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

paroitre, led^ Bequet ayant Déclaré quil Etoît Due aud* Gran- 
mon par M^ Labbadie, La Cour Est Dopignon quil sera saisy 
Entre Les main dud^ S' Labaddie La Somme de Cent Cinquante 
livres tant Pour La Somme reclamé par B'® Bequet que Pour les 
fraix. 

fr. saucier Greff B Saucier. 

a une Cour du 24 Mars 1785. 
Présidant B*® Saucier Pierre Roy 

B^« Du May Louis Pillet 

Louis Chatel Prese 

une requette présenté par jacob groot demandant que pour 
lever les contestations qui sont Entre luy et gemes pigoust pour 
les terres quils ont prises au grand Ruisseau La Cour leur permete 
de Nommer des arbitres pour tirer la ligne Entreux. 

La Cour a ordonné que les parties Nommeront des arbitres 
quils Choisiront eux mêmes pour tirer la ligne Entre leur terre qui 
font leur Contestation ce qui sera Exécuté. 

Labuxiere gref. B Saucier. 

a la même cour une requête En reparation dhoneur pré- 
sentée par francois Camus Contre le Nommé hardouin après que 
les deux parties ont produit de part Et dautres Les Certificats 
des témoins qui se sont trouvez contrad i ctoire. ouy les deux parties 
En leur demandes Et déffences le tout mûrement considéré Et 
Examiné Et après que led* hardouin a déclaré En presence de 
la Cour quil reconnoissoit led* francois Camus pour honneste 
homme que dans les propos quil avoit tenu il Navoit pas Entendu 
dire que le S' camus luy avoit volé une taure mais quil Croyoit 
que celé quil avoit vu dans sa Cour Etoit la sienne. Nous avons 
débouté Le s^ Camus de toute Ses demandes Envers led* har- 

• 

* It is said that James Piggott was bom in Connertiait and was engaged in the privateer- 
ing senice during the American Revolution. — Reynolds, My (hvn Times, 64. He was commis- 
siooed captain of the military associates of Westmoreland Co., Pa- on April 6, 1776, and in 
October of the same year, captain of the 8lh Pennsylvania rrRiment, and served under General 
Arthur St. Clair until October 22. 1777. His commissions arc in Dr. MSS., 1236-73. Why, 
and when he came to Illinois rests on traditions handed down in his family, and may be found 
both in Reynolds and the Dr. MSS. Acconling to these .v»urces, he joincii Clark's expedition 
to Illinois as an indejx'ndent volunteer and served throuj?h the Kaskaskia campaign. He 
then became a colonist at Ff)rt Jefïenwjn, where he was in command during the siege by the 
Chickasaws in 1781 (sic). He then moved to Kask.iski.i and in 17S3 built Piggott's fort at 
Grand Ruisseau. Unfortunately for this story of his prow<-»î;. his name does not appear in 
any list of Clark's soldiers. — English, Conqncsl of thr Norih-.cr^t, ii., 1067. His command at 
Fort Jefferson is not mentioned in any of the letters of Iiis contempwraries, nor is he mentioned 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1785 191 

moned and refused to appear. The said Becquet declared that 
money was owing the said Grandmont by M. Labadie. The 
Court is of the opinion that seizure shall be made of the sum of 
one hundred and fifty livres in the hands of M. Labadie for the 
simi claimed by Bte. Becquet and for the costs. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. B. Saucier. 

At a Court, March 24, 1785. 
President, Bte. Saucier. Pierre Roy. 

Bte. Dumav. Louis Pillet. 

Louis Chatel. Present. 

A petition presented by Jacob Groot, in which he prays that, 
in order to end the disputes between himself and James Piggott* 
over the land they have taken up at Grand Ruisseau the Court 
permit them to name arbitrators to draw the line between them. 

The Court decreed that the parties shall name arbitrators, 
whom they shall choose themselves, to draw between their lands 
the line which is in dispute, for which there will be execution. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. B. Saucier. 

At the same Court a petition in satisfaction of honour was pre- 
sented by François Camus against the named Hardouin. After 
the parties on both sides produced the certificates of witnesses, 
which are found to be contradictory, the two parties were heard 
in their prayers and defences and all were carefully considered 
and examined; and after the said Hardouin declared in the 
presence of the Court that he regarded the said François Camus 
as an honest man and that in the conversation he had held, he 
had not intended to say that Fr. Camus had stolen a heifer, 
but that he believed that the one he had seen in the yard was 
his, we have denied all the demands of M. Camus against the 

as officer or soldier by any one. This is not absolute proof, for the name of the commanding 
ofifîcer of Fort Jefifcrson durii^ the siege is not given an)rwhere, as far as I can find. Captain 
George was in command in October, 1780. — Va.State Pap.'i., 382. It is to be noticed that 
both the quoted authorities in favor of Piggottname 1781 instead of the correct year, 1780, 
as the date of the sie^. This is interesting, since in 1787 Piggott declared that he took up 
his residence in Illinois in the year 1780. Pap. of Old Cong, xlvii ^ 177. As later pages of this 
volume will show, he was not the principal resident at Grand Ruisseau, See post pp. 289, 599, 
605. When Pigiçott's old commander came to Illinois as Governor St. Clair, Piggott became 
the prominent man, he had longed to be during the rule of the French court, and was appointed 
to the position of justice of the court of St. Clair County. — Smith, St. Clair Papers, li., 165. 
In 1707 he established a fcrrv from Cahokia to St. Louis. His daughter described him as a 
little f^ort of six feet with black hair, blue eyes and fair complexion. 



192 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

douin a deffaud par luy de Setre mis En règle dans les formes 
pour Ses certificats de témoin Et condamnons Le Nommé har- 
douin En Cent Cinq livres du frais occasionné par led^ hardouin 
p^ les requêtes ordres Et autres frais de justice Raport a quelques 
propos inconsidérés Et sans malice quil peut avoir tenu ; La dit 
jour vingt quatre mars 1785. 

La Cour ajournée au Sept davril prochain davril [sic]. 

Labuxiere greffier B. Saucier. 

a une Cour du Six juin 1785. 
President B^* Saucier Louis Pillet 

Louis Chatel Joseph Bissonet 

Pierre Roy 
une requette presentee par le S*" gabriel Ceré En datte du 4. 
de ce mois demandant Et expositive quil a fait saisir Les Biens 
du S^ antoine harmand Armand [sk] Sans façon En vertu dune sen- 
tence de la Cour du 22 9^*"*^ dernier Rendue contre led^ S*" har- 
mand Et Encore En vertu de Son obligation cautionée par Jean 
B''^ duMay passé a la Suite de la dite sentence pour le payement 
de deux mil six cent vingt Six livres six sols huit deniers En argent 
que led^ sans façon ou led* dumay devoit payer au terme du mois 
davril dernier que faute de payement led* s*" Cerré a fait Saisir 
les Biens dud* sans façon pour être vendus judiciairement au plus 
ofrant Et dernier Enchérisseur sous la huitaine quil suplioit la 
Cour daccorder ladite vente, vu aussi la Saisie faite des Biens 
dud* sans façon par Ihuissier de cette justice le 31. may dernier. 
Ensemble la requête présentée ce dit jour par le s' antoine har- 
mand Expositive quil reclame lautorité de la Cour contre lin- 
justice qui luy a Eté faite pour un nègre quil a acquis de Lencan 
des mineurs nicole que led* nègre Etoit Empoisoncur avant quil 
En acquis de cette sucession ayant Eté convaincu davoir Em- 
poisonné son maître Et sa maitresse Et quil sest Evadé des mains 
de la justice, que led* harmand a Eté condamné injustement a 
\e payer et que ccst pour cette somme quil se trouve aujourdhuy 

* Kvpositive, nc»t a term of French law, bul il is used in b<»th English ami Spanish law. 
Its use in the rccoril from now on is probably due to the presence in C ahokia of Joseph La- 
huxicrc. who ha<l served as notary un«lcr the Spanish in St. Louis for several years. 

* Denier, the Iwelth part of the sol. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1785 193 

said Hardouin because of his failure to conform strictly to the legal 
forms for his certificates of testimony; and we condenm the named 
Hardouin to pay one hundred and five livres expense occasioned 
by the said Hardouin for petitions, orders and other expenses of 
justice connected with some words, ill-considered and without 
malice, which he may have said. The said day, March 24, 1785. 
The Court adjourned to the 7th of April next. 
Labuxiere, Clerk. B. Saucier. 

At a Court, June 6, 1785. 

President Bte. Saucier. Louis Pillet. 

Louis Chatel. Joseph Bissonnette. 

Pierre Roy. Present. 

A petition presented by M. Gabriel Cerré, dated the 4th of 
this month, petitionary and explanatory \ in which he says that 
he has made seizure of the goods of the said Antoine Harmand 
called Sansfaçon by virtue of a decree of the Court rendered 
the 22nd of November last against the said M. Harmand, 
and also by virtue of his note, indorsed by Jean Bte. Dumay, and 
made after the said decree, for the payment of two thousand 
six hundred and twenty-six livres six sols eight deniers * in money, 
which the said Sansfaçon or the said Dumay ought to have paid in 
the month of April last; and that in default of payment the said 
M. Cerré has made seizure of the goods of the said Sansfaçon 
that they may be sold by the authority of justice to the highest 
bidder within the week; and he begs the Court to grant the 
said sale. In view of the seizure of the goods of the said 
Sansfaçon made by the huissier of this Court, the 31st of May 
last, and also in view of the explanatory petition presented this 
said day by M. Antoine Harmand, in which he claims the 
authority of the Court against the injustice which has been done 
him in regard to a negro, whom he bought at the auction of the 
minors NicoUe, and who was a poisoner before he acquired 
him from that estate, for the said negro had been convicted of 
having poisoned his master and mistress and escaped from 
the hands of justice; and in .which the said Harmand afcms that 
he was condemned unjustly to pay for him, and that it is for 



194 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

poursuivy par le S^ Ceré comme tuteur des mineurs nicole 
demandant une revision de douze jurés pris sur cette Rive pour 
Reviser lafaire selon les loix Et la justice. Le tout vu Et 
Considéré Nous avons accordé au S*" harmand Sans façon 
une revision de douze jures pris sur cette Rive Et non ailleurs 
pour délibérer Et reviser ladite affaire lesquels sassembleront 
jeudy prochain suivant la Nomination qui En sera faite par la 
Cour Et cependant le s' du May Restera Caution jusqua la par- 
faite definition des jurés Et la Saisie subsistera jusqua leur sen- 
tence deffinitive Le tout a la Conservation des droits de qui il 
apartiendra Si mandons &c. cesd' jour Et an. 

La Cour est aujoumée pour le sept de juillet prochain. 

B Saucier 

Note Des Jurés que La Cour a Nome led' Jour pour La 
definition de la Santance cy dessus, qui Sassanbleront Jeudy 
Prochain 9 Du Aoust En La Chambre Daudience pour rendre 
Santance définitif sans Pourvoir quitter leur Séance Savoir, M^" 
aht. Girardin, Philip Angel, Paul Hubert Lacroix, J B'« Bergeron, 
henry Biron, J. B'« Gaffé, B**^ Morel, Ch^^ Ducharme, Fr Courié, 
Js** Labuxiere Père, ant Boyé, J. B'® Dubuque, arretté ced* Jour 
a la Suitte de la Cour. 

fr. saucier Greff B Saucier. 

a une Cour Extraordinaire du 9**= Juin 1785. 
President B'® Saucier Louis Pillet 

Pierre roy Jos** Bissonet 

Louis chatel B'« Dumay 

Demendeur Gabriel Cerre Deffendeur ant. harmant 
La Cour Etant assamblé Pour Prendre Le Serment des Douze 
Jurés cy devant Denomé Et sont a Linstant Comparu Les Sieurs 
ant. Girardin Philipe Engel Paul Hubert lacroix J B'® Bergeron 
henry Biron J B'® Gaffé J B'® morel ch^« Ducharme, fr Courrié 
Jos^ Labuxiere ant Boyé Et J B'® Dubuque, Lesquels ont Prêté 
Serment sur les S* Evangille, de Bien sacquitter En leur charge de 
Juré suivant les Pieces qui leurs Seront Présenté, Dans Laffaire 
Entre M^* Cerré Et Sanfaçon Jusqua leurs Santance difinitif. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1785 195 

this sum that he is to-day sued by the said M. Cerré, acting 
as guardian of the minors Nicolle; and in which he prays 
for a revision of the case according to law and justice by twelve 
jurors drawn from this bank: in view and in consideration of all 
this we granted to M. Harmand called Sansfaçon, a revision 
of the said case by a twelve jurors drawn from this bank and not 
elsewhere, and they shall assemble Thursday next according to 
their appointment by the Court; and moreover M. Dumay shall 
remain bondsman until the final decision of the jurors and the 
seizure shall continue until their definitive verdict, all for the 
preservation of rights of whomsoever it shall concern; so we 
command, etc. this said day and year. 

The Court adjourned to the 7th of July next. 

B. Saucier. 

Panel of jurors whom the Court named this said day for their 
decision on the above judgment and who shall assemble Thurs- 
day next, the 9th of August, in the audience chamber to render 
definitive verdict before adjourning to wit: MM. Ant. Giràrdin, 
Philippe Engel, Paul Hubert Lacroix, J. Bte. Bergeron, Henry 
Biron, J. Bte. Gaffé, Bte. Morel, Charles DuCharme, Fr. Courier, 
Joseph Labuxiere, Sr., Ant. Boyer, J. Bte. Dubuque; resolved 
this said day at the close of Court. 

Fr. Saucier, Clerk. B. Saucier. 

At a special session of the Court, June 9, 1785. 
President, Bte. Saucier. Ix)uis Pillet. 

Pierre Roy. Joseph Bissonnette. 

Louis Chatel. Bte. Dumay. 

Present. 
Gabriel Cerré, Plaintiff, vs. Ant. Harmand, Defendant. 
The Court assembled to receive the oath from the twelve 
jurors here above named and there immediately appeared MM. 
Ant. Girardin, Philippe Engel, Paul Hubert LaCroix, J. Bte. Ber- 
geron, Henry Biron, J. Bte. Gaffé, J. Bte. Morel, Charles Du- 
Charme, Fr. Courier, Jos. Labuxiere, Ant. Boyer and J. Bte. 
Dubuque, who made oath on the Holy Gospels to acquit them- 
selves well of their duty of jury in accordance with the documents, 



196 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

La Santance difinitif ayant Eté Présenté a la Cour a Eté omo- 
loqué Et approuvé par la ditte Cour Ced^ Jour Et an. 

B Saucier 



a une Cour du 20 de Juin 1785. 

Les Sieurs antoine Girardin J B*® Lacroix Ch^« duCharme 
Philipe Engel Jean B^® Dubuque Francois Courier et Thomas 
Brady, ayant Eté nomé par la nouvelle Ellection, sont Comparu, 
Et après avoir Prêté Serment de fidélité ainsi que Celuy doffice 
Et ont Pris Leurs Place En leurs qualité de Magistra. 

a une même Cour Joseph Labuxiere a prêté Serment de Fidé- 
lité ainsi que celui doffice En Sa qualité de greffier de la Cour de ce 
district. 

a une même Cour pierre troge a prêté Serment doffice Et de 
fidélité dans sa Charge dhuissier de cette dite Cour. 

a la même cour accorde a pierre martin quartre cent quarante 
arpens de terre a lendroit apellé la petite prairie a titre de Con- 
cession. 

N'^2 

a la même cour accordé a thomas Bredy quatre cent 
quarante arpens de terre a lendroit apellé la petite prairie sur 
les Cotes a titre de Concession suivant sa requête de ce jour a 
luy remise. 

a une même Cour. 
President Jean B^® LaCroix Philipe Engle 
ant Girardin thom. Bredy 

Charl. ducharme francois Courier 

demandeur Jean B'* Morel deffendeur Jean B'* Gaffe 
Le demandeur répète par son compte courant contre le deffend- 
eur la Somme des quatre vingt dix neuf livres huit sols En 
argent, le deffendeur aleguant que dans ce voyage led* morel 
Etoit obligé de parole verbales a luy fournir la voiture Et les 

* Amonîï thf Cahukiu reamis in the Hhrar\' of the Chicam» Hist«)rical Society are the 
following (iocuments belonsinR to this case: — The petition of Cerré of November 27, 1784. 
the petition by the same 0! Jvme i, 1785, of which the record of the session of June 6, 17851 
contains the substance, and the verdia of the jury. The jury, which was composed of the 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1785 197 

which shall be presented them in the case between MM. Cerré 
and Sansfaçon, until they shall have reached a definitive verdict. 
The definitive verdict was returned to the Court and con- 
firmed and approved by the said Court this said day and year.' 

B. Saucier. 

At a Court, June 20, 1785. 

MM. Antoine Girardin, J. Bte. Lacroix, Ch. DuCharme, Phi- 
lippe Engel, Jean Bte. Dubuque, François Courier and Thomas 
Brady, having been elected at the new election, appeared and, 
after having taken oath of fidelity and also that of office, took their 
place as magistrates. 

At the same Court Joseph Labuxiere took oath of fidelity and 
also that of office as clerk of the Court of this district. 

At the same Court Pierre Troge took oath of office and of 
fidelity for his commission of huissier o£ this Court. 

No. I. 

At the same Court there was granted Pierre Martin four hun- 
dred arpetUs of land in the place called the Little Prairie by 

right of concession. 

No. 2. 

At the same Court there was granted Thomas Brady four 
hundred arpents of land in the place called the Little Prairie 
on the bluffs by right of concession in accordance with his peti- 
tion returned this day to him. 

At the same Court. 
President, Jean Bte. LaCroix. Philippe Engel. 
Ant. Girardin. Thorn. Brady. 

Charles DuCharme. François Courier. 

Jean. Bte. Morel, Plaintiff, vs. Jean Bte. Gaffé, Defendant. 
The plaintiff brings a claim against the defendant for the sum 
of ninety-nine livres eight sols in cash according to his current 
account. The defendant pleads that the said Morel was 
bound by verbal agreement to furnish him the boat, the 
necessary men and supplies for the said journey and that he 

most influential men of the viUage, decided that, since Pompée, the negro, was purchased by 
Haxmand after the charge of poisoning the NicoUes was made against him, the purchase should 
be annulled and Harmand released from his note as well as from intmst and costs. 



198 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

hommes nécessaires Et vivres pour le susdit voyage quil na pas 
Effectué Sa promesse ouy les répliques, demandes Et deffences 
le tout Examiné nous avons Renvoyé les parties hor de Cour et de 
procès a ce sujet Sans pouvoir Rien se repeter lun En ver lautre 
dépens compensez Entreux. 

a la même cour 
demandeur François Coyolle deffendeur 'Pierre trooe 

Le demandeur concluant a ce que le défendeur soit condamné 
aluy payer un billet de Neuf cent vingt Sept livres quinze sols 
quil a produit. 

Le défendeur a répondu quil avoit fait des ouvrages a deman- 
deur a compte dud* Billet et quil ofroit de finir led* ouvrage que 
cependant il Convenoit après louvrage fait detre Encore redeva- 
ble aud* demandeur, le tout examiné nous avons condamné 
le d* troge a payer présentement la somme de Cent livres aud* 
sr. Coyole la somme de Cent livres [sic]^ En outre quils Régleront 
leurs comptes sous huit jours Et led* troge a faire louvrage 
quil est Convenu, Sous trois mois de ce jour Et après led* 
ouvrage fini Et leur compte arrête le Condamnons a payer la 
solde de son compte aud* s*" Coyole sans aucuns délais Et aux 
dépens. 

a la même Cour. 

Clement alary demandeur Etienne ardouin défendeur 

Le demandeur exposant que led* ardouin a abandonne une 
pouliche au petit Laramèe quil Croyoit morte Et sur les risques 
dud* laramèe pour une petite truye. le deffendeur aleguant quil 
Croyoit avoir fait un badinage vu le Certificat de michel girar- 
din qui declare que le change a Eté fait de Bonne foy Et 
sans Badinage Nous adjugeons la pouliche aud* Clement 
alary ou laramèe. lequel livrera la petite truye aud* ardouin 
Et par des domagement Condamnons led* Clement alary aux 
dépens. 

a la même cour le S*" francois saucier a Rendu compte a 
leon Lepage de la sucession de Ses père Et mere conune 
Chargé du recouvrement dont le dit Leon lepage luy a donné 
quitance. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1785 199 

has not kept his promise. When these replies, prayers and 
defences were heard and all examined, we dismissed the parties 
and the suit on the subject without allowing either party to 
bring suit against the other; the costs are to be shared between 
them. 

At the same Court. 

François Caillot, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre Troge, Defendant. 

The plaintiff concludes that the defendant should be con- 
demned to pay him a note, which he produced, for nine himdred 
and twenty-seven livres fifteen sols. 

The defendant answered that he had done some work for the 
plaintiff on accoimt of the said note and offered to finish the 
said work, and moreover agreed that after the work was finished 
that he would be still in debt to the plaintiff. After all was 
examined, we condemned the said Troge to pay now the sum of 
one hundred livres to the said M. Caillot; and furthermore 
decided that they shall settie their accounts within eight days, 
and the said Troge is to finish the work for which he has con- 
tracted within three months from this day, and after the said 
work is finished and their account closed, we condemn him to 
pay the balance of his account to the said Caillot without delay, 
and to pay the costs. 

At the same Court. 
Clement Alarie, Plaintiff, vs. Etienne Hardouin, Defendant. 

The plaintiff shows that the said Hardouin abandoned a filly 
which he believed dead to the litde Laramée and at the risk of 
the little Laramée in exchange for a litde sow. The defendant 
pleads that he believed that it was a joke. Considemig the cer- 
tificate of Michel Girardin who declares that the exchange was 
made in good faith and not as a joke, we adjudge the filly to the said 
Clement Alarie or Laramée, who shall deliver the little sow to 
the said Hardouin; and for damages we condemn the said 
Clement Alarie to pay the costs. 

At the same Court M. François Saucier rendered account to 
Leon Lepage of the estate of his father and mother, as entrusted 
to make recovery, for which Leon Lepage gave him receipt. 



200 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a la même cour les magistrats voulant Etablir une taxe fixe pour 
les frais de justice En Egard au temp present avons fixé et taxé 
les frais de justice ainsy quil suit 

Premièrement En argent 

au juge de Semaine 

par chaque sentence 5*^ 

par chaque vacation 10 

par chaque ordre 210 

au greflSer 

par chaque ordre S 

par chaque sentence S 

a Ihuissier 

par chaque ordre S 

par chaques ordres de Criée 3 

p' afiche Et publication 2 

par chaque vacation aux Encan de 2 heures J 3 

pour une saisie provisoire 5 

p"" une jdg exécutoire 10 

Et pour tous autres frais ils subsisteront Comme sur Lancien 
pieds 

arreste lesd* jour Et an. 

Labuxiere gfer J B H LaCroix pr. Sidant 

a la même Cour a Eté décidé Entre les sept magistrat que 
le s*" LaCroix Restera juge de Semaine. 

La Cour est ajournée au i*^*^ 8^" 1785. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix pr. Sidan 

a la même Cour Entre le s*" jean B** Gaffé demandeur Contre 
antoine harmand dit Sans façon deffendeur En Confirmant la 
sentance de la Cour En datte du 4. 9^" dernier Nous condamnons 
le s^ harmand a rembourser au s^ Gaffé les frais quil a fait p*" 
Racommoder la voiture quil a preste aud^ s*" harmand Et ce Sans 
délais Et aux dépens. 

La Cour ajournée au i*^ 8^^* 1785. 

Labuxiere gfier J B H LaCroix pr. Sidan 

* The iustice of the week was chosen by the court to hold weekly sessions between the 
sessions of the court. There is in Belle\ille, lU., a record of this court from July 9, 1785, to 
February 14, 1786. It contains only sixteen pages, and there is little of interest in it. The 
curt is called "reformed " 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1785 201 

At the same Court the magistrates wishing to establish a list 
of fixed prices for the costs of justice with reference to the present 
time, have established and do establish the costs of justice as 
foUows: 

First in cash. 

To the justice of the week * livres. 

For each judgment 5 

For each vacalion ' 10 

Foreach writ 2. 10 

To the clerk 

For each writ 5 

For each judgment S 

To the huissier. 

For each writ 5 

For each order to be proclaimed 3 

For placard and publication 2 

For each sitting at an auction of 2^ hours 3 

For a provisional seizure 5 

For an execution 10 

And all other cost shall continue on the former scale. 

Ordered this said day and year. 
Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, President. 

At the same Court it was decided by the seven magistrates that 
M. LaCroix shaU remain justice of the week. 

The Court adjourned to November i, 1785. 
Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, President. 

At the same Court in the suit between M. Jean Bte. Gafifé, 
plaintiff and Antoine Harmand called Sansfaçon, defendant, 
we confirm the decree of the Court of the 4th of November 
last and condemn M. Harmand to reimburse M. Gaffé for the 
costs he has incurred in repairing his pirogue, which he lent M. 
Harmand, and that without delay, and to pay the costs. 

The Court adjourned to October i, 1785. 
Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, President. 

^ i'<K<ui(nt, time spent in perfurmiaK some officiai act; in this case some act not ending 
in a judj{!nent, hence belonging to non-litigious judicial acts, such as appointing a guardian, 
settling an estate, etc. 



202 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du i*'" 8^" 1785. 
President M*" LaCroix PhUip Engel 

ant girardin Charles Ducharme 

Tho. Brady f«" Courier 

B*« dubuc 
Les Magistrats Etants assemblés la Cour séante après avoir 
mûrement délibéré Entreux Sur les Circonstances malheureuses 
du tems ou il y a ny récoltes, ny argent, de plus la perte des Bes- 
itaux occasionnée par linondation Et maladie Contagieuse, la Cour 
considérant que les habitants de ce district par tous les fléaux 
qui leurs Sont arrivez Sont En Retard de payer leurs debtes Et 
que leurs Créanciers Sans avoir Egard a leurs misères leurs font 
vendre leurs effets Et Bestiaux p^ un vil prix aux trois quarts de 
le\irs valeur, ce qui Ruine totalement Lesdits habitans Et voulant 
Remédier a un mal aussi dangereux Et Si Ruineux au public, la 
Cour a décidé Et decide que tout Créanciers ne poura faire vendre 
Les Biens de Son débiteur quant a present vu le manque despece Et 
de pelterie qui metent Les débiteurs hors detat de payer, mais 
que les Effets qui seront Saisis aux dits débiteurs Seront Estimez 
par arbitres Et gens Connoisseurs Et que Le Créancier Sera 
obligé de les prendre au prix de Lestimation Si mieux il naime 
accorder du tems aud* débiteur En payant Linterest. 
[Signed] 
T Brady a* Girardin 

B Dubuq Ch DuCharme 

Phillipe Engel J B H LaCroix p. sd 

Labuxiere grefier 
a la même Cour 
Le S^ motard demandeur Contre Le S^ Bouvet Lamarche 

deffendcur 
vu la requet du S^ motard expositive que le deffendeur luy doit 
une somme de Cinq cent quarante six livres Cinq sols pour mar- 
chandises par Son compte, quil luy a vendu du mahis p*" partie de 

* The tlfxîd ol 1785 w:uî one of the severest in the history of the Mi&sissippi. The water 
extended to the bluffs on both sides The people of Cahokia and Kiiâkaskia were oblised 
to seek shelter on the higher «round . At Kaskaâkia many h(»uses were swept away. The 
western bank suffered no less severely, and the old \illaKe of Stc. (îenene\e was deserted for a 
site more protected from the river. — Dodge to Wm. Clark, Oct, i8, 1785, Dr. XfSS. iMiaô. 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1785 203 

At a Court, October i , 1785. 

President, M. LaCroix. Philippe Engel. 

Ant. Girardin. Charles DuCharme. 

Tho. Brady. - Fr. Courier. 

Bte. Dubuque. 
The magistrates being assembled and the Court in session, 
after carefully deliberating on the unhappy conditions of the time, 
when there are neither crops nor money; and considering further- 
more the loss of the cattle occasioned by the inimdations and con- 
tagious disease;^ and considering that the inhabitants of this dis- 
trict on accoimt of all the troubles, which have occurred, are back- 
ward in pa3dng their debts and that their creditors without heed to 
their miseries are having their goods and cattle sold for a low price 
at three fourths of their value, which is ruining the said inhabitants 
totally; and wishing to remedy an evil so dangerous and so ruinous 
to the public, the Court has decided and decides that no creditor 
can have the property of his debtor sold, as at present, because of 
the lack of money and peltries, which puts the debtors out of position 
to pay; but that the goods of the said debtors, which shall be seized, 
shall be appraised by arbitrators and appraisers and the creditor 
shall be obliged to take them at the appraised price, if he does not 
prefer to allow the debtor tune on condition of paying interest. 
[Signed.] 

T. Bradv. Ant. Girardin. 

B. Dubuque. Ch. DuCharme. 

Philippe Engel. J. B. H. LaCroix, President. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. 

At the same Court. 
M. MoTARD, Plaintiff vs, M. Boxaœt Lamarche Defendant. 
The explanatory petition of M. Motard was examined, in 
which he sslvs that the defendant owes him the sum of five hun- 
dred and forty-six Hi/res five sols for merchandise according to 
his account and that the latter sold him com for part of the 
said simi without knowing the quantity that he had in his bam, 
which did not amount to eighty sacks, and that the plaintiff had 
bought it at the rate of fifty francs the load of eighteen sacks 



204 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

ladite somme sans savoir la quantité quil y avoit dans son grenier 
qui naloit pas a quatre vingt sacs, quil lavoit acheté sur le pieds 
de Cinquante franc la tomberée de dixhuit sacs de deux minots. 
mais que par une autre Convention led^ Bouvet devoit mener Le 
mahis a S* Louis ou il devoit Etre mesuré Et le Demandeur de- 
voit le payer 60^^ la tomberée Et devoit luy fournir une voiture 
p^ le Charoyer seulement que quelque jour après led* Bouvet a 
vendu le mahis Et que le S^ Bouvet luy a fait manquer a Ses En- 
gagement par le deffaud de luy livrer le mahis oy [sic] le d* Bouvet 
En Ses deffences qui a dit que le s^ motard luy avoit livré une 
voiture Sans tolet ny Rames Et quil navoit pas sans servir Et 
que par ce retard Et diminution quil y avoit Eu sur le mahis il 
lavoit vendu Et quil ne desavouoit pas devoir ladite somme le 
tout Considéré La Cour a décidé que led* Bouvet payera la som- 
me de Cinq cent quarante six livres Cinq sols quil doit aud^ s*" 
motard Et ce Sous un mois de ce jour Et au deffaud quil Sera 
saisy de Ses Effets pour ladite somme Et Estimez par arbitres 
Lesquels Effets led* s*" motard sera tenu de prendre au prix de 
lestimation si mieux il naime donner plus long terme aud* Bouvet 
En payant linterest a raison de Cinq pour Cent Et Condamnons 
led* Bouvet aux jfrais que nous avons liquidez a la Somme 
de quinze livres ce qui sera exécuté la Cour séante tenue par 
M*" LaCroix présidant M^ antoine girardin Thom Bredy B** 
Dubuc, philipe Engel, Charle duCharme Et fr Courier lesd* 
jour Et an. 

J B H LaCroix 

a la même Cour 

M^ Antoine girardin apelant de la Sentence arbitrale Rendu 
Contre le 7 y^^^ dernier Contre le S^ Izaac Levy Deffendeur 
Et demandeur. 

Les parties ayant paru a ladite Cour séante ced* jour Sont Con- 
venu de Sen Raporter a la decizion sans apel de M'"'* Thom Bredy, 
philipe Engcl francois Courier Et charles ducharme magistrats 
Lesquels après être Bien Et mûrement instruit des Raisons qui 
font la Contestation du Boeufs en difficulté Entre le demandeur 
et le deffendeur Et se trouvant les dits S" quatre magistra de deux 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1785 205 

of two minois each; but that by another agreement the said 
Bouvet was to deliver the com at St. Louis, where it was to be 
measured and the plaintiff was to pay him 60 livres the load 
and to furnish him a boat merely for transporting it; and that 
some davs later the said Bouvet sold the com and caused the 
plaintiff to fail in his engagements,because the said Bouvet did 
not deliver him the com. Heard the said Bouvet in his defence, 
who said that M. Motard had delivered him a boat without 
tholes and oars and that he had not been able to use it, and 
that on accoimt of the delay and the decrease there was in the 
com he had sold it, and that he did not deny that he owed the said 
sum. After all was considered, the Court decided that the said 
M. Bouvet shall pay the sum of five hundred and forty-six livres 
five sols which he owes M. Motard and this within a month 
from this day, and in default of payment that there shall be a 
seizure of his goods for the said sum and they shall be appraised by 
arbitrators; which goods the said M. Motard shall be bound to take 
at the price of the appraisement, unless he prefers to give the said 
Bouvet a longer term and receive interest at the rate of five per cent. 
And we condemn the said Bouvet to pay the costs, which we have 
set at fifteen livres, for which there will be execution. At the 
session of the Court held by M. LaCroix, President, MM. Ant. 
Girardin, Tom. Brady, Bte. Dubuque, Philippe Engel, Charles 
DuCharme, and Fr. Courier, this said day and year. 

J. B. H. LaCroix. 
At the same Court. 

M. Antoine Girardin, appealing from the sentence by arbi- 
tration rendered against him the 7th of September last, vs. M. 
Isaac Levy, plaintiff and defendant. 

The parties apf)eared at the said session of the Court this day 
and agreed to refer their cause without right of appeal to the de-* 
cision of MM. Tom. Brady, Philippe Engel, François Courier 
and Charles DuCharme, magistrates. After being well and care- 
fully instructed in the grounds of the contest about the ox in dis- 
pute between the plaintiff and the defendant, the four magis- 
trates finding themselves divided in opinion called in M. François 



2o6 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

avis diflFerents ont apellé M^ francois trotier pour Cinquiesme 
juge, les autres magistrats nayant pu donner leur voix p' être 
témoins ou ayant Servy dans la p" Cause, cest pour quoy nous 
magistrats Cy devant Nommés Sommes davis Et notre decizion 
est que M^ girardin remetra un Boeuf au S*" Levy du même age de 
celuy qui fait actuellement la matière de la Contestation. Lequel 
Boeuf Led* s^ Levy sera Contraint de recevoir en place de celuy 
vendu de bonne foy par le s*" girardin au s*" forget Et les condam- 
nons a payer Chacun La moitié des frais qui ont Eté fait Et ceux 
fait p*" la présente sentence ce qui sera exécuté sans aucim ap)el ny 
Renvoy a autre seance tel est notre opinion Et notre decizion. 
[Signed] 
DuCharme fr trottier 

Phillipe Engel T Bredy 

Labuxiere grefier 

La Cour est ajourné au deux de janvier et a Nommé M*" 
Charle ducharme pour juge de Semaine Lequel a accepté ladite 
Charge. Ch DuCharme. 

aujourdhuy Septième jour doctobre mil Sept Cent quatre vingt 
Cinq a la requisition du s^ Izaac Levy la Cour Setant assemblée 
pour recevoir le Serment doffice de douze jurés pour decider Et 
reviser laffaire dEntre Led* S*" Levy Et le S*" antoine Girardin. 

Lesdits S" jurés Etants Comparus cejourdhuy Pardevant ladite 
Cour savoir les S" bergeron Louis gau, Paul poupart Louis Pillet, 
antoine Boyer, Charles Lefevre mathieu Saucier, philipe Gervais 
pierre martin, B*« Dumay, Raphael Gagnez, pierre Laperche dit S* 
Jean, Les quels après avoir fait aparoir de Lassignation qui leur 
a Eté donnée Le jour de hier la Cour leur a fait faire sermant dof- 
fice Sur les Saints Evangile de decider En leur ame Et Conscience 
ladite contestation au Sujet du Boeuf qui fait la matière du procès 
Entre les parties Et ont promis Et jure dy procéder suivant Leurs 
Sermant Les pieces Et Sentence cy devant Rendues leurs ayant 

* This is in accordance with the law governing arbitration. See supra, p. i6o, note i. 

3 This case was begun by Levy bringing suit against Lapancé for the ox in the court of 
the justice of the week. September 7, 1785. Girardin declared that the ox was his, when he 
sold it to Liipanc^, and offered as proof that his brand as well as Levy's was on the animal. 
Arbitrators were appointed, who decided in favor of Levy. Two da>'s lator Girardin appealed 
from the decision. — Record of the justice of the week in Belleville, 111. 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1785 207 

Trottier as a fifth judge. The other magistrates were not able 
to give their opinion, since they were either witnesses or had 
served in the first suit^ For this reason we, the magistrates 
herebefore named, are of the opinion, and our decision is, that M. 
Girardin shall return to M. Levy an ox of the same age as that 
which is at present the subject of the contestation; which ox the said 
M. Levy shall be compelled to accept in place of the one sold in good 
faith by M. Girardin to M. Forget; and we condemn each to pay half 
of the costs, which have been made, and those made for the present 
judgment, for which there will be execution without any appeal or 
reference to another session; such is our opinion and oiu* decision.' 
[Signed] 

Fr. Trottier DuCharme. 

T. Brady. Philip Engel. 

Labuxiere, Clerk 
The Court adjourned to the Second of January and named 
M. Charles DuCharme as judge of the week and he accepted the 
said office. 

To-day the seventh day of October, 1785, on the application 
of M. Isaac Levy the Court was assembled to receive the oath of 
office of a dozen jiu-ors to decide and revise the case between M. 
Levy and M. Antoine Girardin. 

The said MM. jurors appeared to-day before the said Court, 
to wit: MM. Bergeron, Louis Gaud, Paul Poupar, Louis Pillet, 
Antoine Boyer, Charles Lefevre, Matthieu Saucier, Philippe Ger- 
vais, Pierre Martin, Bte. Dumay, Raphael Gagné, Pierre La- 
perche called St. Jean, and, after having shown their summonses 
given them yesterday, the Court made them take the oath of office 
on the Holy Gospels to decide on their conscience the said litigation 
in regard to the ox which makes the matter of the suit between the 
parties, and they have promised and sworn to act according to their 
oaths. The documents and judgment heretofore rendered were 
placed in their hands this day by us, Charles DuCharme, Bte. La- 
croix, President, B. Dubuque, Tom, Brady and François Coimer. 

At the session of the Court the said day and year. 
Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, President. 



2o8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Eté remise En main cejourdhuy. par nous Charles DuCharme 
B*« LaCroix présidant, B*« Dubuc, Thom Bredy, Et francois 
Courier. 

La Cour séante lesd* jour Et an. 

Labuxiere greffier J B H LaCroix p sd 

Et a linstant led* S*" Levy a fait paroitre armant telier pour ren- 
dre temoinage Sur ce quil Sait a loccasion du Boeuf Et a linstant 
led* amant telier Etant Comparu luy avons fait faire Sermant de 
dire la vérité Sur ce qui est a Sa Connoissance a ce sujet devan 
Lesd* s*" jurés Et a dit ne savoir signer Lesd* jour Et an. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix pr. sd 

Led* S^ Levy a fait comparoitre aussi le* S^ philipe Engel pour 
rendre temoinage Sur ce qui est a Sa Connoissance a loccasion du 
Boeuf en Contestation lequel a linstant Etant Comparu luy avons 
fait faire Sermant de dire la vérité a M*"* Les jurez Sur ce qui est 
a sa Connoissance et a Signé lesd* jour Et an. 

Philipe Engel 
Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix pr sd 

Le S*" Girardin a fait comparoitre francois alexandre habitant 
de la pr** du pont pour rendre temoinage devant M*"* Les jures de 
ce qui est a Sa Connoissance sur le Boeuf En Contestation, lequel 
après sermant fait devant M*"* les magistrats Sur les Saints Evan- 
giles a promis Et juré de repondre Et declarer selon la vérité Sur 
tout ce quil sait concernant led* Boeuf Et dit ne savoir signer lesd*. 
jour Et an. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix pr sd 

Et led* jour Sept octobre mil Sept cent quatre vingt Cinq. Nous 
Jean B*'' Bergeron, Louis Gau, Paul poupart, Louis Pilet, antoine 
Boyer, Charlc Lefevre, Mathieu Saucier, Philipe Gervais, p"^ 
martin, B**^ Du May, Raphael Gagnez Et pierre Laperche tous 
jurés Nommés par M*"* Les magistrats pour decider Le procès en 
Contestations dEntre le S*" Izaac Levy et le S*" antoine Girardin ouy 
Les Deux parties En leurs demandes répliques, réponses Et Con- 
testations remontrances, dires Et requisitions quils nous ont fait 
verbalement par leur Bouche avant notre dccizion, Ensemble La 
deposition de amant telier, de francois alexandre du S*" philipe 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1785 209 

And now the said M. Levy summoned Armant Tellier to give 
testimony of what he knew about the ox. The said Armant 
Tellier now appeared and we caused him to make oath to tell 
the truth about what was within his knowledge on this subject 
before the said MM. jiu-ors; and he said that he did not know how 
to sign his name the said day and year. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, President. 

The said M. Levy summoned also M. Philippe Engel to give 
testimony of what was within his knowledge about the ox in 
dispute. He now appeared and we caused him to make oath to tell 
the truth to MM. the jurors about what is within his knowledge; 
and he has. signed the said day and year. 

Philippe Engel. 
Labuxiere Clerk. J B. H LaCroix. 

The said M. Girardin summoned François Alexandre, 
inhabitant of Prairie du Pont, to give testimony before MM. the 
jurors of what was within his knowledge about the ox in dispute; 
and he, after oath was made on the Holy Gospels before MM. 
the magistrates, has promised and sworn to answer and declare 
according to the truth in regard to all that he knows concerning the 
said ox; and he said that he did not know how to sign the said 
day and year. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

The said day the seventh of October, 1785, we Jean Bte. Ber- 
geron, Louis Gaud, Paul Poupar, Louis Pillet, Antoine Boyer, 
Charles Lefevre, Matthieu Saucier, Philippe Gervais, Pierre Mar- 
tin, Bte. Dumay, Raphael Gagné and Pierre Laperche, all jurors 
appointed by MM. the magistrates to decide the case in dispute 
between M. Isaac Levy and M. Antoine Girardin, after hearing 
the two parties in their prayers, replies, responses, contestations, 
remonstrances, pleadings and applications, which they have made 
to us verbally by word of mouth before our decision, together 
with the depositions of Armant Tellier, François Alexandre and 
Philippe Engel, which they have made on oath before us, and after 
examining the petitions and the documents produced by M. 
Girardin as well as the certificate, act of appeal and judgment 



2IO 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



angel quils ont fait devant Nous par Sermant, Les requêtes Et 
pieces a Nous produites par le S"" girardin tant certificat acte dapel 
que sentences Rendues sur les registres daudience Le tout dont 
nous avons pris une parfaite connoissance et nous être instruit de 
I affaire concernant le Boeuf en Contestation depuis le Commence- 
ment de la p" visite jusqua ce jour, Et avoir fait ce dit jour visite 
dud* Boeuf Et des Etampes Sur la fesse après lavoir fait razer pour 
plus grande sûreté Et Eclaircissement, Et après Etre plainement 
instruit de toute Ladite Contestations et avoir donné notre opinion, 
Selon Nos âmes Et conscience En consequance du sermant que 
nous avons fait Nous sommes tous davis Et condamnons M'' 
antoine Girardin a rendre Le même Boeuf quil a vendu au s*" 
Joseph Lapensée, au S*" Levy Comme Etant Son propre Boeuf a 
quoy faire le S^ Joseph Lapensée Contraint. Solidairement avec 
led^ s*" Girardin comme led^ Boeuf se trouvant actuellement En la 
pocession dud^ Joseph Lapensée, Sauf aud* S*" Girardin et La- 
pensée de Saranger Ensemble pour se faire Raison dud* Boeuf 
En en [sic] remetant un autre aud* Lapensée ou Saranger 
Comme Bon luy semblera. Sans pouvoir par led* s^ Girardin ny 
lapensée retenir plus longtems led* Boeuf En Contestation qui 
sera Remis aud* S*" Levy sous vingt quatre heures Et en outre 
Condamnons M^ antoine girardin En tous les frais Et dépens 
depuis le Commencement du procès jusqua ce jour Lesquels frais 
Seront liquidez par la Cour, telle est notre opinion et notre 
decizion Et avons signé Et fait nos marques ord*** lesd* jour et an. 
[Signed] 

Louis gaud 
marque de 

+ 
pierre martin 
marque 

+ 
Bergeron 
marque de 

+ 
raphael Gagnez 



Mth. Saucier 
marque de 

+ 
Charles Lefevre 
marque de 

+ 
B*« Dumay 
marque 

+ 
dantoine Boyer 



pierre Laperche 
marque de 

+ 
Louis pilet 
marque de 

+ 
Philipe Gervais 
marque de 

paul poupart 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1785 



211 



rendered on the registers of the Court, of all which we have 
received a perfect knowledge, and after we have instructed 
ourselves of the cause concerning the ox in dispute, since the 
ûrst inspection up to this day; and after we have made this said 
day an inspection of the said ox and of the mark on the buttock, 
after having it shaved for greater sureness and clearness; and 
after being fully instructed of all the said litigation and having 
given our votes according to our conscience in consequence of 
the oath which we have taken ; we are all agreed and condemn 
Antoine Girardin to return to M. Levy, as it is his own, 
the same ox which the former sold to M. Joseph Lapancé, to 
which M. Joseph Lapancé is constrained conjointly and severally 
with the said M. Girardin, since the ox is at present in 
the possession of the said Joseph Lapancé, reserving to the 
said MM. Girardin and Lapancé to make arrangements together 
to do each other justice for the said ox either by gift of another 
to the said Lapancé from M. Girardin or by making arrangements 
as seem good to them; without power by the said M. Girardin or 
Lapancé to retain the ox in litigation a longer time, but it shall 
be returned to the said M. Levy within twenty-four hours: and 
furthermore we condemn M. Antoine Girardin to pay aU costs and 
charges from the commencement of the suit up to this day, which 
costs shall be determined by the Court. Such is our opinion and 
our decision, and we have signed and made our marks this said 
day and year. 



[Signed] 
Mth. Saucier. 
Mark of 


Louis Gaud. 
Mark of 


Pierre Laperche 
Mark of 


Charles Lefevre 
Mark of 


Pierre Martin 
Mark of 


Louis Pillet 
Mark of 


Bte. Dumay 
Mark of 


Bergeron 
Mark of 


Philippe Gervais 
Mark of 


Antoine Boyer 


Raphslel Gagné 


Paul Poupart 



212 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Veu par la Cour la Sentence de lautre part laquelle nous con- 
firmons Et homologuons par ces présentes et ordonons quelle Sor- 
tira son plain et Entier Effets Et avons signé lesd* jour Et an. 
[Sigfied] 
marque de DuCharme 

-h Brady 

fr. Courier J B H LaCroix. 

B Dubuque 
Labuxiere grefier 

aujourdhuy huitiesme jour doctobre mil sept cent quatre vingt 
Cinq Est Comparu au greffe de ce siege le S^ jean B*« LaCroix 
porteur du billet cy après lequel men a requis moy grefier Sousigné 
Lenregistrement portant ce qui Suit. 

En presence des témoins Sousigné moi jean marie durant Sous 
ma marque je promet et moblige payer a la N^^*^ Orleans a lordre 
du S*" jean B^^ laCroix la Somme de Cent quatre vingt dix neuf 
livres En argent pour pareille Somme que led^ S^ ma prêté aux 
Cahos le 20. aoust 1 784. Signe dun -f p*" marque de J. M. durant, 
fr saucier témoin. Et après led^ Enregistrement fait led^ original 
a Eté remis par moy greffier Sousigné aud*^ S*" jean B^« LaCroix 
qui a Signé avec moi lesd^ jour Et an. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix. 

du 12. g^^'' 1785. 
a une Cour tenue Extraordinairement par Les magistrats cy 
après Nommés. 

M*""* Charles ducharme Thom Bredy 

J B^« Dubuque Philipe Engel 

Le S*" Jean B^<^ LaCroix demandeur 

Le demandeur Suplie la Cour de luy accorder Sa demission 

pour la traite des Sauvages En ce village ainsi quelle luy avoit Eté 

accordée par une Sentence de ladite Cour du 8 mars 1782. Et 

confirmée par une autre Sentence de la même Cour du 29 S^*"* 



* This shuuld have been entered in the book of reaird. which is printed hereafter, pp. 
ft seq. Its rvifistration here may be due to an error of the clerk, but from now on this book is 
occasionally usied in this way. 

^See also pp. las, 575. 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1785 213 

The judgment of the other part being duly considered by the 
Court, we confirm and sustain it by these presents and order that 
it shall have its full and entire effect; and we have signed this said 
day and year. 
[Signed] 

Mark of Ducharme 

+ Brady 

Fr.Courier J. B. H. LaCroix 

B. Dubuque Labuxiere, Clerk. 

To-day, the eighth day of October, 1785, there has appeared a 
the record-office of this jurisdiction M. Jean Bte. LaCroix bearing 
the following note, and he required of me, the undersigned clerk, 
the registration thereof, and it contains what follows: 

In the presence of the undersigned witnesses, I, John Marie 
Durand, under my mark, promise and bind myself to pay at New 
Orleans to the order of M. Jean Bte. LaCroix the sum of one 
hundred and ninety-nine livres in money in return for a like sum 
which the said gentleman has loaned me at Cahokia, the 20th of 
August, 1784. Signed with -h for the mark of J. M. Durand; Fr. 
Saucier, witness; and after the said registration was made, the 
said original was returned by me, the undersigned clerk, to M. 
Jean Bte. LaCroix, who has signed with me the said day and year.^ 
Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix. 

November 12, 1785. 
At a special session of the Court held by the magistrates here- 
after named : 

MM. Charles DuCharme. Thom. Brady. 

J. Bte. Dubuque. Philippe Engel. 

M. Jean Bte. LaCrodc Petitioner 
The f)etitioner prays the Court to accept his resignation of 
the privilege to trade with the savages in this village in the form it 
was granted him by a decree of the said Court, March 8, 1782,' 
and confirmed by another decree of the said Court the 29th 
of October last, for reason known to himself; and he declares 
that he abandons and leaves it to the Court to make orders in 
regard thereto. 



214 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

dernier pour raison a luy Connue declarant quil labandonne Et 
laisse a la disposition de la Cour den ordonner. 

Veu la demande du S*" LaCroix Nous avons Ennuie Sa demis- 
sion Et Le déchargeons de la traite des sauvages En ce poste Et 
de toutes les conditions aux quelles il setoit oblige par la Sentence 
du 8 mars 1782. 

DuCharme P. sd. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix. 

Et a linstant Sont comparus les S*"' Izaac Levy Et Thom Bredy 
citoyen de ce village Les quels ont suplié La Cour de leur accorder 
la même traite Et privilege dont le S*" LaCroix a donné Sa demis- 
sion, offrant de se Conformer a la sentence du 8 mars 1782. 
surquoy La Cour a accordé Et accorde aux exposant le même 
privilege qui avoit Eté cy devant donné aud^ s*" LaCroix Et ont 
fait Sermant de sy Conformer lesd^ jour Et an. 

Brady. J B H LaCroix psd 

. Labuxiere grefier 

La Cour assemblée voulant remédier aux abus continuels qui 
se Commetent journellement dans ce village par lau de vie qui se 
versse aux sauvages dont il En resuite des Effets très dangereux 
Et pemissieux au bien Et a la tranquilité publique. 

La Cour a deffendu El deffent très empressement a toutes 
personnes de telle qualité Et conditions quelles puissent être de 
donner aucunne Boisson Enyvrante aux Sauvages, Sous prétexte de 
visite de Camarade, de Connoissance, traite ou autrement, pas 
même Seulement un Coup Soit a leur arrivée ou a leur depart a 
f)eine de trois cent livres damande, de Confiscation de la traite, 
quils auront fait Et de plus grande peine En Cas de residive. dont 
les Sauvages Seront Crû Sur leur declaration Sans quil Soit Besoin 
de plus grande preuve. Et les Sauvages Seront arrêtés jusqua 
ce quils ayent fait leur declaration Reservons neantmoins la 
liberté a M^ trotier commandant de ce village den donner avec 
prudence Et moderation lors que les sauvages viendront Le voir 
tant pour les Conseil que pour les autres occasions ou un Com- 
mandant ne peut Sen dispanser ainsy quil est dusage donné la 
Cour Séante lesd^ jour Et an. Et la présente Sera lue publiée Et 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1785 215 

In view of the prayer of M. LaCroix we have accepted his resig- 
nation and relieved him of the trade with the savages in this post 
and of all the conditions by which he was bound by the decree of 
March 8, 1782. 

DuCharme, Près. 
Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix. 

And now appeared MM. Isaac Levy and Tom. Brady, citizens 
of this village, who ()etitioned the Court to grant them the same 
commerce and privileges, of which M. LaCroix gave his resigna- 
tion, and they offer to conform to the decree of March 8, 1782. 
Whereupon the Court has granted and does grant to the petitioners 
the same privilege, which had been herebefore given to the said M, 
LaCroix; and they have made oath to conform thereto the said 
day and year. 

Brady. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. 

The Court assembled to remedy the continual abuses, which 
are daily conmiitted in this village through the liquor which is 
served to the savages, from which there results effects very danger- 
ous and f)enicious to the welfare and the tranquillity of the public. 

The Court has forbidden and does forbid very expressly all 
persons, of whatever quality and condition they may be, to give 
any intoxicating drink, even a draught, to the savages under 
pretext of social visit, of acquaintance, by way of trade or other- 
wise, either on their arrival or their departure, on pain of three 
hundred livres fine and confiscation of the business they have 
made, and of greater punishment in case of second offense; in 
regard to which the savages shall be believed on their affidavit 
without need of greater proof, and the savages shall be held until 
they have made their affidavit. We reserve, however, to M. 
Trottier, commandant of this village, the liberty to give some 
with prudence and moderation, when the savages shall come to 
see him either for holding councils or on other occasions when a 
commandant cannot dispense therewith, as it is customary. 
Given at the session of the Court the said day and year. And the 
present decree shall be read, published and placarded on the door 



2i6 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

afichée a la porte de cette Eglise Et signiffiee au marchand Etran- 
ger résidant En ce poste a ce quils nen prétendent Cause dignor- 
ence. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix p Si 

Publiée et afichée p*" la 2« fois le 3 x^'^ 1786. Labuxiere 

a une Cour du dix neuf Novembre mil sept cent quatre vingt 
Cinq. Le S*" pierre antoine Thabault a fait Serment de fidélité aux 
Etats unis de Lamerique Et promis de se Conformer aux Eklits et 
règlements du Gouvernement de Virginie et a Signé lesd* jour Et 
an. P A Tabeau 

J B H LaCroix pr.sed. Labuxiere 

a la même Cour 
M*" Jean Dumoulin demandeiu: contre Pierre Troge deffendeur 

Le demandeur a produit un billet contre le deffendeur de la 
Somme de Sept cent quatre vingt une livres quinze sols En argent 
Echus En demandant le payement. 

Le deffendeur a reconnu le Billet Et a dit Navoir point de quoy 
le payer actuellement quil demdoit [sic] huit jour de délais. Pour 
saranger avec le S*" Caillole avec qui il avoit des comptes, le de- 
mandeur a réplique que jusqua ce tems M^LaCroix ne se denantisse 
pas de quarante Cinq Sacs de mahis quil avoit apartenants aud^ 
troge. 

La Coiu: faisant droit a accorde Le délais de huit jour aud^ 
troge Et jusqua ce tems a Saisy conservatoire^ entre les mains de 
M*" LaCroix les quarante Cinq Sacs de mahis p*" led* tems passé 
être ordonné ce quil apartiendra. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix pr.sd 

a une Cour du deux janvier mil sept Cent quatre vingt Six 
tenue par 

Messieurs jean B*® LaCroix, presid*. 
Thom Bredy Philipe angel 

j. B*« Dubuque Charle duCharme 

Les habitans du grand Ruisseau ont présente une Requête, que 
la dite a repondu et ordonne que les représentant Seront sommis 
a cette jurisdiction comme Etant de cette dépendance sauf a eux 

^ Note in the marsin by the clerk. 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1786 217 

of this church and announced to the alien merchants residing in 
this post, so that they may not plead the cause of ignorance. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

Published and placarded for the second time December 3, 1786.* 

Labuxiere. 

At a Court the 19th of November, 1785, M. Pierre Antoine 
Tabeau made oath of fidelity to the United States of America and 
promised to conform to the edicts and regulations of the govern- 
ment of Virginia, and has signed the said day and year. 

P. A. Tabeau. 
Labuxiere. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

At the same Court. 
M. Jean Dumoulin, Plaintiff, vs, Pierre Troge, Defendant. 
The Plaintiff produced a note against the defendant for the 
simi of seven hundred and eighty-one livres fifteen sols in 
money, which is matiured, and demands payment. 

The defendant acknowledged the note and said that he did not 
have wherewith to pay at present and demands delay for a week to 
make arrangements with M. Caillot with whom he had some 
accounts. The plaintiff replied that until that time M. LaCroix 
ought not to dispose of forty-five sacks of com, which he had, 
belonging to the said Troge. 

The Court justly granted the delay of a week to the said 
Troge and xmtil that time attached for security the forty-five sacks 
of com in the hands of M. LaCroix, that orders may be given as 
may be fitting, when that time is passed. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

At a Court the 2nd of January, 1786, held by 
MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President. Philippe Engel. 
Tom Brady. Charles DuCharme. 

J. Bte. Dubuque. 
The inhabitants of the Grand Ruisseau presented a petition, 
which the said [Court] answered and it decrees that the petitioners 
shall be submitted to this jurisdiction as belonging to this de()end- 
ency , reserving to them the right to name arbitrators in case of dis- 
putes in their affairs occiuring among them, without detracting from 



2l8 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



de nommer des arbitres En Cas de Contestation dans les a£Faires 
qui surviendront Entreux Sans desroger a Ihotorité de cette dite 
Cour. Et leur accorde En outre de Nommer Entreux un Com- 
mandant pour y maintenir le Bon ordre Et la police qui sera subor- 
donné au Commandant des Cahos Et Sujet a luy obéir et a rece- 
voir Ses ordres Et qui se présentera devant cette dite Cour pour 
prêter Sermant dofice Et de fidélité avant dexercer aucun pouvoir 
donné aux Cahos le deux janvier mil sept Cent quatre vingt Six. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroîx prdt 

a la même Cour 
Le s*" Izaac Levy demandeur Contre Charles LaCrodc for- 
geron deffendeur 

Le demandeur produit un Billet de la Somme de huit Cent 
livres En argent dub par le deffendeur Et Echu demandant que 
led^ deffendeur Soit Condamné a luy En payer Sans délais le 
montant. 

ouy aussi le deffendeur qui a reconnu Son dit Billet, mais quil 
est convenu verbalement avec le s' Levy dans le tems quil luy a 
fait Ses avances de prendre des Billets dhabitants En payements. 
Et que cest sa Convention sans laquelle il Nauroit Rien pris chés 
Le S^ Levy. 

Le S' Levy a répliqué le Contraire Et a dit quil netoit point 
Convenu de ce fait persistant a ce que le deffendeur Soit Condamné 
a luy payer ladite somme Sans délais N'Entendant aucunnement 
prendre des Bons dhabitant En payement. 

Led^ Charles laCroix a soutenu que Led^ s' Levy Etoit Convenu 
verballement de prendre lesd^ Bons dhabitants Et que Setoit Sa 
Convention. 

Les quelles parties N'ont pu donner aucunnes preuves de part 
ny dautre Et le billet ne faisant aucunne mention de ce fait parties 
ouyes et le tout Considéré Et Examiné La Cour a ordonné Et 
ordonne quil sera donne aud^ Charles laCroix un mois de Credy 
pour retirer ce qui luy Est dub des habitants Soit En argent ou 
danrees au prix du Cour, les quelles payement Seront Remis 

* The currency of the period consisted principally of what were called "peltry botts.*' 
They were notes, issued generally by the merchants, bearing on their face the inscription that 
they were good (bon) for so many pounds of shaved deer-skins. These were used in 4U the 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1786 219 

the authority of this said Court; and it grants them furthermore 
the right to name among them a commandant to maintain there 
good order and police, who shall be subordinated to the comman- 
dant of Cahokia and obey him and receive his orders, and who shall 
present himself before this said Court to take the oath of office and 
of fidelity before exercising any authority. Given at Cahokia the 
2nd of January, 1786. 

Labuxiere, Clerk J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

At the same Court. 
M. Isaac Levy, Plaintiff vs, Charles LaCrodc, blacksmith, 

defendant. 

The plaintiff produces a note for the sum of eight hundred 
livres in money due by the defendant and which has matured, and 
prays that the said defendant be condemned to pay to him the 
amount thereof. 

Heard also the defendant, who acknowledged his said note, 
but says that it was agreed verbally with M. Levy, at the time that 
the latter made him these advances, to take some notes of the 
inhabitants in payment; and that this is his agreement, without 
which he would have taken nothing at M. Levy's. 

M. Levy made rejoinder and said that there was no agreement 
of that kind and persisted that the defendant should be con- 
demned to pay him the said sum without delay, since he did not 
intend to take bons * of the inhabitants in payment. 

The said Charles LaCroix maintained that the said M. Lew 
made a verbal agreement to take the said bons of the inhabitants 
and it was his convention. 

Neither party has been able to give any proof and since the note 
makes no mention of this agreement, after the parties were heard 
and all considered and examined, the Court decreed and does 
decree that there shall be given Charles LaCroix a month's credit 
to proems from the inhabitants what is due him either in cash or 
commodities at the price current, which payments in the same 
kind shall be delivered to the said M. Levy, who shall na( he 

transactions of the inhabitants. The form of a bon was as follows: "Bon pour six fiiVre dk 
Barbue a St. Louis ce 25 ybre, 1799. Antoine Roy." — Address by Judge W. C. Cjn" at Sfe. 
Louis, February 15, 1747- 



220 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

aud* S*" Levy par led^ LaCroix En même nature qui ne poura les 
refuser jusqua la Concurance de Son dub. si mieux naime led* 
S^ Levy de sacommoder des Billets quil jugera a propos, ou avec 
les personnes qui les doivent Et condamnons le deffendeur aux 
frais que nous avons liquidez a quinze livres lesd* jour Et an. 
p*" Le grefe lo J B H LaCroix prsdt 

p^ Ihuissier 5 Labuxiere grefier 

La Cour est ajournée au i**" de février mil sept cent quatre 
vingt six Et les Extraordinaire auront lieux. 

a une Cour du quatorze février mil Sept Cent quatre vingt Six. 
M""" Jean B*« LaCroix Présidant 
fr. courier Charles ducharme 

antoine girardin Philipe angel 

B*« Dubuque 
Jean B*« Baron demandeur contre Louis Lambert deffendeur 

et Joseph vaudry aussi défendeur 

Le demandeur demande a la Cour quil luy soit payé la Somme 
de Soixante livres pour deux Communs quil a fait le printems 
dernier pour les dits deux deffendeurs par ordre de M" girar- 
din Et Dubuque magistrats aux Communs De la prairie de ce 
village les dits deffendeurs ayant refusé de la faire dans le 
tems fixe. 

ouy les deffendeurs qui ont dit quils navoient point de terre a la 
prairie de ce village Et quils avoient fait leur commun a la prairie 
du pont que ces Communs apartenoient a des personnes du village 
qui nen avoient point fait. 

Le demandeur a répliqué quil les avoit faites pour les défend- 
eurs par ordre de M" Dubuque Et girardin Et quil luy avoit 
promis de le faire payer, ouy M" Dubuque magistrats qui est 
Convenu du fait. Le tout considéré tout considère Nous con- 
damnons les dits Lambert et vaudry a payer Chacun la s*^* de trente 
livres aud* jean B*« Baron Et ce sans délais Et aux frais Et dépens 
que nous avons liquidez a la Somme de vingt Cinq livres, dont dix 
livres p^ Ihuissier et quinze livres pour le grefier tant p' deux ordres 
que pour la présente sentence ce qui sera Execute lesd* jour Et an 

' Clerk's oote in the margin. 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1786 221 

allowed to refuse them up to the equivalent of his due, unless the 
said M. Levy prefers to accept notes which he shall judge good or 
to make arrangements Vith the persons who owe them; and 
we condemn the defendant to the costs which we have fixed 
at fifteen livres the said day and year. 

For the record office 10. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

For the huissier 5.* Labuxiere, Clerk. 

The Court adjourned to the ist of February, 1786, and special 
sessions shall have place. 

At a Court, February 14, 1786. 
MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President. Charles DuCharme. 
Fr. Courier, Phillippe Engel. 

Antoine Girardin. Bte. Dubuque. 

Jean Bte. Baron, Plaintiff vs, Louis Lambert, Defendant, and 

Joseph Vaudry, also Defendant. 
The plaintiff prays the Court that there be paid him the sum of 
sixty lii/res for two fences on the common field ^ which he made 
last spring for the said two defendants by order of MM. Girardin 
and Dubuque, magistrates for the fences of the meadows of this 
village, since the said defendants had refused to make it in the 
fixed time. 

Heard the defendants who said that they had no land in the 
meadow of this village and that they had made their fence in the 
Prairie du Pont and that these fences in the common field belonged 
to some persons of the village who had not made them. 

The plaintiff replied that he had made them for the defendants 
by order of MM. Dubuque and Girardin and that the former 
had promised him to make them pay. Heard M. Dubuque, mag- 
istrate, who has admitted the fact. All considered we condemn 
the said Lambert and Vaudry to pay each the sum' of thirty livres 
to the said Jean Bte. Baron and that without delay and to pay the 
costs and charges, which we fix at the sum of twenty-five livres^ of 
which ten livres are for the huissier and fifteen livres for the clerk, 

' This probably means the fence, but it might mean any other structure built by the 
comm'.inity. The use of the feminine pronoun, however, would point to the idea of la 
cloture being in the clerk's mind. 

' A common abbreviation for somme. 



222 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

Sauf leur reur [sic] sur ceux quils disent navoir point fait de 
Commun tant p^ les soixante livres que p^ Les frais. 

Labuxiere grefier « J B H LaCroix pdt 

La Cour est ajournée le deux de Mars mil sept cent quatre vingt 
Six. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix pr sd 

a la même Cour du 14 février 1786. 
La veuve Beaulieu demanderesse contre Antoine Giraiu>in 

deffendeur 

La demanderesse a produit une requête Portant ce qui Suit. 

a Messieurs les magistrats et president tenant la Cour du dis- 
trict des Cahos. 

Messieurs 

Madame veuve Beaulieu a l'honneur de vous exposer que 
depuis lespace de vingt trois ans ou plus elle est propriétaire d'une 
Sucrerie a elle conceddée par Messieurs Les missionnaires dont 
elle En a tous les titres Et depuis quelques mois, Monsieur Girar- 
din Setant présenté a vôtre cour pour vous la demander de rechef 
vous luy avez accordé Sur la mauvaise information quil vous a 
faite. Et En ayant eu connoissance ainsy que plusieurs Citoyens 
de ce village En jugeant que Ceci ne pouvoit être que préjudiciable, 
nous avons représenté au Sieur girardin qu'il ne pouvoit nous oter, 
un bien qui nous apartenoit si légitimement et qu'il auroit grand 
tor dy faire travailler vu que cela ne pouvoit luy occasionner que 
de la perte, il nous a résisté En nous disant que nous étions 
trop ignorant pour juger de Ceci Et quil connoissoit mieux 
Lentendue de la Seigneurie qu'aucun habitant domicilié de ce 
village. 

Le temps Etant venu pour travailler a nos sucrerie Nous nous 
y Sommes transportés Et avons trouvé le Sieur girardin, qui nous 
a fait deiïences dy travailler Et même de nous y presenter Et 
sil faloit En venir aux extremitez quil se Battroit Et resteroit 
plustost Sur la place et quil N'avoit aucune reserve a faire contre 
des coquins. 

^ The seigniory of the mission 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1786 223 

both for the two orders and for the present judgment, for which 
there will be execution the said day and year, reserving to them 
recourse against those who, they say, have not made the fences, 
both for the sixty livres and for the costs. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

The Court adjourned [to] the second of March, 1786. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

At the same Court, February 14, 1786. 
The Wmow Beaulieu, Plaintiff vs, Antoine Girardin, 

Defendant. 

The plaintiff produced a petition containing what follows: 

To MM. the Magistrates and President holding the Court of 
the District of Cahokia. 
Gentlemen : 

Madame Beaulieu, widow, has the honoiu: to show you 
that for the space of twenty-three years or more she has been pro- 
prietor of a sugar-farm conceded to her by MM. the Missionaries 
from whom she has all the title deeds therefor; and that some 
months ago when M. Girardin presented himself at yoiu: Court 
to demand it from you anew, you granted it to him upon the 
misinformation which he made to you; and that I and also several 
citizens of this village, having had knowledge of this and judging 
that this could be only prejudicial, we have shown M. Girar- 
din that he could not take away a property which belonged to us 
so legitimately and that it would be a great wrong to have work 
done upon it, seeing that it could only occasion him loss. He 
resisted us saying that we were too ignorant to judge of that and 
that he knew the extent of the seigniory * better than any 
inhabitant living in this village. 

When the time to work on our sugar-farm came, we went 
thither and found M. Girardin, who forbade us to work or even to 
go there, and said that if it was necessary to come to extremities 
he would fight and would prefer to be killed on the spot, and that 
be had no reserve to make in dealing with rascals. 

This report having been made to us we concluded to make our 
report to you; but M. Girardin, having recognized his fault as 



224 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

ce raport Nous ayant Eté fait Nous avons Condud de vous 
en faire notre Rapport, mais M^ girardin ayant connu Sa Faute 
plus grande que de Contume est venu des le lendamain trouver 
M*" trotier pour Se Blanchir Et y ayant trouvé madame Baulîeu 
ainsy que plusieurs Cytoyens qui luy exposèrent leiu^ raisons, 
disant que Ion N'etoit pas pour se détruire, que nous En passerions 
par la justice, a quoy il nous a dit quil ne vouloit pas être jugé 
par aucuns Citoyens de L'Endroit, vu quil vous manquoît 
deux Choses la Siance et la probité. Et nous ne prétendons pas 
avoir Etably une Cour pour la détruire et pour nous faire juger 
par aucun Etranger. Tous les habitans demanden qu'il Soit 
denanty de tout ce qui luy a Eté accordé a la prairie du pain de 
Sucre parce quil est dans le Cas de Nuire a tous les habitans, 
Nous espérons que vous nous rendrés la justice que nous atendons 
de vos Bontez aux Kaos le 7 février 1786. 

signé = veuve Baulieu= pierre martin une4- = chatel une+ = 
p""®. cabassier une-f =ch Lefevre= -f Lafleur=L trotier =J B** 
millot= -f B** Baron = -f lebrun= 4- Jean marie dorion= 4- Berge- 
ron = -flagrave=desayes= h. B. i. biron= -hgabriel Baron = B^* 
Saucier =fr. Lonval = p" Lafleur=Lonval p^ Louis gau=francois 
Lapensé= -hantoine Boyer= 4- groslé= -f marque du compte= 
4-j Lapensée= 4- clement alar\'=fr. granmont=M. Saucier = 4- 
gervais= 4-Butaud= 4- Louis pilot == 4-raphael gagnez = 4-gabriel 
teller = 4- vaudry= 4-peltier= 4- Bouvet = 4- Joseph cecire= 4- B^« 
Dumay = fr. trotier= 4-charlelaCroix=alexis4-tabault4- = chateL 

ouy le S*" girardin en Ses deffences qui a dit que la cour luy 
avoit accordé sa Concession sur le refus quavoit fait madame 
baulieu de représenter Son titre a la Cour, quil avoit Exploite 
La terre dont est question pendant trois ans sans interuption de 
qui que ce soit Et y avoit fait des frais et dei)enses quil Croyoit 
que sa Concession devoit être valable, Et a offert de remetre la- 
dite terre a la dame baulieu Et aux habitans en luy Remboursant 
les frais que Ion luy a laissé faire suivant un mémoire quil a pro- 
duit montant a 792^^ En argent faute de quoy quil demandoit 
a Etre maintenu dans Sa concession. 

* A reference to the United States' court, for which the French were to wait until i7ço. 
The Court makes a similar reference to the expected court below. 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1786 225 

greater than usual, came the next day to find M. Trottier to clear 
himself, and having foimd there Madame Beaulieu as well as sev- 
eral other citizens who set forth to him their reasons saying that 
it was not a question of destroying oneself, that we would submit 
to justice; upon which he said to us that he was not willing to be 
judged by any of the citizen of this place, sihce you were lacking 
in two things, knowledge and probity. And we do not pretend 
to have established a Court to overthrow it and to have ourselves 
judged by any outsider.* All the citizens pray that he may be 
deprived of all that which has been granted him in Sugar-Loaf 
Meadow, because he is in position to injure all the inhabitants. 
We hope you will render to us the justice which we expect from 
your benevolence. At Cahokia, February 7, 1786. 

Signed Widow Beaulieu; Pierre Martin a -h; Chatel a +; 
Pierre Cabassier a +; Ch Lefevre; -h Lafleur; Louis Trottier; 
J. Bte. Milot; -h Bte. Baron; -h Lebrun; + Jean Marie Dorion; 
-f Bergeron; -h Lagrave; Deshayes; h. B. i. Biron; -h Gabriel 
Baron; Bte. Saucier; Fr. Lonval; Pierre Lafleur; Lonval for 
Louis Gaud; François Lapancé; -h Antoine Boyer; + Groslé; 
-h mark of Lecomte; + J. Lapancé; -h Clement Alarie; Fr. 
Grandmont; M. Saucier; -h Gervais; + Buteau; + Louis Pillet; 
+ Raphael Gagné; -h Gabriel Tellier; + Vaudry; -h Pelletier; 
-h Bouvet; -h Joseph Cesirre; + Bte. Dumay; Fr. Trottier; 
+ Charles LaCroix; Alexis -h Tabeau; + Chatel. 

Heard M. Girardin in his defense and he said that the Coiut 
had granted him his concession on the refusal of Madame Beaulieu 
to exhibit her title-deed to the Court; that he had farmed the land 
in dispute during three years without interruption from anyone 
and had incurred costs and expenses thereon; and that he be- 
lieved that his concession should he held valid; and he offered 
to deliver the said land to Madame Beaulieu and to the inhabi- 
tants, if they reimbursed him for the expenses, which they 
permitted him to make, and which amoimted to 792 livres in 
money according to a memorandum which he produced; in 
default of which he demanded that he be maintained in his 
concession. 



226 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Le tout considéré la Cour a apointé ladite Requête de la dame 
Beaulieu ainsy quil suit. 

Veû la requête présentée a la Cour et les raisons aleguées 
par toutes les parties Ensemble un titre du vicaire ou Curé des 
Cahos, par lequel il donne au S*" Beaulieu le Canton de Bois que 
ces prédécesseurs Setoient reservez pour faire du Sucre daté du 
19.9^® 1763. produit ce jourdhuy par la veuve Baulieu, Ensem- 
ble notre concession accordée au S^ girardin En datte du premier 
octobre 1783. La Cour ne pouvant decider Sur la validité de 
l'un ou de Lautre titre atendû que lorsque nous avons donné la- 
dite concession au S*" girardin, il a lui même le jour précédant 
averty madame Baulieu de Nous représenter Ses titres Si Elle 
En avoit, faute de quoy quil aloit demander Sa concession ce 
quelle a refusé coustament Et na voulu les produire a la Cour: 
vu led* refus Nous avons Crû, devoir accorder ladite Concession 
aud* S*" girardin dautant quil a Exploité ladite terre et fait des 
travaux f)endant trois ans a la Connoissance de tous Les habitans 
des Cahos et de la dame beaulieu Sans opposition ny deffences 
des personnes cest en consequance que notre opinion netant pas 
de Casser aucunne des dites Concessions Nous renvoyons cette 
decizion au gouvernement que nous atendons qui Fera droit a 
qui il apartiendra donné aux Cahos la Cour Séante le quatorze 
février mil sept cent quatre vingt Six Signé Sur la copie de la 
présente sentence Ecrite au bas de La requête Remise a la dame 
Beaulieu. 

Dubuque =Philipe Engel = duCharme=une4-pour marque de 
Courier tous quatres conseillers magistrats Et j B*® LaCroix 
présidant et moy grcfier sousigné. 

Labuxiere grefier. J. B H LaCroix pr. Sidant 

délivré i copie de la Sentence a la veuve Baulieu délivre i 
copie de la requête et Sentence au s^ girardin. 

* .Vote in ihe margin by the clerk. 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1786 227 

All considered the Court referred the said petition of Madame 
Baulieu as follows: 

In view of the petition presented to the Court and the pleadings 
by all parties, and also of a deed dated November 19, 1763, from 
the vicar or curé of Cahokia, by the terms of which he gave to 
M. Beaulieu the section of woods which his predecessors had 
reserved for making sugar, and which was exhibited this day by 
the widow Beaulieu; and also of our concession made to M. Girar- 
din, dated October i, 1783: the Court not being able to decide on 
the validity of either deed, because, when we gave the said conces- 
sion to M. Girardin, he himself notified Madame Beaulieu on the 
preceding day to exhibit to us her deeds, if she had any, in default 
of which he said that he was going to ask for his concession, and 
she constantly refused and did not wish to produce the deeds in 
Coiurt; considering the said refusal we believed that we ought to 
grant the said concession to the said M. Girardin, inasmuch as he 
had farmed the said land and had had work done on it for three 
years with the knowledge of all the inhabitants of Cahokia and of 
Madame Beaulieu without opposition or prohibition by anyone: 
therefore it is oiu: opinion that, since we do not wish to annul 
either of the said concessions, we remit this decision to the gov- 
ernment which we are expecting, and which will render justice to 
whomsoever it belongs. Given at Cahokia at the session of the 
Court, the 14th of February, 1786; and signed on the copy of the 
present judgment which is written beneath the petition returned 
to Madame Beaulieu. 

Dubuque; Philippe Engel; DuCharme; a -f for the mark of 
Courier, all four councilors and magistrates and J. Bte. Lacroix, 
President, and I, Clerk signed below. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, President. 

Delivered one copy of the judgment to the widow Beaulieu. 
Delivered one copy of the petition and judgment to M. Girardin.* 



228 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du 2 Mars 1786. 
M" Jean B^* LaCroix, présidant. Charles ducharme 
Philipe Engel Thom Bredy 

fr Courier j B*« Dubuque 

antoine girardin 
accordé quatre concession aux cy après Nommés Savoir, 
a Jean B^« alary 
a Charles Wood 
a Joseph Lambert 
a Joseph LaCouture 
dont les originaux sont déposés au Rang des minutes du No- 
taria. 

a la même Cour délivré un ordre a jacob groot ameriquain 
j)our se faire payer des habitans du grand Ruisseau. 
La Cour est ajournée au p^ davril prochain, 
a la dite Cour Le S*" Girardin a présente une requête contre 
la dame baulieu En datte du 28 f®*" dernier tendant a la decizion 
de leur contestation p^ la terre du pain de sucre, la Cour assem- 
blée a Confirmé Sa sentence du 14 f**" dernier Et Renvoy lexpK>san 
a se pourvoir devant le gouvernement que nous atendons ainsy 
quil a Eté Cy devant décidé par notre dite Sentence du quatorze 
février dernier La Cour tenante led^ jour deux mars 1786. 
[Sii^ned] B Dubq. Brady 

Phillipe Engel DuCharme 
de 



marque -ff*" 
Courier 



J B H LaCroix presdt 



a une Cour du trois avril mil sept Cent quatre vingt Six tenue par 
M^" Jean B^® LaCroix presd^ Charles ducharme 
antoine girardin Philipe Engel 

Jean B^® dubuque 
Le S*" Jean B^® LaCroix a rendu compte ce dit jour devant la 
Cour de la sucession de Michel Godiniere En presence de Louis 

> The decision was not final. On March 31, Girardin petitioned the Court again, and 
his concession was sustained. — Chi. Hist. Soc., Cak. Rec. 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1786 229 

At a Court, March 2, 1786. 
MM. Jean Bte LaCroix, President. Charles DuCharme. 
Antoine Girardin. Thom. Brady, 

Fr. Courier. • J. Bte Dubuque, 

Phih'ppe Engel. 
Granted four concessions to the hereinaftd: named, to wit: 
to Jean Bte. Alarie. 
to Charles Wood 
to Joseph Lambert, 
to Joseph Lacouture. 

The originals of these are deposited in the files of the minutes 
of the notary's office. 

At the same Court: delivered an order to Jacob Groot, Ameri- 
can, to compell payment by some inhabitants of Grand Ruisseau. 
The Court adjourned to the first of April next. 
At the said Court M. Girardin presented a petition against 
Madame Beaulieu, dated the 28th of February last, pleading for 
the decision of their litigation over the land of the Sugar-Loaf. 
The Court in assembly confirmed its judgment of the 14th of 
February last and dismissed the petitioner to sue before the 
government which we are expecting, as has been herebefore 
decided by our said judgment of the 14th of February last.^ 
In the session of the Court the said second of March, 1786. 
[Signed] 

B. Dubuque Philippe Engel 

Brady DuCharme 

Mark of 

+ 
Fr. Courier J. B. H. Lacroix, Près. 

At a Court, April 3, 1786, held by 
MM. Jean Bte. Lacroix, President. Charles Ducharme. 
Antoine Girardin. Philippe Engel. 

Jean Bte. Dubuque. 
M. Jean Bte. Lacroix, this said day, rendered before 
the Court account of the estate of Michel Godiniere in the 
presence of Louis Chatel according to the receipt which the 



230 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Chatel suivant la quittance que led^ Chatel en a donné ce susdit 
jour aud* s' LaCroix. 

a La même jour a Eté accordé au s^ jean dumoulin une saisie 
privilegieré sur toutes les pelterie et autres Effets Et maison 
provenants du produit des marchandises quil a avance a deffunt 
B** Leduc, ladite saisie adressée au S*" Mailhet command* 
dans la riviere des ilinois. 

a La même cour jacob groot habitant ameriquain a présenté 
un billet contre jean solivan par lequel il reclame trente minot de 
mahis ou quil ait a luy payer le prix quil vaut aujourdhuy. 

oui led* solivan qui a reconnu devoir les trente minot de mahis 
mais quil etoit hor detat de pouvoir les livrer quant a present. 

Le tout considère a décidé que Ledit solivant payera aud* 
groot dans le Cour doctobre prochain Le mahis a raison de Sept 
livres dix sols les minot En Egard au temps present de sa valeur 
actuelle montant a la somme de deux cent vingt Cinq livres Et 
que le payement sera fait soit En argent, Lard, farine ou mahis 
ou bled froment au Cour du prix du mois doctobre Et non En 
dautre danrées de laquelle somme a faute de payement dans 
led* temps les effets dud* solivant seront vendus Et condamnons 
led* débiteur aux dépens. 

J B H LaCroix pr. Sdt • 

La Cour est ajoiuné au premier de May 1 786. 

J B H LaCroix p. S. 

* Jean Dumoulin was a native of Switzerland. According to Reynolds {Pioneer History, 
173), he was a man of good education and gentlemanly bearing. He must have settled at 
Canokia about this time, although liis name does not appear as a reside nt in the census of 1787. 
See posi p. 624. In 1790 he was appointed a justice of tne Court of Common Pleas, and from 
that time on he held many important positions. Like many other», he became wealthy by pur- 
chasing from the French their claims to land granted by Congress in various acts to the inhabi- 
tants of Illinois. Since the United States was dilatory in settling these claims, the poorer 
Frenchmen were compelled to part with their rights for a song. Dumoulin died in 1808. 
— Smith. St. Clair Papers, ii.. 165. 

' It is difficult to say anything about this man, since so much that is inconsistent and false 
has been written. In the Record, his name is written Mailhet; Reynolds caUs him Paulette 
Maillet; in Amer. State Papers, Public Lands, his name is given as Jean Bte. Maillet; and 
Tassé is sure that his name was Jean Bte. Mallet. This last must be wrong, since Colooel 
Sargent, secretary of Governor St. Clair, writes it J. Bte. Mayet, evidently a phonetic spelling. 
—Smith St. Clair Papers, 167. The following is possibly true. About 1778 he settled 
without authorization on the site of the present city 01 Peoria and soon became the prominent 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1786 231 

said Chatd gave therefor to the said M. LaCroix this day 
aforesaid. 

On the same day was granted to M. Jean Dumoulin^ a writ 
of privileged seizure of all the peltries, other effects and house, 
accruing from the proceeds of the merchandise, which he ad- 
vanced to the deceased Bte. Leduc. The said writ of seizure 
was addressed to M. Mailhet, commandant on the Illinois river.' 

At the same Court Jacob Groot, American inhabitant, pre- 
sented a note against John Sullivan by which he claims either 
thirty minois of com or that he be paid the price that it is worth 
to-day. 

Heard the said Sullivan, who acknowledged that he owed the 
thirty minots of com; but said that he could not deliver it at 
present. 

All considered the Court decided that the said Sullivan shall 
pay the said Groot, in the course of October next, the com at the 
rate of seven livres ten sols the minot, which is at the present time 
its value and which amoimts to the sum of two himdred and 
twenty-five livres^ and that the payment shall be made either in 
money, lard, flour, com or wheat at the current price of the 
month of October, and not in other commodities. In default 
of pavment of this sum at the said time the effects of the said 
Sullivan shall be sold; and we condemn the said debtor to pay 
the costs. 

J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

The Court adjourned to the first of May, 1786. 

J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

trader there. From him the village was called the Ville de Maillet. He had relations with 
the Cahokia traders and the magistrates of that village regarded Peoria as being a dependency 
of their district and Mailhet as the commandant of the post. See pp. 38c, 417 . In Reynolds' 
time the traditicm was preserved that he led a successful expedition against St. Joseph in 1778 
as a retaliation on the British for their defeat of the Cahokia expedition of the previous year. 
This attack by the Cahokians occurred in 1780 and was inspired by Colonel de la Balme. 
If the tradition in regud to Mailhet is correct, he must have accompanied the Spanish and 
Cahokia expedition against the British post at the b^nnin^ of the next year. See ItUroduc- 
tiom, p. xdi.* Mailhet appears to have extended his trading ventures as far as the Rocky 
Mountains. He was killed in 1801. — Reynolds. Picneer HiOory, 97; Tassé, Les Canadùns 
de Ptmesi, i. 241 et seq.; Amer. State Papers, Public Lands, iii., 478. 



232 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour tenue extraordinairement Le 15 avril 1786. 
M" Jean B*« LaCroix, Présidant francois Courier 
Jean B^« Dubuque Charies ducharme 

Entre Francois Cailhole commerceant de la rive espagnole 

demandeur Contre M*" Jean Dumoulin Negte aux Cahos 

deffendeur 

Le demandeur requière que le s^ dumoulin soit condamné 
a luy livrer vingt cinq sacs de Mahis. 

Led^ dumoulin dit pour deffence quil lui a par compte et 
Convention promis une génisse quil offroit de luy donner Son 
mahis En luy Remetant ladite génisse Et quil luy en a déjà remis 
deux minots. 

parties ouies en leur demandes réponses, répliques Et Con- 
tredits La Cour ordonne que M*" demoulin Remetra au s*" Cailhole 
treize minots de Mahis a quoy faire il sera Contraint Sans délais 
Et condamnons Led^ S^ dumoulin aux dépens Et frais. 

a la même cour le S^ dumoulin a produit un compte de la s® 
de Cent livres p' le salaire dun de Ses hommes que le s^ Cailhole 
a Engagé. 

ouy le S*" Cailhole qui a répondu que led^ Engagé Navoit tra- 
vaillé que huit jours quaubout desquels il lavoit quitté a raison de 
quarante livres par mois quil offroit de luy payer les dits huit jours 
Sur le pieds des quarante livres sur quoy parties ouyes Condam- 
nons le s*" Cailhole a payer les huit journées sur le pieds Convenu 
Entreux de quarante livres par mois Et aux frais Et dépens. 

La Cour est ajournée au p*"^ de may 1786. 

J B H LaCroix prs.dt 

a une Cour du premier May 1786. 
M" Jean B^® LaCroix présidant Philipe angel 

antoine girardin jean B*^ dubuque 

Charles ducharme francois Courier 

entre la veuve george Blain demanderesse contre Louis Le- 

COMPTE défendeur. 
La demanderesse dit que le deffendeur luy a Brûlé un arpent 

* The reason for the amount is not cltar. Was the prj(e of the heifer deducted? Or 
were twenty-fi\*c sacks equal to thirteen minois f The only reference to the capacity of a sack 
makes it contain two minots. Sec p. 305. 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1786 233 

At a Court in special session, held April 15, 1786. 
MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President. François Courier. 
Jean Bte. Dubuque. Charles DuCharme. 

François Caillot, trader of the Spanish bank, Defendant, 
v^.M. Jean Dumoulin merchant at Cahokia, Defendant. 
The plaintiff asks that M. Dumoulin be condemned to deliver 
to him twenty-five sacks of corn. 

The said Dimioulin says in defence that the plaintiff by account 
and agreement promised him a heifer, and that he offered to give 
him his com, if he delivered the said heifer, and that he (the 
defendant) has already delivered two minots of it. 

After the parties were heard in their prayers, answers, replies, 
and rejoinders, the Court decrees that M. Dumoulin shall deliver 
to M. Caillot thirteen minots of com and he shall be constrained 
to do this without delay; and we condemn the said Dumoulin to 
pay the charges and costs. ^ 

At the same Court M. Dumoulin produced an account for the 
sum of one hundred livres for the wages of one of his men whom 
M. Caillot engaged. 

Heard M. Caillot, who answered that the said employé had 
worked only eight days at the rate of forty lii/res a month and that 
at the end of that time he had left him; that he offered to pay 
him on the scale of forty livres. The parties heard, we condemn M. 
Caillot to pay for the eight days* work at the scale of forty livres 
a month agreed between them, and to pay the costs and expense. 
The Court adjourned to the first of May, 1786. 

J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

At a Court, May i, 1786. 
MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President. Philippe Engel. 
Antoine Girardin. Jean Bte. Dubuque. 

Charles DuCharme. François Courier. 

The widow George Blin, Plaintiff, vs. Louis Lecomte, 

Defendant. 
The plaintiff says that the defendant burnt an arpent* of 

^Arpent, as a French-Canadian linear measure, is equivalent to i8o feet. — Clapin, Diet. 
Canadien- Français. 



334 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

de Closture En perches, quelle requière quil ait a luy remetre la 
même quantité de perche. 

Le deffendeur dit quil a voulu entrer En arrangement avec 
la demanderesse et quelle na voulu entendre a aucun accomjnode- 
ment. Nous avons condanmé Le S^ Le comte a livrer la même 
quantité de perche quil a brûle Recevable Et la demanderesse 
fera faire sa Closture a Ses frais et condamnons les parties a payer 
chacim la moitié des frais. 

Entre Henry BmoN demandeur contre Michel Cha&tier 

deffendeur 

Le demandeur reclame une sie de long quil dit avoir prêté au 
Nommé Charpentier Et que ce dernier partant pour la Nouvelle 
Orleans luy dit quil avoit laissé la sie au S^ Chartier quil navoit 
qu'a la luy demander quil la luy remetroit ou quil la luy payeroit 
que luy demandeur la demandée aud^ Chartier dans le tems 
et quil luy dit quil ne la perdroit pas et quil lavoit que ces jours 
passé il a demandé de Nouvau la sie aud^ Chartier quil luy a 
repondu quil setoit mal arangé. 

ouy led^ Chartier qui a dit quil navoit aucune connoissance 
que le s^ Biron luy En ait parlé quil ne sen souvient pas Et qiiil 
a payé la sie aud^ Charpentier Et quil ne pouvoit pas la payer 
deux fois. 

La Cour leur ayant proposé sil acceptoit le sermant lim de 
lautre led* chartier a defferé le Sermant au s*" Biron. sur quoy 
luy ayant fait faire serment sur les Saints Evangiles a dit et 
déclaré quil a averty led* Chartier au depart dud* Charpentier 
Et quil a promis de luy payer la sie. sur quoy Condamnons 
led* Chartier a la payer a demandeur la somme de quatre vingt 
livres En argent et aux frais qui seront avancés par le s*" Biron 
Et a luy rembourcés par led* Chartier. Et a led* Biron donné un 
mois de Credy au deffendeur. 

J B H LaCroix prstd 
La Cour est ajournée au premier juin 1786. 

Labuxiere grefir. 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1786 235 

rail fence and prays that he be compelled to deliver the same 
quantity of rails to her. 

The defendant says that he wished to make an arrangement 
with the plaintiff and that she was imwilling to listen to any 
settlement We condemned M. Lecomte to deliver the same 
quantity of acceptable rails that he burnt, and the plaintiff shall 
have her fence made at her own expense; and we condemn the 
parties each to pay half of the costs. 

Henry BmoN, Plaintiff, vs. Michel Chartier, Defendant. 

The plaintiff claims a whip-saw which he says he lent the 
named Charpentier, and that the latter, when he set out for New 
Orleans, said to him that he had left the saw at M. Chartier's- 
and that the plaintiff had only to ask the latter for it and he 
would return it or that he would pay him for it The plaintiff 
says that he demanded it of the said Chartier at the time, and 
that the latter said to him that he would not lose it, that he had 
it; that a few days ago he asked for the saw again from the 
said Chartier and that the latter answered that he had made no 
clear bargain. 

Heard the said Chartier, who said that he had no other knowl- 
edge than that M. Biron had spoken to him about it and that he 
did not remember about it; and that he paid the said Charpen- 
tier for the saw, and that he could not pay for it a second time. 

The Court having asked them if one would accept the other's 
oath, the said Chartier tendered the oath to M. Biron. There- 
upon having caused the latter to make oath on the Holy Gospels, he 
said and declared that he notified the said Chartier on the depart- 
ure of the said Charpentier and that the latter promised to pay him 
for the saw. Whereupon we condemn the said Chartier to pay to 
the plaintiff the sum of eighty livres in money, and to pay the 
costs, which shall be advanced by M. Biron and reimbursed to 
him by the said Chartier; and we order the said Biron to give a 
month's credit to the defendant. 

J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

The Court adjourned to the first of June, 1786. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. 



236 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du premier juin rail Sept cent quatre vingt Six. 
M" Jean B^« LaCroix présidant. Charles ducharme 
ant* Girardin. f Courier 

Magistrats 
Le S^ IzAAC Levy deraandeur contre Antoine hakmand dit 

SANS FAÇON absent défaillant faute de procureur pour luy. 

Le dit S' Levy présente une requête par laquelle il redame 
la Sorame de quatorize Cent livres suivant lobligation hypotequaire 
dud^ sans façon Echu depuis le raois de Noverabre de Lannée 
dernière demandant que les Choses hj'potequés soient vendues 
jusqua parfaite liquidation ou quil soit fait une Estimation des 
biens hypotequés p' luy être remis En payement, consistant En 
Sa maison, trois vaches dont deux avec leur vaux Et deux chevaux, 
surquoy vu la Créance Legitimes du S*" Levy Et le retard du s*^ 
sans façon la cour a ordonné que les Choses hypotequés seront 
Estimés par arbitres et que le S' Levy les prendra En payement 
au prix de Lestimation jusqua parfaite liquidation interest frais 
Et dépens a cet Effet avons nommé henry Biron, B^« Dumay 
Et philipe Gervais arbitres pour estimer Les effets hypotequez, 
lesquels feront leur Estimation ce lundy Cinq de ce mois p^ être 
Exécutée. Et condamnons led* harmand aux dépens qui seront 
avancez par led* s^ Levy lesd* jour Et an. 

J B H LaCroix 
a la même Cour 
Le S*" IzAAC Levy demandeur contre alexis thabault def- 

fandeur. 

Le demandeur requière que le deffendeur soit Condamné a 
luy payer la Somme de quatre Cent vingt une livres En argent 
par Son Compte Courant Et aux dépens Et frais. 

ouy le deffendeur qui a dit quil y avoit baucoup darticle quil 
ignoroit sur quoy La Cour a requis que le S*" Levy feroit sermant 
Et affirmeroit son compte veritable a Linstant ayant levé la 
main droite sur les Saints Evangiles a juré et afirmé que 
son Compte Etoit sincere Et veritable, le tout considère la 
Cour a condamné et condamné led* deffendeur a payer Sans 
délais a deraandeur la Somme de quatre Cent vingt une livres 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1786 237 

At a Court of the first of June, 1786. 
MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President Charles DuCharme. 
Ant. Girardin Fr. Courier. 

Magistrates. 
M. Isaac Levy, Plaintiff, vs, Antoine Harmand called San- 

FAÇON, absent and without an attorney to represent him. 
The said M. Levy presents a petition by which he claims the 
sum of fourteen hundred livres according to the obligation assured 
by mortgage of the said Sansfaçon, due since the month of Novem- 
ber of last year; and demands that the things mortgaged be sold 
up to the perfect liquidation, or that there be made an appraise- 
ment of the mortgaged property to be delivered to him in pay- 
ment. These consist of his house, three cows, two of which have 
calves, and two horses. Whereupon in view of the legitimate 
claim of M. Levy and the delay of M. Sansfaçon, the Court 
decreed that the mortgaged property be appraised by arbitrators, 
and that M. Levy shall take them in payment at the price of the 
appraisement up to full liquidation of the debt, interest, costs and 
charges. For the purpose we have named Henry Biron, Bte. 
Dumay and Philippe Gervais as arbitrators to appraise the mort- 
gaged effects, and these shall make their appraisement this 
Monday, the fifth of this month, in order that there may be 
execution; and we condemn the said Harmand to pay the 
costs, which shall be advanced by the said M. Levy this said day 
and year. 

J. B. H. LaCroix. 
At the same Court. 
M. Isaac Levy, Plaintiff, vs. Alexis Tabeau, Defendant. 
The plaintiff begs that the defendant be condemned to pay 
him the simi of four hundred and twenty-one H'vres in money 
according to his current account, and to pay the costs and 
charges. 

Heard the defendant, who said that there were many items 
which he didn't know about. Whereupon the Court required 
that M. Levy should make oath and affirm his account as true. 
Now having raised his right hand he swore on the Holy Gospels 



238 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS. 

En argent p^ le montant dud^ Compte Courant et aux frais et 
dépens qui seront avancés par le s"" levy Et a luy Rembourcez 
par le défendeur. 

s^ al tabault a fait son billet ce dit jour accepté p' le s** Levy 
payable En Novembre prochain. 

J B H LaCroix 
a la même Cour. 
Michel Chaiiley demandeur contre Etienne ardouin 

deffendeur 
Le demandeur reclame contre le défendeur la S® de vingt 
livres ou un minot de Bled froment prix du Cour pour la be- 
dauderie. 

ouy le deffendeur qui a alegue quil ne payeroit pas par ce 
quil ny avoit pas un an Et un jour quil avoit une maison sur quoy 
la Cour a condamné led^ ardouin a payer Sans délais aud^ Charly 
la somme de vingt livres Et aux frais Et dépens qui seront avancés 
par led* Charly, les vingts livres seront payez Sous trois mois De 
ce jour. 

J B H LaCroix 
a la même Cour, 
le S' JEAN B*« TussoN demandeur contre Le S' Andre Belle 
deffendeur et défaillant après avoir Eté assigné. 

Le demandeur a produit un Billet a ordre Echu a luy dub 
Et passé a Son ordre par m*" Glamorgan, de la Somme de onze 
cent livres En argent payable En pelterie sur lequel il y a deux 
reçu montant Ensemble a la somme de Cent soixante huit livres 
En argent partant reste sur led* billet neuf cent trente deux livres, 
dub par led* s*" Bayles. concluant le demandeur a ce que ledit 

' Sole in margin by the clerk 

' The beadle was a .subordinate church o(!ieial and was paid, judging from this cue and 
a similar one «>n page 279, by fees levied on each inhabited house. 

* Jacques Clamorgan was a resident of St. Louis and was, as long as he li>'cd, conspic- 
uous for his enten)ri.'ie, if not always pniLsed for his melhtvls. In 1788 he appears to have 
fallen into financial difficulties, at least, his creditors claimed that ne left the country for 
Lr>uis\ille without paying his debts; — Dr. Col., 3M43 «nd iN68. According to the same 
witnes.vs, he showe<l a dislike to the Americans. His name is particularly connected with 
the fur trade, in which his boldness and enteri)rise made him the leader of his time. His 
was the leariing spiiit in the first Missouri Fur Company, which was organized May ta, 
1794. One of the objects of this company was to explore the upper Missouri. To assist 
in carrying out this purpose the king promised a subsidy of iio.ooo and a reward of 
$3,000 to tb^ first person to reach the Pacific Occam. Although the royal promise was not 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1786 239 

and affirmed that his account was true and genuine. AU con- 
sidered the Court has condenmed and does condemn the said 
defendant to pay without delay to the plaintiff the sum of four 
hundred and twenty-one livres in money according to the amount 
of the said current account; and to pay the costs and expenses 
which shall be advanced by M. Levy and reimbursed to him by 
the defendant. 

J. B. H. LaCroix. 

M. Al. Tabeau miade his note this said day which was ac- 
cepted by M. Levy and is payable November next.* 

At the same Court. 

Michel Cha&ly, Plaintiff, vs. Etienne Hardouin, Defendant. 

The plaintiff claims from the defendant the sum of twenty 
livres or a minot of wheat at the current price for the beadlery.' 

Heard the defendant, who pleaded that he should not pay, 
because he had not had his house a year and a day. Whereupon 
the Court condemned the said Hardouin to pay without delay 
to the said Charly the sum of twenty lii/res and to pay 
the costs and charges, which shall be advanced by the said 
Charly. The twenty livres shall be paid within three months 
from this day. 

J. B. H. LaCroix. 
At the same Court. 
M. Jean Bte. Tusson, Plaintiff, vs, M. Andre Bayles, Defend- 
ant, and not appearing after being summoned. 

The plaintiff produced a note to order, due him and matured, 
and assigned to his order by M. Glamorgan,' for the sum of eleven 
hundred livres in money payable in peltries, on which there are 
two receipts amounting to the sum of one hundred and sixty-eight 
livres in cash and leaving a balance on the said note of nine him- 
dred and thirty-two livres due by the said M. Bayles; and the 
plaintiff concludes that the said M. Bayles should be condenmed 
to pay him without delay the said sum of nine hundred and thirty- 
performed, ciainorgazi, with his associates, entered upon the enterprise. Later . Glamorgan 
Srtitioned for and obtained a large grant of land as a compensation for his losses. — Amer, 
icie Pa^s, Pub. Lands, iii., 303 et seq.; Houck, Boundarus of the Ltmisiana Purchase^ 59 et 
seq. He was living when Louisiana was transferred to the United States and was one of 
the ûrst judges of the new Court of Quarter Sessions, Dilloo^ Annals of Si. LouiSt ii«. 9. 



240 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

s*" Bayle soit condamné a luy payer sans délais ladite somme de 
Neuf cent trente deux livres avec Les interest frais et dépens, 
sur quoy le deffendeur nayant point paru ny procureur pour luy 
Et après que ladite Cour a fait apeler par Ihuissier led* S*" Belle 
par trois Cris différants a la porte de Laudience et quil na point 
paru ny personne pour luy. la Cour a Condamné Et condamné led' 
s*" Belle a payer aud' S*" tusson ou au porteur du billet la somme 
de Neuf cent trente deux livres pour restant diceluy suivant les 
conditions du susdit billet avec les interest frais et dépens, lesquels 
frais seront avancés par le s*" tusson Et a luy remboursez par le 
deffendeur ce qui sera exécuté lesd' jour Et an. 

J B H LaCroix. 

La Cour est ajournée au Six de ce mois p*" procéder a une 
Nouvelle Election de magistrats. 

Labuxiere greff J B H LaCroix 

a une Cour du Six juin 1786. 

Le S*" Jean B**^ LaCroix antoine girardin Louis Chatel, Louis 
trotier, mathieu saucier Joseph Lapensée, Et Clement alary 
ayant Eté Nommé par la Nouvelle Election sont Comparus Et 
après avoir prêté sermant de fidélité ainsy que celui doffice ont 
pris leurs place En leurs qualitéz du Magistrats. 

a la même Cour 

F*" Courier demandeur contre Le S*" Billet dit Bausoleil 

deffendeur 

Le demandeur reclame trois cent Cinquante Cinq livres 
contre le deffendeur quil luy doit p^ restant du payement dune 
paire de Boeuf quil luy a vendu Et quil devoit luy payer comptant 
ce quil na fait jusqua ce jour concluant a ce quil ait a le payer 
sans délais et aux frais Et dépens. 

le deffendeur a reconnu ladite debte Et offre de payer. 

La Cour a Condanné le deffendeur a payer sous huit jours 
Et aux frais qui seront avancés par le S*" Courier Et a luy rem- 
bourcer par le deffendeur. 

a la même jour B** durbois a présente une requête expositive 
que le s*" harmand luy doit neuf minots de Bled froment p*" sa 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1786 241 

two livres with interest, costs and charges. Whereupon, since 
neither the defendant nor an attorney for him appeared and after 
the said Court caused the said M. Bayles to be called by the huis- 
sier by three different shouts at the door of the audience cham- 
ber and he did not appear or anyone for him, the Court has 
condemned and does condemn the said M. Bayles to pay the 
said M. Tusson, or bearer of the note, the sum of nine hundred 
and thirty-two li'vres for the balance of it according to the con- 
ditions of the note aforesaid with the interest, costs and expenses; 
which costs shall be advanced by M. Tusson and reimbursed to 
him by the defendant, for which there will be execution this said 
day and year. 

J. B. H. LaCroix. 

The Court adjourned to the sixth of this month to proceed 
to a new election of magistrates. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix. 

At a Court, June 6, 1786. 

The MM. Jean Bte. Lacroix, Antoine Girardin, Louis Chatel, 
Louis Trottier, Matthieu Saucier, Joseph Lapancé and Clement 
Alarie, having been named by the new election, appeared, and 
after taking oath of fidelity and also that of office, took their 
places as magistrates. 

At the same Court. 
Fr. Courier, Plaintiff, vs. M. Billet called Beausoleil, De- 
fendant. 

The plaintiff claims three hundred and fifty-five livres from 
the defendant, which he owes him for the balance of the payment 
for a yoke of oxen which the plaintiff sold him, and for which 
the latter ought to pay cash, which he has not done up to the 
present day; and concludes that the defendant should pay him 
without delay and also the costs and expenses. 

The defendant acknowledged the said debt and offers to pay. 

The Court condemned the defendant to pay within a week 
and also the costs which shall be advanced by M. Courier and 
reimbursed to him by the defendant. 

On the same day Bte. Dubois presented an explanatory peti- 



242 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

récolte de 1784. ce qui a Eté prouvé par la declaration du S*" 
Courier, la Cour a reçu led^ durbois intervenant dans les ventes 
des Biens dud^ harmand p' le payement des Neuf minots de 
bled Evaluez a 20 Ib le minot la s* de 180^*^ Et condamnons sans 
façon aux frais. 

La Cour est ajournée au p' juillet 1786. 
Labuxiere grefier. J B H LaCroix pr. s. d. 

a la même Cour il a Eté décidé que vu la demande des 
Créanciers du s*" antoine harmand absent pour le payement 
de ce quil leur doit quinvantoire Sera fait devant un magis- 
trats de tous Les Biens meubles Et immeubles dud* harmand 
et questimation En sera faite par jean B*« dubuc, charle du- 
charme ^Et francois Courier p*^ le huit de ce mois a huit heures 
du matin. 

J B H LaCroix 

a une Cour assemblée le 12 juin 1786. 
M" LaCroix présidant Clement alary 

Mathieu saucier Joseph Lap>ensée 

Louis trotier 
Les créanciers dantoine harmand dit Sans façon présentent 
une requête demandant quen vertu de linvantoire quils ont fait 
faire des Biens dud^ harmant que la vente des dits Biens En soit 
faite le plus promptement que faire se poura p*" en Empêcher le 
dépérissement Et quil soit donne terme sufisant p' que lesd* 
effets puissent se vendre avantageusement tant p*" Leurs interest 
que celuy dud^ harmand. 

La Cour ordonne que la vente des biens dud* harmand quant 
aux meubles Se Fera le lundy dixneuf du Courant et quil Sera 
donné Credy jusques et compris le mois doctobre prochain sous 
bonne Et Sure caution qui Seront reçue par les Créanciers Et 
quand au regard de la maison et ses dépendances elle Sera Criée 
de mois en mois pendant trois mois Consécutif a la porte de 
lEglise jour de dimanche Et adjugée a la troisième Criée avec le 
Credy jusques au mois davril de Lannée prochaine 1787 Sous 

1 The huissirr held the auction each Sunday to rccei>-e bids, but only on the last Sunday 
was the property sold. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1786 ' 243 

tion, in which he says that M. Harmand owes him nine minois of 
wheat from his harvest of 1784, which was proved by the affidavit 
of M. Courier. The Court admitted the said Dubois as a party to 
the sale of the goods of the said Harmand for the payment of nine 
minots of wheat, valued at 20 livres the minot, amounting to the 
sum of 180 livres) and we condemn Sansfaçon to pay the costs. 

The Court adjourned to the first of July, 1786. 
Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

At the same Court it was decided that, in view of the demand 
of the creditors of M. Antoine Harmand, who is absent, for the 
payment of what he owes them, an inventory of all the property, 
real and personal, of M. Harmand shall be made before a magis- 
trate, and the appraisal thereof shall be made by Jean Bte. Du- 
buque, Charles DuCharme and François Courier on the eighth 
of this month at eight o'clock in the morning. 

J. B. H. LaCroix. 

At a Court assembled Jiuie 12, 1786. 

MM. LaCroix, President. Clement Alarie. 

Matthieu Saucier. Joseph Lapancé. 

Louis Trottier. 
The creditors of Antoine Harmand called Sansfaçon present 
a petition praying that, in virtue of the inventory of the goods of 
the said Harmand which they have had made, the sale of the 
said goods be held as promptly as possible in order to prevent 
them perishing; and that there be given a sufficient time in order 
that the said effects may be sold to the advantage as well of 
their interests as of those of the said Harmand. 

The Court decreed that the sale of the personal property 
shall take place Monday, the nineteenth of the present month; 
and that there shall be given credit with good and safe surety, 
which will be accepted by the creditors, up to and including the 
month of next October; and that the sale of the house and its 
appurtenances shall be cried month by month during three consec- 
utive months on Sundays at the door of the church, and adjudged 
at the third proclamation,^ and credit with good and sufficient 
surety will be given till the month of April of the next year, 1787. 



244 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

bonne Et suffisante Caution, laquelle maison ne Sera vendue 
toutes fois que au Cas que les meubles ne sufl&sent pas pour payer 
Lesdits Créanciers et les affiches posées préalablement afin que 
personne ne lignore donné par la Cour lesd^ jour et an. 

Labuxiere J. B. H. LaCroiz. 

a une Cour du i**" juillet 1786 
M** LaCroix présidant Joseph Lapensée 

girardin Chatel 

conseiller magistrats 
Michel antaya a fait sermant de fidélité Et En même temp 
sermant dofice En qualité de Bailly. 

a La même Cour 
Jacques Lardoise demandeur contre Gabriel Baron 

deffendeur 
Le demandeur Reclame deux cent Cinquante livres en argent 
pour le payement dun Cheval quil a vendu au deffendeur depuis 
Lauthomne dernière laquelle somme il devoit payer au s*" Cadîen 
Et quil na point payé Et quil a payé luy même a mad® Cadien 
Et aux dépens. 

ouy le deffendeur qui a alegué quil offroit de luy remetre un 
Cheval et quil n'avoit pas dautre argent pour le present Et quil 
Navoit acheté le Cheval que quarante piastre ce qui a Eté re- 
connu par le demandeur. 

sur quoy la Cour ayant mûrement délibéré ordonne que le 
deffendeur Rendra au demandeur le même Cheval aux condi- 
tions quil ne sera point extropié Et quil naura aucun mal, ou quil 
le payera Les quarante piastres prix de La vente Convenues En- 
treux condamnons le deffendeur aux frais que nous avons liquidé 
a quinze livres, ce qui sera exécuté. 

La Cour est ajournée au 1*^ juillet 1786. 
Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix pr S. 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1786 245 

But the house shall be sold only in case the personal property is 
not sufficient to pay the said creditors and placards have been 
posted previously so that no one is ignorant thereof. Given by 
the Court this said day and year. 

Labuxiere. J. B. H. LaCroix. 

At a Court, July i, 1786. 
MM. LaCroix, President. Chatel. 
Girardin. Joseph Lapancé. 

Councilors and magistrates. 
Michel Antaya made oath of fidelity and at the same time 
that of office as bailiff. 

At the same Court. 
Jacques Lardgise, Plaintiff, vs, Gabriel Baron, Defendant. 
The plaintiff claims two hundred and fifty livres in money for 
the payment of a horse which he sold the defendant last autimm, 
which sum he was to pay M. Cadien and has not paid; the 
plaintiff says that he himself paid Madame Cadien, and he de- 
mands costs. 

Heard the defendant, who pleaded that he offered to deliver 
a horse to the plaintiff and that he had no money at present; 
that he had bought the horse for only forty piastreSy which was 
acknowledged by the plaintiff. 

Whereupon the Court after careful deliberation decrees that 
the defendant shall render to the plaintiff the same horse, on 
condition that it shall not be maimed or sick or that he shall 
pay for it the forty piasires, the price of the sale agreed upon be- 
tween them. We condemn the defendant to pay the costs, which 
we have set at fifteen livres, for which there will be execution. 
The Court adjourned to July i, 1786. 
Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 



246 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour tenue Extraordinairement le 13 juillet tySô. 
M" Jean B^* LaCroix présidant Louis Chatel 
ant® girardin Joseph Lapensée 

magistrates 
Entre Louis marchand demandeur contre Laurant hame- 

LIN deffendeur 
Le demandeur demande au deffendeur Cinq Chevaux quil 
luy retient Et deux cent trente deux livres En pelterie par son 
compte quil a afirmé devant La Cour. 

Le deffendeur dit quil est convenu au pé de luy donner quar- 
ante pot de taffia pour un Cheval, mais que led^ marchand na 
pas voulu les prendre Et quil luy a offert un Cheval. 

le demandeur réplique au Contraire que le deffendeur luy a 
refusé les quarante pots de taffia Et quil a traite des Chevaux 
avec Et quant au compte produit par le demandeur Le deffend- 
eur dit quil n'en a point de Connoissance sur les contestations 
cy dessus le demandeur a produit le Nommé laCouture p^ témoins 
lequel après sermant par luy fait devant la Cour a dit quil avoit 
connoissance que les quarante pots de tafia navoit pas Eté livré 
par led^ hamelin aud^ marchand, Et quil avoit connoissance qu'ne 
partie du mémoire produit avoir Eté fourni par led* marchand 
aud* amelin Et quil avoit Connoissance quil avoit reçu un Cheval 
dont il S'Etoit Servy Ihiver dernier. 

Le demandeur a produit Claude paneton segond témoin 
lequel après sermant par luy fait a dit quil avoit connoissance 
que led* marchand Etoit Engage au s^ duchenaud p*" aler de la 
mauvaise terre aux pé p^ 60^^ Et que led* hamelin la Envoyé 
Chercher p*" aler p*" luy et quil a fait deux voyage p*" led* hamelin. 
sur quoy la Cour ayant mûrement réfléchi a renvoyé les 
parties hors de Cour Et de procès, dépens compensés cest a dire 
chacun par moitié ce qui sera exécuté la dite Sentence Rendue 
par accord Entre les parties. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix pr Sd. 

* Mauvaise Terre is the name of a stream in Scott and Morgan cotmties, Illinois 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1786 247 

At a Court sitting in special session, July 13, 1786. 
MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President. Louis Chatel. 
Ant. Girardin. Joseph Lapancé. 

Magistrates. 
Louis Marchand, Plaintiff, vs. Laurent Hamelin, Defendant. 

The plaintiff demands of the defendant five horses which the 
latter is retaining and two hundred and thirty-two livres in pel- 
tries, according to his account, which he aflârmed before the Court. 

The defendant says that he agreed at Peoria to give him 
forty jugs of tafia for a horse; but that the said Marchand was 
unwilling to take them and that he offered him a horse. 

The plaintiff rejoins that the defendant refused him the forty 
jugs of tafia and that he traded horses with [him]. As to the 
account produced by the plaintiff, the defendant says that he had 
no knowledge about the contestations. Hereupon the plaintiff 
brought forward the named Lacouture for a witness, who, after 
he had taken the oath before the Court, said that he knew that 
the forty jugs of tafia had not been delivered by the said Hame- 
lin to the said Marchand ; and that he knew that one part of the 
bill produced had been furnished by the said Marchand to the 
said Hamelin ; and that he knew that the latter had received a 
horse which he had used last winter. 

The plaintiff produced Claude Paneton as second witness, 
who, after he had made oath, said that he knew that the said Mar- 
chand was pledged to M. Duchenaud to go from the Mauvaise 
Terre* to Peoria for 60 livres^ and that the said Hamelin sum- 
moned Marchand to go for him, and that the former made two 
journeys for the said Hamelin. 

Whereupon the Court, having carefully reflected, non-suited 
the parties, and the costs are to be divided, that is to say, 
each one half, for which there will be execution. The said 
judgment was rendered by agreement between the parties. 
Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 



248 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du premier aoust 1 786. Siégeant 
M" Jean B^* LaCroix Présidant Louis trotier 
antoine Girarclin Mathieu Saucier 

Louis Chatel Con**" magistrats 

Entre Louis pillet demandeur contre Clement alary 

deffendeur 
Le demandeur reclame un Boeuf a luy apartenant qui a passé 
par la Closture du deffendeur Et a Eté Sempaler Sur les pieux 
de la Closture du s*" LaCroix requérant quil luy soit rendu 
un Boeuf de la même valeur Et condamner le deffendeur aux 
dépens. 

ouy le deffendeur qui a dit pour deffences que Lon ne devoit 
pas tuer le Boeuf que lon devoit atendre son retour de Chasse 
quil Lauroit Guery, que puisqu^on lavoit tué Et vendu la viande 
il demandoit a Etre déchargé du Boeuf Et condamner sa partie 
aux frais. 

Vu le marché consenty par led^ Clement alary avec les mar- 
guiliers de la fabrique de cette paroisse par lequel led^ Clement 
alary nest obligé qu'aux reparations du dedans de la maison qui 
a Eté louée pour servir de presbitaire Et a deffaud par les mar- 
guiliers de Navoir point fait reparer les Clostures Nous avons 
décidé que la fabrique rendra un pareil Boeuf au demandeur ou 
En payera la valeur au prix destimation et les marguiliers se 
feront rendre compte de la viande ou produit dicelle pour En 
Compter au profit de L Eglise ce qui sera execute condamnons la 
fabrique aux frais. 

a la même Cour. 
JOSEPH VAUDRv demandeur contre Gabriel Baron deffendeur 
Le Demandeur a présente une requête par laquelle il reclame 
sa petite fille quil a mis Entre les mains du deffendeur disant 
quelle netoit pas traitée Selon les Convention de leur marche au 
Contraire quelle etoit traitée pis quune esclave requérant que 
led^ Baron soit Condamné a la luy remetre. 

ouy le deffendeur qui a dénié tout ce qui est porté En ladite 
requête demandant que le demandeur soit tenu a luy fournir des 
preuves, sur quoy la Cour a ordonné que led* vaudry founira 



COURT RECORD, AUGUST, 1786 249 

At a session of Court, August i, 1786. 
MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President. Louis Trottier. 
Antoine Girardin. Matthieu Saucier. 

Louis Chatel. Councilors and Magistrates. 

Louis Pillet, Plaintiff, vs, Clement Alarie, Defendant. 

The plaintiff daims an ox belonging to him, which passed 
through the defendant's fence and was impaled on the pickets of 
M. LaCroix's fence, and prays that there be rendered an ox of the 
same value and that the defendant be condemned to pay the costs. 

Heard the defendant, who said in defence that they should 
not have killed the ox; that they should have waited his return 
irom the hunt and that he would have cured it; that, since they 
had killed it and sold the meat, he prayed that he be discharged 
from payment for the ox and that his opponent be condemned to 
pay the costs. 

In view of the bargain made by the said Clement Alarie with 
the church-wardens of the vestry-board of this parish, according 
to the terms of which the said Clement Alarie was only bound to 
repair the interior of the house, which was rented to serve for a 
parsonage, and of the fault of the church- wardens in not having 
had the fence repaired, we have decided that the vestry-board shall 
render a similar ox to the plaintiff, or shall pay the value thereof 
at an appraised price; and that the church- wardens shall have ren- 
dered to them an account of the meat or proceeds therefrom, in 
order to account for it in the profits of the church, for which there 
will be execution. We condemn the vestry-board to pay the costs. 

At the same Court. 
Joseph Vaudry, Plaintiff, vs Gabriel Baron, Defendant. 

The plaintiff presented a petition by which he reclaims his little 
daughter, whom he placed in the hands of the defendant, saying 
that she was not treated according to the terms of their agreement; 
but on the contrary she was treated worse than a slave; and he 
prays that the said Baron be condemned to render her to him. 

Heard the defendant, who denied all that is contained in the 
said petition, and demands that the plaintiff be held to furnish him 
proofs. Whereupon the Court ordered that the said Vaudry shall 



250 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

preuves suffisantes, et a linstant led^ vaudr}' a fait assigner par 
ordre de cette Cour, mathieu saucier, Et antoine Lamarche pour 
témoins, Et a linstant le S^ B^* saucier est comparu lequel apr^ 
sermant par luy fait a dit seulement quil avoit Entendu jurer après 
lenfant Et la gronder, mais quil ne lavoit pas vue batre qui 
est tout ce quil a dit savoir, led^ lamarche Nayant i>oint paru 
par absence avons renvoyé lafaire a plus Emple informa- 
tion devant un magistra de la Cour qui fera droit a qui Q 
apartiendra. 

La Cour est adjoumée au i**" 7^^* 1786. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix pr Sd. 

a la Cour de ce dit jour i*^^ aoust 1786. 
En continuant la Cause ci dessus est comparu antoine La- 
marche lequel après sermant par luy fait sur les Saints Evangilles 
a dit sur les demandes a luy faites par la Cour quil navoit autre 
connoissance si non quil avoit vu foueter la petite fille mais quil 
Croyoit quelle Tavoit mérité et tant qu'aux autres motif de mauv- 
ais traitements defaud dhabillements ou de Nouriture quil nen 
avoit pas de Connoissance. sur quoy parties ouyes Le tout ex- 
amine la Cour a ordonné Et décidé que le s*" gabriel Baron Ren- 
dra la petite fille au s*" vaudry son pore avec ses petites hardes a 
son usage. Sans aucune repetition de la part dud* s' Baron 
Enver led^ s*" vaudry de penssion ny Entretien Condamnons le 
s^ vaudry aux frais par forme de des domagement Enver le s' 
macarty ce qui sera exécuté lesd^ jour Et an. 

J B H LaCroix pr Sidant. 

a une Cour du premier Septembre 1786. 
M" Jean B^* LaCroix présidant Mathieu Saucier 
antoine Girardin Joseph Lapensée 

Entre Louis Laperche demandeur contre Le S' Motard def- 

fendeur 
Le deffendeur [sic] expose quiL luy est dub par le s*" motar la 
Somme de trois cent Cinquante livres En pelterie pour ses gages 

* The only explanation possible for this decision is that Gabriel Baron was named Gabriel 
McCaxty called Baron or vice xfrsa, unless we assume that the clerk made a slip. I know no 
other authority for the coupling of the two names. 



I 
■ i 



COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1786 251 

furnish sufficient proofs. And now the said Vaudry caused to be 
summoned by order of this Court Matthieu Saucier and Antoine 
Lamarche as witnesses. Now appeared M. Bte. Saucier, who, 
after making oath, only said that he had heard them swear at the 
child and scold her, but that he had not seen her beaten; and 
this is all that he said he knew. The said Lamarche not having 
appeared on account of absence, we continued the cause for fuller 
information before a magistrate of the Court, who will render 
justice to whom it shall belong. 

The Court adjourned to September i, 1786. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

At the Court of this said day, August i, 1786. 

At the continuance of the above cause there appeared Antoine 
Lamarche, who, after making oath on the Holy Gospels, answered 
to the questions made him by the Court that he had no other 
knowledge except that he had seen the little girl whipped, but said 
he believed that she deserved it; and as to the other counts of bad 
treatment, lack of clothing and nourishment, he said that he had 
no knowledge thereof. Whereupon, after the parties were heard 
and all examined, the Court decreed and decided that M. Gabriel 
Baron shall render the little girl to M. Vaudry, her father, with 
her little clothing for her use, without the right of any action 
for recovery on the part of the said M. Baron against the said 
M. Vaudry for board and maintenance. We condemn M. Vau- 
dry to pay the costs by way of damages to M. Macarty,* for 
which there will be execution this said day and year. 

J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

At a Court, September i, 1786. 

MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President. Matthieu Saucier. 

Antoine Girardin. Joseph Lapancé. 

Louis Laperche, Plaintiff, vs. M. Motard, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sets forth that there is due him by M. Motard the 

simi of three hundred and fifty livres in peltries for wages for 

going to the Republic on the service of M. Trudeau according 

to his pledge made to M. Motard, dated August 3, 1785; and that 

he had not been able to go thither on account of the war of the 



252 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

daler a la republique p^ le service du s^ trudeaux suivant son 
Engagement fait au s^ motar En datte du 3. août 1785. Et 
que comme nayant pas pu fi [sic] Rendre par la guerre de la re- 
publique avec les Shaus ce qui les avoit obligé de relâcher nayant 
point de vivre p^ subsister pendant Ihiver suivant deux Certiffi- 
cat quil a produit. 

ouy le s^ motar En Ses deffences qui a dit que le s*" s* jcan 
devoit hyvemer p^ atendre le S^ trudeaux ou aler le rejoindre de 
Bonprintems quil lavoit Engage a Ses Conditions mais quil na- 
voit pas voulu atendre quoy quil eu des marchandises p^ vivres 
suffisament Mais que de Son Chif il avoit redescendu Et aban- 
donné les interest du S^ trudeau ayant produit un Certificat a ce 
sujet du S*" Rivet. 

Veu lengagement dud^ S^ jean les deux Certificats des Nommés 
Rivet Et deschamp le tout produit par le demandeur. Et autre 
Certificats donné par led* Rivet aud* deffendeur, le tout examiné; 
la Cour a Condamné Et condamne le s^ motard a payer aud* S* 
jean la moitié de Ses gages montant a cent soixante quinze livres 
en pelterie Et aux dépens ce qui sera exécuté lesd* jour Et an. 

La Cour est ajournée au i*^^ 8^^ 1786. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix pr Sdt. 

a une Cour tenue Extraordinairement le douze Septembre mil 

sept cent quatre vingt Six. 
M" jean B** LaCroix présidant Clement alary 

antoine girardin Joseph Lapensée 

Louis chatel Louis trotier 

Mathieu saucier magistrats 

Entre M*" Antoine Reilhe demandeur contre Le S*" Saicuel 

ToDD deffendeur 
Le demandeur a présenté une requête expositive que le S*" 
tood la fait venir icy aux cahos pour terminer une affaire quil 
avoit avec M*^^ veuve Caimps par arbitres quen Concequance il 
a Emmené Ses arbitres comme procureur de ladite dame veuve 
Camps, que led* S*" tood Etant aussi arrive avec Ses arbitres lors 

* The name lo^ks like Kans. hut it m;iy he, as fjivcn. Sh.iws. The Shawnecs were on 
the warpath during the winter 178s i-Sf». 

'The full name of the plaintiff was Louis Laperche called St. Jean. 



COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1786 253 

Republic with the Shawnees,* which obliged them to give up, since 
they did not have provisions for subsistance through the winter, 
according to two certificates which he produced. 

Heard M. Motard in his defence, who said that M. St. Jean' 
should have wintered in order to await M. Trudeau or to go and 
join him in the spring, and that he had engaged him on these 
conditions; but that he had not been willing to wait, although he 
had merchandise for sufficient provisions; but that of his own 
accord he had redescended and abandoned the interests of M. 
Trudeau; and the defendant produced two certificates of M. 
Rivet on the subject. 

Considering the agreement of the said St. Jean, the two certifi- 
cates of the named Rivet and Deschamp, all produced by the 
plaintiff, and other certificates given by the said Rivet to the said 
defendant, after all were examined, the Court has condemend 
and does condemn M. Motard to pay to the said St. Jean half of 
his wages, amounting to one hundred and seventy-five livres in 
peltries and to pay the costs for which there will be execution the 
said day and year. 

The Court adjourned to October i, 1786. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

At a Court sitting in special session, September 12, 1786. 

MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President. Clement Alarie. 

Antoine Girardin. Joseph Lapancé 

Louis Chatel. Louis Trottier. 

Matthieu Saucier. Magistrates. 

M. Antoine Reilhe,' Plaintiff, vs. M. Samuel Todd,* 

Defendant. 
Plaintiff presented an explanatory petition, in which he says 
that M. Todd made him come here to Cahokia to terminate bv 
arbitrators a cause which M. Todd had with Madame Camp, 
widow, and that consequently he brought his arbitrators as 
attorney for the said Madame Camp, widow; and that the said 
M. Todd, when he arrived also with his arbitrators and it was 

* Reihle was from St. Louis. 

^ Samuel Todd was a Canadian merchant. 



254 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

quil a Eté question de produire ces pieces led* S*" tood a refusé 
quil demandoit que led^ tood ait a les produire ou quil soit déboute 
de toutes demandes En ver ledite dame Camps Et Condamné 
aux frais Et dépens. 

ouy le S*" tood qui a dit quil ataquoit personnelement led* 
S^ Reyn Et a produit a la Cour un billet dub par le S*" giiiUon fils 
de douze Cent Cinq livres de Castor pezant Cautionne par deffunt 
Le s^ Camp En datte du 23 7^" 1785 Sans En demander le paye- 
ment. 

Sur quoy la Cour luy ayant demandé Sil vouloit faire decider 
lafaire présentement Sur cette Rive ou ailleur, quil Etoit libre 
de la faire decider par les quatre arbitrés quil Etoit convenu avec 
M*" Reilh, ou des jurés. 

a quoy led^ S*" tood a répondu quil laissoit laffaire la, quant a 
present Et quil la fairoit decider dans un autre temp quil Na- 
voit affaire qua M^ Reilhe. 

Sur quoy le S^ tood Setant conforme a lordre de La Cour 
au bas de la requête du s*" Reilhe En datte de ce jour Et a la 
demande du s*" Reilhe, la Cour Condamné le s*" Reilhe En 
tous les frais Et dépens de extraordinaire donné aux Cahos la 
Cour sente [sic] led^ jour douze Septembre mil Sept cent quatre 
vingt six. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix prSdt. 

a une Cour du 2 8^»"*^ 1786. 
M" Jean B^^ LaCroix présidant Louis Chatel 
antoine girardin Mathieu saucier 

Louis trotier Clement alary 

Conseillers 
Philipe Engel demandeur contre M^ dorsey Pentecoste 

représenté par M^ jean B^^ LaCroix deffendeur 
Le demandeur demande au deffendeur quil soit tenu a faire 
la mitoyenne En pieux de Bout des terrains Entre led^ S*" Pente- 
coste Et led* S^ angel Le S^ LaCroix a répondu quil offroit de faire 
ladite mitoyenne pour vu toutes fois que la Cour lordonne afin 
quil luy en soit tenu Compte par led* S^ Pentecoste. sur quoy 

*For Dorsey Pentecoste, see p. 581. 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1786 255 

a question of producing these doounents, refused; and he prayed 
that the said Todd be compelled to produce them or that he 
be denied all his prayers against the said Madame Camps and be 
condemned to pay the costs and expenses. 

Heard M. Todd who said that he brought action personally 
against the said M. Reilhe and produced in Court a note due 
by M. Guillon jr. for twelve hundred and five pounds weight of 
beaver guaranteed by the deceased M. Camp under date of Sept- 
ember 23, 1785, without demanding the payment therefor. 

Whereupon the Court asked him if he wished to have the 
cause decided now on this bank or elsewhere, saying that he was 
free to have it decided by the four arbitrators, as was agreed with 
M. Reilhe, or by jurors. 

To which the said M. Todd answered that he would abandon 
it for the present and have it decided at another time, that he had 
only an affair with M. Reilhe. 

Whereupon M. Todd having conformed to the order of the 
Court written below the petition of M. Reilhe, under date of this 
day and to the prayer of M. Reilhe, the Court condemned M. 
Reilhe to pay all the costs and charges of the special session. 
Given at Cahokia at the session of the Court the said day, the 
the twelfth day of September, 1786. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Pnes. 

At a Court, October 2, 1786. 
MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President. Louis Chatel. 
Antoine Girardin. Matthieu Saucier. 

Louis Trottier. Clement Alarie. 

Councilors. 
Philippe Engel, Plaintiff, vs M. Dorsey Pentecoste,* repre- 
sented by M. Jean Bte. LaCroix, Defendant. 
The plaintiff demands of the defendant that he be held to build 
the party fence of pointed stakes between the lands of the said 
M. Pentecoste and the said M. Engel. M. LaCroix answered 
that he offered to build the party fence, provided, however, that 
the Court command it, in order that there may be rendered to 
him account thereof by the said M. Pentecoste. Whereupon the 



256 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

la Cour ordonne au S*" LaCroix de faire ladite moyenne En pieux 
de bout bonne Et recevable dont il se fera Rembourcer par led* 
S*" pentecoste condamnons le S*" LaCroix aux frais. 

at Girardin 

La Cour est ajournée au deux de Novembre prochain. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix pr sdt. 

[A blank page across which is written] 
passé par Erreur et par inadertance [sic], 

a une cour du 2. 9^^^ 1786. 
M™ Jean B** LaCroix présidant Louis trotier 
antoine girardin Louis chatel 

Mat. saucier Clement alary 

Joseph Lapensée 
Le Sr izaac Levy demandeur contre jean B*« Baron 

deffendeur 
Le S*" Levy a produit un compte a la Charge du deffendeur 
de la Somme de trois cent soixante livres en argent p^ fourni- 
tures faites aud^ baron Lequel compte le deffendeur na pas voulu 
aprouver En plusieurs articles et demande quil soit détaillé 
depuis le commencement jusqua la fin. Sur quoy la Cour a 
ordonné que le s*" Levy fournira au deffendeur son compte de- 
taillé art. par art. avec les dattes Et avoir quil aura Reçu 1^ 
être disente ou aprouvé par le deffendeur Et En Etre ordoné 
devant un magistrat de la Cour a quil apartiendra dépens réservé 
jusqua la deffmition de leurs comptes. 

La Cour est ajournée au i**" décembre 1786. 

Labuxiere grefier J B H LaCroix pr Sdt. 

a une Cour tenue du 1^^ décembre 1786. 
M" jean B^*^ LaCroix présidant Louis Chatel 
antoine girardin Joseph Lapensée 

Mathieu saucier 
Mr JOSEPH Labuxiere demandeur contre jean B^« dumay 

deffendeur 
Le demandeur a présenté un billet contre led* dumay par 
lequel il demande p^ restant quarante Cinq livres en argent ou 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1786 257 

Court ordered M. LaCroix to build the said party fence of 
pointed stakes, good and acceptable, for which he shall cause 
himself to be reimbursed by the said M. Pentecoste. We con- 
demn M. LaCroix to the costs. At. Girard in. 
The Court adjourned to the second of November next. 
Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

[A blank page across which is written] 
Passed by error and inadvertence. 

At a Court, November, 2, 1786. 
MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President. Louis Trottier. 
Antoine Girardin. Louis Chatel. 

Mat. Saucier. Clement Alarie. 

Joseph Lapancé. 
M. Isaac Levy, Plaintiff, vs Jean Bte. Baron, Defendant. 
M. Levy produced an account due from the defendant for the 
sum of three hundred and sixty livres in money for supplies made 
to the said Baron. Several articles of this account the defendant 
has been unwilling to approve and demands that it be itemized 
from beginning to end. 

Whereupon the Court decreed that M. Lev>' shall furnish the 
defendant his account itemized article by article with the dates and 
credit which he shall have received, to be disapproved or approved 
by the defendant, and a decree for the payment thereof to whom- 
soever it belongs will be made before a magistrate of the Court; 
the expense being reserved until the final decision in regard to their 
accounts. 

The Court adjourned to December i, 1786. 
Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

At a Court held December i, 1786. 
MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President. Louis Chatel. 
Antoine Girardin. Joseph Lapancé. 

Matthieu Saucier 

M. Joseph La Curie, Plaintiff, vs. Jean Bte. Dumay, 

Defendant 
The plaintiff presented a note against the said Dumay on which 
he demands as balance forty-five livres in money or flour, and 



258 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

farine Echu, le deffendeur a dit navoir point dargent p*" payer 
qui est tout ce que les parties ont dit. 

La Cour a condanné le deffendeur a payer sans délais Et aux 
frais. J B H LaCroix 

M^ (le S^ pierre curé de cette paroisse a présente Sa requête 
pour demander linterdiction de la boisson aux sauvages. La 
Cour a ordonné que les ordonnances rendues a ce sujet cy devant 
seront publiées dimanche prochain afin que personne ne lîgnore 
Et Les contrevenant punis selon lesd* ordonnances. 

a la même Cour. 

M^ DUBREi'iL marchand de la rive espagnole Contre fr 
TROïiER comparant par Charles duCharme son fonde de pouvoir 
Et charj^é de Ses affaires. 

Le S^ dubreuil demande le payement dune somme de deux 
cent Cinq piastres quatre Escalins suivant le Billet dud* s' trotîer 
Echus depuis le mois doctobre led' Billet a ordre En datte du 13 
février de cette présente année. 

Le deffendeur a dit navoir point de fond quant a present a- 
parlenanl au s*" trolier j)*" payer mais quil avoit En main des 
obligations a luy dues, quil aloit forcer les payments pour Satis- 
faire aud' Billet. 

La Cour a ordonné que vu le manque de fond Entre Les 
mains du s*" ducharme Et labsence du M^ trotier que M*" dubreuil 
Suspendre les payement jusques au mois doctobre de Lannée 
prochaine Et luy sera payé par m*" trotier Linterest suivant le 
taux du C^>mme^e condamnons le s*" trotier aux frais. 

a La même Cour. 
Lk s*" Hillkt demandeur contre Loi^is Lecompte défendeur 

Le demandeur a prinluit un Billet contre Le deffendeur de la 
somme de deux cent livres En argent Echus depuis le mois doc- 
tobre dernier de la .somme de deux cent livres requérant que le 
deffendeur le paye sans délais et aux frais et dépens. 

Le deffendeur a répliqué que SEtoit pour un Boeuf Et quil 
N'avoit pas pu se Ser\'ir du Boeuf quil Ne pouvoit pas le payer 
Et que le S*" Blay actuellement icy Etoit present quil sait ce que 

• S*»c p. a 15- 



COURT RECORD, DECEMBER, 1786 259 

which has matured. The defendant said that he had no money to 
pay, which is all the parties have said. 

The Court condemned the defendant to pay the note without 
delay and the costs. J. B. H. LaCroix. 

M. de St. Pierre, Curé of this parish, presented his petition 
in order to request the prohibition from giving drink to the 
savages. The Court decreed that the ordinances rendered here- 
before on this subject shall be published next Sunday in order 
that no person be ignorant and that offenders shall be pimished 
according to the said ordinances.* 

At the same Court. 

M. DuBREUiL, trader from the Spanish bank, vs, Fr. Trottier, 
represented by Charles DuCharme, his private attorney and 
commissioned with his affairs. 

M. Dubreuil demands the payment of a sum of two hundred 
and five piastres four escaUns according to the note to order under 
date of February 13 of this present year, given by the said M. 
Trottier and matured since the month of October. 

The defendant said that he did not have any funds at present 
belonging to M. Trottier with which to pay; but that he had in 
his hands obligations due him, of which he was going to force 
payments to satisfy the said note. 

The Court decreed that, in view of the lack of funds in the 
hands of M. DuCharme and of the absence of M. Trottier, M. 
Dubreuil shall suspend payment until the month of October of next 
year and there shall be paid him by M. Trottier the interest accord- 
ing to the commercial rate. We condemn M. Trottier pay the costs. 

At the same Court. 
M. Billet, Plaintiff, vs. Louis Lecomte Defendant 

The plaintiff pro4uced a note against the defendant for the 
sum of two hundred livres in money, matured since the month 
of October last, and requires that the defendant pay him without 
delay with the costs and charges. 

The defendant answered that it was for an ox and that he had 
not been able to make use of the ox; that he could not pay for 
it; and that M. Blay, now here, was present and that he knew 



26o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

le deffendeur a dit au s*" Beausoleil et leur Conventions, sur 
quoy avons fait paroitre, le S*" Blay lequil après sermant par luy 
fait sur les S^ Evangiles Et interogé sil sait les conventions des 
parties a dit quil ne savoit point leurs conditions si non quil avoit 
Entendu que Le s*" LeCompte avoit acheté du s' Beausipleil, 
le boeuf p^ deux cent livres qui est tout ce quil a dit savoir, le 
tout examiné la Cour Condamne led^ Louis Lecomte a payer au 
s^ Beausoleil la Somme de deux cent livres p^ le montant du 
boeuf P"t ce sans délais, si mieux naime led^ s*" Beausoleil repren- 
dre le boeuf au Cas quil se retrouve a son Choix condamnons 
led* Lecompte aux frais qui seront avancés par le s' Beausoleil 
Et rembourcés par led* Lecompte. 

a la même Cour. 
Le S^ MOTARD demandeur contre Laurant hamelin deffendeur 

Le S*" motard demande au deffendeur le payement de Son 
Billet de la Somme de Cent quatre livres Seize sols En p^*« 
Echus, le deffendeur a dit que la pelterie ne valoit dans ce 
temps que vingt sols En argent Et quil na jamais Entednû faire 
un billet que de Cent quatre livres Seize sols En argent quil ofifroit 
de payer ladite somme de Cent quatre livres seize sols En argent 
et non en pelterie. 

Led* s*" Motard a répliqué quil Etoit vray que la pelterie ne 
valoit pas plus que largent dans le temps que le billet a Eté 
Consenly mais que par le relard du payement il demandoit que 
son payement fut fait suivant le Billet que dailleur SEtoit pour 
Equipement Et quil avoit Vendu aud* hamelin ce quil avoit 
pris En pelterie El non En argent, le tout considéré La Cour a 
Condamné led* hamelin a payer son Billet en Entier de la Somme 
de Cent quatre livres Seize sols en pelterie Et ce sans délais Et 
aux frais qui seront avancés par le s^ motard et a luy Rembourcez 
par led* hamelin. 

a la même cour. 

Le S' Motard demandeur Contre François turgeon def- 
fendeur 

Le demandeur requière le payement de plusieurs articles de 
travail quil devoit luy faire Et quil na point fait le tout verbalement. 



COURT RECORD, DECEMBER, 1786 261 

what the defendant said to M. Beausoleil and their agreement. 
Whereupon we summoned M. Blay, who, after taking oattion 
the Holy Gospels and being asked if he knew about the agreement 
of the parties, said that he did not know the conditions, except that 
he had understood that M. Lecomte had bought from M. Beau- 
soleil the ox for two hundred livres, which is all he said he knew. 
After examining all, the Court condemns the said Louis Lecomte 
to pay to M. Beausoleil the sum of two hundred livres for the 
price of the ox and this without delay, unless the said Beausoleil 
prefers to take back the ox in case it be found to his liking. We con- 
denm the said Lecomte to pay the costs, which shall be advanced 
by M. Beausoleil and reimbursed to him by the said Lecomte. 

At the same Court. 

M. MoTARD, Plaintiff, vs. Laurent Hamelin, Defendant. 

M. Motard demands of the defendant the payment of his 
note for the sum of one hundred and four livres sixteen sols in 
peltries, which is matured. The defendant said that peltries 
were worth at the time only twenty sols in money and that he never 
meant to make a note except for one hundred and four livres 
sixteen sols in money, that he offered to pay the said siun of one 
hundred and four livres sixteen sols in money and not in peltries. 

The said M. Motard answered that it was true that peltries 
were not worth more than money at the time that the note was ac- 
cepted; but that, on account of the delay in payment, he demanded 
that the payment should be made according to the note, and that be- 
sides it was for equipment; and that he had sold to the said Hamelin, 
what he had taken, for peltries and not for money. After consid- 
ering all, the Court condemned the said Hamelin to pay his entire 
note for the sum of one hundred and four livres sixteen sols in pel- 
tries and this without delay, and to pay the costs, which shall be ad- 
vanced by M. Motard and reimbursed to him by the said Hamelin. 

At the same Coiut. 

M. MoTARD, Plaintiff, vs, François Turgeon, Defendant. 

The plaintiff demands the payment of several items of work, 
which the defendant ought to do for him, and which he has not 
done, all on a verbal agreement. 



262 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

* 

Le deffendeur a produit un Compte douvrage Et de journée a 
la charge du s*" motard. 

Les quels comptes non pu intruire suffisament La Cour j/ 
donner un jugement juste, le tout Examiné elle renvoy les par- 
ties a Se pourvoir devant des arbitres devant qui ils produiront 
leurs comptes depart Et dautres. 

Et al Egard du bled Et récolte quils ont En société la cour a 
décidé que tout sera Raporté a la masse Et que led* Bled sera 
Batu a frais Commun Cest a dire que le s*" motard fournira un 
homme et le Nourira Et payera; led* turgeon Se fournira et se 
Nourira pour le tout Batu sans que qui que ce soit y puisse toucher. 
led* bled sera partagé savoir un tier p^ turgeon Et les deux tier 
p'" s*" motard, toutes fois la semances de dix neuf minois pré- 
levée par le s*" motard Et tous les frais de ladite récolte, tant des 
trois minots que le s*" motard a fait semer que les quatre minots 
que turgeon a Semé seront payez le tout sur la masse du bled La 
baterie de la grange Sera racommodée par led* turgeon et le S*^ 
motard a frais Commun et par moitié. 

Et pour les reparations de la maison que le S*" motard demande 
aud* turgeon Et que led* turgeon na point fait, condamnons led* 
turgeon a payer Cinquante livres au s^ motard p*" lesd* repara- 
tions. El les frais du procès compensez chacun par moitié qui 
seront avancés par le S^ motard et lautre moitié luy Sera Rem- 
bourcée par led* turgeon. 

La Cour est ajournée a i^^ janvier 1787. 

Labuxiere gfier J B H LaCroix pr sdt. 



a une cour du deux janvier mil sept cent quatre vingt sept 
tenue nar. 

M" jean H*^ LaCroix clement alary 

ant girardin Louis Chatel 

Joseph La pensée 
Le S^ Dumoulin demandeur contre Pip:rre troge defifendeur 
Le demandeur requière que le deffendeur luy paye le restant 
de Son Billet Echu duquel il y a Eu ci devant condamnation. 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1787 263 

The defendant produced an account of work and of day's 
labor done at the charge of M. Motard. 

Since these accounts could not instruct the Court sufficiently 
to make it possible to render a just judgment and after examining 
all, the Court dismissed the parties to plead before arbitrators, 
before whom they shall produce their accounts. 

And in regard to the wheat and crops which they have in part- 
nership, the Court decided that all shall be accounted for in the 
mass and that the said wheat shall be thrashed at the common 
expense, that is to say, M. Motard shall furnish a man with his 
keep and wages and the said Turgeon shall furnish himself with 
his keep, for the time of the whole thrashing. Without anyone 
whomsoever meddling with it, the grain shall be divided as 
follows, one third to Turgeon and two thirds to M. Motard. 
Yet the seed of the nineteen minots deducted previously by M. 
Motard, and all the expense of the said crop, as well as some three 
minots which M. Motard has had sown, and the four minots 
which Turgeon sowed, shall all be paid from the whole quantity of 
grain. The threshing-floor of the bam shall be repaired by the said 
Turgeon and M. Motard at common expense, equally divided. 

And for the repairs of the house, which M. Motard demands 
of the said Turgeon and which the said Turgeon has not made, 
we condemn the said Turgeon to pay fifty livres to M. Motard 
for the said repairs. And each shall pay half of the costs of the 
suit, which shall be advanced by M. Motard, and one half shall 
be reimbursed to him by the said Turgeon. 

The Court adjourned to January i, 1787. 
Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

At a Court of the second of January, 1787, held by 
MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix. Clement Alarie. 

Antoine Girardin. Louis Chatel. 

Joseph Lapancé. 

M. Dumoulin, Plaintiff, vs, Pierre Troge, Defendant. 
The plaintiff demands that the defendant pay him the balance 
of his matured note for which judgment has been given here- 
before. 



264 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Le deffendeur a répondu quil le payeroit a present sU avoît de 
quoy, mais quil le payeroit le plustost quil pouroit. 

Sur quoy la Cour a ordonné au défendeur de payer Ce quil 
Redoit aud^ s*" dumoulin dans le Cour de ce mois, lequel tems 
passé la présente Sentence Sera mise a Execution condanmé le 
deffendeur aux dépens. 

a la requisition de Thom Bredy la Cour a Saisy entre les mains 
du S*^ Jean B^« LaCroix la valeur dun Costé de Cuir et dun Eperon 
qui lui sont dub par le S^ Lorens taneiu: de la partie espagnole a 
qui le S^ Lacroix a des fonds Entre les mains, la Cour luy deffend 
de sen dessaisir que led^ lorams n'ait satisfait led* Thom Bredy 
ou quil nen soit ordonné et Sera signiffié aud* S*" LaCroix. 

Sur la demande du S' Beausoleil 

Le S^ Louis Lecomte ayant refusé sur notre Sentence rendue 
contre luy de payer aud* s*" Beausoleil après que commandeniant 
et signiff°° de ladite sentence luy a Eté faite par notre huissier la 
Cour ordonne que la terre dud* LeCompte dun arpent de large 
située a la prairie du pont tenant a Sans façon et a Courville sera 
saisie Et vendue judicierement a la porte de lEglise par trois Criées 
au plus offrant Et dernier Enchérisseur au contant Et jusqua la 
Concurrance de ce quil doit aud* Beausoleil frais et dépens. 

La Cour est ajourné au i«^ février prochain. 



aujourdhuy quartorze janvier mil Sept cent quatre vingt sept 
est comparu au greffe de la Cour en presence de M^ Jean B*® Du- 
buque commandant de ce vilage 

Le S^ augustin dubuque marchand voyageur demeurant pré- 
sentement en ce susd* village des Cahos. lequel a déclaré quil 
desiroit de devenir un des sujets des Etats unis de Lamerique et 
a fait le Sermant de fidélité aux dits Etats ainsy quil suit. Je fait 
Sermant de renoncer et refuser toute fidélité a george trois Roi de 
la grande Bretagne Ses hoirs Et Sucesseurs, que je seray fidel Et 
porteray vray fidélité a la republique de la verginie comme un Etat 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1787 265 

The defendant answered that he would pay it now, if he had 
means; but that he would pay it as soon as he could. 

Whereupon the Court commanded the defendant to pay what 
he still owed to the said M. Diunoulin in the course of this month; 
and when that time was past, the present judgment shall be put 
in execution. Condemned the defendant to pay the expenses. 

On the requsition of Tom Brady the Court has seized from 
the funds belonging to M. Lorens, tanner on the Spanish side, 
now in the possession of M. Jean Bte. LaCroix, the value of a 
side of leather and a spur, which is due him from the said M. 
Lorens. The Court forbids M". LaCroix to dispossess himself 
thereof until the said Lorens has satisfied the said Tom Brady 
or an order thereto has been made; and notice shall be served on 
the said LaCroix. 

On the prayer of M. Beausoleil. 

M. Louis Lecomte having refused, upon our judgment ren- 
dered against him, to pay the said M. Beausoleil, after formal 
demand and notification of the said judgment was made to him 
by our huissier, the Court decrees that the land of the said Le- 
comte, of an arpent in width, situated in the Prairie du Pont 
adjacent to the lands of Sansfaçon and Courville, shall be seized 
and sold by judicial sale at the door of the church, after three 
publications, to the highest bidder for cash and up to the equiva- 
lent of what he owes to the said Beausoleil with costs and ex- 
penses. 

The Court adjourned to next February i. 

To-day the fourteenth of January, 1787, there appeared at 
the record-office of the Court in the presence of M. Jean Bte. 
Dubuque, Commandant of this village, 

M. Augustin Dubuque, traveling trader, dwelling at present 
in this village aforesaid of Cahokia, who declared that he desired 
to become one of the subjects of the United States of America 
and made oath of fidelity to the said States as follows: I make 
oath to renounce and refuse all fidelity to George III., King of 
Great Britain, his heirs and successors; and that I will be faith- 
ful and bear fidelity to the Republic of Virginia as a free and in- 



266 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

libre et indépendant Et jamais je ne feray ni ne feray faire aucune 
Chose qui puisse être préjudiciable ni injurieuse a la liberté Et 
indépendance dud* Etat comme est déclaré par le congre. Et 
aussi que je discouvriray et feray savoir a quelque juge de paix 
dud^ Etat toutes trahisons ou Conspirations qui Seront venues ou 
pourront venir a ma connoissance formée contre led* Etat ou quel- 
quautres des Etats unis de Lamerique. duquel Sermant led* 
augustin dubuque a requis acte En presence de Lassemblee tenue 
cejourdhuy En la maison du M*" fr. Saucier, Et Encore dud* S' 
Jean B^^ dubuque Commandant de M*" jean B*« LaCroix présidant 
magistrat et dud* S*" francois Saucier témoins qui ont avec led* S' 
augustin debuque signé le present lesd* jour et an. 
[Signed] Aug. Dubuque B Dubuque 

marque de DuCharme 

+ 
F. Courier 
Labuxiere gfier J. B. H. LaCroix pr sdt. 



a une Cour du 19 février 1787. 
M*" saucier présidant a l'absence du M*" LaCroix 
ant girardin Joseph Lapensée 

Louis Chalel M* saucier 

clement alarv 
demandeur M*" (*. Saucip:r contre Joseph Baribaud 
Le demandeur a dit que le deffendcur luy devoit un milier de 
Bardaux Et quil le luy avoit paye, le deffendcur a dénie par des 
raisons répliques et autres propos que la Cour a bien entendu Et 
le tout mûrement Examiné, le serment prêté par p*"*^ leperche Com- 
me témoins. Ladite cour condamne Ledit Baribaud a rendre 
dans la Cour du S*" saucier un millier de Bardaux bon et recevable 
sujet a visite le tout aux frais dud* Baribaud et payera au s*" 
saucier Les frais du procès liguidez [sic] a quinze livres dont 
le s*" saucier fera compte a la justice ce qui sera exécuté le tout 
sans délais. 

A* Girardin 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1787 267 

dependent state; and I will do nothing nor wUl I cause anything 
to be done, which can be prejudicial or injurious to the liberty 
and independence of the said State, as is declared by Congress. 
And also I swear that I wUl disclose and make known to some 
ju&tice of the peace of the said State all treasons or conspiracies, 
which shall have come or may come to my knowledge, formed 
against the said State or others of the United States of America. 
Of which oath the said Augustin Dubuque demanded certificate. 
Given in the presence of the assembly, held to-day in the house of 
M. Fr. Saucier, and also in the presence of M. Jean Bte. Dubuque, 
Commandant of [this village! and of M. Jean Bte. LaCroix, Pres- 
ident and Magistrate, and of the said M. François Saucier, 
witness, who have with the said M. Augustin Dubuque signed 
the present the said day and year. 

[Signed] Aug. Dubuque. Aug. Dubuque. 

Mark of DuCharme. 

+ 

Fr. Courier. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

At a Court, February 19, 1787. 

M. Saucier, President in the absence of M. LaCroix. 

Ant. Girardin. Joseph Lapancé. 

Louis Chatel. Matt. Saucier. 

Clement Alarie. 

M. Fr. Saucier, Plaintiff, vs. Joseph Baribaud. 
The plaintiff said that the defendant owed him a thousand 
shingles and he had paid him for them. The defendant denied 
by arguments, rejoinders and other talk, which the Court has 
attentively heard; and having carefully examined all and the oath 
taken by Pierre Laperche as witness, the said Court condemns 
the said Baribaud to deliver in the vard of M. Saucier a thousand 
shingles, good and acceptable, and subject to inspection, the 
whole at the expense of the said Baribaud; and he shall pay to 
M. Saucier the costs of the suit which are fixed at fifteen livres ^ 
for which M. Saucier shall make account to justice, for all of which 
there will be execution without delay. At. Girardin. 



268 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a la même cour. 
Louis VADEBONCOEUR demandeur contre Gabriel Baron qui 
^ na voulu paroitre après lordre reçu 

Le demandeur a produit un compte de fourniture montant a 
vingt cinq livres quil a sermanté devant la Cour. 

vu le refus du deffendeur de ne vouloir paroitre la dite cour la 
condamné a payer sans délais aud^ demandeur la somme de vingt 
Cinq livres Et En quinze livres de frais, qui seront avancés par 
le demandeur et a luy rembourcés par led^ gabriel Baron ce qui 
sera Exécuté. 

La Cour est ajournée au i®' mars 1787. 

f. saucier. 

a une Cour du premier mars 1787. 
M^* LaCroix présidant Joseph Lapensée 

A^ girardin Clement alary 

Les députez de la fabrique des Cahos Etant assemblez devant 
la Cour pour Se laver de Limputation qui leur a Eté faite davoLr 
recelé des papiers que M*" augustin dubuque leur avoit confié, 
leqeul dit s^ dubuque après un Certain tems et plusieurs Recher- 
che a dit Les avoir trouve Entre deux pieux de son terrain M*" de 
S^ pierre curé de cette paroisse present a requis le sermant dun 
chacun des dits députez comme il Navoit aucune part a lEgare- 
ment des papiers. Lesquels devant La Cour Savoir le s*" francois 
saucier, s^ jean B' LaCroix, s^ antoine Girardin, Charle du- 
Charme, francois Courier Joseph Labuxiere, grefier. Et Mond* 
S^ de S* pierre curé ont fait led^ sermant. 

sur quoy la Cour les a déclaré absout de tout soupçon a cet 
Egard, sur la declaration que le s*" dubuque fait. Et de son ser- 
mant quil a fait quil ignoroit qui les avoit mis a cet Endroit dont il 
décharge les dits députez Et tous autres. 

marque de marque de 

+ -f 

Joseph Lapensée Clement alary 

Les S*"*" Lonval, deslonchamps Et Joseph Lapensée on de- 
mandé le des domagement des Clotures des terres de lEglîse 
vendue a rente le dimanche 25 de ce mois, la Cour a ren- 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1787 269 

At the same Court. 

Louis Vadeboncoeur, Plaintiff, vs, Gabriel Baron, who was 

unwilling to appear after receiving summons. 

The plaintiff produced an account for supplies amounting to 
twentv-five livres to which he made oath before the Court. 

In view of the refusal of the defendant to appear, the said 

Court condemned him to pay without delay to the said plaintiff 

the siun of twenty-five livres, and fifteen livres for costs, which 

shall be advanced by the plaintiff and reimbursed to him by the 

said Gabriel Baron, for which there will be execution. 

The Court adjourned to March i, 1787. 

F. Saucier. 

At a Court March, i, 1787. 
MM. LaCroix, President. Joseph Lapancé. 
Ant. Gh-ardin. Clement Alarie. 

The deputies of the vestry-board of Cahokia having assembled 
before the court to clear themselves of the charge, which has 
been made against them, of having concealed some papers which 
M. Augustin Dubuque had confided to their care, and which 
the said M. Dubuque said he had found, after a certain timo and 
several searches, between two stakes of his land, M. de St. 
Pierre, curé of this parish who was present, demanded the oath 
from each of the said deputies that he had no share in the loss of 
the papers. The following have taken the said oath before the 
Court, to wit: M. François Saucier, M. Jean Bte. LaCroix, M. 
Antoine Girardin, Charles DuCharme, François Courier, Joseph 
Labuxiere, Clerk, and the said Sieur de St. Pierre. 

Whereupon the Court declared them absolved from all suspi- 
cion in this respect on the affidavit which M. Dubuque made 
and his oath which he made that he did not know who put them 
in that place, with which he discharges the said deputies and all 
others. 

Mark + of 
Joseph Lapancé 

Mark -j- of 
Clement Alarie 



270 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

voyer la prochaine Cour pour En decider ne se trouvant 
complette. 

La Cour est ajournée au i^ avril 1787. 

J B H LaCroix. 



aujourdhuy premier mars mil sept cent quatre vingt sept Est 
Comparue au greffe de la Cour En presence de M" Les magis- 
trats, Marie Louise Lemire veuve de deffunt francois Groslé tué 
par les Sauvages Environ huit jours après leur mariage Et comme 
led^ groslé avant detre marié avant [sic] lexposante avoit Contracté 
différentes debtes avant dEntrer En Communauté avec elle Et quil 
ne se trouve ancunne Chose pour remplir son douaire porté par son 
Contract de mariage que la somme de deux cent livres qui sont 
Entre les mains de francois Biguier dit groslé père dud^ deffunt 
quelle reclame p*" ses droits qui sont a plus forte somme cest pK>ur- 
quoy ayant Examiné les affaires dud* deffunt Et les debtes quil 
a Contracte tant avant son mariage que frais de nocces et après le 
susdit mariage Et voyant par le deces dud^ deffunt groslé Biguier 
son mary que la Communauté quil y avoit luy est plus honnereuse 
que profitable Elle a déclaré devant ladite Cour et declare quelle 
renoncé comme de fait Elle a renoncé a la Communauté quil y 
avoit Entre led^ deffunt francois Biguier dit Groslé Et Elle fK>ur 
les tor quelle En souffriroit Et quelle En soufre, actuellement 
declarant quelle se désiste de ladite Communauté et que ledit def- 
funt ny a Rien aporté ny guains ny travaux declare En outré ladite 
veuve quelle ne sest immissée En aucunne façon de payer ni re- 
cevoir aucunne Chose qui ay pu apartenir aud* deffunt, Et que led* 
francois Groslé père dud' deffunt a pris Et retiré tout ce qui pou- 
voit apartenir a Son dit fils, quelle Reclame seulement la somme 
de deux cent livres que led^ francois groslé a Entre ses mains apar- 
tenante aud^ deffunt son mary provenante de la succession de 
Sa mere pour luy tenir lieu de douaire Et preciput a Elle accordé 
par son Contract de mariage avec led* francois Biguier dit groslé de 
laquelle declaration Et renonciation elle a requis acte que la Cour 

1 For lack of a quorum. 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1787 271 

MM. Lonval, Deslonchamps and Joseph Lapancé demanded 
damages for the fences of the church lands, the leases of which 
were sold Sunday, the 25th of this month. The Court dismissed 
the case to the next Court for decision, not finding itself complete.' . 

The Court adjourned to April i, 1787. 

J. B. H. LaCroix. 

To-day, the first of March, 1787, there appeared at the office 
of the Court in the presence of the magistrates, Marie Louise 
Lemire, widow of the deceased Groslé, who was killed by the 
savages about a week after their marriage; and since the said 
Groslé, before being married to the petitioner and entering into 
a community of goods with her, had contracted divers debts, and 
there is found nothing from which to refund her dower, declared 
by her contract of marriage, except the siun of two hundred 
livres y which are in the hands of François Biguier called Groslé, 
father of the said deceased, and which she claims for her dues, 
which are for a greater simi; this is the reason why, after examin- 
ing the affairs of the said deceased and the obligations which he 
contracted as well before his marriage as for the expenses of the 
marriage and after the marriage aforesaid, and seeing from the 
death of the said deceased Groslé Biguier, her husband, that the 
community of goods which exists is more burdensome than profit- 
able for her, she declared before the said Court and declares 
that she renounces, as in fact she has renounced, the community 
of goods, which existed between the said deceased François Biguier 
called Groslé and herself, on account of the wrong which she 
would suffer and is suffering from it; and now she declares that 
she abandons the said community of goods; and that the said 
deceased contributed nothing, neither gains nor work, thereto; 
the said widow declares furthermore that she has not entered upon 
possession in any way either by paying or receiving any thing 
which may have belonged to the deceased; and that the said 
François Groslé, father of the deceased, has taken and withdrawn 
all that which could belong to his said son, and that she claims 
only the sum of two hundred livres, which the said François Groslé 
has in his possession, belonging to the deceased, her husband, and 



272 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

luy a octroyé sous le sermant quelle a fait de n'avoir Rien détourné 
des effets appartenants aud^ deffunt son mary et quelle accuse la 
vérité de tout ce quelle a déclaré cy dessus, sur quoy ladite Cour 
aprouve ladite renonciation et ordonne quelle sortira son plain Et 
Entier Effet Et ladite Lemire sera Bien et valablement déchargé 
de toutes debtes de ladite Communauté Et autres quil i>eut avoir 
Contracté tant avant quaprés led* mariage, la Cour alouant a 
ladite veuve les deux cent livres qui se trouvent Entre les mains 
dud* francois Biguier père dud* deffunt p^ luy tenir lieu de douaire 
Et de preciput au payement de laqeulle somme led* francois Big- 
uier sera Contraint Et avons signé les d* jour et an et ladite veuve 
fait sa marque ord^« ne sachant signer lesd* jour et an. 

marque de -h 

marie Joseph Lemire J B H LaCroix. 



a une Cour du deux avril mil Sept cent quatre vingt sept. 
Jean B*« LaCroix Présidant Joseph Lapensée 
antoine girardin Mathieu Saucier 

Louis chatel Magistrats 

Le S^ JOSEPH Labuxiere procureur aux biens vacants Chargé 

de la Sucession de raphael gagné demandeur Contre Joseph 

PouPART habitant deffendeur 

* Where the coutume rulc<l in Fr.inrc, ihc community of goods between husband and 
wife was created by niarri.ifje. There were several forms of this marital association under 
French law, but the simpler form (.f the communauté universelle prevailed among the French 
settlers in America. The properties of the husband and wife were united in a common fund, 
whic h v\ as ri'sixinyible for all debts contrat tetl by either party before or after marriage. There 
was thus created by maniage a tenancy in common. Although the husband was the head of 
the community, the sale or purchase of property was made in the name of both parties custom- 
arily, and this is the usual form found m the private instruments among the Illinois records. 
By the contract of marriage all profjerty possessed or to l)c acquired in the future was mutually 
^ven to each other by the contracting parties, so that in case no child was bom — a condi- 
tion always mentioned — the surrivor would have all the projK'rty of the community. This 
act made the community of goods intr) a conditional joint tenancy. In case of the birth ci a child, 
the widow posses-strd as her right in the community a life interest in half the common property. 
The commimity f»f grxxls was frequently continued after the death of one of the parties during the 
minority of the children. On account of the early marriages of the widows in the frontier com- 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1787 • 273 

which descended from the estate of his mother, to replace the dower 
and jointure, accorded her by her contract of marriage with the said 
François Biguier called Groslé. And she has asked for a certifi- 
cate of this declaration and renunciation, which the Court has 
granted to her upon her making oath that she had nothing, drawn 
from the effects belonging to the said deceased, her husband, 
and by which she acknowledges the truth of all she has declared 
above. Whereupon the said Court approves the said renuncia- 
tion and decrees that it shall have its complete and full effect and 
the said Lemire shall be truly and validly discharged from all 
debts of the said communitv and others which mav have been 
contracted as well before as after the said marriage. And the 
Court allows the said widow the two hundred livres^ which are in 
the hands of the said François Biguier, father of the said deceased, 
to replace the dower and jointure, to the payment of which the 
said François Biguier shall be constrained.^ And we have signed 
the said day and year, and the said widow made her mark, not 
knowing how to sign, the said day and year. 

Mark of J. B. H. LaCroix. 

+ 
Marie Joseph Lemire. 

At a Court, April 2, 1787. 
Jean Bte. LaCroix, President Joseph Lapancé 
Antoine Girardin Matthieu Saucier. 

Louis Chatel. 
M. Joseph Labuxiere, attorney for the property in abeyance 
of the estate of Raphael Gagné, plaintiff, vs, Joseph Poupar, 
citizen, defendant. 

Heard the plaintiff in his explanatory petition which shows that 
the said Poupar owes the said estate a siun of fourteen hundred 
and nineteen livres in money or peltries according to his note which 

xnunity, this caused complexity in the property rights of the families. In the above case the 
widow iound that the succession to the community of goods would be more burdensome than 
profitable, and therefore she appeared before the Court and made formal renunciation thereof, 
bhe thus escaped from all responsibility for the debts of the community. This, however, did not 
annulher rights in her husband's property, for by the renunciation of her rights tothe community, 
she had reuved her dower rights, amounting to a half or a third of her husband's property. Since 



the parents of her hiisband participated in making the contract of marriage by giAing their 

.>ropcrty to the amount other d< 
De Ferriere, Coutume dt Parist iii., a el seq.; Viollet, Hist, du droit civil Français^ 771 et seq. 



consent thereto, the widow acquired a life interest in their property to the amount ofherdower. 



274 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

ouy le demandeur en sa requête expositive que led' poupart doit 
a ladite Sucession une somme de quatorze cent dix neuf livres en 
argent ou pelterie suivant son Billet Echu depuis plus de dix huit 
mois, que la Sucession doit a plusieurs particuliers qui reclament 
leurs Créances que lancan ayant Eté fait a deux ans de Credy le 
demandeur n'a aucun fond pour payer, quil a fait plusieurs 
requisition au deffendeur de payer Sans avoir pu obtenir de luy le 
payement a cette fin Coucluant a ce quil soit condamné a payer le 
restant de son Billet montant a ladite somme de quatorze Cent 
dixneuf livres, Et aux frais Et dépens et interest. 

ouy le deffendeur qui a dit quil reconnoit devoir la Somme de 
quatorze cent vingt neuf livres mais quil na aucun moyen de payer 
actuellement ne se voyant pas En sutsiation [sic]. Sur quoy la Cour 
a surcit le payement jusques au mois doctobre prochain en payant 
Linterest a Cinq p*" Cent sur laquelle somme le deffendeur a payé 
Compte celle de trois cent soixante dix neuf livres Cinq sols En- 
dossé sur son obligation ce dit jour donné aux Cahos lesd' jour 
Et an -h En un mémoire quil a produit. 

a la même Cour. 
Mathieu saucier demandeur contre B**^ La Bécasse deffendeur 

Le demandeur a produit un Billet contre le deffendeur de la 
somme de Cinq Cent livres Echus depuis un an En demandant le 
payement Sans délais, le deffendeur a reconnu le billet Et a dit 
navoir aucun moyen de payer a present quil le payeroit quand il 
auroit de quoy. 

Sur quoy la Cour a ordonné Et a condamné le deffendeur a 
payer au demandeur le montant de Son obligation dans le cour 
doctobre prochain a quoy faire il sera contraint par saisie Et 
vente de Ses Biens privilegierement. donné En Cour lesd* 
jour Et an. 

a la même cour. 

M^ AUGUSTIN DUBUQUE demandeur contre Thom Bred y 

deffendeur 

Le demandeur reclame la Somme de douze Cent trois livres 
onze sols quatre deniers pour marchandises quil luy a fourni p^ 
son Commerce avec linterest frais et dépens. 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1787 275 

matured more than eighteen months ago; and that the estate 
owes several persons who are claiming their dues; and that, since 
the auction of the property had given two years credit, the plaintiff 
has no other fund from which to pay; that he has made several 
demands upon the defendant to pay without being able to obtain 
the payment from him; therefore he concludes that the defenda^t 
should be condemned to pay the balance of his note amounting 
to the said simi of fourteen hundred and nineteen livres and the 
costs, charges and interest. 

Heard the defendant, who said that he acknowledged that he 
owed the simi of fourteen hundred and twenty-nine [nineteen?] 
livreSy but that he had no means to pay at present, not finding him- 
self in position to pay. Whereupon the Court suspended the pay- 
ment until the month of October next, and decreed that interest 
at five per cent be paid. On this siun the defendant paid this day 
an instaUment of three hundred and seventy-nine livres five solst 
endorsed on his obligation. Given at Cahokia the said day and 
year on a memorandum which he produced. 

At the same Court. 
Matthieu Saucier, Plaintiff, vs. Bte. Labecasse, Defendant. 

The plaintiff produced a note against the defendant for the sum 
of five hundred livres, matured a year ago, and demands the 
payment of it without delay. The defendant acknowledged the 
note and said that he had no means at present, and that he would 
pay when he had means. 

Whereupon the Court decreed and condemned the defendant 
to pay to the plaintiff the amount of his obligation in the course 
of October next; to do which he shall be constrained by seizure 
and sale of his property with preference. Given in Court the 
said day and year. 

At the same Court. 
M. Augustin Dubuque, Plaintiff, vs. Tom Brady, Defendant. 

The plaintiff claims the simi of twelve himdred and three 
livres eleven sols four deniers with interest, costs and charges for 
merchandise, which he furnished him for his trade. 

Heard the defendant, who said that he did not owe this entire 



276 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

ouy le deffendeur qui a dit quil ne devoit pas cette somme en 
Entier et quil navoit pas de quoy la payer actuellement, qua la 
permiere demande de M*" dubuque il avoit voulu luy hyp)otequer 
des effets p^ surete de ce quil pouvoit luy devoir mais que led^ s*" 
dubuque Navoit pas voulu les accepter dans le temps, que pour le 
present son épouse ne le vouloit plus, quelle vouloit Rendre 
compte a Ses Enfans auparavant, quil ne desavouet pas de devoir 
au s*" dubuc Mais quil demandoit un délais en faisant son obliga- 
tion. 

Sur quoy la Cour a condamné le deffendeur a payer au demand- 
eur le montant de ce quil doit aud* s*" dubuc Et ce sans délais a 
quoy faire quil soit contraint par saisie Et vente des meubles et 
effets qui apartiennent directement aud* Thom Bredy sur lesquels 
led^ S^ dubuc aura privilege. Sans derroger au privilege et pre- 
ferance que les Enfans de laâame on sur ceux dud* deffendeur 
Lesquels Biens du deffendeur. En cas que preferance Nait lieu 
p*" les mineurs latîame Seront estimez et aura le Choix led* s*" dubuc 
de les prendre au prix de lestimation ou de accorder un délais, 
condamnons led* Thom Bredy aux frais Et dépens qui seront 
avancés par le s^ dubuq. 

délivre copie p*" signifier a thom Bredy. 

a la même cour, 
p" MARTIN demandeur contre lk S*" Augustin dubuc deffendeur 

Le demandeur reclame contre le deffendeur un mémoire de 
fournitures p*" Loyer de Cloison fournitures de Madriers planches 
et Cloux montant a deux cent vingt Cinq livres dix sols En argent 
Lesquels fournitures il luy a fait a Sa demande. 

ouy le (leffencieur qui declare avoir Emprunté la Cloison Sans 
luire [sic] ni même sans parler de loyer, Et que les Conventions 
Etoient de luy remetre la Cloison En même Etat quelle Etoit lors 
quil la prêtée lauthomne. Et comme il avoit recommandé a M"" 
tabault de faire remetre la Cloison il a dit au deffendeur quil avoit 

' riir v\if«* of Thomas Hr.ulv w.is ;i M;ulumf I/itliinmi-, whost- crtiKlœn by her first has- 
hauil h. id rights in the coiMniuiiitv oi k«<4kIm i-.stublisiird by hrr inarriaKc with thoir father and 
wtiivh h.nl not been ended by ;i division of the projerty, when she Ittnmrd the second com- 
piiinity of f{«»ods with lirady. Mad.ime Brady now desired to settle with her childrrn before 
the community <<f gootlh with Hrady became resiKmsible for the debts owing Dubuque; but the 
Court gave judgment against that property whicn had been broyght to the community by Brady 

• Note in margin by the clerk. 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1787 277 

sum, and that he did not have means to pay at present; that 
at the time of the first demand of M. Dubuque, he had wished 
to give him a mortgage on his effects for surety for that which 
he might owe him; but that the said M. Dubuque had not been 
willing to accept them at the time, and that now his (the defend- 
ant's) wife was no longer willing, and that she wished to render 
account to her children first; that he did not disavow his debt to 
M. Dubuque, but that he asked for a delay in fulfilling his obli- 
gation. 

Whereupon the Court condemned the defendant to pay to the 
plaintiff the amount of what he owed the said M. Dubuque and 
that without delay; and the Court decreed that he should be con- 
strained to do this by seizure and sale of the personal property 
belonging directly to the said Tom Brady, on which the said 
M. Dubuque shall have preference, without derogating from the 
privilege and preference, which the children of Laflamme have on 
the property of the said defendant.^ In case the minor heirs of 
Laflamme have no right of preference, this property of the defend- 
ant shall be appraised and the said M. Dubuque shall have the 
choice of taking it at the appraised value or of granting a delay. 
We condemn the said Tom Brady to pay the costs and charges, 
which shall be advanced by M. Dubuque. 

Delivered a copy for notification to Tom Brady.* 
Pierre Martin, Plaintiff, vs. M. Augustin Dubuque, 

Defendant. 

The plaintiff claims payment from the defendant of a bill for 
supplies, namely for rent of partition, supplies of joists, planks 
and nails amounting to two hundred and twenty-five livres ten 
sols in money, which supplies he furnished the defendant at his 
request. 

Heard the defendant, who declares that he had borrowed the 
partition without renting or even speaking of rent; and that the 
agreement was that he return the partition to the plaintiff in the 
same condition it was when the latter lent it in the autumn; and 
as he had ordered M. Tabeau to have the partition returned, 
he told the plaintiff that he had made arrangements with Troge 



278 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

pris des arrangement avec troge p^ la remetre telle quelle Etoit Et 
comme il y avoît quelques planches qui avoient Eté rognés il devoit 
luy En remetre dautres ou saranger avec martin quil Etoit juste 
que si la Cloison navoit pas Eté Remise comme m^ martin sen 
plain il faut quelle soit remise En sa Nature par troge ou par ceux 
qui ont les fonds de la société. 

Le tout examiné par la Cour Elle a Condamné Et condamne 
le s^ dubuque a payer Sans délais aud^ pierre martin la Somme de 
Cent trente Cinq livres dix sols pour le montant de son mémoire 
a laquelle nous lavons réduit sauf le recour dud' s*" dubuque sur 
la société condamne le s** dubuque aux frais Et dépens. 
Michel Charly demandeur contre François gramont défendeur 

Le demandeur Reclame contre le deffendeur dix livres pour la 
bedauderie qui luy sont dus p' lannée dernière 1786 p^ la maison 
du deffendeur. 

Le deffendeur a dit quil avoit vendu sa maison des le 24 7*^* 
dernier que dailleur il ny demeuroit pas quil demeuroit chés M*" 
LaCroix. 

La Cour a condamné le S^ gramont a payer au demandeur Sept 
livres dix sols p*" sa part de la bedauderie jusqua la fin de Septem- 
bre dernier Et condamne M^ charles cadron a luy payer Cin- 
quante sols p*" les trois derniers mois de 1 786. condamne la Suces- 
sion de deffunt gramont aux dépens liquidez a quinze livres donné 
En Cour lesd^ jour Et an. 

a la même Cour. 
JOSEPH AMELiN demandant contre henry Kertis dit Bienvenu 

Le demandeur a produit un Certificat du Nommé Maillet, Et 
Chevalier, vizé par m*" Cruzat commandant a S' Louis par lequel 
il apert que led* maillet Etoit Chargé dune obligation de Neuf cent 
Soixante neuf livres En pelterie Et quil a perdu ladite obligation 
suivant led* Certificat quil donne p^ tenir lieu dobligation declar- 
ant quil na Rien reçu dessus, ladite obligation due par led* 
Joseph Kertis dit Bienvenu icy present a la Cour Requérant que 
led* Kertis dit Bienvenu ait a luy En payer le montant Et aux 
frais Et dépens. 

^ Sec case somewhat similar on p. 239. 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1787 279 

to return it in the same condition it was; and since there were 
some planks which had been cut off, he ought to return o'thers for 
them or make arrangements with Martin. He said that it was 
just, if the partition had not been returned, as M. Martin makes 
complaint, that it should be retiuned in good condition by Troge 
or by those who have the funds of the partnership. 

All having been examined by the Court it condemns and does 
condemn M. Dubuque to pay without delay to the said Pierre 
Martin the sum of one hundred and thirty-five livres ten sols the 
amount of his bill, to which siun we have reduced it, reserving to 
the said M. Dubuque recourse against the partnership. Con- 
demned M. Dubuque to pay the costs and charges. 
Michel Charly, Plaintiff, vs, François Grandmont, Defendant. 

The plaintiff claims from the defendant ten livres for the bead- 
lery, which are due on the house of the defendant for last year, 1786. 

The defendant said that he had sold his house the 24th of last 
September, and that besides he did not live there, but at M. La- 
Croix.» 

The Court condemned M. Grandmont to pay to the plaintiff 
seven livres ten sols for his share of the beadlery up to the end of 
September last; and condemns M. Charles Cadron to pay him 
fifty sols for the three last months of 1786; and condemns the 
estate of the deceased Grandmont to pay the costs which are set 
at fifteen livres. Given in Court the said day and year. 

At the same Court. 
Joseph Hamelin, Plaintiff, vs. Henry Kertis called Bienvenu. 

The plaintiff produced a certificate of the named Mailhet and 
Chevalier, signed by M. Cruzat, commandant at St. Louis, accord- 
ing to which it appears that the said Mailhet was intrusted with 
a note for nine hundred and sixty-nine livres in peltries and that 
he lost the said note, according to the said certificate, which be 
gives to take the place of the note; and he declares that he has re- 
ceived nothing upon the said obligation owed by the said Joseph 
Kertis called Bienvenu, here present in Court; and he prays that 
the said Kertis called Bienvenu be held to pay him the amount 
with costs and charges. 



28o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

ouy le deffendeur qui a recuse le CertiflScat et qui a dit qui! ne 
de voit qua son Billet que Ion N'avoit qua le luy presenter qui! 
offroit de le payer quil declaroit ne pouvoit le payer autrement 
quil pouvoit luy être présenté a missilimakinac ou ailleurs Et quil 
seroit obligé de le payer, quil avoit donné ordre au s*" Louis gaud 
de retirer de largent ou pelterie du s*" maiUet mais que maiUet 
avoit répondu quil avoit a produire des debtes aud' Bienvenu que 
•cest peut Etre led* Billet dont est question, quil ne devoit Rien 
aud* maillet dailleurs. 

La Cour a daboutée le demandeur de Ses demandes jusques a ce 
quil ait produit Le Billet en question la Condamné aux frais Et 
dépens liquidez a quinze livres donné en Cour lesd* jour Et an. 

délivré i copie a hamelin 5^^ 
M*" Myer Michael demandeur contre Pierre troge deffendeur 
nayant voulu paroitre après avoir Eté assigné. 

Le demandeur a présenté deux billets a luy dus par le deffen- 
deur lun de la somme de deux Cent Cinquante deux livres dix sols 
En argent Et lautre de Cent Cinquante formant les deux sommes 
celle de quatre Cent deux livres deduction faite des acompte Reste 
trois cent Cinquante six livres Sept sols qui le demandeur requière 
que led* troge luy paye sans délais avec les frais et dépens. 

La Cour atendû que led* troge na voulu paroitre après avoir 
Eté apellé trois fois a la porte de laudience la Condamné a payer 
au demandeur la dite somme de trois cent Cinquante six livres 
Sept sols. Et ce sans délais sauf aud* troge de donner des 
sûreté au demandeur sil veut obtenir du terme Et la Condamné 
aux frais liquidez a quinze livres qui seront avancez par le de- 
mandeur Et a luy rembourcez par le deffendeur donné En Cour. 

La Cour est ajournée au premier May prochain ce 2 avril 1787. 

J B H LaCroix Pr Sdt. 

* Note in margin by the clerk. 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1787 281 

Heard the defendant, who took exception to the certificate and 
who said that he owed only for his note; that one had only to pre- 
sent it to him; that he offered to pay it; that he declared he could 
not pay it otherwise; that it might be presented to him at Michil- 
iimackinac or elsewhere and that he would be bound to pay it; 
that he had given orders to M. Louis Gaud to withdraw money 
or peltries from M. Mailhet; but that Mailhet had answered that 
he had to give particulars of the debts to the said Bienvenu, and 
that perhaps that is the said note in question; that he owed noth- 
ing to the said Mailhet otherwise. 

The Court denied the prayers of the plaintiff until he should 
have exhibited the note in question; and condemned him to pay 
the costs and charges, which were set at fifteen livres. Given in 
Court the said day and year. 

Delivered a copy to Amelin, 5 livres,^ 
M. Myer Michaels, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre Troge, Defendant, 

who was unwilling to appear after having been summoned. 

The plaintiff presented two notes due him by the defendant, 
one for the sum oï two hundred and fifty-two livres ten sols in 
money and the other for one hundred and fifty, the two amounting 
to four hundred and two livres. After deduction for the install- 
ments made, there remain three hundred and fifty-six livres seven 
sols, which the plaintiff demands that the said Troge pay him 
without delay, with costs and charges. 

The Court, considering that the said Troge did not wish to 
appear after having been summoned three times at the door of the 
audience chamber, condemned him to pay to the plaintiff the said 
sum of three hundred and fifty-six livres seven sols, and that with- 
out delay, reserving to the said Troge the right to give surety to 
the plaintiff, if he wishes to obtain terms; and condemned him to 
pay costs, which were set at fifteen livres, which shall be advanced 
by the plaintiff and reimbursed to him by the defendant. Given 
in Court. 

The Court adjourned to the first of May next, this second day 
of April, 1787. 

J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 



282 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du premier May mil sept cent quatre vingt Sept. 
M™ Jean B** LaCroix Présidant Mathieu Saucier 
Louis Chalet Joseph Lapensée 

magistrats 
le S' JEAN DUMOULIN demandeur contre Augustin dubuq def- 

fendeur 
Le demandeur reclame une Somme de deux Cent dix neuf 
livres dix sols En argent p' plusieurs articles portés au compte quil 
a Produit devant la Cour concluant a ce que le deffendeur iuy 
paye ladite Somme Et aux frais Et dépens, demandant a Etre 
déchargé du payement des Clostures que les adjudicataires avoient 
fait Sur les terres de la mission, dautant que les dites terres ont 
Eté reprises par la fabrique. 

Le deffendeur repond que les Conventions faites avec M*" 
Dumoulin Etoit de Iuy donner le dix p*" cent sur toutes les sommes 
quil recevoit de la vente des Biens a la charge de payer les frais de 
Criées Et que ce dix p*" cent devoit être partagé Entre led* S' 
dumoulin Et le s"" Labuxiere p"" les Ecritures quil feroit mais que 
nen ayant point fait le S^ Labuxiere ne demandoit Rien, Et que 
Comme la fabrique a repris les Biens de ladite mission le deffend- 
eur demandoit a Etre décharge du payement quexige M*" du 
Moulin p*" son recononcment [sic]. 

Sur quoy vu les contestations des parties Et Nayant voulu 
Sen raporter a un arbitrage La Cour a Nommé les jurés cy après 
pour decider de leur affaires, savoir 
M" Myer Michaels Morel 

helene hugues huvard 

Largeau Jacq LaCroix 

Laurant ducharme Belle 

Courtois Kaom 

Wouel p»-« Billet 

donné en Cour le i**" may 1787. 

a la même Cour. 
Le S*" AUGUSTIN DUBUQUE demandeur contre pierre martin 

deffendeur 
Sur le procès entreux devant la cour du deux davril dernier le 
s^ dubuq a dit navoir Rien promis a martin p*" loyer de sa Qoîson 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1787 283 

At a Court, May i, 1787. 
MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President. Matthieu Saucier. 
Louis Chatel. Joseph Lapancé. 

Magistrates . 
M. Jean Dumoulin, Plaintiff, vs, Augustin Dubuque, Defendant. 
The plaintiff claims a sum of two hundred and nineteen livres 
ten sols in money for several items carried on the account which 
he exhibited to the Court and he concludes that the defendant 
should pay him the said sum with costs and charges; and he prays 
that he be released from the payment for closing up the accounts, 
which the purchasers made on the lands of the mission, inasmuch 
as the said lands have been taken back by the vestry-board. 

The defendant answers that the agreement with M. Dumoulin 
was to give him ten per cent on all the sums which he received from 
the sale of the property, on condition that he pay the costs of the 
auction ; and that this ten per cent was to be divided between the 
said M. Dumoulin and M. Labuxiere for the deeds which the 
latter should make, but since he had made none, M. Labuxiere 
demanded nothing; and that since the vestry-board had taken 
the property of the said mission, the defendant demanded that 
he be released from the payment which M. Dumoulin exacts for 
his renunciation. 

Whereupon, because x)f the contests of the parties and since 
they are unwilling to submit to an arbitration, the Court named 
the following jurors to decide their cause, to wit: 
MM. Myer Michaels. Morel. 

Helene. Jacques LaCroix. 

Largeau. Bell. 

Laurent DuCharme. Cahom. 

Hugues Heward. Courtois. 

Wouel. Pierre Billet. 

Given in Court May ist, 1787. 

At the same Court. 
M. Augustin Dubuque, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre Martin, 

Defendant. 
In the suit between them before the Court the second of last 
April, M. Dubuque said that he had promised Martin nothing 



284 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

et quil luy a seulement dit quil la luy feroit Remetre au même Etat. 
Martin a dit quil luy avoit promis un loyer Et quil seroit Contant 
mais que au lieu de suivre ces conventions il a gasté Ses planches 
et sa Cloison ainsi que plusieurs Madriers au [?] plancher den bas 
qui manquent demandant que le tout luy soit payé par led^ S"" 
dubuq suivant le mémoire quil produit Et quil ofre de produire p' 
témoin le S^ paul poupart a 1 instant le S^ paul pou[>art est 
comparu auquel nous avons fait faire sermant de dire la vérité 
Et a dit quil Navoit aucunne connoissance que le s*" du- 
buque luy avoit promis du loyer quil ne lavoit pas Entendu. 
Le S*^ dubuque a produit le S*^ troge qui après avoir fait sermant 
a déclaré quil avoit posé par ordre de M^ tabaud la Cloison 
de martin mais que en ayant fait une partie il luy a demandé de 
luy faire une Equiere, quil la aussi faite par ordre du M*" tabault et 
que led^ martin la Cloison faite navoit Rien dit après la cloison 
faite. 

Sur quoy la Cour ne pouvant decider a renvoyé les parties a Se 
pourvoir pardevant des arbitres. 

B^« DUMAY demandeur contre jean B^^ Baron deffendeur 

Le demandeur conclud a ce que le deffendeur luy payé la somme 
de Cent quatre vingt dix sept livres dix sols Sur quoy il a reçu la 
s^ de Cent livres reste quatre vingt dix sept livres dix sols quil 
demande que led^ baron luy paye Sans -délais. 

Sur quoy les parties Se Sont arrangées. 
FRANCOIS GEROSME demandeur contre Joseph Biguier dit grosle 

deffendeur 

Le demandeur demande au deffendeur Soixante trois Boulins 
dune Cabanne que led' deffendeur a Emprunte de la femme dud* 
gerosme quil ait a les luy remetre de la même grandeur et grosseur 
Et aux frais Et dépens. 

Led' groslé a repondu quil ne devoit point de bois aud' gerosme 
Et quil navoit aucun afaire avec luy que Setoit son fils qui avoit 
emprunté du bois quil pou voit saranger avec luy a linstant est 

' lioulins. ThLs probably me.ms the upright posts, grofjvotl <»n two sides, which the 
French used in liuilding their houses. These ptosis were set in the ground a few inches apart 
with the Kroove<I sides together. The space thus left \v;is tilled with '*cat and clay" — the 
cat being finely cut straw or moss - and the grooves preventetl the filling from falling out. 
Sec illustration of a ty{>ical house of this description on opposite page. 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1787 285 

for rent of his partition; that he only said that he would have it 
returned to him in the same condition. Martin said that Du- 
buque had promised him a rent and that he would be contented ; 
but instead of keeping these agreements he had spoiled his boards 
and his partition as well as several joists in the lower floor [?] 
which are missing; and he prays that all be paid to him by M. Du- 
buque according to the account which he produces; and he offers 
to produce Paul Poupar as witness. And now appeared M. 
Paul Poupar, whom we have made take oath to tell the truth, and 
who said that he never had any knowledge that M. Dubuque 
had promised rent, that he had never heard of it. M. Dubuque 
produced Mr. Troge who, after having taken oath, declared 
that he had by order of M. Tabeau put Martin's partition in 
place; but that, having made a part of it, the latter had asked 
him to make a balustrade for him; that he had also made it by 
order of Mr. Tabeau; and that the said Martin had said nothing 
after the partition was made. 

Whereupon, the Court not being able to decide dismissed the 
parties to sue before arbitrators. 

Bte. Dumay Plaintiff vs. Jean Bte. Baron Defendant. 

The plaintiff concludes that the defendant should pay him 
the sum of one hundred and ninety-seven li'vres ten sols upon 
which he has received the sum of one hundred livres; and there 
remains ninety-seven livres ten sols which he asks that the said 
Baron pay him without delay. 

Whereupon the parties came to an agreement. 
François Gerosme. Plaintiff, vs. Joseph Biguier called Grosle 

Defendant. 

The plaintiff demands of the defendant sixty-three grooved 
posts* for a cabin which the said defendant borrowed from the 
wife of the said Gerosme; and he says that he ought to return to 
him some of the same length and thickness, and pay costs and 
charges. 

The said Grosle answered that he owed no wood to the said 
Gerosme and that he had no business with him; that it was his 
son who had borrowed the wood and he could settle with him. 



286 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

intervenu michel peltier lequel après sermant par luy fait a dit que 
le ûls de groslé luy avoit dit quil avoit Eu de la veuve girouz du 

J B H LaCroix pr std. 
bois p^ unir Sa maison Et quil devoit En rendre p^ unir la maison 
de ladite veuve jusques a son quarré sur quoy a deffaud de preuves 
sufisantes la Cour a renvoyé les parties a Se pourvoir pardevant 
m^ girardin command^ a la prairie du pont Et magistra px)ur 
aranger Les parties. 

B^*^ CHARTRAN demandeur contre pierre troge 

le demandeur reclame la somme de deux cent Cinquante livres 
a luy duee par pierre troge s' son Billet Echu et aux frais Et dépens, 
le deffendeur a dit navoir point de quoy payer quil ofroit de payer 
et demdoit [sk] Credy jusquaprés la récolte Et donneroit Cotion. 

Sur quoy la Cour a accordé aud* troge délais jusqua lundy 
prochain pour avoir le temps de vendre sa jument p^ payer faute 
de quoy ladite jument sera saisie et vendue pour payer le demand- 
eur et au Cas quelle ne suffise pas Sera Saisy de Ses autres meubles 
p^ finir de payer condamnons troge aux frais qui seront avancés et 
payez par led' Chartran. 
Le S'' courtois demandeur contre François Renousse deffendeur 

Le demandeur reclame la somme de Cent vingt livres Suivant 
Son Billet Echus, a lui due par francois Renousse Et aux frais Et 
dépens. 

Led* francois Renousse a dit navoir point de quoy payer 
actuellement, la Cour a Condamné Le deffendeur a payer si mieux 
il naime sengager pour payer au prix du Cour des autres condam- 
nons led' Courtois aux frais. 

La Cour est ajournée au premier juin 1787. 

J B H LaCroix prsdt. 

* At the bottom of the \Mmt and evidently signed by accident. 

' Quarré or carré means all that square part of the house below the roof. 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1787 287 

Now intervened Michel Pelletier who, after taking oath, said that 
the son of Groslé had said to him that he had obtained from the 

J. B. H. LaCroix, Près.* 
widow Giroux some wood to finish his house; and that he was to 
return some to ûnish the house of the said widow up to the roof.' 
Whereupon the Court in default of sufficient proofs dismissed the 
parties to sue before M. Girardin, commandant and magistrate at 
Prairie du Pont, who will adjust the difficulty between them. 
Bte. Chartran, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre Troge 

The plaintiff lays claim to the sum of two hundred and fifty 
livres due him by Pierre Troge according to his note, which is 
due, with costs and charges. The defendant said that he did not 
have the means to pay, that he offered to pay and demanded 
credit until after harvest and would give surety. 

Whereupon the Court granted the said Troge delay untQ 
Monday next to have time to sell his mare in order to pay; in 
default of which the said mare shall be seized and sold to pay 
the plaintiff, and in case that is not sufficient there shall be seized 
other goods to complete the payment. We condemn Troge to 
pay the costs, which shall be advanced and paid by the said 
Chartran. 

M. Courtois, Plaintiff, vs. François Renoux, Defendant. 

The plaintiff lays claim to the sum of one hundred and twenty 
livres according to the note, fallen due, which is owed him by 
François Renoux, with costs and charges. 

The said François Renoux said that he did not have means to 
pay at present. The Court condemned the defendant to pay, un- 
less he prefers to bind himself out for the payment at the current 
wage. We condemn the said Courtois to pay the costs. 

The Court adjourned to the first of June, 1787. 

J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 



288 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour tenue Extraordinairement le Sept de May mil sept 
cent quatre vingt sept. 

M" Jean B^^ LaCroix présidant Louis Chatel 
ant. girardin Math. Saucier 

Joseph Lapensée magistra 

Entre Jacob groot demandeur contre Jaques Piquet habitant 

du grand Ruisseau deffendeur 
Declaration dud' Jacob groot 
a- dit que lundy dernier trente davril il Etoit dans Son champ 
avec Sa femme a travailler, que Son fils aine Etoit venu a luy pour 
luy dire que Lenfant de M*" piquet avoit Eté mordu par un Chien 
au visage que un instant après il est venu a leur fort avec Sa femme 
p^ voir lenfant que sa femme luy avoit dit quil feroit Bien de man- 
ger un morceau Et quaprés il iroit voir lenfant. que En entrant 
dans le fort il a entendu dire par des femmes ou denfans dont il 
nest pas certain que Setoit Son Chien qui avoit mordu lenfant, que 
après avoir mangé luy et sa feme ont voulu sortir pour aler voir 
lenfant que sortant de Sa porte il a vu le S*^ piquet avec Sa Carabine 
a la main, que le S^ piquet les voyant sest arrêté tout cour avec le 
feu dans le Visage et Changeant de Couleur deux ou trois fois, 
Enfin tramblant de Colère il a prononcé que Croyez vous faire 
avec votre Chien, le S*" groot a répondu quil ne savoit point mais 
que si Setoit juste que Son Chien Eu mérité la morte quil le feroit 
tuer, led' piquet luy a répondu si vous le tuez cela mevitera la 
peine de le tuer Et dans linstant Setant retourne il a aperçu le Chien 
Et la Blessé avec Sa Carabine dont il est mort quelques jour après, 
le S*" piquet a resté ou il a tiré le Chien Et a rechargé Sa Carabine, 
la Femme du Déposant voyant cela a Sorti a la porte pour faire 
Entrer Ses enfans dans Sa maison. Et a dit que le — vous con- 
fonde pour quoy navez vous pas tués le Chien Roide Et pourquoy 
cette Garce de femme qui demeure ches vous n'a telle pas fait 
rester Ses Bâtard a la maison Et que si Ses Enfans avoient Etez 

* In the «'ssinn of Murth 7, 1789, p. 362 the namcs Piquet and Piggott are used to desig- 
nate the same man. 

2 Several Amrriran families liverl in a common blockhouse at Grand Ruisseau. The 
houses of the several families were situate<l within the stockade, and the scenes here described 
by the different witnesses shift from one of the private houses to the open court. For an 
account of Grand Ruisseau, sec Introduction, pp. cxxii., cxWiii. 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1787 289 

At a Court meeting in special session, May 7, 1787. 

MM. Jean Bte. LaCroix, President. Louis Chatel. 

Ant. Girardin. Matthieu Saucier. 

Jos. Lapancé. Magistrates. 

Jacob Groot, Plaintiff, vs. James Piggott, inhabitant of Grand 

Ruisseau, Defendant.* 
Declaration of the said Jacob Groot. 
Said that on Monday last, the thirteenth of April, while he 
was in the ûeld with his wife working, his oldest son came to 
him and said that the child of M. Piggott had been bitten in the 
face by a dog; that a moment after he went to the blockhouse' 
with his wife to see the child; that his wife had said to him that 
it would be better to have something to eat; and after that he 
might go to see the child. On entering into the blockhouse he had 
heard some women or children, he is not certain which, say that 
it was his dog which had bitten the child; that after having eaten, 
he and his wife wished to go out and see the child; that after he 
went out of his door he saw M. Piggott with his rifle in his hand; 
that M. Piggott upon seeing them stopped short with fire in his 
eyes and changed color two or three times, and finally trembling 
with anger uttered: "What do you intend to do with your dog ? *' 
M. Groot answered that he did not know; but that if it was true 
that his dog had merited death, he would have him killed. The 
said Piggott answered: *'If you kill him that will spare me the 
trouble of killing him", and at the same moment turning around 
he saw the dog and wounded it with his rifle so that it died a few 
days after. M. Piggott stopped where he shot the dog and re- 
loaded his rifle. The wife of the deponent, upon seeing that, 
went out of the door to make her children enter the house, and 

she said, "May the confound you! Why didn't you kill 

the dog stone dead, and why didn't that hussy of a woman who 
lives at your house make her bastards remain in the house? If 
her children had been legitimate, God would not have punished 
her in this fashion." Groot upon seeing that took his wife by 
the hand and made her sit on a chair. He deposes that Piggott 
answered: "God damn you! You call my children bastards, 



290 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

legitimes que dieu ne Lauroit pas punie de cette façon, que groot 
voyant cela a pris Sa femme par la main et la faite assoir Sur une 
Chaise, que piquet avoit répondu que dieu vous damne, vous 
apelez mes enfants Bâtard jenveroy votre ame En Enfer, il a 
Entré dans la maison avec Sa Carabine a la main En tramblant 
m^ groot luy a dit de ne pas Entrer avec Sa Carabine dans la 
maison et de penser a ce quil vouloit faire Et de metre Sa Carabine 
En dehor de la porte le priant pour lamour de dieu de ne pas les 
tuer dans Sa maison, piquet a repondit adressant la parole a la 
fe[mm]e du déposant dieu vous damne jenveroy votre ame a 
letemité. En disant ces propos Piquet avoit Sa Carabine la 
Crosse apuyée sur le costé droit avec une main sur la platine Et 
lautre sur le Canon, le Bout tourné Sur le Sain de M**« Groot, que 
luy déposant a Entendu les ressort de la Carabine faire du bruit 
mais quil nest pas sur sil a raté Et dans linstant quil a entendu 
Craquer les ressorts de la Carabine piquet Setoit retourné "Et a 
pris Sa Corne et a Ramorcé de frais Sa Carabine, luy déposant 
luy a dit p'^ lamour de dieu de ne pas tuer Sa femme et de prendre 
garde a ce quil aloit faire Et de Sortir, dieu vous damne Sacré 
Coquin Bien Souvant vous mavez afronté je vous serviray de 
même. En disant cela piquet a tourné la teste du costé de la porte 
et a aperçu un homme qui est le S*" Izaac West assis dans Sa porte 
qui Etoit vis a vis la porte de luy déposant. Et que avant de 
tourner la teste il avoit levé sa Carabine et avoit présenté le Bout a 
luy déposant quaussitot quil a aperçu West il abaissé sa Carabine 
Et a sorty de la maison Et a pris le Chemin de Sa maison. Et luy 
déposant layant su ivy. et luy a dit Croyez vous que cela mérite 
Satisfaction, si vous le croyez metez votre carabine a part, 
mais que piquet navoit pas voulu, quil luy avoit repondu que de ce 
moment jusques au soir je penseray a ce que je feray. que voyant 
quil Etoit En danger de Sa vie luy et sa femme ne pouvant pas 
sortir de Sa maison Sans En craindre les suites il etoit venu pour 
en demander justice a la Cour, qui est tout ce quil a a dire que 
cest la pure vérité. Jacob groot. 

avons fait paroitre led^ jaques piquet lequel a dit que Son 
intention Etoit de tuer le Chien Si m*^ groot ne prenoit pas sur luy 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1787 291 

I will send your soul to Hell." He entered the house with his 
rifle in his hand, all in a tremble. M. Groot told him not to enter 
the house with his rifle and to think what he was going to do and 
to put his rifle outside the door; and he prayed him for the love 
of God not to kill them in his house. Piggott responded in ans- 
wering the words of the deponent's wife: "God damn you! 
I'll send your soul to eternity." While saying these words Pig- 
gott had his rifle with the butt supported on his right side with 
one hand on the screw-plate and the other on the barrel, and the 
end pointed toward the breast of Madame Groot; and he, 
the deponent, heard the spring of the rifle make a noise, but he 
is not sure that there was a flash in the pan, and at the moment he 
heard the spring of the rifle crack, Piggott had tiuned and taken 
his horn and pruned his rifle anew. He, the deponent, told him 
for the love of God not to kill his wife and to take care what 
he was going to do and to go out. " God danln you, you damned 
rascal, you have attacked me often enough, I will serve you 
the same way." In saying that Piggott turned his head toward 
the door and saw a man, M. Isaac West, seated in his doorway 
which was opposite the deponent's door; and that before turning 
his head he had raised his rifle and aimed at the deponent; that 
as soon as he perceived West, he lowered his rifle and went out 
of the house and started for his house; and that he, the deponent, 
followed hhn and said to him : ** Do you believe that this deserves 
satisfaction? If you believe it, put your rifle down." But Pig- 
gott was not willing. That he had answered hhn: "From now 
till evening I will think of what I shaU do. " That he, the depon- 
ent, seeing that he and his wife were in danger of their lives and 
that they could not go out of their house without fear of the con- 
sequences, he had come to demand justice of the Court. This 
is aU that he has to say and it is the simple truth. 

Jacob Groot. 
We summoned the said James Piggott, who said that his in- 
tention was to kill the dog, if M. Groot didn't take it upon him- 
self to kill it; that there came a woman of the neighborhood who 
told him that Groot was not two hundred paces from his house, 



292 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

de le tuer, quîl est venu une de ses voisines qui luy a dit que groot 
netoit pas a deux cent pas de Chez luy lorsque le Chien a mordu 
son Enfans quil a Eté Environ deux heures a venir que le Chien a 
même emporté un morœau du nez de lenfant. que groot Etant 
arrivé ches luy il y a Eté pour voir ce quil vouloit faire de Son 
Chien que groot luy avoit répondu quil etoit juste que Son Chien 
meure puisquil avoit mordu Son Enfan quil avoit déjà averty groot 
que Son Chien avoit mordu deux ou trois personnes avant celui 
ci que cette fois netoit pas a disputer, que lors quil a tiré le Chien 
il la apellé En dehor du fort et quil la Blesse, que y ayant quelques 
enfans dehors ils ont ouvert la porte du fort le Chien ayant Rentré 
il a Chargé Sa Carabine pour la chercer de tuer, que Etant a la 
porte du fort il a rencontré madame groot qui lui a fait Beaucoup 
de reproches davoir blessé le Chien, que dans le tems il netoit 
pas Beaucoup en situation de donner Satisfaction a madame groot 
quil luy a dit achevez le Detuer vous même, que Son intention 
Etoit toujours de le tuer, quil Croyoit que le Chien etoit entré ches 
son maitre, quil y Etoit Entré pour le faire sortir et p*" finir de le 
tuer, que si groot navoit chassé le Chien que son intention Etoit 
de le tuer luy même dans la maison, sans faire tor a personne, que 
madame groot luy ayant dit de mauvais paroles En parlant et luy 
reprochant Ses Bâtard, il luy avoit dit que Son caractère Etoit 
meilleur que le Sien quil avoit dit a madame groot quelle 
Etoit une Sacrée Salope et quil enveroit Son Caractère En 
Enfer, que lors quil avoit dit cela M*" groot et sa femme 
avoit compris la Chose tout autrement Et quil setoient imaginez 
voyant Sa carabine quil avoit Envie de les tuer quil avoit mal 
Compris la Chose, quil Croit Sans en Etre Bien sur que jean 
solivant Etoit la plus grande partie du tems a la porte, quil na 
jamais manacé m'' groot ni personne de sa famille de leur faire 
aucun tor que ce na jamais Eté Son intention, qui est tout ce 
quil a a dire. 

avons fait venir Izaac West témoins produit par le s*" groot 
lequel après sermant par luy fait de dire la vérité a dit que lors que 
le Chien a mordu lenfant quil Etoit dans Son champ et quil a arrivé 
comme piquet sortoit de La maison de groot p*" tirer le Chien quil 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1787 293 

when the dog bit the child; that he had been about two hours in 
coming; that the dog had bitten off a piece of the child's nose; 
that when Groot arrived at his house, he went there to see what 
Groot was willing to do with his dog, and that Groot had answered 
that it was just that his dog should die, since it had bitten his 
child; that he had already notified Groot that his dog had bitten 
two or three persons before this one; that this time was not to be 
disputed; that when he shot the dog, he called it outside the 
blockhouse, and that he wounded it; that there were some chil- 
dren outside and they had opened the door of the blockhouse, 
and that when the dog entered, he loaded his rifle to try to kill 
it; that when he was at the door of the blockhouse, he met Madame 
Groot who reproached him severely for having wounded the dog; 
that at the time he was not able to give satisfaction to Madame 
Groot; that he had said to her, ''Finish killing it yoiurself;" that 
his intention was to kill it and that he believed that the dog had 
entered into its master's house; that he had entered there to drive 
it out and finish killing it; that if Groot had not chased the 
dog out, that it was his intention to kill it himself in the house 
without harming anybody; that Madame Groot had used bad 
words in speaking to him of it and in throwing his bastards in 
his teeth. He had said that his character was better than hers; 
and he had said to Madame Groot that she was a damned slut 
and he would send her character to Hell. He says that when 
he had said that, M. Groot and his wife had understood the thing 
quite differently, and that the former had imagined, because he had 
his rifle, that he wanted to kill them; that Groot had badly under- 
stood the thing; that he believed, without being very sure of it, that 
John Sullivan was most of the time at the door; that he never 
threatened to do any harm to M. Groot or any one of the family; 
that it was never his intention; which is all he has to say. 
We summoned Isaac West as witness produced by M. Groot, 
who after taking the oath to tell the truth, said that when the dog 
bit the child, he was in his field, and that he arrived as Piggott 
was going out of Groot's house to shoot the dog; that Piggott called 
the dog out of the door of the blockhouse, where he shot it; that 



294 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a apellé le Chien hor de la porte du fort, ou il la tiré, que luy dé- 
posant a dit a piquet pourquoy il navoit pas tiré le Chien, que pi- 
quet lui a répondu j'ay assez de satisfaction a present Et je n'ay 
pas voulu le tuer, que piquet ayant rechargé sa Carabine a Eté 
dans la maison de groot. que luy déposant Etoit assis a Sa porte 
vis a vis celle de groot quil a vu Seulement que piquet avoit sa 
Carabine dans Ses mains Elevée Et En faisoit plusieurs mouve- 
ment Et entendoit parler avec force, mais quil na pu distinguer 
ce qui se disoit, Et quil Croyoit a tout moment Entendre tirer la 
Carabine que luy même En Etoit hors de luy même par la fureur 
dud* piquet quil croyoit reelement que piquet aloit tuer quelq'un 
que après tous Ses mouvement il a vu piquet Se retourner Et 
ouvrir la baterie de Sa Carabine Et verser la poudre dans le Bas- 
sinet Et la morcer tout de frais. Et quapres quil a Eu amorcé la 
carabine il a Entendu quelque parole quil na pu comprendre et 
que piquet a sorty tout de suite, ajoute En outre que lors que 
piquet a Eté sorty que groot la suivy et quil luy a dit par lafront 
que vous mavez fait detre venu ches moy avec votre carabine metez 
la par terre et nous alons nous donner satisfaction, mais que 
piquet avoit refusé, que groot avoit dit puisque vous ne voulez pas 
je vais voir ce que je feray dicy a ce soir, qui est tout ce quil 
a dit savoir, lecture a luy faite de Sa declaration a dit Contenir 
vérité y a persisté et a Signé. 

Isaac West. 
Veû par la Cour assemblée les declarations cy dessus Ensemble 
la deposition du témoin Izaac verst ladite cour a ordonné et or- 
donne que led^ jaques piquet donnera Bonne et suffisante caution 
a la satisfaction et demande dud* jacob groot qui repondra par Sa 
personne et Ses Biens de tous les tor mal fait celc prejudice Et 
atantats que led^ jaques piquet pouroit Exercer tramer ou induire 
sur la vie dud^ groot de celle de Sa femme Et de Sa famille ainsy 
que de tous Ses autres Biens dont ladite Caution Solvable Sera 
Reçue pardevant M*" Robert Wach commandant dud' lieu du 
grand Ruisseau a la satisfaction dud^ groot auquel dit M^ Wach 
nous enjoignons de donner la main a lexecution de notre présente 
sentence Et de nous en informer condamnons les parties a 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1787 295 

he, the deponent, asked Piggott why he had not killed the dog 
and that Piggott answered: "I have sufficient satisfaction now 
and I did not wish to kill it;" that Piggott had reloaded his 
rifle and was in Groot's house and that he, the deponent, was 
seated at his door opposite Grooms; and that he only saw 
that Piggott had his gun raised in his hands and was making 
several movements with it and he heard words of violence, but 
he could not distinguish what was said; and that he expected 
to hear the gun fired at any moment; that he was beside himself 
on account of the fury of the said Piggott; that he really believed 
that Piggott was going to kill some one; that after all these move- 
ments he saw Piggott turn, cock the hammer of his rifle and pour 
powder into the pan and he reprimed it; and after he had re- 
primed it, he heard some words which he could not understand, 
and that Piggott went out immediately. He adds, furthermore, 
that when Piggott went out, Groot followed him and said to 
him: "Because of the insult you have done me in coming to my 
house with your rifle, put it on the ground and we are going to 
have satisfaction;*' but Piggott had refused; that Groot had 
said: "Since you are unwilling, I am going to see what I shall do 
between now and evening," which is all that he said he knew. 
Reading of his deposition was made to him and he said that it 
contained the truth and persisted in it, and he has signed. 

Isaac West. 
After consideration of the above affidavits, together with the 
deposition of the witness, Isaac West, by the assembled Court, 
the said Court decreed and does decree that the said James 
Piggott shall find good and sufficient surety to the satisfaction 
and demand of the said Jacob Groot, and that the bondsman 
shaU be answerable in his person and his property for all wrongs, 
malefaction, concealed tort, and criminal attempts, which the 
said James Piggott may practise, plot or incite against the life 
of the said Groot, of that of his wife and of his family, or 
against his property, and for this the said solvent bondsman 
shall be received before M. Robert Watts, commandant of the 
said place of the Grand Ruisseau, to the satisfaction of the said 



296 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

payer Chacun la moitié des frais Suivant le mémoire qui sera 
produit par le greûer donné en Cour le huit may mil sept Cent 
quatre vingt sept. 
[Signed] 
a^ Girardin mth Saucier 

marque de marque de 

+ + 

Louis Chatel Joseph lapensée 

Labuxiere greûer J B H LaCroix prsdt. 



a une Cour du premier juin mil sept Cent quatre vingt Sept. 

M^' francois Saucier, antoine girardin, philipe angel, B** Sau- 
cier, Charles ducharme, Mathieu saucier Et pierre Laperche ont 
fait le Sermant doffice En qualité de magistrat p^ la Nouvelle 
Nomination. 

a la même Cour 

Thom Bredy a fait pareillement sermant doffice pour la Charge 
dhuissier de la Cour. 

a la même Cour 
JEAN B^^ DUMA Y demandeur contre Le S*^ myer michaels def- 

fendeur 

Le demandeur reclame vingt pots dhuille quil a ches le s"" myer 
michaels. 

Le deffendeur réplique que led* dumay luy doit une somme dar- 
gent quil offre de luy remetre son huile En payant ce quil luy doit 
par son Billet En argent. 

La Cour a ordonné que le s' maher gardera Ihuille en deduc- 
tion de ce quil luy est dub par le demandeiu* a raison de Cinq 
livres le pot prix du Cour, sauf aud' dumay den remetre le mon- 
tant en argent au deffendeur condamne dumay aux frais. 

a la même Cour. 

Sur une demande formée par le S*" pierre Laperche p^ obtenir 
une saisie sur deux Chevaux quil a dit apartenir au Nommé Chate- 

^ PÏRgott offered on May iKth the persuns uf l'humas Wine Hnd Benjamin Rogers as 
bondsmen. — Chi. Hist. Soc., Cah. Rec. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1787 297 

Groot and we enjoin the said M. Watts to see to the execution of 
our present sentence and to inform ns thereof. We condemn the 
parties to pay each the half of the costs according to the memoran- 
dimi which will be furnished by the clerk. Given in Court the 
eight of May, seventeen hundred and eighty seven.^ 
[Signed] 
Ant Girardin. Mt. Saucier. 

Mark of Mark of 

Louis Chatel. Joseph Lapancé. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. J. B. H. LaCroix, Près. 

At a Court, June ist, 1787. 
MM. François Saucier, Antoine Girardin, Philippe Engel, 
Bte. Saucier, Charles DuCharme, Matthieu Saucier and Pierre 
Laperche have taken the oath of office as magistrates by the new 
election. 

At the same Court. 
Thomas Brady has taken a like oath of office as huissier of 
the Court. 

At the same Court. 
Jean Bte. Dumay, Plaintiff, vs. M. Myer Michaels, De- 
fendant. 
The plaintiff claims twenty jugs of oil which he has at the house 
of M. Michaels. 

The defendant answers that the said Dumay owes him a 
sum of money, and that he offers to retiun his oil if he pays that 
which is owing to him on his note in money. 

The Court decreed that M. Michaels shall keep the oil which 
shall be deducted from that which is due him by the plaintiff 
at the rate of five livres the jug, which is the current price, re- 
serving the right to the said Dumay to return the amount in money 
to the defendant, and condemned Dimiay to pay the costs. 

At the same Court. 
On a petition drawn up by M. Pierre Laperche to obtain an 
attachment on two horses, which he said belong to the named 
Chatelrau, at present in possession of M. Mailhet at Cahokia, 



293 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



4 . 






} 
II 

■ E: 

, m 

■ h 



< } 



î 



1 

■i 

1 






lerau Entre les mains du s** mailhet aux Cahôs. Et sur le sermant 
dud* mailhet Et du S^ Champlin que les chevaux n'apartenoit pas 
aud' chatelerau Nous avons levé la saisie sauf aud' s"" p'® laperche 
a Se pourvoir sur les autres Biens dud' Chatelerau. 
La Cour est ajoiunée au i*^^ juillet prochain. 

f saucier. 

a une Cour tenue Extraordinairement le treize juillet mil Sept 
Cent quatre vingt Sept. 



Charles ducharme 
Mathieu Saucier 
pierre Laperche 



M" francois Saucier Présidant 
Atoine [sic] Girardin 
B^*^ Saucier 
Philipe angel 
Entre Le S*^ Louis Lorimier demandeur contre Le S"" jean 

DUMOULIN deffendeur 
Veu la requête présentée a la Cour par le s*" Louis Lorimier ten- 
dante a vu des domagement pour les saisies qui ont Eté faites a 
S^^ genevieve et aux Cahos par m*" hugues yourd et celle faite aux 
Cahos par m*" dumoulin chargé de la procuration dud' S^ hyourd. 
ouy le le S*" dumoulin qui a dit que le s»" Lorimier Etoit Encore 
Redevable a la société Et quil Seroit a même de se faire alouer les 
des domagement, quil conviendroit que pour luy il netoit point 
chargé des affaires ny de la saisie qui avoit Eté faite a S*® gene- 
vieve avant sa procuration. 

Sur quoy la Cour a renvoyé les parties a Se pourvoir devant des 
arbitres quil voudront Choisir soit Sur lun ou lautre Rive pour 
raison des demandes contenues En ladite Requête p^ le tout être Ex- 
aminé par les arbitres decider ce quil avisseront Bon Etre ainsy que 
p*" les frais et dépens de justice délibéré aux Cahos led' jour Et an. 
[Sii^ned] 
B Saucier a' Girardin 

DuCharme pierre Lapeche 

Mt. Saucier f. saucier. 

Phillipe Engel 
Labuxiere grefier. 



* Louis Lorimier was bom in Canada in 1749, lived sometime on the Miami, Ohio, and 
founded the post at Cape Girardeau, Missouri, in 1794. He was appointed commandant of 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1787 299 

and on the oath of the said Mailhet and M. Champlin that the 
horses do not belong to the said Chatelrau, we have raised the 
attachment) reserving the right to the said M. Pierre Laperche 
to sue on the other goods of the said Chatelrau. 
The Court adjourned to the first of July next. 

At a Court meeting in special session, July 13, 1787. 
MM. President François Saucier Charles DuCharme 
Antoine Girardin Matthieu Saucier 

Bte. Saucier Pierre Laperche 

Philippe Engel 
M. LouLS LorimierS Plaintiff, vs. M. Jean Dumoulin, De- 
fendant. 
In view of the petition presented to the Court by M. Louis 
Lorimier, demanding damages for the seizures which have been 
made at Ste. Genevieve and at Cahokia by M. Hugh Heward 
and for that made at Cahokia by M. Dumoulin intrusted with the 
power of attorney from the said M. Heward. 

Heard M. Dumoulin who said that M. Lorimier was still in 
debt to the partnership and that the latter should be able to have 
the damages allowed, which he would agree to. As for himself 
he was not intrusted with the business nor with the attachment, 
which had been made at Ste. Genevieve before his attorneyship. 
Whereupon the Court dismissed the parties to sue before 
arbitrators, whom they shall choose from either side of the river, 
in regard to the prayers contained in the said petition so that all 
be examined by the arbitrators that they may decide what they 
consider just as well as the costs and charges. Decreed at 
Cahokia the said day and year. 
[Signed] 
B. Saucier. Philippe Engel. 

DuCharme. At. Girardin. 

Mt. Saucier. Pierre Laperche. 

F. Saucier. Labuxiere, Clerk. 

the Txist by the SpaiiUh government. He was a fur-trader, and gained great influence over 
the Indians. He died June 26, i8ia. — Rozier, Early Seulement of the Mississippi VaUey, 
170 et seq. 



300 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du deux juillet mil sept cent quatre vingt sept. 
M**' fr saucier présidant philipe angel 

ant girardin p^* Laperche 

Charles ducharme 
Robert Cahorn demandeur contre fr Gramont defiFendeur 
Le demandeur demande contre le deffendeur le payement de 
son billet Echus montant a la somme de trois cent huit livres en 
argent payable En pelterie synifiée sur led^ billet suivant les prix 
y porté. 

Le deffendeur a dit quil luy devoit quelque Chose Et quil 
avoit un compte a produire quil navoit pas de quoy payer 
actuellement quil offroit son Cheval. Et quil repetoit contre le 
S^ cahorn neuf piastres pour le loyer dun Cheval et une piastre 
p^ le loyer dune journée de son sauvage le tout formant Cin- 
quante livres. 

sur quoy la Cour a condamné led^ gramont a payer son 
Billet suivant son contenu Et ce sans délais a la deduction 
des Cinquante livres quil répète a quoy led* Gramont sera Con- 
traint Et condamné aux frais Et dépens donné En Cour lesd* 
jour Et an. 

a la même Cour. 
Le S^ Wale demandeur contre Philipe gervais deffendeur 
le demandeur demande contre le deffendeur le payment de Son 
billet Echu montant a la somme de Cent quinze livres en argent 
ou pelterie. 

Le deffendeur a dit quil reconnoit led' billet mais quil 
ne pouvoit le payer actuellement Et quil navoit pas de 
quoy. 

La Cour a condamné led* philipe gervais a payer le montant de 
Son Billet Et aux frais et dépens, donné En Cour lesd* jour 
Et an. 

a la même Cour. 
JLe s*" Wale demandeur contre Antoine lamarche 

défendeur 
Le demandeur demande le payement de Son Billet de Soixante 
quatre livres le deffendeur a offert de le payer sous ce mois icy 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1787 301 

At a Court, July 2. 1787. 
MM. Fr. Saucier, President. Philippe Ëngel. 

Ant. Girardin. Pierre Laperche. 

Charles DuCharme. 
Robert Cahorn, Plaintiff, vs, Fr. Grandmont, Defendant. 
The plaintiff brings suit against the defendant for the pay- 
ment of his note, which has fallen due, amounting to the simi of 
three himdred and eight livres in money payable in peltries 
as declared on the said note, according to the prices stated 
thereon. 

The defendant said that he owed the plaintiff something and 
that he had an account to produce; that he didn't have the 
means to pay at present; that he offered his horse; and that he 
claims from M. Cahom nine piastres for the hire of a horse and a 
piastre for a day's wage of his savage, the whole amounting to 
fifty livres. 

Whereupon the Court condemned the said Grandmont to pay 
his note according to its content, after deducting the fifty livres 
which he claims, and this without delay, to which the said Grand- 
mont shall be constrained and condemned to pay cost and charges. 
Given in Court the said day and year. 

At the same Court. 
M. Wale, Plaintiff, vs. Philippe Gervais, Defendant. 
The plaintiff brings suit against the defendant for the pa3mient 
of his note, already matured, amoimting to the sum of one hun- 
dred and fifteen ligures in money or peltries. 

The defendant said that he acknowledged the said note, 
but that he could not pay it now, and that he didn't have the 
means. 

The Court condemned the said Philippe Gervais to pay the 
amount of his note with costs and charges. Given in Court 
the said day and year. 

At the same Court. 
M. Wale, Plaintiff, vs. Antoine Lamarche, Defendant. 
The plaintiff demands the payment of his note for sixty-four 
livres. The defendant offered to pay it during this month be- 



302 



ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



i 












i) 



' ! I 



• « 

I 

I 



1 . 



I ' 
k 



I 

iH 

'il 



dicy a la Cour prochaîne, la Cour a acordé ce délais du Con- 
sentement des parties donné lesd* jour et an. 
La Cour est adjoumée au i«^ aoust 1787. 

fr. saucier, pres^. 

a une Cour du i^^ aoust mil sept cent quatre vingt Sept. 
M^" fr. Saucier présidant p*"*^ Laperche 

antoine girardin Philipe angel 

Charle ducharme Mathieu Saucier 

Entre lafemme Roch demanderesse contre Louis Lambert 

deffendeur 
La demanderesse reclame Son fils quelle a mis Ches le def- 
fendeur jusqua lage de 18 ans aleguand que son fils Est Ëxtropié 
dun Coup de hache quil est mal penssé Et négligé Et que les poux 
et vermine le mange demandant que le deffendeur luy remette son 
fils. 

Le deffendeur a desnie le tout et a dit que led' Enfant Etoit 
Bien signe Et quil En a voit tous les Soins possible. 

La Cour renvoy laffaire devant M^ girardin p*" ex- 
aminer sur les lieux la Vérité des faits Et decider ce que de 
Raison. 

La Cour est ajournée au i®^ 7^* 1787. 

fr. saucier. 

a une Cour du i*^^ Septembre mil sept cent quatre vingt 
Sept. 

M" fr saucier B'« Saucier 

ant« girardin Math, saucier 

philipe angel p^® Laperche 

FRANCOIS GEROSME demandeur Contre joseph Biguier dit 

GROSLE deffendeur. 
Le demandeur répète la Somme de Cent livres quil dit être 
dub a sa femme restant de celle de deux Cent livres quil luy 
devoit. Le deffendeur a repondu quil a voit payé par un compte 
quil a produit Excédant ladite somme de Cent livres, dont 
ledit Compte examiné de la veu du demandeur il revien Cinq 
livres au deffendeur p*" sa femme tous comptes déduit, la 
Cour a condamné le demandeur a payer au deffendeur Cinq 



k 



u 



COURT RECORD, AUGUST, 1787 303 

tween now and the next Court. The Court granted this delay 
with the consent of the parties. Given the said day. 
The Court adjourned to August i, 1787. 

At a Court, August i, 1787. 
MM. Fr. Saucier, President. Pierre Laperche. 
Antoine Girardin. Philippe Engel. 

Charles DuCharme. Matthieu Saucier. 

The woman Roch, Plaintiff, vs, Louis Lambert, Defendant. 
The plaintiff claims her son, whom she placed in the house of 
the defendant until he should be 18 years old, pleading that her 
son is mained by a stroke of an axe, that he is badly fed and is 
neglected, and that lice and vermin are eating him; and she 
demands that the defendant should restore her son to her. 

The plaintiff denied all and said the said child was well fed 
and that he had all possible care. 

The Court referred the cause to M. Girardin to examine on 
the spot the truth of the facts and to decide what is just. 
The Court adjourned to Sept. i, 1787. 

Fr. Saucier. 



At a Court, September i, 1787. 
MM. Fr Saucier. Bte. Saucier. 

Ant. Girardin. Math. Saucier. 

Philippe Engel. Pierre Laperche. 

François Gerosme, Plaintiff, vs, Joseph Biguier, called 

Grosle, Defendant. 
The plaintiff demands the sum of one hundred livres which he 
says is due his wife being the balance of two hundred livres which 
the defendant owed her. The defendant answered that he had paid, 
according to an account which he exhibited, more than the said 
simi of a hundred livres, by which said account, examined with the 
acknowledgement of the plaintiff, there should be five lii/res 
returned to him by the wife of the plaintiff, after all accounts are 
deducted. 



304 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

livres. Et aux frais Et dépens liquidez a vingt livres se qui 
sera exécuté. 

frais 

p' I ordre a Biguier 5 Ib 

I ordre a antaya 5 

p*" Ihuissier qui a porte les 2 ordres. . . 10 

p' la sentence 5 



. 25 Ib 
a la même cour. 
Le S' Glamorgan demandeur Contre Le Nomme duchesnau 

deffendeur 
Le demandeur demande au deffendeur le payement dun 
Billet de la Somme de Cent Soixante Cinq livres en j)eltcrie a 
luy transporté par louis Chateleraud. ledit billet Exibé a la 
cour Echus, ouy le deffendeur qui a dit quil avoit déjà offert 
de payer mais que Ion navoit pas pu luy produire son billet ale- 
quant quil Etoit perdu Et quil avoit déjà donné un acompte au 
S*^ Labadie sur une Copie dud* billet par ordre de M*^ Crouzat 
Commandant de S* Louis, sur quoy la cour a Condamne le 
deffendeur a payer au demandeur le montant de Son Billet sauf 
Son rembourcement Sur le s*" Labadie qui Sera fait au S' Gla- 
morgan En acompte sur led* Billet, donné aux Cahos led* jour 

La Cour est ad journée au i*^*" 8^* 1787. 

fr. saucier Presd*. 

a une Cour du premier octobre mil Sept cent quatre vingt Sept. 
M" francois Saucier présidant. Philipe angel 
ant*^ girardin Charles Ducharme 

B*« Saucier p^^ Laperche 

Math. Saucier magistrats 

Jean Bte Morel demandeur contre Ignace Chatigny deffendeur 
Le demandeur a produit un compte a la charge du deffendeur 
montant a la somme de dixhuit Cent Cinquante huit livres dix 
sols En argent. 



COURT^RECORD, OCTOBER, 1787 305 

The Court condemned the plaintiff to pay five livres to the 
defendant and costs and charges which are set at twenty [twenty- 
five ?] livres^ for which there will be execution. 

Costs. 

To I order to Biguier $ lb 

I order to Antaya 5 

To huissier who carried the orders 10 

To the judgment 5 



25 lb 
At the same Court. 
M. Clamorgan, Plaintiff, vs. the named Duchesnau, De- 
fendant. 
The plaintiff demands of the defendant payment of a note for 
the sum of one hundred and sixty-five livres in peltries assigned 
to him by Louis Chatelrau. The said note, already due, was 
exhibited to the Court. Heard the defendant who said that he 
had already offered to pay; but that they had not been able to 
produce his note, alleging that it was lost; and that he had already 
paid an installment to M. Labadie on a copy of the said note by 
order of M. Cruzat, commandant at St. Louis. Whereupon the 
Court condemned the defendant to pay to the plaintiff the 
amount of his note, saving his reimbursement by M. Labadie, 
which shall be paid to M. Clamorgan as an installment on the 
said note. Given at Cahokia the said day, September i, 1787. 
The Court adjourned to October i, 1787. 

Fr. Saucier. Près. 

At a Court, October i, 1787. 
MM. François Saucier, President. Philippe Engel 
Ant. Girardin Charles DuCharme 

Bte. Saucier Pierre Laperche 

Matt. Saucier Magistrates 

Jean Bte. Morel, Plaintiff, vs, Ignace Chatigny, Defendant. 
The plaintiff exhibited an accoimt charged to the defendant 
amounting to the siun of eighteen hundred and fifty-eight livres 
ten sols in money. 



3o6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Le deffendeur ayant contesté plusieurs articles relatif au 
commerce quils ont fait a Kumberla Et dans leur voyage que la 
Cour na pas Eclairier et quelle ne Croit pas pouvoir decider piaule- 
ment. Elle Renvoy les deux parties a Se Nommer chacun un 
arbitres pour decider de leur contestations dépens reservez 
jusques a la sentence arbitrale qui sera homologué par la 
Cour. 

La Cour est ajournée au 2. 9^* 1787. 

fr. saucier Presid^. 

a une Cour du 2. 9^® 1787. 
M" frs Saucier présidant philipe angel 

antoine girardin mathieu Saucier 

a la dite cour a Eté homologué Et Ratifier la Nomination Et 
Election dune Cour a la belle fontaine Et officier de milice com- 
prenant les habitants recident [?] De la Riviere de Laigle. 
En se Conformant a la decizion de la Cour, du i®*" octobre 
dernier. 

a la même Cour. 
Nicolas Schemitz a fait Sermant dofice de juge a paix j>^ le 
grand Ruisseau. 

a la même Cour William Biggs a fait Sermant doffice i>^ juge 
a paix a la Belle fontaine. 

a la même Cour. 
Le S^ arondel demandeur Contre joseph Vaudry son Engagé 
Le demandeur a présente une requête portant que le deffendeur 
son Engagé cherche a le quiter quil requière que led^ vaudry 
luy payé quatre cent quarante quatre li\Tes quil luy doit Et de 
luy fournir un homme capable de le remplacer, ou quil Continue 
son voyage Sous une Caution suffisante Sur quoy led^ vaudry 
a repondu quil Etoit trop mécontent de la société mais quil ne se 
plaignoit pas du s*" arondel Et quil ne vouloit plus rester sur quoy 
la cour a Condamné led^ vaudry a payer la somme ici dessus p*" 

1 S«e Introduction, p. cxlix. 

^ William Arundel was an Irish merchant from Canada. He resided at Peoria for a time, 
then moved to Cahokia and later to Kaskaskia, where he died in 1816. — Reynolds, Pionetr 
History, 102. 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1787 307 

The defendant having disputed several articles relative 
to the business which thev had made in Ciunberland and 
on their journey, which the Court was not able to clear up 
and which it believes itself unable to decide completely, the 
Court dismissed the two parties to name each an arbitrator 
in order to decide their disputes, costs being reserved until 
the verdict of the arbitrators, which will be confirmed by the 
Court. 

The Coiut adjourned to November 2, 1787. 

Fr. Saucier Près. 

At a Court, November 2, 1787. 
MM. Fr. Saucier, President Philippe Engel. 
Antoine Girardin. Matthieu Saucier. 

At the said Court was confirmed and ratified the nomination 
and election of a court at Bellefontaine and an officer of militia 
which includes the inhabitants residing on the Eagle River, in 
conformity with the decision of the Court of the ist of October 
last. 

At the same court. 

Nicolas Smith made oath of office as justice of peace for the 
Grand Ruisseau. 

At the same Court William Biggs took the oath of office as 
justice of the peace at Bellefontaine.* 

At the same Court. 

M. Arundel,' Plaintiff, vs, Joseph Vaudry, his employé. 

The plaintiff presented a petition, which declares that the de- 
fendant, his engagé, is seeking to leave him and he prays that the 
said Vaudry pay him four hundred and forty-four livres which 
he owes and furnish the plaintiff a man capable of replacing 
him, or that he continue his journey under sufficient bond. 
Whereupon the said Vaudry answered that he was too discon- 
tented with the company; but that he did not complain of M. 
Arundel; and that he did not wish to remain longer. Where- 
upon the Court condemned the said Vaudry to pay the above 
sum for his account and to furnish a man in his place to the 
said M. Arundel, and ordered that he be held in prison until he 



3o8 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

son compte Et a fournir un homme En sa place aud^ S' arondel 
et tiendra prison jusqua ce quil a y trouvé caution suffisante £t 
le condamnons aux frais Et dépens. 

La Cour est ajournée au i**". décembre prochain. 

fr. saucier 

Du 12. Q^*"* 1787. 

a une Cour tenue Extraordinairement. 
M" fr Saucier présidant B*« Saucier 

ant, girardin Math, saucier 

Philipe angel Et p'* Laperche 

Le S"" JEAN B*« LaCrodc au Nome Et Comme fondé de la 
procuration de P^« Lafleur Et de celle de Thom Brady huissier 
demandeur Contre 

La Succession de deffunt Augustin dubuq. 

ouy led* S*" jean B*<^ LaCroix p*" led* pierre Lafleur conduand 
a ce que la Sucession de deffunt augustin dubuque luy paye les 
domage quil luy a Causé par un baril de poudre qui a fait sauter 
Sa maison la perte de Ses meubles les pensements du Chirugîen 
tant p*" luy que pour sa femme Blessé dangerusem* loger de sa 
maison et autres domages quil soufre Le tout examiné et la Cour 
ayant plaines Connoissance de la maison qui a Sauté par les de- 
positions des témoins. La Cour a ordonné et ordonne que la 
Sucession dud* s^ dubuque payera priviligieremeni la maison le 
prix quelle a Coûte, qui est de Seize Cent livres En argent quil 
sera fait un Etat sermanté par led^ lafleur des Effets Et meubles 
quil a perdu et qui se sont trouvez Cassés dans sa maison 
qui a Saute, par deux arbitres Nommez par la Cour qui presteront 
sermant p*" leur estimation être payé par ladite Sucession, quil 
luy sera payé le mémoire du Chirugien tant pour luy que p^ sa 
femme jusqua parfaite guerison, quil luy sera aloué p' ses journées 
depuis que sa maison a Sauté Et p^ pertes du son tems la somme 
de trois Cent livres. Et p^ tout loyers de maisons. Et autres 
repetitions la somme de Cent Cinquante livres une fois payé au 

Mf the arrest was for debt instead of for the desertion, this is the first case of such 
imprisonment in the Record. It was due to the increasing influence of the Americans. 
French law did not permit imprisonment for debt to a private person except Cor special 
causes, and then only after a lapse of forty days after the rendering of judgment. — Ordi- 
nance of Loui? XIV., April, 1667, in Isarabert, Anciennes lois françatses, xrin., 17a. 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1787 309 

has found suflBicient surety therefor*; and we condemn him to 
pay the costs and charges. 
The Court adjourned to the ist of December next. 

Fr. Sauder 

November 12, 1787. 
At a special session of the Court. 
MM. Fr. Saucier, President. Bte. Saucier. 
Ant. Girardin. Matt. Saucier. 

Philippe Engel. and Pierre Laperche. 

M. Jean Bte. Lacroix, attorney of Pierre Lafleur and of 
Thomas Brady, Huissier, plaintiff, 

vs. 

the Estate of the deceased Augustin Dubuque. 

Heard the said M. Jean Bte. Lacroix, for the said Lafleur, who 
concludes that the estate of the deceased Augustin Dubuque 
should pay him for the damages which Dubuque caused by a barrel 
of powder which blew up his house, for the loss of his personal 
property, and for the dressing of the wounds by the surgeon 
not only his own but those of his wife who was dangerously 
injured, and for the rent of his house and for other damages, 
from which he suffers. After all was examined and the Court had 
complete knowledge of the house, which was blown up, from 
the testimony of witnesses, the Court decreed and does decree 
that the estate of the said M. Dubuque shall pay by preference 
its cost price, sixteen hundred livres in money; that there shall 
be made a sworn statement by the said Lafleur of the goods and 
chattels, which he lost, and an appraisal of those which are bro- 
ken in his house, which was blown up, by two arbitrators named 
by the Court, all of which is to be paid by the said estate; that 
there shall be paid the bill of the surgeon as well for his as for his 
wife's care until their perfect cure; that there shall be allowed him 
for his day's wages, for the loss of his time since his house was blown 
up, the sum of three hundred livres, and for all rent of houses and 
other claims the sum of one hundred and fifty livres, in full satis- 
faction for all damages up to the present time. The said house 



310 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

moyen du present des domagement la dite maison sautée avec 
tous Ses materaux Et terain Et tout ce qui y est ataché a la reserve 
des Clostures que lafleur En lèvera, Resteront p' le compte de la 
sucession dud* s^ dubuque Et quand au Regard de thom Bredy 
la Cour luy aloue sur la dite sucession dix livres par jour pendant 
deux mois a compter du jour que la maison a Sauté Et le paye- 
ment des hardes quil avoit sur le Corp lors quil a sauté au dire 
dexpert Et En outre les frais du chirugien pensement traite- 
ment Et medicament p^ tous des domagements Condamné la Suces- 
sion En tous les frais de present extraordinaire ce qui sera Exé- 
cuté Et permis aux dits demandeurs de prendre En acompte ou 
p^ tout sil le jugent a propos des effets a lencan de la suc- 
cession lors que la vente sen sera au plus offrant et dernier 
Enchérisseur donné En Cour led* jour 12.9^® 1787. 

[Signed] a* Girardin pierre Laperche 

Phillipe Engel mth Saucier 

B Saucier f. saucier 

Labuxiere grefier 

a une Cour du i"" décembre 1787. 
M" fs. Saucier présidant 
ant girardin Math. Saucier 

Philipe angel p'® Laperche 

B*« saucier 
M*" ant« Reilhe sest présente a la Cour comme fonde de pro- 
curation du s^ pierre Gamelin Créancier de deffunt augustin 
dubuque Comme dernier Equipeur Suivant les pieces quil a 
produit a la dite Cour. Et Sa requête du 9.9^** dernier apointée 
par M^ saucier présidant. 

La Cour ayant mûrement Examine Elle a reçue le s^ Reilhe en 
sa dite qualité au Nombre des Créanciers de Canada. Et a décidé 
Et decide que toutes les debtes crées aux cahos Et sur cette partie. 

* The settlement of the estate of Augustin Dubuque occupies the attention of the Court 
for many sessions. See pp.313. 323. 37 1. 375. 37*. 303. 4*9. 5^3 Dubuque was a trader from 
Canada and was probably from the same family as Tulien Dubuque, the first settler in what 
is now Dubuque, Iowa. — Tassé, Les Canadiens de l*(me^, i. 239. From the recorda of the 
various cases against his estate, it appears that Augustin Dubu(^ue died on November 8, 1787, 
from the effects of an explosion of a keg of gunpowder. His wife. Archange Pratte, was living 
in Canada at the time ot the accident, and in later cases her rights in the estate were carefully 
safeguarded by the Court. 



COURT RECORD, DECEMBER, 1787 311 

which was blown up with all its materials and land and all that 
which is attached to it, with the exception of the fences which 
Lafleur shall clear away, shall stand to the account of the estate 
of the said M. Dubuque. And as regards Tom Brady the 
Court allows him from the said estate ten livres a day for two 
months counting from the day that the house was blown up and the 
payment of the clothing which he had on his body, when he 
was blown up, on an appraisal by experts and furthermore the 
cost of the surgeon for bandages, treatment and medicine, in full 
satisfaction. The Court condemned the estate to pay all the 
costs of the present special session, for which there will be execu- 
tion. And permission is given to the said plaintiffs to take as in- 
stallments or for the whole amount, if they judge it expedient, goods 
at the auction of the estate, when sale shall be made thereof to the 
highest bidder. Given in Court the said day, November 12, 1787.* 
[Signed] Ant. Girardin. Pierre Laperche. 

Philippe Engel. Matt. Saucier. 

B. Saucier. F. Saucier. 

Labuxiere, Clerk, 

At a Court, December i, 1787. 

MM. Fr. Saucier, President. 

Ant. Girardin. Matt. Saucier. 

Philippe Engel. Pierre Leperche. 

Bte. Saucier. 
M. Ant. Reilhe presented himself in Court as attorney of M. 
Pierre Gamelin, creditor of the deceased Augustin Dubuque and 
last furnisher of supplies, according to documents which he 
exhibited to the said Court and his petition of the 9th of November 
last, referred by M. Saucier, President.* 

The Court, after careful examination, received M. Reilhe in his 
said title among the number of creditors from Canada. And it 
decided and does decide that all debts made at. Cahokia and on 
this side, which the Court has ordered to be paid and those which 
it may order paid in the future, which shall appear legitimate, 

' Among western traders the last furnisher of supplies was a preferred creditor. Pierre 
Gamelin was a prominent citizen of Vincennes and played a very important part in the his- 
tory of that village diiring this period. — Dunn, Indiana, passim. 



312 ' ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

« 

que la Cour a ordonné Etre payées et œlle quelle ordonne par la 
suite qui luy paroitront legitimes seront payées provisoirement, 
privilegierement Et spécialement, tant frais fait que autres de 
recouvrement du chargé de ladite succession. Et que comme 
lencan des meubles Et Effets de ladite sucession a Eté fait au 
terme du mois davril 1789. lors que led^ recouvrement sera fait 
les Créanciers de Canada misilimakinac Et autres hor de notre 
district Nommeront Entreux un sindic a qui il Sera Remis le 
Relequat restant de ladite sucession. toutes fois les debtes 
contractés En notre district liquidées lesquels Sarrangeront 
Entreux pour leurs affaires concernant le Reliqua de ladite suces- 
sion. Et quil sera donné avis a la dame veuve dubuque par le s' 
Labuxiere chargé de ladite sucession a la dame veuve dubuque 
dEnvoyerses droits quelle a a prétendre si toute fois Elle en a 
pour être privilegierement a Elle délivre sur le restant de ladite 
sucession si toutes fois Elle ne les a pas Reçu En Canada. Et 
jusques aud^ tems toute la Sucession restera En lEtat quelle est 
a la gestion du S^ Labuxiere Et qui agira selon quil luy sera 
ordonné par la Cour. Et que comme il se présente plusieurs 
Créanciers qui prétendent avoir tous droits de privilege, la Cour 
na pas jugé a propos den prendre Connoissance Et Sarangeront 
Entreux après quelle aura Reçu des nouvelles de madame dubuque 
p"^ tous recour Enver Elle ou la Sucession dud^ deffunt ainsy quil 
avizeront. Et ne sera tenu led' S*" Labuxiere de Linsolvabilité 
des débiteurs ny de leur depart Furtiv En faisant par luy ce quil 
poura p"" linterest de ladite sucession Et quant aux Billets invan- 
toriez il tachera den assurer le payement par ceux qui les doivent 
p*" être payez au terme de Lencan atendu quil ny a pas dargent 
sur la place Et que Lon ne peu recevoir de danrées. 

fait et donné En cour led' jour i*^*" décembre mil sept cent 
quatre vingt sept. 
[Signed] 

a' girardin mh Saucier 

B Saucier pierre Lapeche 

Phillipe Engel fr saucier 

La Cour est adjoumée a i®*" janvier 1787 [sic] 

fr. saucier. 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1788 313 

shall be paid provisionally, by preference and specially, as weU as 
the costs incurred and the other costs of recovery, by the trustee of 
the said estate: and that, since the auction of goods and chattels of 
the said estate has been set for the term of the month of April, 
1789, at which the recovery shall be made, the creditors from 
Canada and Michillimackinac and others outside of our district 
shall name among them a syndic, to whom there shall be remitted 
the balance which remains from the said estate — however after 
the debts contracted in our district have been paid — which 
creditors shall make arrangements among themselves for their 
business concerning the balance of the said estate; and that notice 
shall be given Madame Dubuque, widow, by M. Labuxiere, 
trustee of the said estate, to send whatever just claims she has to 
make, provided she has any to be paid to her by preference from 
the balance of the said estate, and provided she did not receive 
payment in Canada. And up to the said time all the estate shall 
remain in the state it is under the administration of M. Labuxiere 
and he shall act according as he shall be ordered by the Court. 
And as there have presented themselves several creditors, all of 
whom pretend to have privileged rights, the Court has not judged 
it expedient to take notice of them and they shall make arrange- 
ments among themselves, after the Court shall have received 
news from Madame Dubuque, for all recourse against her or the 
estate of the deceased even as they shall determine. Nor shall 
the said M. Labuxiere be held for the insolvency of the debtors 
nor for their secret departure, while doing what he can for the 
interest of the said estate; and as to the inventoried notes he shall 
endeavor to assure the payment thereof by those who owe them and 
they are to be paid at the time of the auction, seeing that there is 
no money in the market and one cannot receive payment in kind. 

Made and given in Court the said day, December i, 1787. 

[Signed] 
Ant. Girardin. Matt. Saucier. 

B. Saucier. Pierre Laperche. 

Philippe Engel. Fr. Saucier. 

The Court adjourned to January i, 1788. 

Fr. Saucier. 



314 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a la même Cour, 
donne un ordre a la demande de la dame janot lapensée qui 
ordonne a Joseph Lapensée de veiller a la conservation des Biens 
de Ses Enfans En qualité de Subrogé tuteur Et ce quil ne soit Rien 
dissipée a peine dEn repondre En son Nom led* ordre a luy 
signiffie par ladite dame janot la pensée ce dit jour. 

a* Girardin. 

a une Cour du deux janvier mil sept cent quatre vingt huit. 
Les S" antoine girardin présidant Charles ducharme 
Philipe angel pierre Laj)erche 

a ladite cour assemblée le S^ francois Lapensée a Eté reçu 
magistra au lieu et place du S^ francois Saucier absent et prêté le 
Sermant doffice En consequence. 

a la même Cour, 
francois Lonval fils a présente une requête pour de demander 
des domagements contre la Sucession de deffunt augustin du- 
buque disant avoir été Blesse lorsque la maison de lafleur a Saute 
par les poudre dud* dubuque. 

La cour la débouté de sa demande comme accident imprévu. 
La Cour est ajournée au 1^*" février. 

a* girardin près. 

a une Cour du premier février mil sept cent quatre vingt huit. 
M" antoine girardin présidant Math. Saucier 

B*« Saucier P" LaPerche 

Philipe angel fr. Lapensée 

Charle ducharme 
Entre le S^ William arondel marchand voyageur demandeur 

Contre Leon Lepage deffendeur. 
Le demandeur requie'rre que le deffendeur lui payé Son billet 
Echu de la somme de deux cent vingt une livres dix huit sols avec 
Linterest et frais. 

Le deffendeur a répondu N^avoir de quoy payer pour le 
present. 

Sur qouy la Cour a condamné led* Leon Lepage a payer le 
demandeur dicy a Son depart ou de luy donner des assurances 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1788 315 

At the same Court. 
Issued on the prayer of Madame Janot Lapancé a mandate 
which orders Joseph Lapancé, in his office of surrogate guardian, 
to look to the preservation of the property of her children, and 
to see to it that there be nothing wasted on pain of answering 
for it in his own name. The said mandate was served on him 
by the said Madame Janot Lapancé this day. 

Ant. Girardin. 

At a Court, January 2, 1788. 
MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Charles DuCharme 
Philippe Engel Pierre Laperche 

At the said Court M. François Lapancé has been received as 
magistrate in place of M. François Saucier absent, and has taken 
oath of office in consequence. 

At the same Court. . 
François Lonval jr. presented a petition, demanding damages 
from the estate of the late Augustin Dubuque, claiming to have 
been wounded when the house of Lafleur was blown up by M . 
Dubuque's powder. 

The Court denied his prayer since the accident was unforeseen. 
The Court adjourned to February i, 

Ant. Girardin Près. 

At a Court, February i, 1788. 
MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Matt. Saucier. 
Bte. Saucier. Pierre Laperche. 

Philippe Engel. Fr. Lapancé. 

Charles DuCharme. 
Mr. William Arundel, traveling trader. Plaintiff, vs. Leon Le- 
page, Defendant. 
The plaintiff demands that the defendant pay him his note, 
which is due, for the sum of two hundred and twenty-one livres 
eighteen sols with interest and costs. 

The defendant answered that he had not the means of paying 
at present. 

Whereupon the Court condemned the said Lepage to pay 
the plaintiff between now and the time of his departure or to 



3i6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

pour recevoir son payement aud* terns faute de quoy la présente 
sentence sera mise a execution contre le deffendeur. 

la Cour la condamné aux dépens. 

La Cour est ajournée au i**" mars 1788. 

a* Girardin. 

a une Cour tenue extraordinairement le 21 février 1788. 
M" antoine girardin Présidant. B*« Saucier. 
Philipe angel. p" Laperche. 

Mathieu Saucier. charle ducharme. 

Entre jean Bte Feldc demandeur Contre francok lapensee 

deffendeur 

Le demandeur présente une requête contre Le Nonuné René 
Bouvet exposant quil a fait Echange de Bien avec le Nomme 
René Bouvet party pour le canada pour recevoir Et se metre en 
posession du bien que led* philix luy a échangé le quel Bien led^ 
philix a a eux des nouvelles Certaines quil avoit Eté remis aud* 
René Bouvet par une lettre quil a reçu de son tuteur qui luy marque 
daler recevoir son Bien ladite requête jointe cy contre, demandant 
que francois lapensee ay a vuider ses mains entre les siennes des 
Billets obligations et autres Créances que led* bouvet luy a laisse 
en depot p*" luy être délivré En Echange du bien que led* felix 
luy aceddé a sorel en Canada puisquil est certain que led* Bouvet 
a reçu le Bien Echange. 

Vu la Convention faite entre led* Bouvet Et led* felix au bas 
de leur contract dechange par lequel led* Bouvet soblige décrire 
lauthomne de 1787 de missilimakinac a francois lapensee sil a 
reçu le Bien ou sil ne la pas reçu ou sil y a aparance de Le rece- 
voir ce que led* Bouvet a manqué de faire jusqua present Et a 
seulement Ecrit une lettre a fr. lapensee de luy livrer quelque 
Billets Echus a Noel dernier, la Cour Etant dans lopinion que 
led* bouvet a pris posession du Bien Echange par son silence de 
donner avis aud* La pensée ce qui fait souffrir un retard et un tor 
Considerable aud* felix. le tout considéré Ladite cour a con- 
damné led* francois Lapensee de vuider Les mains de toutes les 
Créances déposées entre ses mains par led* Bouvet entre celles 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1788 317 

give him assurances of receiving his payment at the said time; 
in default of which the present judgment shall be put in execu- 
tion against the defendant. 

The Court condemned him to pay the charges. 

The Court adjourned to March i, 1788. 

Ant. Girardin. 

At a Court meeting in special session, February 21, 1788. 

MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Bte. Saucier. 

Philippe Engel. Pierre Laperche. 

Matthieu Saucier. Charles DuCharme. 

Jean Bte Felix, Plaintiff, vs. François Lapance, Defendant. 
The plaintiff presents a petition against the named René 
Bouvet, in which he shows that he made an exchange of prop- 
erty with the named René Bouvet, who has gone to Canada in 
order to receive and put himself into possession of the property 
which the said Felix exchanged with him; and the said Felix 
has had certain news that it had been delivered to the said René 
Bouvet from a letter which he has received from his guardian, 
who informs him that he is to go and receive his property; 
and he presents the said petition joined here opposite, in which 
he demands that François Lapance should be obliged to deliver into 
his hands the notes, obligations and other claims, which the said 
Bouvet left with him on deposit to be delivered to the plaintiff 
in exchange for the property which the said Felix transferred to 
him at Sorel in Canada, since it is certain that the said Bouvet 
has received the property exchanged. 

In view of the agreement made between the said Bouvet and 
the said Felix at the bottom of their contract of exchange according 
to which the said Bouvet pledged himself to write in the autumn 
of 1787 from Michillimackinac to François Lapance, if he re- 
ceived the property or if he did not receive it or if there was likeli- 
hood of receiving it, a thing which the said Bouvet has failed to 
do up to the present — he has only written a letter to Fr. Lapance 
asking the latter to deliver him some notes due last Christmas — 
the Court is of the opinion that the said Bouvet has taken posses- 
sion of the property exchanged, judging from his neglect to give 



3i8 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

dud^ philix dont il sera Bien et valablement décharge Enver led^ 
Bouvet et tous autres Et retiendra seulement par Ses* mains le 
montant des sommes qui lui ont Eté saisies par ordre de cette Cour 
dues par led^ felix pour en Compter aux saisissant Retiendra 
pareillement les frais de saisies qui ont Eté fait Et de Requêtes a 
payer avec la présente sentence suivant le compte qui luy sera 
fourni par le greûer dont il comptera. En diminution sur ce quil 
aura a remetre aud* felix ce qui sera Exécuté donné en Cour le 
dit jour 21 février 1788. 
[Signed] 
Ch. duCharme P Laperche 

Phillipe Engel mth. Saucier 

B Saucier a* Girardin P.sd. 



a une Cour du premier mars mil sept cent quatre vingt huit. 
M^* ant* girardin présidant p^*^ Laperche 

Philipe angel fr. Lapensée 

Mathieu Saucier magistrats 

M^ TOURNIER marchand de S* Louis demandeur Contre 
FRANCOIS Lapensée deffendeur. 

Le demandeur demande le payement dune somme de deux 
mille trois cent douze livres seize sols six deniers pour restant des 
marchandises quil luy a fourni montant En total a onze Cent 
quatre vingt trois piastres quatre Escalins Concluant a ce que 
led^ francois lapensée Soit condamné a le payer sous quatre jours 
avec les frais Et dépens dautant quil devoit le payer au mois de 
Septembre dernier quil a atendû jusqua ce jour et quil est actuelle- 
ment sur Son depart ne pouvant atendre plus longtems. 

Le deffendeur a répondu quil ne pouvoit Contraindre les 
meunier a moudre son bled p*" satisfaire quil avoit asses de blée 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1788 319 

notice to the said Lapancé, and that this causes the said Felix 
to suffer a delay and a considerable wrong; and after considering 
the whole case, the said Court condemned the said François 
Lapancé to deliver all assets deposited in his hands by the said 
Bouvet into the hands of the said Felix, of which he shall be well 
and lawfully discharged toward the said Bouvet and all others; 
and he shall retain in his hands only the amount of the sums 
which have been attached by order of this Court, due by the said 
Felix in order to account therefor to the judgment creditor; and 
he shall retain likewise the costs of seizures, which have been 
made, and of the petitions, which are to be paid with the present 
decree according to the account, which will be furnished him 
by the clerk, of which he shall render an account by subtracting 
from that which he ought to remit to the said Felix, for which 
there will be execution. 

Given in Court the said day and year, February 21, 1788. 
[Signed] 

Ch. DuCharme. P. Laperche. 

Philippe Engel. Matt. Saucier. 

B. Saucier. Ant. Girardin. Près. 

At a Court, March i, 1788. 

MM. Ant. Girardin. President. Pierre Laperche. 

Philippe Engel. Fr. Lapancé. 

Matthieu Saucier. Magistrates. 

M. TouRNiER, trader from St. Louis, Plaintiff, vs. François 

Lapancé, Defendant. 
The plaintiff demands the payment of a sum of two thousand 
three hundred and twelve livres sixteen sols six deniers for the 
residue of the merchandise which he furnished the defendant, the 
total amounting to eleven hundred and eighty-three piastres four 
escalins and he concludes that the said François Lapancé should 
be condemned to pay it within four days together with the costs 
and charges, inasmuch as he should have paid it in the month of 
September last, and for which the plaintiff has waited until today; 
and he says that he is now about to take his departure and is 
unable to wait longer. 



320 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

p^ Satisfaire En farine comme il sy Etoit obligé requérant qui! 
luy soit accorde un plus long délais aûn que les meuniers puissent 
luy faire sa farine, que la Surcharge de bled du public dans lesd^ 
moulins est Cause quil na pu faire son payement jusqua ce jour. 

La Cour ayant Examine les circonstances ou les moulins ne 
peuvent pas fournir au besoin du public elle accorde quinze jours 
de délais au deffendeur p^ faire son parfait payement, passé 
Lequel tems la condamné a payer Sans autres délais la condamné 
aux dépens Et la présente sera Exceuté. 

La Cour est ad journée au i**" avril 1788. 

A^ Girardin Psd 



a une Cour du Cinq avril mil sept Cent quatre vingt huit. 
M" antoine girardin Presd* Math, saucier 
Philipe angel fr. Lapensée 

Charles ducharme 

Le S*" Jean B*« LaCroix sest présenté p*" faire Rendre compte 
au s*" aimé comte du bien de Joseph Comte dont il est Curateur 
suivant la sentence Rendue par la deniere Cour, led^ aimé comte 
ne paroissant pas ainsi quil luy a Eté Enjoint. 

Elle requière M*" Barbeau lieutenant de comté demeurant a la 
p*"*« du Rocher dordonner et faire partir led* aimé Compte d'icy 
au vingt du mois p*" se rendre a cette Cour Et rendre comte des 
Biens dud* mineur donné par la Cour led* jour Et an. 

a la même Cour. 

Joseph Worley Et james Piggot ont représenté quils Etoient 
Caution pour james moore de la belle fontaine p^ une somme de 
Cinq cent piastres p*" deux Esclaves noir que led* more a acheté 
des mineurs de deffunt jhon Ellison Et quils craignent par le 
derrangement des affaires dud* more quil ne devienne insolvable 
requérant p*" leur sûreté a Etre décharge du Cautionment dautant 
quil y a un des nègres de mort Entre les mains dud* more sur 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1788 321 

The defendant answered that he had been unable to compel 
the millers to grind his wheat so as to satisfy this claim and 
that he had enough wheat to satisfy it in flour as he had 
pledged himself to do. He prays that there be accorded him 
a longer delay until the millers can make his flour and says 
that the extra amount of wheat belonging to the public in the 
said mills is the cause of his being unable to make his payment 
up to this day. 

The Court, having examined the conditions and learning that 
the mills were not able to supply the need of the public, granted 
fifteen days delay to the defendant to make complete payment, 
after which time he is condemned to pay without other delay. 
Condemned him to pay costs. For this present there will be exe- 
cution. 

The Court adjourned to April i, 1788. 

Ant. Girardin, Près. 

At a Court, April 5, 1788. 
MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Matt. Saucier. 

Philippe Engel. Fr. Lapancé. 

Charles DuCharme. 
M. Jean Bte. LaCroix presented himself to compel M. Aimé 
Comte to render account of the property of Joseph Comte, of 
which he is guardian, according to the sentence passed by the 
last Court. The said Aimé Comte did not appear although he 
had been cited. 

The Court requires M. Barbau, county lieutenant, dwelling 
at Prairie du Rocher, to order and compel the said Aimé Comte 
to leave and come here on the twentieth of the month to submit 
himself to this Court and render account of the property of the 
said minor. 

Given by the Court the said day and year. 

At the same Court. 

Joseph Worley and James Piggott set forth that they were 

bondsmen for James Moore of Bellefontaine for the sum of five 

hundred piastres for two black slaves which the said Moore 

bought of the minors of the late John Allison, and that they 



322 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

quoy la Cour ayant délibéré ordonne quil sera Saisy provisoire- 
ment un des nègres restant Et suffisament des autres Biens dud^ 
more p^ Remplacer celui qui manque le tout provisoirement Et 
paroitra led^ more devant la Cour le i**" may prochain pour dé- 
duire Ses raisons sil en a aleguer pour En Etre ordonne par notre 
dite Cour ce quil apartiendra. 

La Cour est ajournée au i*' may 1788. 

A* Girardin psd. 



a une Cour du Sept may mil Sept cent quatre vingt huit. 
M" antoine girardin Présidant B** Saucier 
Math. Saucier francois Lap>ensée 

Philipe angel cons*^ Magistrats. 

I>e S*" Izidore laCroix marchand de Canada Sest présente i>ar 
sa requête de cejourdhuy a luy remise demandant qu'en vertu de 
la saisie quil a fait faire des Biens de monsieur dubuque En datte 
du huit Novembre mil Sept cent quatre vingt sept Et la sentence 
de la Cour du douze Novembre mil Sept cent quatre vingt Sept 
Rendue En consequence qui luy aloue Son compte et obligation 
comme premier saisissant montant a la somme de Cinq mille 
trente neuf livres six sols six deniers, la Cour a ordonne 
Et ordonne que led^ demandeur sera reçu Créanciers privilégie 
après les dcbtcs payées contracté aux ilinois dedomagements 
frais de justice et Droits de madame dubuq prélevez. Et la 
renvoyé jusques après le recouvrement donné par la Cour lesd' 
jour Et an. 

Ensuit la Note des Billet et obligation que led' s*" La- 
Croix a [)resenté avec notre sentence au bas en original qui luy 
a Eté remise a la Cour du douze 9^* mil sept cent quatre 
vingt sept. 

* There is du reœnl of such a decree except in this place. 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1788 323 

feared on account of the disorder of the affairs of the said 
Moore less he should become insolvent; and they pray for 
their safety to be discharged from their surety inasmuch as 
one of the negroes has died on the hands of the said Moore. 
Whereup>on the Court, after having deliberated, decrees that 
there shall be seized provisionally the remaining negro and 
a sufficient amount of the other property of the said Moore 
to replace the one who is dead, all provisionally; and that 
the said Moore shall appear before the Court on the first 
of May next to state his claims if he has any to plead in order 
that this affair may be settled by our said Court as may be 
fitting. 

The Court adjourned to May i, 1788. 

Ant. Girardin, Près. 

At a Court, May 7, 1788. 

MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Bte. Saucier. 

Matth. Sauicer. François Lapancé. 

Philippe Engel. Councilors and Magistrates. 

M. Isidore LaCroix, trader from Canada, presented himself 
by his petition of this day, which has been returned to him, in 
which he prays that, m virtue of the seizure, which he has made 
of the goods of M. Dubuque under date of November 8, 1787, and 
of the decree of the Court of November 12, seventeen hundred 
and eighty-seven* rendered in consequence, which allows him the 
account and note due him as first execution creditor and which 
amounts to the sum of five thousand and thirtv-nine livres six 
sols and six deniers, [execution be made]. The Court decreed and 
does decree that the said plaintiff shall be received as preferred 
creditor, after the payment of the debts contracted in the Illinois, 
the damages, costs of justice, and just claims of Madame Dubuque 
have been deducted; and dismissed him until after the collection. 
Given by the Court the said day and year. 

There follows the memorandum of notes and obligations which 
the said M. Lacroix presented, with our decree written at the 
bottom of the original, which was returned to him at the Court 
of November 12, 1787. 



324 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

La Cour aloue. 

Doit m^ augustîn dubuque a Joseph LaCroiz et gigon. 

par un billet 4046 7 .6 

par un bon 29 . 

par un billet par un bon 156 . 

ma Commission des affaires que jay géré p*" lui En 

canada 175 .3 

9 [letters illegible], i gros tour fleury 280 . 16 

payé au sergent m*" Conet 12 . 



4699 6 6 

Sauf Erreur et obmission le 14 aoust 1787 signé Joseph La- 
Croix p*" gigon. 

La Cour aloue le present compte Comme premier saisissant Et 
après les Créances de des domagement payées Et accordées 
cejourdhuy autant quil y aura des fonds aux Cahos de plus trois 
Cent quarante livres p' un Compte de fourniture accepte par 
deffunt dubuque donne aux Cahos le douze Novembre mil sept 
cent quatre vingt Sept, signé Math. Saucier, pierre Laperche, 
B*« Saucier, Philipe Engel, antoine girardin, fr Saucier prési- 
dant a luy remis ladite Sentence signée des dits magistrats cy 
dessus. 

a la même Cour le S^ Reilhe Sest présente avec Lecrit dont 
copie suit et a luy remis loriginal. 

Je prie M*" Labuxiere de mexpedier la Sentence de la Cour 
qui accorde le des domagement aux incendiés. 

Secondement la Sentence qui renvoy les Créanciers de mon- 
treal p' discuter leurs privileges, troisièmement le montant de la 
vente. 4* le montant du bled, farine, mahis et lard. 5® le mon- 
tant des billets obligation et comptes a S^ Louis le !**'[?] avril 1788. 
VEU par la Cour assemblée ce jourdhuy elle deffend au s"" Labux- 
iere De rendre aucun Compte de ladite succession ny de délivrer 
aucimnes pieces qua celuy qui sera Nommé sindic de ladite suces- 
sion lors que les recouvrement seront fait Et que Ion aura reçu des 
* Nouvelles de madame dubuque. Excepte la copie de la sentence 
qui renvoy les Créanciers de Canada Envers le sindic pour sar- 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1788 325 

The Court allows: 
M. Augustin Dubuque owes Joseph LaCroix and Gigon, 

by a note 4046 .7.6. 

by a ban 29 . 

by a note and bon 156 . 

my commission for business which I managed 

for him in Canada 175 . 3 

9 [letters illegible], f gros tour fleury 280 . 16 . 

paid to M. Conet sergeant 12 . 



4699. 6. 6. 

Saving error and omission, August 14, 1787. Signed Joseph 
LaCroix for Gigon. 

The Court allows the present account as of the first execution 
creditor and after the claims allowed to-day for damages are paid 
and in so far as there shall be funds at Cahokia above three 
hundred and forty livres for an account of supplies accepted by 
the deceased Dubuque. Given at Cahokia the 1 2th of November, 
1787. Signed: Matt. Saucier, Pierre Laperche, Bte. Saucier, 
Philippe Engel, Antoine Girardin, Fr. Saucier, President. Re- 
turned to him the said decree signed by the magistrates afore- 
said. 

At the same Court M. Reiehe presented himself with the 
writing, a copy of which follows, and the original was retiuned 
to him. 

I pray M. Labuxiere to draw up for me the decree of the Court 
which allows damages to the sufferers from the fire. 

Secondlv the decree which dismisses the creditors from Mon- 
treal to determine their privileges. Thirdly the amount of the 
sale. 4th. The amount of wheat, flour, com, and lard. 5th. The 
amount of the notes, obligations, and accounts at St. Louis, the 
first of April, 1788. This having been examined this day by the 
assembled Court, it forbids M. Labuxiere to render anv accoimt 
of the said estate or to deliver any documents except to the one 
who shall be named svudic of the said estate at the time the col- 
lections shall be made and after there has been received news 



326 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

anger Entreux Et jusqua ce que la dame dubuque ait Envoyé 
icy sa procuration fait Et délivre En Cour le 7. may 1788. 
La Cour est adjoumée au i*^ juin 1788. 

A* Girardin 



a une Cour de deux juin mil Sept cent quatre vingt huit. 

M" antoine girardin Présidant Math. Saucier 

Philipe angel p^ Laperche 

Charle ducharme fr. Lapensée 

B** Saucier 
Le S^ Worlay habitant de la belle fontaine Sest présente 
declarant que contre les ordres de cette cour le S*" more de la belle 
fontaine Sest refusé de luy donner caution a Satisfaction p*" sûreté 
des sommes quil doit aux mineurs Ellezon dont il est caution, 
la Cour ordonne que le S*" more donnera Bonne Et solvable 
caution aud^ Worlay qui assurera Solidement les sommes quil 
doit aux dits mineurs Et ce dans tout le Courant de ce present 
mois. Et a faute dy saitsfaire Nous Enjoignons a notre huissier 
tom bredy de se transporter le deux ou trois de juillet prochain 
pour procéder par voy de Saisies et execution sur les Biens dud* s*" 
more et effets a luy apartenants lesquels Effets, nègres, Bestiaux 
il transférera aux Cahos p"" être vendus judicierement a la porte de 
TEglisc au plus offrant Et dernier Enchérisseur p' largent En 
provenant Etre pris Et prélevé la somme que led^ more doit aux 
dits mineurs interest frais de justice Conts [sic] Et mise dexecution 
ce qui sera Exécuté donné En Cour lesd* jour Et an. Et En Cas de 
resistance la Cour donnera tout main forte p' lexecution de ses 
ordres. 
[Sii^ned] 

pierre Laperche francois Lapancé 

B Saucier Mth Saucier 

Phillipe Engel DuCharme 

A* Girardin psd. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1788 327 

from Madame Dubuque, except the copy of the decree which dis- 
missed the Canadian creditors to a syndic to make arrangements 
among themselves, and until Madame Dubuque has sent here 
her power of attorney. Made and delivered in Court, May 7, 
1788. 

The Court adjourned to June i, 1788. 

Ant. Girardin. 

At a Court, June 2, 1788. 

MM. Antoine Girardin. President. Matt. Saucier. 

Philippe Engel. Pierre Laperche. 

Charles DuCharme. Fr. Lapancé. 

Bte. Saucier. 
M. Worley, inhabitant of Bellefontaine, presented himself and 
declares that, contrary to the orders of this Court, M. Moore of 
Bellefontaine has refused to give him satisfactory bond for surety 
for the sums which he owes the minors Allison, for which he is 
bondsman. The Court decrees that M. Moore shall find for the 
said Worley good and solvent bondsman, who shall substantially 
assure the sums, which he owes the said minors, and this within 
the course of this present month. And in default of giving satis- 
faction, we command our huissier^ Tom Brady, to go thither on 
the second or third of next July and proceed to attach and place 
under execution the goods of the said M. Moore and the effects 
belonging to him ; which effects, negroes and cattle he shall trans- 
port to Cahokia to be sold by judicial sale at the door of the church 
to the highest bidder; and from the money obtained there shall 
be taken and deducted the sum which the said Moore owes the 
said minors with the interest, the costs of justice and expenses of 
the execution, for which there will be execution. Given in Court 
the said day and year. And in case of resistance the Court wiU 
give all assistance to the execution of its orders. 
[Signed] 

Pierre Laperche. Matt. Saucier. 

B. Saucier. DuCharme. 

Philippe Engel. Ant. Girardin, Près. 

François Lapancé. 



328 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a la même Cour. 
Hugh Me D® Chisholm demandeur Contre François Clabk 

absent ne voulant paroître 
Le demandeur nous a représente lordre de Saisie Et vente des 
biens par la Cour ordonne sur Les Biens dud* Clark, lequel se 
trouve En deffaud dacomplir le parfait payement En Consequance 
La Cour ordonne au S*" Schemitz juge a paix au grand Ruisseau de 
donner Ses ordres pour faire payer sans aucuns délais led^ Clark 
avec tous les frais Et journées pas Et demarches dud^ Hugh Me 
D® Chisholm Et ly [sic] Contraindre par toute Rigeur de justice 
donné En Cour lesd* jour Et an. 

La Cour est adjoumée au i**" juillet 1788. 

A* Girardin. 

a une Cour du premier julliet mil Sept cent quatre vingt huit. 
M" antoine garardin Présidant p™ Laperche 
Mathieu Saucier Charle ducharme 

B**^ Saucier francois lapensée 

Magistrats 
PIERRE Brisson demandeur Contre Charles Germain 

deffendeur 
Le demandeur demande au deffendeur la Somme de Soix- 
ante dix livres pour des madriers quil lui a fait et quil refuse de 
recevoir. 

Le deffendeur a répondu quil ne les luy a pas fait dans le tems 
quil les luy avoit demandé Et quil ne pouvoit plus les prendre vu 
les grandes Eaux qui lempechoit de les Charoyer quil nen avoit plus 
Besoin. Le demandeur a réplique quil luy avoit dit de venir les 
recevoir avant les grandes Eaux, ce que le deffendeur a desnîe . 
Le demandeur a offert preuve a linstant a fait paroitre mîchel 
peltier dit antaya lequel a pris sermant sur les S*" Evangiles de 
dire la vérité Sur laffaire dont est question a dit quil a connois- 
sance quil avoit fait marché Ensemble pour Soixante livres et 
que Brisson luy de voit faire des madriers p*" cette somme p' sa 
Batterie qui est tout ce quil a dit savoir sur cette declaration 
Sur cette declaration Brisson a dit quil a avoit [sic] offert a germain 
de luy livrer Ces madriers led* germain a dit de faire sermant de 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1788 329 

At the same Court. 
Hugh McD. Chisholm, PlaintifF, vs, Francis Cla&k, absent, 

refusing to appear. 
The plaintiff sets forth to us that the goods of the said Clark, 
against which the writ for the seizure and sale of goods was decreed 
by the Court, are found to be insufficient to make complete pay- 
ment. Consequently the Court orders M. Smith, justice of the 
peace at Grand Ruisseau, to make the said Clark pay without 
any delay, together with all the cost and wages for going and com- 
ing of the said Hugh McD. Chisholm, and to constrain him by 
all rigor of the law. Given in Court the said day and year. 
The Court adjourned to July i, 1788. 

Ant. Girardin. 

At a Court, July i, 1788. 
MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Pierre Laperche. 
Matthieu Saucier. Charles DuCharme. 

Bte. Saucier. François LaPancé. 

Magistrats 
Pierre Brisson, Plaintiff, vs, Charles Germain, Defendant. 
The plaintiff demands of the defendant the sum of seventy 
livres for joists, which he made for him, and which the defendant 
refuses to accept. 

The defendant replied that the plaintiff had not made them in 
the time that he had demanded them of him, and that he could no 
longer get them seeing that the high water prevented him carting 
them, and that he no longer had need of them. The plaintiff re- 
plied that he had told him to come and get them before the flood, 
a thing which the defendant denied. The plaintiff offered proof. 
He now summoned Michel Pelletier called Antaya, who took oath 
on the Holy Gospels to tell the truth in regard to the business in 
question, and he said he knew that they had made agreement 
together for sixty livres and that Brisson was to make joists for 
the plaintiff's thrashing-floor for that sum, which is all that he 
said he knew. To this declaration Brisson said that he had 
offered Germain to deliver to him these joists. The said Ger- 
main told him to make oath on what he put forward, which the 



330 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

ce quil avancoit, ce que led^ Brisson a offert Et a fait a linstant 
son sermant sur les s*" Evangiles. 

sur quoy la Cour condamné le s*" germain a recevoir Et pren- 
dre les madriers qui seront reçus par arbitres pour être Bons et 
recevables de trois pouces dEpaisseur de neuf pied de long Bois 
de liards lesquels seront reçus demain deux de ce mois Condam- 
nons germain aux frais et dépens. 

a la même cour. 
Le Sr Clamorgan demandeur Contre Charles Wood amer- 
iquain hab^ du grand Ruisseau deffendant 

Le demandeur demande que la maison et bled froment En 
semencez sur la terre de jacob groot app* aud* Wood et Saisis a 
la demande dud* s"" de Clamorgan par ordre de la Cour soient 
vendus jusques a la Concurance de ce qui luy est dub interest et 
frais Et nommément de la somme de quartre cent soixante dix 
livres dix sols suivant le billet dud* Wood que le demandeur a 
Exhibé a la Cour. 

Le deffendeur a répondu quil ne soposoit pas a la dite vente 
et quil y Consentoit quil navoit pas dautrc moyen pour payer. 
Sur quoy la Cour ordonne que les Choses saisies seront vendues 
Sans délais a la demande du Saisissant par Ihuissier credit 
pour le produit En provenant Etre délivré aud* s^ Clamorgan 
jusqua la Concurance de tout ce qui peut luy être dub 
soit par billets ou obligations interest Et frais condamne led^ 
Wood aux frais Et dépens tant de Saisie instence que autres a 
intervenir [ ?] qui seront avancés par M*" Clamorgan Et a luy Rem- 
bourcez sur les Biens dud* Wood ce qui sera exécuté. 

a la même cour. 
MARC scHisoLM demandeur Contre François Clark 

deffendeur 

Led* Clark et led* schisolom on présente une sentence Rendue 
par le s^ Schemitz juge a paix au grand Ruisseau tendante au 
payement dun alanbic. La Cour assemblé elle a homalogué Et 
homalogue la dite sentence Rendue par led* s^ Schemitz le i8 dav- 
ril dernier, ordonne ladite Cour que ladite sentence sortira son 
plain Et Entier effet seulement p"" la somme principale et pour 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1788 331 

said Brisson offered to do. And now he made his oath on the 
Holy Gospels. 

Whereupon the Court condemned M. Germain to receive and 
take the joists, which shall be accepted by arbitrators as good and 
acceptable, as of three inches in thickness and nine feet in length, 
and of poplar; and that they shall be received to-morrow the 2nd 
of this month. We condenm Germain to pay the costs and charges. 

At the same Court 
M. Glamorgan, Plaintiff, vs. Charles Wood, American inhabi- 
tant of Grand Ruisseau, Defendant. 

The plaintiff demands that the house and the wheat sowed on 
the land of Jacob Groot, belonging to the said Wood, and which 
has been attached on the demand of the said M. Glamorgan by 
order of the Court, be sold up to the equivalent of what the de- 
fendant owes him with interest and costs, that is the sum of four 
hundred and seventy livres ten sols according to the note of the 
said Wood which the plaintiff exhibited to the Court. 

The plaintiff replied that he was not opposing the said sale and 
that he consented thereto and that he did not have other means 
of paying. Whereupon the Court decrees that the goods, which 
have been attached, shall be sold without delay by the htdssier 
on the demand of the execution creditor; and that credit from the 
proceeds thereof shall be delivered to the said M. Glamorgan up 
to a sum equal to that which may be owing him either by notes 
or obligations with interest and cosb. Condemned the said Wood 
to pay the costs and charges as well for the writ of execution as for 
the other intervening writs, and the costs shall be advanced by M. 
Glamorgan and reimbursed to him from the goods of the said 
Wood; for which there will be execution. 

At the same Court. 

Mark Chisholm, Plaintiff, vs Francis Clark, Defendant. 

The said Clark and the said Chisholm presented a decree 
rendered by M. Smith, justice of the peace at Grand Ruisseau 
in regard to the payment for a still. The Court, having assembled, 
aflSrmed and does afcm the said decree rendered by the said 
M. Smith the i8th of April last. The said Coiu-t decrees that the 



332 ILUNOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

les frais fait pardevant led* s** schemitz pour ladite sentence, a 
débouté Et déboute led* chisholm du Compte de frais quil fait 
monter a Soixante piastres luy enjoint de recevoir son. payement 
des mains dud* Clark ou des dépositaires diceluy Condamnons 
led* Clark a payer dix livres pour les frais de la présente homo- 
logation donné en Cour lesd* jour Et an. Et a déboute led* 
Chisholm de 'Son compte de frais pour Etre Exhorbitant Et sans 
setre mis en règle pour justiflSer des dits frais Et payera led* 
Clark les frais de saisie ce qui sera exécuté. 
La Cour est ajournée au i**" aoust prochain. 

mth Saucier psd. 



a une Cour du i*' aoust 1788. 
Mathieu Saucier présidant Charle ducharme 
B** Saucier fr. Lapensée 

P"^ Laperche henry Biron 

Magistrats 
P2ntre Robkrt jons demandeur Contre Samuel Morice 

deffendeur 
Le demandeur a dit que avant hier il a rencontré chcs le 
Nomme Thom Brcdy le Nommé samuel Morice qui luy devoit, 
auquel il a demandé son payement, que ledit morice Et led* 
Jones Se Sont disputez Ensemble et dit plusieurs injures et 
fait des menaces que led* morice avoit un Baton avec lequel il 
la frapé Et quil Sest revengé ayant pris led* morice par les che- 
veux, que ledit morice luy a pris le pouce avec les dants dont il 
se trouve extropié quil demande contre ledit morice le des dom- 
agement de la perte de Son temp ne pouvant travailler de Son 
metier de Chapellier. 

Ledit morice a réplique que setoit jones qui avoit commencé la 
dispute Et quil lui avoit jeté une Roche de la grosseur de quatre 
a Cinq livres, que sil En avoi t Eté frapé il En auroit Eté tué. la 
dite roche ayant frapé dans la porte ou potau de la maison ou 
Elle a Encavc led* poteau led* morice Se Sauvant dans ladite mai- 
son que sest En sortant de la maison quil se sont pris et que led* 



COURT RECORD, AUGUST, 1788 ^33 

said decree shaU have its full and entire effect only for the prin- 
cipal sum and for the costs made before the said M. Smith for the 
said decree. The Court denied and does deny the account of the 
said Chisholm's expenses, which he has made run up to sixty pias- 
tres, and enjoins him from receiving his pay from the hands of the 
said Clark or from his depositaries. We condemn the said Clark 
to pay ten livres for the costs of the present affirmance. Given in 
Court the said day and year. And the Court denied the account 
of costs of the said Chisholm as being exorbitant and as not being 
put in due form to justify said expenses; and the said Clark shall 
pay the costs of the seizure, for which there will be execution. 
The Court adjourned to the ist of August next. 

Matt. Saucier, Près. 

At a Court August i, 1788. 

Matthieu Saucier, President. 

Bte. Saucier. Fr. Lapancé. 

Pierre Laperche. Henry Biron. 

Charles DuCharme. Magistrates. 

Robert Jones, Plaintiff, vs Samuel Morris, Defendant. 
The plaintiff said that day before yesterday he met at the 
house of the named Thomas Brady the named Samuel Morris, 
who was owing him and from whom he demanded his pavment; 
that the said Morris and the said Jones quarreled, used abusive 
language and made threats; that the said Morris had a stick with 
which he struck the plaintiff and that he revenged himself by 
seizing the said Morris by the hair; that the said Morris bit his 
thumb with his teeth, from which he was maimed; that he demands 
from the said Morris damages for the loss of his time, since he 
could not work at his trade of hatter. 

The said Morris replied that it was Jones who began the 
quarrel and that he had thrown at him a rock weighing four or 
five pounds; that if he had been struck with it, he would have 
been killed; that the said rock struck the door or the post of 
the house and made a deep dent in it and that the said Morris 
saved himself by going into the said house; that it was when he 
came out of the house that they caught hold of each other and 



334 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Jones le tenant par les Cheveux et ne Voulant le lâcher luy En 
fonceant Son pouce dans la Bouche la douleur La voit forcé a le 
mordre requérant frais et dépens contre led^ jones. 

parties ouies le tout examiné la Cour a renvoyé Les dites par- 
ties hor de cour et de procès p*" ladite affaire les condamne chacun 
aux frais Et def)ens. 

La Cour est ajournée au i®*" y^^ 1788. 

Mth. Saucier 

a une Cour tenue Extraordinairement le 8 aoust 1788. 
M*"* Matieu Saucier présidant fr. Lapensée 

B^® Saucier henry Biron 

Ladite cour a fait paroitre devant Elle Le Nommé jean B** 
Colin demeurant Chés la dame Brisson soupçonné davoir parti- 
sipé a lEnlevement des effets du Nommé Brisson Et sa femme, 
led^ Colin detenu aux fer. lequel Etant En la presence de la 
Cour Et après sermant par luy fait Sur les Saints Evangiles luy 
avons demande sil a Connoissance de Lenlevement ou recele- 
ment des Effets dud^ brisson et sa femme et sil ny a pas parti- 
cipe a répondu quil N'en a aucunne Connoissance Et quil na 
Enlevé ny aidé a Enlever aucuns Bestiaux ny effets, quil ignore 
ceux qui En ont détourné quil declare Seulement que madame 
Brisson luy a fait porter une scie de Long dans le jardin, laquelle 
scie nous avons demandé ou Elle Etoit le jour de hier a linvan- 
taire personne ne la représentant Nous lavons Envoyée Cher- 
cher dans le jardin nous Etant aperçu quelle y Etoit Cachée liée 
avec une pelle a four pour être Emportée; lequel nous declare 
présentement que cest madame Brison qui luy a fait porter dans 
le jardin; Et na voulu avouer aucunne autre Chose sur toutes 
les demandes que nous luy avons faites. 

lui avons demandé quelle jour ou luy a dit de porter la sic 
dans le jardin. 

a dit que cest avant hier 

luy avons demandé sil sait autres Chose. 

a dit que Non. 

* In ihc mominjj f>f July lo, 1788, Alexis Hrisstin marie a brutal attack on Therezc. the 
widow of John Henson, former trader r>f Cahokia. The immediate occasion of it was her 
gossip about Hris.sr>n's vnie. Krisson kicke<i the woman, hit her with a chair and then dragged 
her to the wixxi-pile, where he was preparing to kill her, when he was prevented by J. Bte. 



COURT RECORD, AUGUST, 1788 335 

that Jones held him by the hair and would not release him and 

sunk his thumb in his mouth and the pain forced him to bite it; 

and he demands costs and charges from the said Jones. 

Having heard the parties and examined all, the Coiu't dismissed 

the said parties from court and suit in regard to the said affair; 

and condemned each to pay the costs and charges. 

The Coiu-t adjourned to September i, 1788. 

Matt. Saucier. 

At a Coiu't meeting in special session, August 8, 1788. 
MM. Matthieu Saucier, President. Fr. Lapancé. 
Bte. Saucier. Henry Biron. 

The said Court summoned before it the named Jean Bte. Colin, 
who dwells at the house of Madame Brisson, and who is suspected 
of having participated in the removal of the effects of the named 
Brisson and his wife.* The said Colin was held in irons. When 
he was in the presence of the Court and had made oath on the Holy 
Gospels, we asked him if he had knowledge of the removal or con- 
cealment of the effects of the said Brisson and his wife, and if he 
had not participated therein. He answered that he had no knowl- 
edge thereof and that he had not removed nor aided in the removal 
of any animals or effects; that he did not know who had taken 
them away; he declared only that Madame Brisson made him 
carry a whip-saw into the garden. Yesterday at the inventory we 
asked where this saw was and when nobody showed it to us, we 
sent to seek it in the garden, having noticed that it was hidden 
there bound up with a baker's shovel ready to be carried away. 
The witness now declared to us that it was Madame Brisson who 
made him carry it into the garden; and he did not wish to confess 
anything else to all the questions which we put to him. 

We asked him what day they had told him to carry the saw 
into the garden. 

He said it was day before yesterday. 

We asked if he knew anything else. 

He said, "No." 

LaCroU. Madame Brisson was present during the assault and urged her husband on. On 
July 31, the state's attorney, Labuxiere, charged Brisson with assassination, and the Court 
orderrd Commandant Troltier to arrest Brisson, and in case of resistance to shoot him. — Chi. 
Hist. Soc. Cah., Rrc. 



336 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

lecture a luy faite de Sa deposition a dit Contenir vente y per- 
siste et a signé avec nous. Et avant de Signer a déclaré Et af- 
firmé que francois Canadien avoit Emmené les Chevaux de Bris- 
son et sa femme depuis la prairie du pont jusques au mississipy 
Les quels Chevaux avoit Eté conduit de la maison de la dame 
Brisson par ses Enfans jusqua la p»^** du pont et remis aud* fr. 
canadien qui les mené au mississipy p*" traverser mardy dernier 
declare de plus quil a fait une Cache par ordre de la dame Bris- 
son dans la grange La quelle il offre de montrer dans la terre qui 
est tout ce quil a dit savoir sous Son Sermant et a Signé Et promis 
que sil survient quelque Chose a sa Connoissance de la declarer. 
[Signed] 

Jan baptis colin marque 

francois Lapance hBi 

B Saucier d henry Biron 

Labuxiere grefier Mth. Saucier 



a une cour du 9 aoust 1788. 
tenue par les mêmes magistrats. 

avons fait paroitre francois Renoux accusé davoir aidé a 
Enlever les Chevaux de Brisson Et sa femme lequel après 
sermant par luy fait de dire vérité luy avons demandé Sil a 
aidé ou participe a LEnlevement des Chevaux de Brisson Et sa 
femme. 

a dit avoir atrapé deux juments Et trois poulins par ordre de 
la femme de Brisson et quil les a conduits au mississipy ou la 
(lame Brisson luy avoit dit de les mener et de les atacher avec 
deux autres chevaux que les Elnfans de ladite femme ont mené 
avec luv. 

intcroge sil ne savoit pas que ces chevaux Etoient Sai- 
sis et la publication faite a la porte de 1 Eglise dimanche 
dernier. 

a répondu quil ne l'avoit pas sue. 

interoge sil ne savoit pas que le Nommé Brisson Etoit fugitif 
et poursuivis. 



COURT RECORD, AUGUST, 1788 337 

The reading of his deposition was made to him and he said that 
it contained the truth and persisted therein and signed with us. 
And before signing he declared and afl&rmed that François Cana- 
dien had driven the horses belonging to Brisson and his wife from 
Prairie du Pont to the Mississippi, and that these horses were led 
from the house of Madame Brisson as far as Prairie du Pont 
by her children and delivered to. the said Fr. Canadien, who 
led them to the Mississippi in order to cross last Wednesday. 
He declared further that he made by order of Madame Brisson 
a cache in the bam, which he offered to show. This is all 
which he said under oath that he knew and he has signed; and 
he promised, if anything came to his knowledge, to make it 
known. 
[Signed] 
Jean Baptiste Colin. Mark of 

François Lapancé. h B i 

B. Saucier. Henry Biron 

Labuxiere, Clerk. 

At a Court, August 9, 1788, held by the same magistrates. 

We have summoned François Renoux accused of having aided 
in the removal of the horses belonging to Brisson and his wife; and 
after he had taken oath to tell the truth, we asked him if he aided, 
or participated in, the removal of the horses belonging to Brisson 
and his wife. 

He said that he caught two mares and three colts by order of 
Brisson's wife, and that he took them to the Mississippi, where 
Madame Brisson had told him to lead them and to tie them with 
two other horses, which the children of the said woman had lead 
with him. 

Asked if he did not know that these horses were attached and 
that publication had been made at the door of the chiurch last 
Sunday. 

Answered that he did not know it. 

Asked if he did not know that the named Brisson was a fugitive 
and was pursued. 

Answered that he knew that they were pursuing him; but that 



338 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a répondu quil savoit que Ion le poursuîvoit mais quil 
lavoît vu paroitre Et disparoitre plusieurs fois et quil Croyoit 
que Ion ne Le recherchoit plus, quil ne Croyoit pas faire mal 
en menant les Chevaux quil Lavoit fait sans reflection. Et 
quil sest méfie au mississipy que setoit p'' les traverser sur lautre 
Rive. 

interoge sil a quelque Chose a declarer de plus. Et sil na 
pas Connoissance de quelques Enlevement fait par quelqu'un des 
Effets ou bestiaux de Brisson Et sa femme. 

a répondu quil n'en a aucunne Connoissance. 

Lecture a luy faite de Sa declaration a dit quelle contient 
vérité quil y persiste sous le Sermant quil a fait Et a dit ne savoir 
signer Et a fait Sa marque ord" Et avons Signé les dits jouis 
Et an. 

[Signed] 
francois Lapancé marque de 

B Saucier -|" 

B Dubuque fr. Renoux 

déposant 

Labuxiere Mth. Saucier psd. 

Du dix huit août mil Sept Cent quatre vingt huit. 

Messieurs Jean B^* Dubuque Philipe Engel et Louis Chatel 
ont fait le serment d'office En qualité de Magistrats pour la 
nouvelle Nomination En la Place des sieurs Mathieu Saucier B** 
saucier et fr. la j)ensée qui se sont demis de leur Charge les 
dits Magistrats ayant Eté nommés par la n*^^*^ Election. Sont 
Comparus et après avoir prête serment de fidélité, ainsi 
que celui d'office ont pris leur Place et leurs qualités de Magis- 
trats. 

Je sousigné Pierre Billet a voit fait serment que Je me Com- 
porterai Bien Et vraiment dans la Charge de Greffier qui m'a 
Eté admise Ce Jour, selon ma Connoiss* et Jugement, aux Cahos 
le 17 août 1788. 

P Billet Greffier 



COURT RECORD, AUGUST, 1^88 339 

he had seen him appear and disappear several times and that he 
believed that they were no longer searching for him; that he did 
not believe that he was doing wrong in leading the horses; that he 
had done it without reflection; that he suspected at the Mississippi 
that the purpose was to send them across to the other bank. 

Asked if he had anything else to declare, and if he did not have 
knowledge of the removal of the effects or cattle belonging to Bris- 
son and his wife by some one. 

Answered that he had no knowledge thereof. 
Reading was made of his deposition and he said that it can- 
tained the truth and he persisted therein under the oath which he 
made; and he said that he did not know how to sign and made his 
mark, and we have signed the said day and year. 
[Signed] 

François Lapancé. mark of 

B Saucier. -f 

B. Dubuque. Fr. Renoux, deponent. 

Labuxiere. Mth. Saucier, Près. 



August 18, 1788. 

MM. Jean Bte. Dubuque, Philippe Engel and Louis Chatel have 
taken the oath of office as magistrates by the new election in 
place of MM. Matthieu Saucier, Bte. Saucier and Fr. Lapancé who 
have resigned from their office. The said magistrates, having 
been named by the new election, appeared and, after having taken 
oath of fidelity as well as that of office, have taken their place as 
magistrates. 

I the undersigned Pierre Billet have taken oath that I will con- 
duct myself well and faithfully in the office of clerk, to which I 
have been appointed this day, according to my knowledge and 
judgment. At Cahokia August 17, 1788. 

P. Billet. Clerk.» 



^'hy Billet was appointed deiic in place of Labuxiere is not known, but he did not 
>ng. On December i, Labuxiere signed as deputy clerk and on February a, 1789, as 
ma from that date the handwriting proves that he served regularly. 



340 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une même Cour. 
Présidant ant girardin 

Louis Chatel Ch. Duchanne 

Philipe Engel Henri Beron 

P. la Perche B*« Dubuque 

Magistrats 
a la même Cour avons appointe une Requête En faveur de 
M' Cerré et lui avons permis la saisie des Biens du Sr. James 
Moor Jusqua que la Cour En ordonnera. 
La Cour Est adjoumé au i"" Septembre. 

A* Girardin psd. 

a une Cour tenue le i^ 7^" 1788. 
Messieurs Ch ducharme President henri Biron 
B^® dubuque Pierre La Perche 

Philipe Engel Louis Chatel 

Magistrats 
P Billet demandeur Contre le Sieur Smith defFendeur 
Le demandeur a déclaré que le Sieur Smith Lui devoit un 
cochon. d'Environ Cents livres et que le tems étant passé pour 
le Payement et lui en aiant Plusieurs demandes il lui avoît 
toujours refusé Sous mauvais prétexte le deffendeur dit quil lui 
avoit offert plusieurs fois mais quil Tavoit refusé disant quil 
n'etoit pas gros et quil avoit un témoin du marché Entre Eux 
que nous avons fait Paroitrc et a dit quil lui devoit le Cochon et 
devoit lui Enmener tel quil Etoit La Cour a ordonné aud* 
Smith (le Livrer le Cochon aud* P Billet sous quinze Jours, 
et Condamnons le dit Smith aux frais. 

DuCharme prsd. 
a une même Cour. 
Les Sieurs Morel et Sans Facx)n demandeur Contre Sieur 

Mathieu Saucier deffendeur 
Les demendeurs nous aiant Exposé leurs plaintes par une 
requête du dix Sept août dernier par Lequel ils avoient Eté 
récusés par le S*" Mathieu saucier pour servir de Jurés nous avons 
ordonné au S*" Mathieu Saucier de Paroitre aujourdhui devant 
nous et y Exposer Ses raisons des Insultes par lui fait aux dits 



COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1788 341 

At the same Court. 
President Ant. Girardin Ch. DuCharme. 

Louis Chatel. Henri Biron. 

Philippe Engel. Bte. Dubuque. 

P. Laperche. Magistrates 

At the same court we referred a petition in favour of M, Cerré 
and allowed him the seizure of the goods of M. James Moore, 
until the Court shall give orders concerning it. 
The Court adjourned to September i. 

Ant. Girardin, Près. 

At a Court, September i, 1788. 
MM. Ch. DuCharme, President. Henry Biron. 
Bte. Dubuque. Pierre Laperche. 

Philippe Engel. Louis Chatel. 

Magistrates. 
P. Billet, Plaintiff, vs, M. Smith, Defendant. 
The plaintiff declared that M. Smith owed him a pig of about 
one hundred pound weight and that when the time was passed for 
the payment and he had made several demands for it, the defendant 
had always refused with poor excuses. The defendant says that 
he had offered it several times to the plaintiff, but that he had re- 
fused it saying that it was not fat; and he says that he had a wit- 
ness of the agreement between them, whom we have summoned, and 
who said that he owed the pig and ought to return one like it. The 
Court ordered the said Smith to deliver the pig to the said P. Billet 
within a fortnight. And we condemn the said Smith to pay the costs. 

DuCharme, Près. 
At the same Court. 
MM. Morel and Sansfaçon, Plaintiffs vs. M. Matthieu, 

Saucier Defendant. 
The plaintiffs set forth their complaints by a petition of the 17th 
of August last according to which they had been challenged by M. 
Matthieu Saucier for jury services and we ordered M. Matthieu 
Saucier to appear to-day before us to show his reasons for the insults 
made by him to the said MM. Morel and Sansfaçon. Whereat 



342 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Sieurs morel et Sans façon a quoi il a reconnu ses torts, et a dit 
quil ne l'avoit fait que par megard. et leur en a fait Ses Excuses 
en presence de nous aux Cahos le i**" 7^** 1788. 

P Billet Greffier DuCharme pr 

a une même Cour. 
Le Sieur William Biggs demandeur contre Samuel Mor&ies 

deffendeur 
le demandeur a dit que le Sieur Samuel Morries ayant demandé 
une Cour de Jurés pour la deffence de laccusation faite Contre 
lui des Insultes faite sur la Cour des Jurés et que n^ayant point 
paru. Sur quoi le demandeur s'est présenté a nous a quoi nous 
avons renvoyé les Parties, et quils se choiseront deux hommes 
Chacun a leur Choix pour Juger de Leur affaire devant Mr 
Smith Juge a paix et Magistrat du Grand ruisseau et Sen tenu 
a Ce que les dits Jurés eh Jugeront Sans aucun rap{>el donné 
aux Cahos la Cour Présente le i*^ Sept. 1788. 

DuCharme psd. 
a une même Cour. 
S'est Présenté Le Sieur James Watt demandeur Contre Le 

Sieur Jacob Groots deffendeur 
Le demandeur nous a présenté deux Billets Consenti a sa 
faveur par ledit groots montant a La somme de trois Cents quatre 
vingt quatre livres payable en Lard et farine au prix Courant, 
et nous a dit En avoir fait La demande dont il Eté pressé vu son 
depart, a quoi nous avons Condamné ledit groots a paier sous 
trois Semaines et les frais Ci Joint au Cahos le i*^ 7^** 1788. 
P Billet greffier DuCharme presd. 

La Cour Est ajourné au i" 8^^*^ 1788. 

DuCharme psd. 

a une Cour du premier octobre 1788. 
Messieurs Ch. Ducharme President Philipe Engel. 
B^^ Dubuque Henri Biron 

P. La Perche Magistrats 

M. fr. Saucier demandeur contre Michel Chartier Deffendeur 
Le Sieur saucier présente un compte a lui remis par M' Levi 
et approuvé par devenant devant [sic] M La Croix dont il lui 



COCRT RECORD. OCn>BER. x^SS 



hr ackzKmedeed hs vrcioe lad sud that br did it odIt thxvuck 
mHttkr Mndhemààt l^^ «xAggies tbereior to diem in cur preaence. 
At Catfcikia Sepûember i. 17SSL. 
P. Bilkt. Qezk. DuOuLmie. Pites. 

Ai the saime C]»urt. 
M. Wniuuf Biggs, PUîniî^. zs. Samuel Moulis, DctaMlânt. 

The plammf sud that M. Samuel Moms had demanded a juiv 
trial to hear his deten.^ :o the accusatioQ against him of having 
insulted the nny coon and had not appeared; whereupoci the 
pbûnti£F presented himself to usw Wliercat we dismissed the par- 
ties and ordered them each to choose a man* to judge their aâair 
before Mr. Smith, justice of the peace and magistrate of Grand 
Ruisseam and they shall be bound to this that the said juivirs shall 
judge the cause without any appeal. Gi\'en at Cahokia in the 
present Court, September i, 1788. 

DuCharme, Pres. 
At the same Court. 
There presented himself M . James Watts, PlaintifF, t-jf. M. Jacob 

Groot, Defendant. 
The plaintiff presented to us two notes drawn in his fa\*our by 
the said Groots, amoimting to the sum of three hundred and 
eighty-four Ihres pav-able in lard and flour at the current price; 
and he told us that he had made demand therefor and that he was 
in need of it on accoimt of his departure. Whereat we condemn 
the said Groot to pay within three weeks with the costs here 
joined. At Cahokia, September i, 1788. 

P. Billet, Clerk. DuCharme, Pres. 

The Court adjourned to October i, 1788. 

DuCharme, Pres. 

At a Court, October i, 1788. 
MM. Ch. DuCharme, President. Philippe Engd 
Bte. Dubuque. Henry Biron. 

P. Laperche. Magistrates. 

M. Fr. Saucier, Plaintiff, vs, Michel Chartier, Defendant. 
M. Saucier presents an account, which had been given to him 
by M. Levy and approved before M. LaCroix, on which there is 



344 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Est du par la Balance deux Cents Soixante douze livres et après 
lui En avoir fait la demande il lui a refusé disant que Son Compte 
nest pas Juste et quil lui doit que Soixante douze livres et après 
avoir vérifié le Compte que nous Croions Etre Juste et voyznt 
les Mauvaises raisons que le S*" Saucier nous a dit quil lui avoît 
allégués Nous ordonnons au sieiu* Chartier a payer le Demandeur 
ou a lui trouver un Caution qui Se rendra responsable de lad^ 
somme et Condamnons le sieur saucier a paier les frais et se 
faire rembourser par le dit Chartier. 

DuCharme psd. 
a une mené Cour. 
Michel Pichet demandeur Contre Louis Gaud deffendeur 
Le demandeur a dit que le Nommé Louis gaud avoit pris et 
Engagé le petit la pierre et lui avoit promis une Pouliche ou une 
taure pour ses salaires et quil refusoit de lui donner le defifendeur 
a dit quil Tavoit gardé Malade et que ses salaires netoient pas 
Capable de Paier sa Maladie et les soins quils avoient Eu pour 
lui Nous avons renvoyer les parties par arbitres. 

DuCharme psd. 
a une Même Cour. 
Hugues Schisholm demandeur Benjamin Bayronn deffendeur 
le demandeur nous a dit quil lui Eté diie Cent minots de Bled 
par le dit Bayronn pour deux vaches a Lait quil lui avoit vendue 
le deffendeur a dit quil lui en avoit livré vingt Minots Chez 
thibaud a la Prairie du Rocher, le demandeur lui a dit quU 
etoit gâté et quil netoit pas Marchand. Nous avons renvoyées 
les Parties a faire visiter le Bled, et nous fiant Sur le rapport quil 
nous en sera fait Signé par M. Barbeau et Condamnons le dit 
Bayronn a Paier lexcedent qui Est de quatre Vingt minots Sous 
huit Jours, et Condamnons led^ Bayronn aux fraix. 

DuCharme psd. 
adjoumé La Cour au i**' Novembre 1788. 
P Billet Grefl5er DuCharme prsd. 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1788 345 

due him a balance of two hundred and seventy-two livres; and 
after having made demand therefor, the defendant refused him 
saying that his account is not just and that he owes only 
seventy-two livres; and after verifying the account, which we be- 
lieve to be just and hearing the poor argimients which M. Saucier 
told us that the defendant had pleaded to him, we order M. 
Chartier to pay the plaintiff or to find a bondsman who will 
render himself responsible for the said sum; and we condemn 
M. Saucier to pay the costs and to have himself reimbursed by the 
said Chartier. DuCharme, Près. 

At the same Court, 

Michel Pichet, Plaintiff, vs. Louis Gaud, Defendant. 

The plaintiff said that the named Louis Gaud had taken and 
engaged the little Lapierre and had promised him a filly or a 
heifer for wages and that he refused to give it to him. The de- 
fendant said that he had tended him when sick and that his 
wages were not sufficient to pay for his sickness and the attend- 
ance which they had had for him. We have dismissed the parties 
to have the case decided by arbitrators. 

DuCharme, Près. 
At the same Court. 
Hugh Chisholm, Plaintiff, vs, Benjamin Byram, 

Defendant. 

The plaintiff told us that there was due him one hundred mitwls 
of wheat for two milch cows, which he had sold the defendant. 
The defendant said that he had delivered twenty minois of it to 
him at the house of Thibault at Prairie du Rocher. The plaint- 
iff said to him that it was spoiled and it was not salable. 

We dismissed the parties to have the wheat inspected; and 
having confidence in the rei>ort, which will be made us, signed 
by M. Barbau, we condemn the said Byram to pay the excess 
there is above eighty minots within a week; and we condemn the 
said Byram to pay the costs. 

DuCharme, Près. 

The Court adjourned to November i, 1788. 

P. Billet, Qerk. DuCharme, Près. 



346 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du trois novembre 1 788. 

Messieurs 

Antoine girardin President B^« Dubuque 

Ch Ducharme Henri Biron 

Philipe Engd Pierre La Perche 

Louis Chatel Magistrats 

a une même Cour. 

Ant ARMAND demandeur Pierre Richard défendeur 
le demandeur nous représente im Compte Contre le dit 
Richard de la somme de quatre vingt dix neuf livres En argent 
quil dit lui Etre due depuis Cinq ans. le dit Pierre Richard lui 
a dit quil Croioit Tavoir Paie par Ses travaux a quoi le demandeur 
na voulu acquiesser disant quil n^avoit Eu que Soixante sept 
livres et quil lui avoit porté En Compte et après avoir fait faire 
serment sur les sts Evangiles de la vérité de son Compte nous 
avons Condamné le dit deffendeur aux frais. 

a une même Cour, 
le Sieur W" arrundel Demand [sir] le S' J° B^« Morel 

Deffendeur 
le Demandeur nous a exposé par une requête que le sieur Morel 
avoit pris a son inseu une Voiture quil avoit a la Prairie du Chien 
et quil Tavoit pris Sans la Connoissance de Celui qui en Eté le 
dépositaire en nous en aiant produit des Certificats et demander des 
dedomagemonts par sa Requête et ceci étant or de notre Connais- 
sance nous avons renvoies les Parties par arbitres. 

a^ girardin 
ajourné la Cour au premier décembre 1 788. 

a^ Girardin p. s. d. 

A une Cour du i*' Décembre 1788. 
Messieurs 

Girardin President P. La Perche 

Ch Ducharme B^*^ Dubuque 

Philipe Engel Louis Chatel 

Henri Biron Magistrats 

a une même Cour le Sieur Gabriel Cerré nous présenté une 
requête que nous avons appointé a sa demande. 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1788 347 

At a Court, November 3, 1788. 

MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Bte. Dubuque. 

Ch. DuCharme. Henry Biron. 

Philippe Engd. Pierre Laperche. 

Louis Chatd. Magistrates. 

At the same Court. 

Ant. Harmand, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre Richard, Defendant. 

The plaintiff brings to us an account against the said Richard 
for the siun of ninety-nine livres in money, which he says was 
due five years ago. The said Pierre Richard told him that he 
believed that he had paid it by his labor; to which the plaintiff 
was not willing to agree, saying that he had had only sixty-seven 
livres and that he had credited it to his accovmt; and after having 
made him take oath on the Holy Gospels of the truth of his ac- 
count, we condemned the said defendant to pay the costs. 

At the same Court. 

M. William Arundel, Plaintiff, vs. Jean Bte. Morel, 

Defendant. 

The plaintiff sets forth to us by a petition that M. Morel had 
taken without his knowledge a boat, which the plaintiiï had at 
Prairie du Chien,^ and that he had taken ît without the knowledge 
of the one who was custodian of it; and the plaintiff brought to 
us certificates thereof and demanded damages by his petition; 
and since this is out of our jurisdiction, we dismissed the parties 
to plead before arbitrators. Ant. Girardin. 

The Court adjourned to December i, 1788. 

Ant. Girardin, Près. 

At a Coiut, December i, 1788. 
MM. Girardin, President. P. Laperche. 
Ch. DuCharme. Bte. Dubuque. 

Philippe Engel. Louis Chatel. 

Henry Biron. Magistrates. 

At the same Court M. Gabriel Cerré presented to us a petition, 
which we have referred at his request. 

1 Prairie du Chien, in the present state of WisccKisin, was not included in the district 
of Cahokia or in the county oi Illinois. 



348 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Vu par la Cour assemblé Ce Jour la Requête ci dessus Emsem- 
ble le testament olographe de feu Gemes Moor, ladîtte Cour 
ordonne quil sera fait Bon et fidel Inventaire de tous les Biens 
Généralement quils quonques délaisser par ledit defifunt James 
Moor Juridiquement et avec les formalités requises a la deligence 
des sieurs Cerré Bond et thomas Biggs. Exécuteurs testamentaire 
p^ Ce fait être les dits trois exécuteurs testamentaires mis en Bonne 
posession des dits Biens de lad^^* sucession suivant laditte Inven- 
taire faire les recherches des dits Biens tant meubles qu'immeubles 
en faire rendre Compte a laditte Veuve et par tous autres qui 
pouroient les avoir en leur Possession et généralement faire tout ce 
qui Est du devoir de leurs Charges pour la Conservations des 
droits et Intérêts des personnes intéressées en la suditte sucession 
et autres quil appartiendra afin que la suditte sucession soient 
mise et réglé par le tems prescrit par les Loix donné En Cour le 
trois novembre Mil Sept Cent quatre vingt huit et Signé a la Copie 
délivré Ce Jour, antoine Girardin B*« dubuque Ch Ducharme 
Philipe Engel. Pierre La Perche H. B. i. henri Biron une -h pour 
Louis Chatel et Signé. 

LaBuxiere Comis Grefier. 

A une Cour du i® Décembre 1788. 
A Girardin President P. La Perche 

Ch. Ducharme Henri Biron 

Philipe Engel Louis Chatel 

aug^® Dubuque Magistrats 

Par une Requête a nous présenté ledit Jour Par hiacinthe Cecirc 
et aiant Vu Son Exposé nous avons Permis et Permettons audit 
hiacinthe Cecire de faire une assemblé de ses Parents et amis pour 
délibérer sur son Emancipation le dit Jour et an que dessus. 
P Billet Grefier. 

a une même Cour. 

M. Jean Dumoulin demandeur Phelipe Gervais Deffendeur 

le Demandeur nous a Produit une Compte dont la Balance est 

de Soixante douze livres En argent, intérêt Compris Jusqu'à 

ce jour, le deffend*" nous a dit que led* Dumoulin avoit oii un 

^ A copy of this will is printed on page 515 of this volume. 



COURT RECORD, DECEMBER, 1788 349 

Seen by the assembled Court this day the above petition to- 
gether with the holographic will of the late James Moore. The said 
Court decrees that there shall be made good and faithful inven- 
tory of the property, all and singular, left by the said deceased 
James Moore with legal and requisite formalities, at the suit of 
MM. Cerré, Bond and Thomas Biggs, testamentary executors 
of the will. For this purpose the three said executors are to be put 
in full possession of the said property of the said estate; and 
according to the said inventory they are to search out the said 
property, both personal and real; and to cause the said widow 
and all others who may have it in their possession to render ac- 
count; and generally to do that which is within the duties of their 
office for the preservation of the rights and interests of the per- 
sons interested in the estate aforesaid and of others whom it will 
concern; in order that the estate aforesaid may be settled by the 
time prescribed by law. Given in Court the third of November 
1788, and signed on the copy delivered this day.* Antoine 
Girardin, Bte. Dubuque, Ch. DuCharme, Philippe Engel, Pierre 
Laperche, H. B. I. Henri Biron, a-f-for Louis Chatel, and 
signed Labuxiere, Deputy Clerk. 

At a Court, December i, 1788. 
A. Girardin, President. P. Laperche. 

Ch. DuCharme. Henry Biron. 

Philippe Engel. Louis Chatel. 

Auguste Dubuque. Magistrates. 

By a petition presented to us this said day by Hyacinthe Ce- 
sirre; and after seeing his explanation we permitted and do permit 
the said Hyacinthe Cesirre to hold an assembly of his relatives 
and friends to deliberate on his livery. The said day and year 
as above. 

P. Billet, Clerk. 

At the same Court. 

M. Jean Dumoulin, Plaintiff, vs. Philip Gervais, Defendant. 

The plaintiff brought to us an account, the balance of which 

is for seventy-two livres in money including interest up to this 

day. The defendant told us that the said Dumoulin had had 



350 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Cochon de lait de lui a quoi il nous a dit qu'il Pavoit paie Comp- 
tant. Ce que le deffendeur a récusé et après avoir fait faire ser- 
ment aud* S' Dumoulin et avons Condamné led^ Gervaîs a Paier 
le demandeur et les frais du Present. 
P. Billet Greffier 

a une même Cour, 
une Requête a nous présenté par M' Dumoulin par lequel 
il nous représente que le s' Isadore LaCroix aie a lui remettre 
lexcedent quil doit doit [sic] payer pour un sauvage app^ a Mailher 
quil lui a Eté adjugé a quoi nous avons Conclud led' Jour et an 
que dessus. 

P Billet Greffier. 

A une Même Cour. 
Pierre Billet demandeur Clark deffendeur 
le demandeur nous a produit un Billet par lequel il nous repré- 
sente quil lui est du deux Cents douze livres de Lard depuis le 
mois de Juillet Passé et Vu ses mauvaises Raisons nous l'avons 
Condamné a Paier sous huit Jours sans autre délais. 
Ajourné La Cour au 2. Janvier 1789. 

A* Girardin P. s. d. 

A une Cour du 2 Janv^ 1789. 

Messieurs 

Ant Girardin President Pierre LaPerche 

Ch Ducharme Henri Biron 

B'* Dubuque Philipe Engel 

Louis Chatel Magistrats 

a une Cour du 2 Janvier 1788 [sk], 
sur la representation de M*" de S' Pierre Curé de cette Paroisse 
Sur ce que quelques habitants domiciliés de ce Village avoient 
refusés a donner le Pain Béni Croiant que Ce n'etoit pas une obli- 
gation et nous en aiant fait voir les preuves nous Enjoignons audits 
habitants a donner le Pain béni Chacun leur tour, et aux Jours 
d'obligation fautes de quoi il seront Condamné a paier dix livres a 
lEglise tel quil est present par les loix et Enjoignons aux Marguil- 
liers de les Emploier a En faire faire un a leur deffaut telle est notre 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1789 351 

a suckling pig from him, for which the plaintiff told us that he 
had paid cash, which the defendant challenged. And after causing 
the said Dumoulin to take oath, we condemned the said Gervais 
to pay the plaintiff and the costs of the present suit. 

P. Billet, Clerk. 
At the same Coiut. 
A peition presented to us by M. Diunoulin by which he shows 
us that M. Isidore LaCroix should be held to remit to him the 
balance which he ought to pay for a savage belonging to Mailher, 
which had been adjudged to him, to which we agree the said day 
and year as above. 

P. Billet, Clerk. 
At the same Court. 
Pierre Billet, Plaintiff, vs. Clark, Defendant. 
The plaintiff brought to us a note, by which he shows that 
there is owing to him two hundred and twelve poimds of lard 
since the month of last July. And considering his poor pleas 
we condemned the defendant to pay within a week without 
other delay. 

The Coiut adjourned to January 2, 1789. 

Ant. Girardin, Près. 

At a Coiut, January 2, 1789. 

MM. Ant. Girardin, President. Pierre Laperche. 

Ch. DuCharme. Henry Biron. 

Bte. Dubuque. Philippe Engel. 

Louis Chatel. Magistrates. 

At a Court, January 2, 1789. 
On the representation of M. de St. Pierre, curé of this parish, 
that several inhabitants domiciled in this village have refused to 
give the blessed bread, believing that it was not an obliga- 
tion; and after he had shown us the evidence thereof, we com- 
manded the said inhabitants to give the blessed bread, each 
in his turn and on the days of obligations ; in default of which they 
shall be condenrmed to pay ten livres to the church, as is at present 
the law; and we command the wardens to use the money to have ' 
some bread made to make up the deficiency. Such is our opinion. 



352 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

oppînion donné aux Caho la Cour séante le dit Jour et an que 
dessus. 

ajourné la Cour au premier février 1 788 [sic] 
P. Billet Greffier A* Girardin p. s. d 

A une Cour du 8 février 1 789. 
Messieurs 

A^* Girardin President Pierre LaPerchc 

Ch Ducharme Philipe Engel 

Henri Biron B^* Dubuque 

Louis Chatel Magistrats 

Le S** Labuxiere charge de la sucession de Raphael gagnez 
le demandeur Contre joseph poupart deffendeiir 
Le demandeur demande au deffendeur une somme de six cent 
soi xante dix duit livres dix huit sols Cinq deniers tant en principal 
qu interest dont il y a déjà Eu sentence de Condanmation par cette 
Cour. 

Le deffendeur a demandé délais p*" payer dans le Courant de ce 
mois. 

La Cour accordé aud* demandeur [sic] le Courant de ce mois 
Et la condamné a payer sans plus long terme son billet et interest 
montan t a lad* somme cy dessus et aux frais Et dépens montant 
a huit piastres ce qui sera exécuté, ordonnons au s"" Lachansse 
héritier dud* gagnez de prendre des mains du s^ Labuxiere Le 
billet dud* poupart dont le s*" Labuxiere sera Bien décharge, ce qui 
sera exécuté. 

Labuxiere A* Girardin psd. 

a la même Cour. 
Louis Bergeron demandeur Contre jean B** durbois deffendeur 
Le demandeur demande au deffendeur trois cent livres de 
farine p*" avoir pensé Et guery la fille du Nommé vaudry 

Le deffendeur a répondu quil navoit point guery la petite fille 
et quil avoit Eté obligé de la metre Entre les mains de la dame 

1 Madame Tom Brady was horn in St. Joseph in 1734 and lived successively in MidiUli' 
mackinac, Chicago, and Cahokia. Before marrying Brady she had had three husbands, La- 
flamme, Sainte Ange, and Lecompte. She exercised great power over the Indians, and through 
her personal influence at times sax-ed Cahokia from attack. She was^ universally respected 
at Cahokia, where she died at an advanced age. — Reynolds. Pioneer History, 136. Reynolds 
says that she was a daughter of Laflamme, but the case on p. 377 shows that she was his 
widow. 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1789 353 

Given at Cahokîa at the session of the Court the said day and 
year as above. 

The Court adjourned to February i, 1789. 

P. BiUet, Clerk. Ant. Girardin, Près. 

At a Court, February 8, 1789. 
MM. Ant. Girardin, President. Pierre Laperche. 

Ch. DuCharme. Philippe Engd. 

Henry Biron. Bte. Dubuque. 

Louis Chatel. Magistrates. 

M. Labttxiere intrusted with the estate of Raphael Gagne, 
Plaintiff, vs. Joseph Poupar, Defendant. 
The plaintiff demands of the defendant a sum of six hvmdred 
and seventy-eight livres eighteen sols five derniers as well for the 
principal as interest, for which there has been given judgment 
bv this Court. 

The defendant asked for delay to pay during the course of 
this month. 

The Court granted to the plaintiff [defendant?] the course of 
this month and condemned him to pay without a longer delay 
his note and interest, amovmting to the siun aforesaid with costs 
and charges which amoimt to eight piastres^ for which there will 
be execution. We direct M. Lachanse, heir of the said Gagné, 
to take from M. Labuxiere the note of the said Poupar, of which 
M. Labuxiere shall be fuUy discharged, for which there will be 
execution. . 

Labuxiere. Ant. Girardin, Près. 

At the same Coiut. 
Loins Bergeron, Plaintiff, vs. Jean Bte. Dubois, De- 
fendant. 
The plaintiff demands of the defendant three hundred poimds 
of flour for having attended and ou-ed the daughter of the named 
Vaudry. 

The defendant replied that the plaintiff had not cured the 
little girl and that he had been obliged to put her in the hands 
of Madame Tom,* who had cured her; and that it was not the 
said Bergeron, that on the contrary he had neglected her. 



354 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

thome qui lavoit guérie Et que ce netoit point led* Bergeron quau 
contraire il lavoit negligee. 

Le tout considéré la Cour a débouté ledit Bergeron de Sa 
demande la Condamné aux frais et dépens Et a adjugé les trois 
Cent livres de farine a la dame thom qui a guery la petite fille ce 
qui sera exécuté. A* Gîrardin p. s. d 

a la même cour, 
donné une Saisie au s*" Sans façon contre Wiliam houre p"" le 
payement de vingt huit piastres, la saisie adresser au s*" Chemitz 
juge du grand Ruisseau. 

A* Gîrardin psd. 
La Cour est ajourné au premier de mars prochain ce 2 fev 1789. 

A* Girardin psd. 

du [blank] février délivré un ordre a la requisition de Joseph 
La Chanse contre le Nommé gasien p' paroitre a la Cour du 2 
mars. 

du 27. fev un ordre dassignation a M*" Wiliam aRundel contre 
francois Clark de la belle fontaine. 

27. février — un ordre dassignation p' Le S*" aRundel Contre 
James henderson du grand Ruisseau. 

=un ordre p' Joseph Lachansse Contre pierre martin. 

=un ordre pour Joseph Lachansse Contre Groslé père et fils. 

= un ordre p' Lachansse Contre janot Lapensée. 

= un ordre p*" samuel Morice Contre Joseph Worley. 

=un ordre p*" M*" Dumoulin Contre la femme Brisson. 

— un ordre p*" M*" De Clamorgan Contre Lefevre forgeron. 

= un ordre p^ M*" De Clamorgan Contre Paul Poupart. 

= un ordre p*" M*" De Clamorgan Contre Izaac Chalfont. 

=un ordre p*" M*" De Clamorgan Contre James piquet du 
grand Ruisseau. 

=un ordre p*" M*" de Clamorgan Contre David Waddel. 

= un ordre p^ M*" de Clamorgan Contre francois Clark. 

=un ordre Contre Bond et Biggs comme Exécuteur testamen- 
taire de moore délivré a M*" Morgan. 

' Fn>m now on the clerk used the Ixxjk to keep a record of the writs issued. These were 
probably issued by the justice of the week. 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1789 355 

All considered the Court denied the demands of the said 
Bergeron, condemned him to pay .the costs and charges and 
adjudged the three hundred pounds of flour to Madame Tom 
who cured the little girl, for which there will be execution. 

Ant. Girardin, Près. 
At the same Court. 
Granted a writ of seizure to M. Sansfaçon against William 
Houre for the payment of twenty-eight piastreSy the writ being 
addressed to M. Smith, justice of Grand Ruisseau. 

Ant. Girardin, Près. 
The Court adjourned to the ist of next March, this 2nd of 
February, 1789. 

Ant. Girardin, Près. 

On the — of February a summons delivered on the requisition 
of Joseph Lachanse against the named Gassien that he appear 
at the Court, March 2.* 

On the 27th of February, a summons on complaint of M. 
William Arundel against Francis Clark of Bellefontaine. 

27th of February, a siunmons on complaint of M. Arundel 
against James Henderson of Grand Ruisseau. 

a summons on complaint of Joseph Lachanse against 
Pierre Martin. 

a summons on complaint of Joseph Lachanse against 
Groslé father and son. 

a summons on complaint of Lachanse against Janot La- 
pancé. 

a summons on complaint of Samuel Morris against Joseph 
Worley. 

a summons on complaint of M. Diunoulin against the 
woman Brisson. 

a summons on complaint of M. Glamorgan against 
Lefevre, blacksmith. 

a summons on complaint of M. Glamorgan against Paul 
Poupar. 

a summons on complaint of M. Glamorgan against Isaac 
Chalfont. 



356 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

+ =un ordre p*" dénis vemeau Contre la femme Brisson le 
s^ biron a repondu de lo*^ a Compte sur les frais. 

-f- =un ordre p*" mad« LaCroix contre Louis Groslé. 
du 2. mars délivré une Saisie a matieu saucier contre Joseph 
Cecire p'' saisir le bled Et farine quil a au moulin du S^ LeBrun 
p' sûreté de 800* de farine. 



a une Cour du deux Mars mil Sept Cent quatre vingt neuf. 
M*"* ant® girardin Présidant Henry Biron 
Philipe angel B'* Dubuque 

Charles ducharme Pierre Laperche 

Cons*'* magistrats. 
Denis veronneaux demandeur Contre La femke Brisson 

deffenderesse 
Le demandeur demande le payement de ses gages pendant une 
année tant pour faire marcher le moulin que ce qui en depend 
Echue au p*" de juillet 1788. Et en outre Le Batage de grange 
montant p*" lannée a Six Cent Cinquante livres Et que pour Le 
Batage de Bled M*" Ceré doit luy entenir compte. 

La dame Brisson convient des six cent livres p*" lannée elle a 
produit un compte a la Charge dud* dénis veronneau mon^ a la 
somme du Cinq Cent dix neul livres Cinq sols, aprouvé par led* 
demandeur, reste la s^ de Cent trente livres Cinq sols sur laquelle 
somme est déduit vingt sept livres p*" perte de bled par la faute dud* 
verronncau Et Cinquante livres p*" un vand a vaner quil a laisse 
périr Reste du par la dame Brisson aud^ demandeur Cinquante 
trois livres cinq sols que la cour condamne la dame Brisson a 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1789 357 

a summons on complaint of M. Glamorgan against 
James Piggott of Grand Ruisseau. 

a summons on complaint of M. Glamorgan against 
David Waddel. 

a summons on complaint of M. Glamorgan against 
Francis Clark. 

a summons against Bond and Biggs as testamentary ex- 
ecutors of the will of Moore delivered to M. Morgan. 

a summons on complaint of Denis Veronneau against the 
woman Bnsson. M. Biron has made himself responsible for 
ten livres on account for the costs. 

a summons on complaint of Madame LaCroix against 
Louis Groslé 

On the 2d of March, a writ of seiziure delivered to Matthieu 
Saucier against Joseph Gesirre, to attach the wheat and flour which 
he has at M. Lebrun's mill for surety for 800 lbs. of flour. 

At a Court, March 2, 1789. 
MM. Ant. Girardin, President. Henry Biron. 
Philippe Engel. Bte. Dubuque. 

Charles DuCharme. Pierre Laperche. 

Councilors and Magistrates. 
Denis Veronneau, Plaintiff, vs. the woman Brisson, 

Defendant. 
The plaintiff demands the payment of his wages for a year 
due the first of July, 1788, for nmning the mill and doing what 
is connected therewith; and furthermore for the barn-thrashing 
amovmting for the year to six hundred and fifty livres and also 
for the wheat thrashing for which M. Cerré should be account- 
able to him. 

The woman Brisson acknowledged the six hundred livres a 
year. She exhibited an accovmt against the said Denis Veron- 
neau amovmting to the siun of five hundred and nineteen livres 
five sols, which was approved by the said plaintiff. This leaves 
the siun of one hundred and thirty livres five sols, from which 
sum is deducted twenty-seven livres for the loss of wheat through 
the fault of the said Veronneau and fifty livres for a winnowing 



3S8 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

payer au demandeur sous huit jours Condamne dénis aux frais, 
ce qui sera Exécuté. 

a la même Cour. 

Mad* Lacroix demanderesse Contre Louis Grosle défend- 
eur 

La demanderesse a produit un billet Contre led* Groslé de la 
somme de Cent Cinquante trois livres douze sols que le défend- 
eur a Reconnu et a dit navoir de quoy payer actuellement Et 
quil avoit donné un acompte de six minot et deny de bled Et deux 
poules montant a quarante neuf livres que ladite dame a aussi 
Reconnu partant reste a payer Cent quatre livres douze sols que 
la Cour condamne led* groslé a payer sous huit jour a peine de 
Saisie ce qui Sera exécuté Condamne led* grosle a payer quinze 
livres du frais. 

a la même Cour. 

M*" Dumoulin demandeur Contre La dame Brisson deffen- 

deresse. 

Le demandeur repette par le Billet du s*" Brisson Et desjardins 
solidaires la somme de trois Cent quarante quatre livres Et vingt 
livres douze sols dinterest En argent payable En danrées. et un 
Compte de Cinquante huit livres dix neuf sols p*" marchandise 
toutes diminution faites sur led* compte. 

la deffenderesse a répondu quelle navoit pas connoissance de 
Lâchât du Cheval mentionné aud* billet Et quelle aprouve led* 
compte seulement, sur quoy la Cour a decide que M*" Dumoulin 
atendra un mois p*" le retour dud* Brisson lequel mois passé sera 
libre de se pourvoir Sur les Biens les plus aparants dud* brisson 
quil poura découvrir ou sur ceux dud* desjardins comme solidaire. 
Et quant au Compte la Cour condamne la dame brisson a le 
payer au s*" dumoulin sans délais condamne M*" dumoulins a 
payer les frais, qui luy seront Rembourcé a la decizion du 
billet ce qui sera Exécuté 

a la même Cour. 
Charles Germain demandeur Contre M^ Dumoulin 

Le demandeur demande la somme de Cent livres pour le 
payement de la prise et nouriture des Chevaux saisis Et vendus a 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1789 359 

fan, which he allowed to be mined. There remains due by the 
woman Brisson to the said plaintiff fifty-three livres five sols^ 
which the Court condemns the woman Brisson to pay to the 
plaintiff within a week. Condemned Denis to pay the costs, 
for which there will be execution. 

At the same Coiut. 

Madame LaCroix, Plaintiff, vs. Louis Groslé, Defendant. 

The plaintiff produced a note against the said Groslé for the 
sum of one hvmdred and fiftv-three livres twelve sols, which the 
defendant acknowledged; and he said that he did not have means 
to pay at present, and that he had paid an instalment of six 
minois and a half of wheat and two fowls amounting to forty- 
nine livres y which the said lady also acknowledged; there- 
fore there remains a balance to be paid of one hundred and 
four livres twdve sols, which the Court condemns the said 
Groslé to pay within a week on pain of seizure; for which 
there will be execution. The said Groslé is to pay fifteen livres 
for costs. 

At the same Coiut. 
M. Dumoulin, Plaintiff, vs. the woman Brisson, Defendant. 

The plaintiff claims on the note of MM. Brisson and Desjardins, 
jointly and severally liable, the sum of three hvmdred and forty- 
four livres and twenty livres twelve sols for interest in money, 
payable in kind, and an account for fifty-eight livres nineteen 
sols for merchandise, all rebates being made on the said ac- 
covmt. 

The defendant answered that she had no knowledge of the 
purchase of the horse mentioned in the said note, and that she 
approved the said account only. Whereupon the Coiut decided 
that M. Dumoulin shall wait a month for the return of the said 
Brisson, and when the month is passed, he shall be free to sue 
on the most tangible goods of the said Brisson, which he can find, 
or on those of the said Desjardins, who is equally liable. And 
as to the accovmt the Coiut condemns the woman Brisson to 
pay it to M. Dumoulin without delay. Condemned M. Dumoulin 
to pay the costs, which shall be reimbursed to him at the time of 



36o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

la requisition de M*" dumoulin p*" Créances a luy dues par le 
Nommé alary ameriquain. Le S*" dumoulin a dit quil consentoit 
a payer suivant quil En sera ordonné par la Cour p"" son rembource- 
ment Enver led* alary. 

sur quoy la Cour condamne led* s*" dumoulin a payer les 
Cent livres aud* Germain dont il luy sera tenu Compte par led* 
alary avecs les autres frais de vente et de la présente sentence ce 
qui sera Exécuté. 

a la même Cour. 
Le S*^ Chansse demandeur Contre Janot la pensée 

Le demandeur demande que le deffendeur luy paye la somme 
de Cent dix huit livres En danrées quil doit a lEncan de deffunt 
gagnez Echus depuis noel ou a Son deffau que francois lapensée sa 
caution soit condamné de payer led* janot lapensée ayant dit quil 
ne pouvoit payer et nayant pas de quoy satisfaire la Cour con- 
damne francois Lapensée a payer sans délais la dite somme Entre 
les mains dud* laChansse sauf son recour sur son frère Et aux 
frais et dépens. 

a la même Cour. 
Le S*" La Chansse demandeur Contre pierre martin deffendeur 

Le demandeur demande au deffendeur somme de cent Cin- 
quante huit livres En danrées quil luy doit p*^ lEncan de deffunt 
Raphael Gagnez. 

Le deffendeur a dit N^avoir Rien p' payer présentement, et 
quil demandoit jusques a la fin de ce mois p*" payer ladite somme 
Etant sur le point de vendre sa maison pour payer. 

sur quoy voyant L'impossibilité ou le deffendeur se trouve 
de payer actuellement la cour luy accorde le Credy du cour de ce 
mois sans plus délais faute de quoy permis la vente de ces Biens. 
deffend la cour au s*" LaChausse aucunne poursuite jusques aud* 
tems YA cependant condamne led* martin aux [frais] de Lordre 
et assignation de Ihuissier. 

a la même cour. 
Samuel Morice demandeur Contre Joseph Worley ameri- 
quain nayant voulu paroitre après assignation a luy donné 
p*" paroitre a cette Cour. 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1789 361 

the decision in regard to the note, for which there will be execu- . 
tion. 

At the same Court. 
Charles Germain, Plaintiff, vs. M. Dumoulin, Defendant. 

The plaintiff demands the simi of one hundred livres as pay- 
ment for the capture and keep of the horses seized and sold at 
the requisition of M. Dumoulin for debts due him by the named 
Alary, an American. M. Dumoulin said that he agreed to pay 
according as the Court decreed for his reimbursement by the said 
Alary. 

Whereupon the Court condemned the said Dumoulin to pay 
the hundred livres to the said Germain, for which, with the costs 
of the sale and of the present judgment, the said Alary shall be 
accoimtable to him. 

At the same Court. 

M. Lachanse, Plaintiff, vs. Janot Lapancé, Defendant. 

The plaintiff demands that the defendant pay him the simi 
of one hundred and eighteen livres in kind, which he owes for 
what he bought at the auction of the goods of the deceased 
Gagné and which has been due since Christmas; or in case of 
his failure to pay that François Lapancé, his bondsman, be con- 
demned to pay. The said Janot Lapancé having said that he 
could not pay, and since he does not have the means to satisfy 
the claim, the Court condemns François Lapancé, reserving to 
him recourse against his brother, to pay without delay the said 
sum into the hands of the said Lachanse, and to pay the costs 
and charges. 

At the same Court. 

M. Lachanse, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre Martin, Defendant. 

The plaintiff demands of the defendant the sum of one hun- 
dred and fifty-eight livres ip. kind, which he owes him for the 
auction of the goods of the deceased Raphael Gagné. 

The defendant said that he had nothing with which to pay 
at present; and that he asked for delay till the end of this month 
in order to pay the said sum, as he was on the point of selling 
his house in order to pay. 



302 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Le deffendeur Se trouvant redevoir aud* samuel Morice vingt 
sept piastres En danrées suivant ses Billets tant pour argent reçu 
p«" led* Morice quil sest obligé de remetre aud* demandeur. 

La cour condanme led* Worley a payer Sans aucuns délais 
les vingt sept piastres En danrées faute de quoy sera donné main 
forte p«" saisir Et vendre ses Effets jusques a la Concurance de ce 
quil doit Et Condamne led* Worley En tous les frais Et dépens 
ce qui sera exécuté adresse la présente sentence au S*" schemitz 
p*" la faire exécuter sans Retard. 

frais 15*^ délivré la copie. 

a la même Cour. 

M^ de Clarmorgan demandeur Contre jimes Piggot ameri- 
quain absent Nayant voulu paroitre après avoir Eté assigné 
Et apellé a haute voix. 

Le demande [sic] a produit le Billet du deffendeur par 
lequel led* piquet se trouve a devoir Cinquante un minot de 
Mahis Egrenné ainsy que Cent piastres portée En sa dite 
obligation faute davoir aComply Ses conventions Enver led* 
Clam organ. 

Led* s*" demandeur requière que led* piquet soit condamné a 
luy payer ladite quantité de Mahis avec les Cent piastres vu le 
refus dud* piquet de paroitre. 

La Cour la Condamné et condamne a payer sans délais au 
d* s^ de Clamorgan ladite quantité de Cinquante un minot de 
Mahis ainsy que les Cent piastres de des domagement p>orté En 
son obligation a deffaud par luy davoir acomply Sa condition, 
et le Condamne En outre a livrer le tout a S* Louis Residance de 
M^ Morgan pour Navoir pas fait sa livraison dans le tems quil 
sy est obligé ou led* s*" demandeur pouvoit la faire transporter 
Sans frais Et le Condamne En outre En tous les frais Et dépens ce 
qui sera Exécuté. 

a la même Cour. 
A M*" nicolas Smith Juge de paix du G^ ruisseau. 

Il vous est ordoné De prendre les Depositions De toutes les 
habitants de Votre district qui ont semé & récolté blés & mahis, 
De Doner Sur Sermant, aussi Juste quil est possible p^ la quantité 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1789 363 

Whereupon the Court, seeing that the defendant finds it im- 
possible to pay at present, granted him credit during this month 
without longer delay; in default of which the sale of his property 
is permitted. The Court forbids M. Lachanse to bring any 
suit imtil that time; and moreover condemns the said Martin 
to pay the costs of the hussier^s order and summons. 

At the same Court. 
Samuel Morris, Plaintiff, vs, Joseph Worley, American, 

refusing to appear after being summoned to appear at this 

Court. 

Since the defendant is found to owe to the said Samuel Morris 
twenty-seven piastres in kind according to his note as well as 
for money received for the said Morris, which he pledged himself 
to remit to the said plaintiff, the Coiut condemns the said Worley 
to pay without any delay the twenty-seven piastres, in default 
of which there shall be given power to seize and sell his effects 
up to the equivalent of what he owes; and the Court condemns 
the said Worley in all the costs and charges, for which there 
will be execution. The present judgment is addressed to M. 
Smith in order to have it executed without delay. 

At the same Court. 
M. Clamorgan, Plaintiff, vs, James Piggott, American, absent 

having refused to appear after having been summoned and 

called with a loud voice. 

The plaintiff produced the note of the defendant according to 
which the said Piggott is found to owe fifty-one minots of shelled 
com as well as one hundred piastres entered in his said obliga- 
tion as penalty for not having fulfilled his agreements with the 
said Clamorgan. 

The said plaintiff prays that the said Piggott be con- 
denmed to pay him the said quantity of com with the hundred 
piastres in consideration of the refusal of the said Piggott to 
appear. 

The Court condemned and does condemn him to pay without 
delay to the said M. Clamorgan the said quantity of fifty-one 
minots of com as well as the hundred piastres damages entered in 



364 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

quils auront ceuilly pour payer la Vingt sixième partie a quiconque 
Sera authorise par notre Cour Pour Recevoir Laditte dixme. 

Il sera accordé Jusqu'après La récolte a Ceux qui ne pouront 
absolument pas payer actuellement, Bien entendu que cecy n'est 
que pour ceux qui restent en Dedan De la ligne tirée par M^ 
Girardin notre arpenteur. 

Délivré un ordre a michel olf Et a george Biggs adressé au S' 
Schemitz p^ faire paroitre Joseph Worley p^ repondre a leurs de- 
mandes Et obtenir le payement de ce quil leur doit Et faire droit 
a qui il appartiendra led^ jour Et an. 

Délivré un ordre au S*" Chemitz p*" faire payer Joseph Woriey 
vingt livres quil doit au S*" Labuxiere. 

Délivré un ordre verbal par la cour pour obliger le s*" Chemitz 
sur sa parole a livrer au s*" Labuxiere p^ le s^ dubuq trois Cent 
livres de farine quil est Convenu devant la Cour redevoir p*" tous 
Compte. 

a la même Cour. 
M^ aRondel représentant Le S^ LAFORBiE demandeiu" Contre 
FRANCOIS Clark absent après assignation reçue 
a Comparoir ce jourdhuy. 

Le demandeur reclame un compte de des domagement a 
faute par led* Clark de luy avoir payé suivant son billet quarante 
deux minots i de bled, Echus depuis décembre dernier, la Cour 
Enule le Compte en des domagement Et condamne led* Clark a 
payer sans délais les quarante deux minots Et demy de Bled 
faute de quoy permis de Saisir et vendre jusqua parfait payement 
interest et frais ce qui sera Exécuté. 

a la même Cour. 

M*" Clamorgan est intervenu sur la sentence cy dessus lequel 
a Exibe deux billets dus par le Nommé francois Clark Echus 
dequis lannée dernière montant a la quantité de onze Cent 
quarante livres de tabac lequel nous a requis Comme plus ancien 
Créanciers dEtre privilégie sur les Biens dud* Clark p^ son paye- 

* Evidently an attempt to make the Americans pay church tithes. From Coloiiel Hmr- 
mer's statement, it is evident that the Americans were paying nothing for the sui^xnt of the 
government or church in the yew, 1787. — Smi^h, St. Claire Papers, 11 ., 31. 

2 To what line this refers is not known. 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1789 365 

his obligation as penalty for not having fulfilled its condition. And 
it condemns him furthermore to deliver all at the St. Louis* resi- 
dence of M. Morgan for not having made delivery thereof at the 
time to which he pledged himself and where the said plaintifiF 
could have had it transported without expense; and condemns 
him furthermore in all the costs and charges, for which there will 
be execution. 

At the same Court. 

To M. Nicolas Smith, Justice of the Peace of Grand Ruisseau. 

You are ordered to take the deposition of all the inhabitants 
of your district who have sown and harvested wheat and com, 
and they are to make a statement on oath as justly as it is possible 
in regard to the quantity that they have gathered, in order to pay 
the twenty-sixth part to whomever authority shall be given by 
our Court to receive the said tithe.* 

There shall be granted a delay until after harvest to those who 
absolutely cannot pay at present, it being well understood that 
this applies only to those who are within the line drawn by M. 
Girardin, our surveyor.* 

An order delivered to Michel Olf and George Biggs, addressed 
to M. Smith, to cause Joseph Worley to appear to answer their 
prayers and to obtain the payment of that which he owes them 
and to render justice to whom it shall belong, the said day and 
year. 

An order delivered to M. Smith to compel Joseph Worley to 
pay twenty livres which he owes to M. Labuxiere. 

A verbal order delivered by the Court to compel M. Smith on 
his word to deliver to M. Labuxiere for M. Dubuque three hun- 
dred pounds of flour, which it is agreed before the Coiut he owes 
for his account in full. 

At the same Court. 
M. Arundel representing M. Laforme, Plaintiff, vs. Francis 

Clark, absent after sunmions received to appear to-day. 

The plaintiff claims an account, with damages as penalty, 
from the said Clark for not having paid according to his note 
for forty-two and a half minois of wheat, due since last December. 



366 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

ment, si mieux la Cour Nadjuge Le marc La livre Entre led* 
laforme Et led* s^ demandeur, sur quoy la Cour a suspendu 
toute saisie accordée aud* s^ Laforme ordonne que led* laforme 
ne sera paye qua marc La livre avec M*" Clamorgan comme 
premier Créancier auquel marc la Lx il se Restraint condamne 
Clark aux frais et dépens. 

La Cour est adjoumé au premier avril 1789. 

A* Girardin psd. 

a la requisition du S** Wiliam aRundel conunerceant de 
Canada a Eté Enregistre la Sentence arbitrale qui suit. 

Nous Soussignés arbitres Nommés par ordre de la cour du 
district des cahos du premier de ce mois pour decider laffaire 
Entre les S" William aRundel demandeur Contre jean B*« Mord 
deffendeur Concernant une pirogue que le S^ arundel dit que le 
S*" morel luy a Enmene de La prairie du chien Sans y être autorisé 
Et quil a Eté obligé de faire Son voyage icy avec Beaucoup de 
frais ne trouvan pas Sa voiture a la prairie du chien vu toutes les 
pieces produites a la cour par les deux parties Ensembles les 
Certifficats des S" hamelin et Blondeau Non Sermentes qui 
déclarent que le S^ morel a pris la voiture Sans leurs ordres ni 
permission. 

Vu aussi les deux certifficats Sermentes devant le S*" Ducharme 
un des juges de la cour donnez par pierre antaya Et Joseph Léger 
dit parisien qui détruisent par leur Serment les deux précédants 
certifficats. Nous sommes dopinion que le S^ Wiliam aRundel 
Soit débouté de sa demande En ver led* morel tant du payement 
de la dite pirogue que de tous des domagements Et quelle restera 
pour son compte Et risques Et cependant pour le tems et ser- 
vice que led* morel a Eu de la pirogue nous estimons quil doit 
payer la moitié des frais du procès Et lautre moitié par le s' a 
Rundel Sauf aud* S^ a Rundel son recour contre le S^ amelin pour 
le payement de la pirogue, frais Et tous Et tous [sk] des domage- 
ments sil la prêtée au s*" morel de son Chef Sans lordre dud* 
S^ a Rundel aux Cahos le six décembre mil sept cent quatre vingt 
huit. Signé Saucier, Dumoulin Et Labuxiere arbitres Nommés. 

* See note, p. sa. 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1789 367 

The Court set aside the account for damages and condemns the 
said Clark to pay without delay the forty-two and a half minois of 
wheat; in default of which it is permitted to seize and sell suffi- 
cient for perfect payment with interest and costs, for which there 
will be execution. 

At the same Court. 

M. Clamorgan became a party to the above judgment, and 
he exhibited two notes due by the named Francis Clark, matured 
since last year, and which amount to the quantity of eleven hundred 
and forty pounds of tobacco ; and he prayed us, as older creditor, 
to be given preference on the property of the said Clark for his 
payment; if the Coiut does not prefer to adjudge the mark in 
the pound* between the said Laforme and the said plaintiff. 
Whereupon the Court stayed all seizure granted to the said M. 
Laforme and decrees that the said Laforme shall be paid only 
his percentage of the assets with M. Clamorgan as first creditor, 
to which percentage he is restricted. Condemned Clark to pay the 
costs and charges. 

The Court adjourned to the ist of April, 1789. 

Ant. Girardin, Près. 

At the request of M. William Anmdel, trader from Canada, 
there has been registered the verdict by arbitration which 
follows: 

We, the undersigned arbitrators, named by order of the Court 
of the district of Cahokia on the first of this month to decide the 
cause between MM. William Arundel, plaintiff, vs. Jean Bte. 
Morel, defendant, concerning a pirogue, which M. Arundel said 
M. Morel had taken from him at Prairie du Chien without author- 
ity so that he had been obliged to make his journey here at great 
expense, because he did not find his boat at Prairie du Chien : 
considering all the docviments exhibited to the Court by the two 
parties, together with the certificates of MM. Hamelin and Blon- 
deau, not made under oath, and which affirm that M. Morel 
took the boat without their order or permission; considering 
also the two certificates, sworn to before M. DuCharme, one of 
the justices of the Coiu't, given by Pierre Antaya and Joseph 



368 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Vu la Sentence arbitrale de lautre part produite a la cour de ce 
jour, laquelle Sentence la cour a homologué et homologue par ces 
présentes Et ordonne quelle Sortira Son plain Et Entier Effet tant 
contre le s*" a Rondel que contre le S^ hamelin Sur Lequel le S*" 
arondel aura Son recour pour le payement de sa pirogue Et frais 
ainsi quil est expliqué En ladite Sentence donné En Cour le deux 
mars mil sept Cent quatre vingt neuf, signé J. B. Dubuq. henry 
Biron. ducharme. p*"*^ Laperche. Philipe Engel. ant. Girardin. 

A* Girardin 



a une Cour du Six avril 1789. 

Le S*" Jean B^^ LaCroix Sest présenté pour faire délibérer sur 
le prix des danrées p^ le payement de ceux qui doivent a l'Eglise 
a Eté délibéré par la cour que la farine sera prise a vingt livres 
le Cent, Le bled froment Bien net et Bien Epuré a Six livres le 
minot. 

Le mahis vané Et recevable Examt de moisisure et pouriture a 
quatre livres le minot. 

Et le lard salé des hosse [sic] Bien conditioné a vingt sols le tout 
sur le pied de largent Et la cour condamne Les débiteurs a payer 
sans délais le montant de leurs dits Billets a quoy faire ils Seront 
contraint par Saisie Et vente de leurs Biens mandons a Ihuissier 
de cette cour de metre la présente sentence a execution nonobstant 
toute oposition. arrête lesd jour Et an. 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1789 369 

Léger called Parisien, which certificates destroy by their oath the 
two preceding certificates; we are of the opinion that the demands 
of M. William Arundel against the said Morel as well for payment 
for the said pirogue as for damages be denied and that the pirogue 
remain at his risk and loss; and yet for the time and service which 
the said Morel has had of the said pirogue, we estimate that he 
ought to pay half of the costs of the suit and that the other 
half be paid by M. Arundel; reserving to the said M. Arundel 
his recourse against M. Hamelin for the payment of the pirogue 
with costs and all damages, if he lent it of his own accord 
without the order of the said M. Arundel. At Cahokia December 
6, 1789. Signed, Saucier, Dumoulin and Labuxiere, arbitrators 
named. 

Having seen the verdict by arbitration on the other side brought 
into Court this day, the Court affirmed and does affirm this 
verdict by these presents, and decrees that it shall have its full and 
entire effect as well against M. Arundel as against M. Hamelin 
against whom M. Arundel shall have his recourse for the payment 
of his pirogue and costs, as is set forth in the said verdict. Given 
in Court March 2, 1789. Signed, J. B. Dubuque, Henry Biron 
DuCharme, Pierre Laperche, Philippe Engel, Ant. Girardin. 

Ant. Girardin. 

At a Court April 6, 1789. 

M. Jean Bte. LaCroLx presented himself in order to have a 
decision given on the price of commodities paid by those who 
owe the church. The Court determined that flour shall be taken 
at twenty livres the hundred; wheat clean and well winnowed at . 
six livres the minot. 

Com winnowed and acceptable, free from mold and brown 
rust, at four livres the minot. 

And bacon cured des hosse [ ?] in good condition at twenty sols, 
all on the basis of money. And the Court condemned the debtors 
to |>ay without delay the amount of their said notes, to do which they 
shall be constrained by seizxire and sale of their property. We con- 
demn the huissier of this Court to put the present decree in execu- 
tion, notwithstanding all opposition. Decreed the said day and year. 



370 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du Six avril 1789. 
M^ Jacques De Clamorgan Sest présente p*" Et au Nom du 
s^ Jean B^^ Pratte chargé de la procuration de dame archange 
Prate veuve de deffunt le s*" augustin Dubuque deceddé aux Cahos 
aux Ilinois le 8 9^" 1787. led* S^ de Clamorgan demandeur En 
reclamation des douaires Et preciput accordé a ladite dame veuve 
par son contrat de mariage passé En Entr'Ele [sic] Et led* deffunt 
au moyen de la renonciation quelle a faite a la Communauté dentr- 
elle Et led* deffunt. Vu par la cour le Susdit contract de mariage 
En datte du dix sept octobre mil sept cent soixante dix huit passé 
devant M*" fauher N" de La province de quebec par lequel il 
est Constitué p^ douaire a ladite dame veuve La Somme de Cinq 
raille livres de douaire prefix et 3 ans retour et p*" preciput la 
sorame de quinze cent livres formant En total la somme de six 
mille Cinq cent livres, vu aussi une declaration En forme dinvan- 
taire Estimatif des meubles Et effets qui se sont trouvez chés la 
dame dubuque En Canada fait par M^ le Guay Et papineau 
N*^ lEgalisé par M^ de Ronville juge a montreal, montant a la 
somme de douze Cent quatre vingt deux livres un sol qui sont a 
déduire sur ladite sorame de six mille Cinq cent livres partant 
Reste p*" les reprises de ladite dame veuve la somme de Cinq mille 
deux Cent dix sept livres dix neuf sols. Vu aussi la procuration 
de ladite dame adressée aud* s^ jean B**^ Pratte pour recevoir Ses 
droits aux ilinois En datte du Sept juin mil sept cent quatre vingt 
huit duement Legalizéc En bonne form le tout Considéré et 
mûrement Examiné La Cour a aloué et aloue a ladite dame veuve 
dubuque ladite somme de six mille Cinq cent livres p*" son douaire 
Et preciput sur laquelle somme il sera déduit celle de douze cent 
quatre vingt deux livres un sols quelle a retenu par ses mains 
Suivant letat Estimatif cy dessus mentionné Et En concequance 
luy sera payé la s* de Cinq mille deux cent dix sept livres dix 
neuf sols p'^ tous droits quelle a'a Espérer sur ladite sucession 
dud* deffunt son mary aux ilinois que le s^ Labuxiere Chargé du 
recouvrement luy comptera aussitost quil aura recouvre des fonds 
suffisament p*" Remplir ladite ladite [sic] somme Et dont il luy sera 

> For other references to this same case see pp. 309-313,315, 323-327, 385-381, 303, 
429. 513- 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1789 371 

At a Court April 6, 1789. 

M. Jacques Clamorgan presented himself for and in the name 
of M. Jean Bte. Pratte intrusted with the power of attorney of 
Madame Archange Pratte, widow of the deceased M. Augustin 
Dubuque, who died at Cahokia in the Illinois November 8, 1787, 
and brought suit for dower rights and jointure, which were 
accorded to the said widow by her contract of marriage, passed 
between her and the said deceased, on the plea of the renunciation 
which she has made of the community of goods between her and 
the said deceased.^ 

The Court having seen the contract of marriage aforesaid 
under date of October 17, 1778, passed before M. Faucher, notary of 
the province of Quebec, by which there is settled on the said 
widow for dower the sum of five thousand livres of fixed dower 
and three years reversion and for jointure the sum of fifteen 
hundred livres; and having seen also an affidavit in the form of 
an appraised inventory of furniture and effects, which are at the 
house of Madame Dubuque in Canada, made by M. Le Guay 
and Papineau, notaries, and legalized by M. de Rouville, justice 
at Montreal, and amounting to the simi of twelve hundred and 
eighty-two livres one sol, which are to be deducted from the said 
simi of six thousand five hundred livres; therefore there remains 
for the recovery by the said widow the «imi of five thousand two 
hundred and seventeen livres nineteen sols; having seen also the 
power of attorney of the said lady, sent to the said M. Jean Bte. 
Pratte empowering him to receive her just dues in the Illinois, 
dated June 7, 1788, duly legalized in good form: all having been 
considered and carefully examined, the Court allowed and does 
allow the said Madame Dubuque, widow, the said sum of six thou- 
sand five hundred livres for her dower and jointiu'e, from which 
sum there shall be deducted the sum of twelve hundred and 
eighty-two livres one sol, which she has retained in her hands 
according to the statement of the appraisement mentioned above; 
and consequentiy there shall be paid to her the simi of five thou- 
sand two hundred and seventeen livres nineteen sols to satisfy 
all her just claims which she has a right to expect from the said 



37a ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

tenu compte sur laqutaitnce quil En raportera dud* s^ jean B*« 
pratte a bas de la susdite procuration ce qui sera Exécuté non- 
obstant toute oposition et par privilege a tous autres Créancier 
fait et donné par la Cour lesd^ jour Et an 
[Signed] 
hBI pierre la perche 

DuCharme B*« Dubuque 

Phillipe Engel Sa 

Louis -}- chatel. 
marque 
Labuxiere Grefier A* Girardin. 

a la même cour. 
M^ Reilhe a présente une requête contre Izidore la Croix Charge 
des affaires de gigon p** la sucession de dubuque par lapointé 
de la Cour ordonné quil sera surcit jusqua larivé dud' s*" LaCroix. 
La Cour est ajourné au i®*" May prochain. 

A* Girardin. 



a une Cour du i®*" May 1789. 
Francois Chevalier demandeur Contre Louis Ciquar défen- 
deur et DENIS LAVERTU 

Le demandeur Reclame quinze livres p^ lexcedant du loyer 
d'un Canot quil a loué au deffendeur pour mois qui luy a Eté 
payé mais Comme Le deffendeur a gardé le canot plus longtems 
le demandeur Reclame ladite somme de quinze livres p' une 
partie de Ihiver. 

Le deffendeur a réplique quil croyoit Lavoir Bien payé et 
quil ne croyoit pas luy devoir. 

Le demandeur offre Son Sermant que les quinze livres luy 
sont dus ce qui a Eté accepté par le deffendeur. 

Sur quoy la Cour a fait faire Sermant aud* francoîs Chevalier 
Et Condamné le deffendeur a luy payer ladite somme de quinze 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1789 373 

estate of the said deceased, her husband, at the Illinois, which sum 
M. Labuxiere, intrusted with the recovery, wiU pay to her as soon 
as he shall have collected funds sufficient to make up the said 
simi, and there shall be rendered an accounting thereof to him 
on the receipt, written on the bottom of the power of attorney 
aforesaid, which he will obtain from the said M. Jean Bte. Pratte, 
for which there wiU be execution notwithstanding all opposition 
and by preference to all other creditors. Made and given by the 
Court the said day and year. 
[Signed] Pierre Laperche. 

hBi Bte. Dubuque. 

DuCharme. His 

Philippe Engel. Louis -}- Chatel 

mark 
Labuxiere, Clerk. Ant. Girardin. 

At the same Court. 
M. Reilhe presented a petition against Isidore LaCroix in- 
trusted with the cause of Gigon against the estate of Dubuque. 
By the reference of the Coiu't it was decreed that it shall be 
stayed till the arrival of the said M. LaCroix. 
The Court adjoiu'ned to the first of May next. 

Ant. Girardin. 

At a Court, May i, 1789. 
François Chevauer, Plaintiff, vs. Louis Ciquar and Denis 

La VERTU, Defendants. 
The plaintifiF claims fifteen livres for the additional rent of a 
canoe, which he rented the defendant for a month, which rent 
has been paid; but since the defendant kept the canoe a longer 
time, the plaintiff claims the said smn of fifteen livres for the rent 
during a part of the winter. 

The defendant replied that he believed that he had paid him 
enough and that he did not think he was in debt to him. 

The plaintiff offers his oath that the fifteen livres are due him 
and this was accepted by the defendant. 

Whereupon the Court caused François Chevalier to take oath 
and condemned the defendant to pay him the said sum of fifteen 



374 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

livres Et condamne les défendeur aux frais que nous avons liquidez 
a dix livres qui sont dus au grefier a deffaud pan Ihuissier davdr 
délivré Lordre lesquels frais seront avancés par le s*" Chevalier 
sauf son Rembourcement Enver le deflfendeur ce qui sera Exécuté. 

B*« Dubuque 

du Six May mil Sept cent quatre vingt neuf a une Cour Ex- 
traordinaire tenue a la demande de francois huberdeau. 

Led* S^ HUBERDEAU demandeur Contre la sucessiok de deffunt 
AU(.usTiN Dubuque En privilege de Sa Créance sur laquelle Est 
intervenu M" Reilhe chargé de la procuration de M*" Gamdin 
Et M^ Izadore LaCroix oposant aud* privilege dautre part, dcf- 
fendeur M*" De Rocheblave aussi oposant aud* privilege. 

Sur les representation que francois huberdeau a fait a la Cour 
(juil est party de Canada pour venir recevoir Les droits qui luy 
Revenoit dans la sucession de feu jean B** huberdeau Son fcrere 
decedé aux ilinois, Sur lesquels droits deffunt le S^ augustin du- 
buque a reçu de Simon huberdeau Son frère la quantité de deux 
cent piastres gourdes pour luy faire toucher En Canada sui\'ant 
lobligation dud* deffunt dubuque cautionnée par le s' Joseph 
Marie Papin passée devant M*" Cruzat commandant de la partie 
espagnole a S* Louis, sur laquelle somme luy a Eté offerte par 
madame dubuque En Canada huit cent cinquant deux livres aux 
Conditions quil donneroit une quittance générale pour tous Ses 
droits dans la Sucession dud* deffunt jean B*^ huberdeau son frère 
ce (juil a refusé Et a En concequance pris le party de venir luy 
même a la poursuite de Ses droits contre son frère simon huberdeau, 
Et En même tems reclamer sur la sucession de deffunt dubuque les 
deux cent piastres gourdes quil devoit luy faire toucher En 
Canada 'En vertu de Sa Susdite obligation En datte du 23 may 
1786 avec les frais et dépens quil est obligé de faire condud a ce 
que ladite somme de deux cent piastres luy soit payée |>ar ladite 
Sucession Et tous Ses frais et dépens, 
oui M" Reilhe, Izadore laCroix Représentant M" P*"* Gamelin 

> l'his is the a^m ol Philipiie de Kochcbluvr, the former actinjCRovernor of Illinuis, nut the 
govrriuT himself, as Ls proved by his idgnature, which in totally dmiérent from that uf the elder 
Kuchcblave. 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1789 375 

livres and- condemns the defendant to pay the costs, which we 
have set at ten livres^ which are due to the clerk because of the 
failure of the huissier to deliver the summons, which costs shall 
be advanced by M. Chevalier, reserving his reimbursement from 
the defendant, for which there will be execution. 

Bte. Dubuque. 

The 6th of May, 1789, at a special session of the Court held 
on the petition of François Huberdeau. 

The said M. Huberdeau, Plaintiff, claiming as preferred 
creditor, vs. the estate of the deceased Augustin Dubuque 
in which suit there intervened M. Reilhe, intrusted with 
the power of attorney by M. Gamelin, and M. Isidore 
LaCroix, both opposing the said privilege, and of the other part 
M. de Rocheblave,* défendent, also opposing the said privilege. 

François Huberdeau sets forth to the Court that he left Canada 
to come to receive the just dues, which accrued to him from 
the estate of the late Jean Bte. Huberdeau, his brother, deceased 
in the Illinois ; of which dues the deceased M. Augustin Dubuque 
received from Simon Huberdeau, his brother, the sum of two him- 
dred piustres gourdes, in order that he might remit them to him in 
Canada, according to the obligation of the said deceased Dubuque 
which was guaranteed by Joseph Marie Pepin and drawn before. 
M. Cruzat, commandant of the Spanish side at St. Louis; of which 
sum there had been offered him in payment by Madame Dubuque in 
Canada eight hundred and fifty-two /iVre5 on condition that he should 
give a receipt in full for all his just dues in the estate of the said 
Jean Bte. Huberdeau, his brother, which he refused; and conse- 
quentiy he resolved to come himself to sue for his rights against 
his brother, Simon Huberdeau, and at the same time to claim from 
the estate of the deceased Dubuque the two hundred piastres 
Gourdes which he [Dubuque] ought to have remitted to him in 
Canada in virtue of the obligation aforesaid under date of May 23, 
1786, together with the costs and charges, which he has been 
obliged to make; and he concludes that the same sum of three 
himdred piastres should be paid him by the said estate with all 
costs and charges. 



376 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

et Gigon Et M** de Rocheblave agissant En Son Nom' Lesquds 
ont demandé Et représente que led' francois huberdeau ne 
pouvoit Etre reçu Créancier privilégie aux ilinois p' y recevoir les 
deux cent piastres par luy demandé i® parcequil Les a voit 
refusées en Canada 2° En ce que le S*" Dubuque avoit fait imc 
faillite Et que En concequance sa Créance ne devoit pas Etre 
regardée Comme priviligie Et quil devoit être Renvoyé au Sindic 
qui sera nommé par les Créanciers En vertu de la sentence de 
la Cour dui**" décembre 1788. Requérant a ce Effet le Renvoy 
dud* huberdeau Et quil soit débouté de Son prétendu privilege 
par luy demandé. 

Parties ouies En leurs demandes Répliques, responses Requi- 
sitions Et Conclusions, la Cour après avoir mûrement examiné 
Et délibéré Sur ladite affaire, Elle a reçu Et reçoit led* franccHS 
huberdeau au nombres des Créanciers privilégie sur la Sùcession 
de deffunt augustin dubuque pour les deux cent piastres gourdes 
que led' deffunt lui devoit faire toucher En Canada Sans aucunne 
Condition ny renonciation a Ses autres droits ce qui la Empêché 
de recevoir la dite somme En Canada des mains de madame 
dubuque. ordonne ladite Cour quil Sera Nommé trois Négociants 
pour faire le valuation des piastres En Canada Et de la dif- 
ferance des ilinois pour le Surplus luy être payé avec le Capital 
des deux cent paistres En Bon de la Caisse espagnole Et pelterie 
tel que le Charge de la sùcession poura les recevoir Et quand 
au compte du frais et dépens que led' francois huberdeau a pro- 
duit a la Cour ce jour, ordonne pareillem' ladite Cour quil sera 
taxé par les njeme arbitres, condamme la sùcession dubuque 
aux frais de lextraord*"*^ de la présente Cour suivant le Compte 
qui en sera produit Et vareté par un des magistra de cette dite 
Cour pour les dites sommes jointes Et évaluées Etre payée pri- 
vilegierement par le s*" Labuxiere chargé de ladite sùcession avant 
toute delivraison de deniers aux autres Créanciers. 

Laquelle Créance nous accordons privilegierement comme 
ayant Eté formée aux ilinois Et En concequance y Etre liquidées. 
dont led' s'' Labuxiere Sera Bien et valablement déchargé En 

* The correct date is December i, 1787. See supra^ P- 3îx- 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1789 377 

Heard MM. Reilhe, Isidore LaCroix, representing MM. Pierre 
Gamelin and Gigon, and M. de Rocheblave acting in his own 
name, who prayed and set forth that the said François Huberdeau 
could not be received as preferred creditor in the Illinois to receive 
there the two hundred piastres demanded by him: firstly, because 
he had refused them in Canada; secondly, because M. Dubuque 
had become bankrupt and that consequently his claim ought not 
to be regarded as preferred and that he ought to be referred to the 
syndic who shall be named by the creditors in virtue of the decree 
of the Court of December i, 1788*; and they therefore pray for 
the dismissal of the said Huberdeau, and that the pretended 
privilege demanded by him be denied. 

After the parties were heard in their prayers, replications, 
answers, requisitions and conclusions, the Court, after having 
maturely examined and deliberated on the said cause, received 
and does receive the said François Huberdeau in the number 
of preferred creditors of the estate of the deceased Augustin 
Dubuque for the two hundred piastres gourdes, which the said 
deceased should have sent him in Canada, without any condition 
or renunciation of his other rights which hindered him from 
receiving the said sum in Canada from the hands of Madame 
Dubuque; and the Court decrees that there shall be named three 
merchants to make the evaluation of the piastres in Canada and 
of the difference in Illinois in order that the excess be paid to 
him with the capital of two hundred piastres in Spanish treasury- 
notes and peltries, as the trustee of the estate may receive them; 
and as to the account of costs and charges which the said François 
Huberdeau brought into Court this day, the said Court decrees 
likewise that it shall be determined by the same arbitrators; it 
condemns the estate of Dubuque to pay the costs of the present 
special session according to the account which shall be produced 
and verified by one of the magistrates of this Court, in order that 
the said sums joined and evaluated be paid by preference by M. 
Labuxiere, trustee of the said estate, before any payment of 
money to other creditors. 

This debt we accord the right of preference, since it was 



378 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



Raportant lobligation dud* s*" dubuque quittance par led* francois 

huberdeau avec le Cumpte produit dud^ huberdeau et frais de 

justice fait et délibéré Kn Cour par M" antoine Girardin Présidant, 

Charles duCharme, Philipe Engel, henry Biron, pierre Lrap>erche, 

Jean B^*^ Dubuque, Et Louis Chatel Magistrats pour Etre Exécuté 

Nonobstant toute oposition lesd^ jour et an. 

[Sii^ncd] 

B Dubuque Philipe Engel 

henry hBl Biron Pierre Laperche 

Louis -h Chatel Ch DuCharme 

A^ Girardin. 

a la même Cour. 

M»^ Reilhe représentant M»^ Gamklin Contre M*" Izadore 
LaCroix représentant M*" Gigon. 

M*" Reilhe en sa dite qualité a prouvé que led* s*" Izadore 

laCroix ne pouvoit Etre reçu Créanciers privilégie sur les Biens 

de deiïunt augustin duhufiue i^ En ce que la Saisie provisoire 

quil a obtenu du vivant du s*" dubuque Est ilegale et que led* 

defîunt dubuque Est mort dans linstant de la saisie Netant dail- 

leur que provisoire Et que la Cour na ])oint fait droit sous la 

huitaine porté par les onr**" de La validité de ladite Saisie 2** 

que la sentence (jue led* S*" Izidore LaCroix a obtenu de la Cour 

le 7 may lytSS Est obrei)tive I^t subrebtive La Cour Mayant pas 

suffisament I^té informée de la legimité des Créances du s' gigon 

représenté par le s^ isidore LaCroix. Concluant a ce que led* 

s*" LaCroix soit Renvoyé p*" sa prétendue Créance au sindic des 

autres Cream iers ai)rés quil aura Reçu le reliquat de ladite suces- 

sion le s'' (ligon netant ijue commis du s*" Gamelin Et non Ekjui- 

peur dud* deiïunt dubuque comme lavance le s*" LaCroix. 

' Tlu' (vpl.LM.iMiiM oi thi». i!t i !.it.iti<»r. sicms to Iv t]i<- foMdwin^^: Isidore La Cn'tiz obtained 
on Nii\i'iii1k': .s. «7^7. fn-iu i\v: jusu..»* ni tlu- Airk a wiii r.î sfi/uri- as^ainst Au/^stin Dubuque; 
but tin- I;ii;ir «lin! >,n tlic il.iv ihc w.-ii A.m servoil. This writ sIkki!*] have l>cen rrmfirmcfi by 
tliv full r<mri witliiîî tlii* wtrh, liut ihis w:i>> nut «i'»nt\ ;iMiiou>;h s.'mo kind of a dcax-e was 
rendcHNl NovrmlM-r 11. ijf^y, an»! ri'«"ordc<i l.tttT. On a-. count nf thr death of Dubuque. it 
was dis, l'»Mil th.it lie wa*. a l»;irikrii;)i. ani Iu«i iTiditoT^ a;t«Mni»l«*d tn o'uain ihe ri{{lits of pnr- 
ferrefi crediljip»; I)'.ii tln' ('<viri «iroiiNinl t'irM t'u* riRhis of th<»>M' who had lx*en wtMindird and 
wh<is.' pnijKTiy ii.i.l lni-n d.iin i^nl l)v th'; ('\;)l»-ii-in «•( K-i'i,i')*vd..':. for whirh Dubuqiir was 
rrsivin.MMc. and nl'ut tlic ri^hls «l thr widnw .ind t!u' in-diturs ii\iiiK in Illinois. After all 
thesi- had Ixon l'.iid tl»c tndiior-. ir.nn i'anada an ' •'îwwiirve wcn' to di\ide pri portions 11 y 
thr liai ru" of thi- rotate Nidc»rr I^iCmix. howi^i-r. e\yx*cti'd that ho would l>c nnmbcn^d 
amouK the pn-frmd irtdit"is l^f< ;»•!«-• of his r.ji-iivr iM.i hmi-nt. and on May 7. 17S8, he did 
olitain a ront'irm-iti. n «f his tlaim, whicli now tiio Conn after further inx'cstigation aisallowed. 
See pp. 3a3-3a7- 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1789 379 

incurred in. the Illinois and consequently should be liquidated 
there; and the said M. Labuxiere shall be well and legally dis- 
charged thereof when he shows the obligation of the said M. Du- 
buque receipted by the said François Huberdeau with the account 
produced by the said Huberdeau and the costs of justice. 
Made and decreed in Court by MM. Antoine Girardin, President, 
Charles DuCharme, Philippe Engel, Henry Biron, Pierre Laperche, 
Jean Bte. Dubuque and Louis Chatel, magistrates, to be put 
in execution notwithstanding all opposition, the said day and 
year. 
[Signed] 

B. Dubuque. Philippe Engel. 

Pierre Laperche. 

-Henry hBi Biron Ch. DuCharme. 

Louis -f Chatel. Ant. Girardin. 

At the same Court. 
M. Reilhe representing M. Gamelin, vs, M. Isidore LaCrodc 

representing M. Gigon 
M. Reilhe in his said capacity proved that the said M. Isidore 
LaCroix could not be received as preferred creditor of the prop- 
erty of the deceased Augustin Dubuque: ist, because the pro- 
visional seizure, which he obtained during the life of M. Dubuque 
is illegal and because the said deceased Dubuque died at the 
moment of the seizure, which was moreover only provisional, 
and because the Court did not decree within the week, fixed by 
its orders, concerning the validity of the said seizure; 2nd, 
because the decree which the said M. Isidore LaCroix obtained 
from the Court, May 7, 1788, is obreptitious and surreptitious, 
since the Court was not sufficiently informed of the legitimacy 
of the claims of M. Gigon, represented by M. Isidore LaCroix; 
and he concludes that the said M. LaCroix should be referred 
for his pretended claims to the syndic of the other creditors after 
the latter shall have received the balance of the said estate, the 
said Gigon being only the deputy of M. Gamelin and not the 
furnisher of the said deceased Dubuque as M. LaCroix ad- 
vances.* 



38o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

ouy led* s*" LaCroix qui a persiste dans son privil^e a luy 
accordé par ladite sentence du 7 may 1788 p*" toute deffences. 

La Cour après avoir mûrement délibéré a mis Et met ladite 
sentence du 7 may 1788 au Néant comme ayant Eté rendue en 
labsence dud* s*" Reilhe obreptivement et subrebtivement nayant 
pas Eté suflSsament informée Et Renvoy led* s*" izidore LaCroix 
p' toute sa Créances avec les autres Créanciers a Se pourvoir 
ver le sindic qui sera nommé p*" En Etre délibéré ainsy quil 
aviseron ce qui sera exécuté lesd* jour et an. 
[Signed] 
DuCharme Phillipe Engel 

B*« Dubuque hBi 

Pierre Laperche Louis H- Chatel 

Labuxiere A* Girardin. 



Du 18 may 1789 a Sept heiu'es du matin. 

délivré une Saisie a Louis Coste pour saisir Et arrêter une 
paire de Boeuf que pierre Billet a remis Entre les Mains du Nonuné 
gassien p*" être vendus dimanche prochain a deffaud de payement 
ladite saisie signé dubuque magistra. 

Le même jour a Neuf heures du matin. 

délivré une saisie a francois lapensée pour saisir les mêmes 
Boeuf avec defferices aud* gassien de Sen Dessaisir a peine dEn 
repondre que la Cour Nen ay ordonné. 

du 19 may délivré une Saisie provisoire a francois saucier {X)ur 
saisir entre les mains de pierre durbois deux Banques de tafia 
apartenant a michel peltier dit antaya. 

du 20 may 1789 délivré un ordre dassignation a jean farelle 
p' faire paroi tre paul poupart a la Cour du i**" juin. 

du 2 juin délivré un ordre a p^^ martin Contre p^« Billet p' 
paroitre a la cour de cejourdhuy. 



COURT RECORD, MAY, 1789 381 

Heard the said M. LaCroix who persisted in his privilege 
accorded him by the said decree of May 7, 1788, in spite of all 
arguments. 

The Court, after having maturely deliberated, annulled and 
and does annul the said decree of May 7, 1788, as having been 
rendered in the absence of the said M. Reilhe obreptitiously and 
surreptitiously and since the Court was not sufficiently informed, 
and it dismisses the said Isidore LaCroix to plead with the other 
creditors for all his claims before the syndic who shall be named 
that there may be decision thereon as they shall advise; and there 
will be execution the said day and year. 

[Signed] Philippe Engel. 

DuCharme. hBi 

Bte. Dubuque. 

Pierre Laperche. Louis -f Chatel. 

Labuxiere. Ant. girardin. 

May 18, 1789, at 7 A. M. 

Issued a writ of seizure to Louis Coste to seize and secure a 
pair of oxen, which Pierre Billet delivered into the hands of the 
named Gassien, to be sold Sunday next in default of payment. 

The said seizure signed Dubuque, Magistrate. 

The same day at 9 A. M. 

Issued a writ of seizure to François Lapancé to seize the same 
oxen with warning to the said Gassien not to give them up until 
the Court has decreed concerning them, on pain of being held 
responsible therefor. 

May, 19, issued a writ of provisional seizure to François Sauder 
to seize two casks of taûa belonging to Michel Pelletier called 
Antaya, now in the possession of Pierre Dubois. 

May 20, 1789, issued a summons on complaint of Jean Farelle 
to cause Paul Poupar to appear at the Court of June ^. 

June 2, issued a summons on complaint of Pierre Martin 
against Pierre Billet that he appear at the Court of to-day. 



382 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

A un Cour du 2 juin 1789. 

M" Antoine girardin Présidant henry Biron 

Charle ducharme P''*^ Laperche 

Philipe angel J. B^* Dubuque 

Pierre m aktix demandeur Contre pierre Billet deffendeur 

Le demandeur demande que led^ pierre Billet ay a luy remetre 
une vache avec son veau quil luy doit depuis longtems a quoy led^ 
Billet a répondu que le s*" martin luy avoit fait saisir un Cheval 
qui se trouve perdu. 

a quoy led^ martin a réplique que le Cheval navoit jamais paru et 
que le Cheval netoit pas Existant que Ihuissier lavoit saisy sans le 
voir ni Sans savoir sil Existoit Etant Courant dans les Bois que 
led^ Cheval n'a point paru depuis ce tems quil ne peut pas re- 
pondre du Cheval dautant (\uq le s*" Thom huissier ne la point 
séquestre. 

Le tout considéré parties ouies. la Cour a décidé que si le 
Cheval se retrouve par les recherches quen fera pierre martin il 
sera Remis par luy a pierre Billet, Et que cependant il demeurera 
sur les riscjnes dud^ Billet, laquelle Recherche sera faite a la dili- 
gences dud^ pierre martin, Et condamne led' pierre Billet après la 
remise dud^ Cheval, de livrer sans délais la vache et le vau aud* 
martin dépens comiKinsez Entreux (jui seront payé st le compte 
que f)r()duira le grefier ce qui sera exécuté Et condamne le s*" Bil- 
let a payer la ])rise du Cheval. 

a la même cour. 
Le s^ JEAN DUMOULIN Contre thom Bredy 

Thom Bredy a produit un compte a la Charge du s*" dumoulin 
montant a quatre vingt dix sept livres. 

Le S"' dumoulin a dit navoir point Eté assigné quil avoit un 
compte a pnKJuire aud* thom Bredy quil demandoit a Etre ren- 
voyé a la cour prochaine, le tout Examiné la Cour a Renvoyé les 
deux parties a Se pourvoir pardevant trois arbitres quil nommeront 
faute de <|uoy En sera Nommé par la Cour p*" leur raport être ra- 
porté a ladite cour y ICtre homologué dépens reser\'ez jusques aud^ 
tems. 

a la même Cour Est comparu Pardevant nous Magistra Sou- 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1789 383 

• At a Court, June 2, 1789. 
MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Henry Biron. 
Charles DuCharme. Pierre Laperche. 

Philippe Engel. J. Bte. Duiuque. 

Pierre Martin, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre Billet, Defendant. 

The plaintiff pram's that the said Pierre Billet be held to deliver 
to him a cow with her calf, which he has owed him for a long 
time; to which the said Billet answered that M. Martin had 
obtained a seizure on a horse, which was lost. 

To which the said Martin replied that the horse had never 
appeared and that the horse was not alive; that the huissier had 
put it under seizure without seeing it or knowing if it was alive, 
since it was running in the woods; that the said horse has not 
appeared since then; that he could not be responsible for the 
horse in as much as M. Tom, huissier, did not sequester it. 

All considered and after the parties were heard, the Court 
decided that, if the horse is found through the searches, which 
Pierre Martin shall make for it, it shall be restored by him to 
Pierre Billet; that, however, it shall be at the risk of the said 
Billet; that the search shall be made at the suit of the said Pierre 
Martin; and the Court condemns the said Pierre Billet, after 
the delivery of the said horse, to deliver without delay the cow 
and the calf to the said Martin; and condemns both to pay the 
costs, which shall be paid according to the account, which the 
clerk will produce, for which there will be execution; and con- 
demns M. Billet to pay for the capture of the horse. 

At the same Court. 
M. Jean Dumoulin vs, Tom Brady 

Tom Brady brought in an account charged to M. Dumoulin, 
amounting to ninety-seven livres. 

M. Dumoulin said that he had not been notiffed and that he had 
an account against the said Tom Brady to produce; and he de- 
manded that the case be dismissed to the next Court. All 
examined, the Court dismissed the two parties to plead before three 
arbitrators, whom they shall name, in default of which some shall 
be named by the Court, and that their report be returned to the 



384 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

signé M'' Daniel Mcl. Doff habitant demeurant aux Caskakias 
Lequel nous a requis de recevoir Sa declaration sur un vol avec 
fracture quil luy a Eté fait En Sa maison aud^ village de kaskakias. 

Et après que led^ Daniel michel Doff a En fait sermant devant 
nous Sur les Saints Evangilles de faire Sa declaration sincere Et 
veritable. 

a déclaré que le douze du mois de May dernier dans la nuit ne 
pouvant dire au juste Iheure que a la pointe du jour il Scst aperçu 
que le Contrevcn dune fenêtre de Sa maison avoit Eté forcé Et que 
Ion avoit arraché Le gond dEn bas ce qui avoit Eté fait avec force 
dans la nuit précédente, Et que dans lintsant il Sest aperçu que Sa 
négresse Et Son Enfant manquoit avec plusieurs Effets Et meubles 
de Sa maison, que le lendemain il a Eté informé par des person- 
nes que la négresse et Son enfant etoit En la posessîon de M^ de 
Glamorgan Négociant de S* Louis Et que Ion lavoit vu Sur le 
fleuve avec ladite négresse lenfant Et deux nègres quil avoit fait 
saisir a S^*^ genevieve quil remontoit p*" Revenir a S' Louis quil y 
a aparance que le s*" Glamorgan a fait de nuit chés luy lenleveraent 
de ladite négresse que quelques jours auparavant le declarant 
S Etant trouvé a S^ Louis fut voir M*" Glamorgan p*" le payer ou 
prendre des arangement quil luy avoit offert des esclaves p' luy 
en procurer[?] la vente, que M^ Glamorgan Les avoit proposé a 
M*^ dubreuil et quaprés Sétre parlé luy declarant est Convenu avec 
M*" dohreuil du prix de dix huit Cent piastres p^ deux nègres, deux 
négresse, Et deux Enfans. dont M*" dubreuil devoit reraetre neuf 
cent piastre a M*" Glamorgan En bon de la Caisse ou pelterie En 
acompte de ce quil luy devoit et quil toucheroit lui declarant les 
autres neuf Cent piastres En espèces sonnantes des mains de M' 
dubreuil ce qui fut signé par un accord Entre M*" dubreuil, M' 
Glamorgan, M*" george morgan Et le declarant, qui sobligeoit de 
livrer les dits Esclaves a S^*^ genevieve chés M*" valée ce quil a 
Effectué a la reserve dune négresse qui etoit acoucher Et quil Etoit 
convenu denvoyer après son rétablissement après que lesd** 
nègres ont Eté traversés a S^^ genevieve,led^ s*" Glamorgan au lieu de 

I l*his declaration w^ m.vic >iy a KaAkaskian in the court of CahokU, becaïue there «u 
no court in his own village. See Inlroductiom^ p. cxl. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1789 385 

said Court to be there afltaned, costs being reserved until the said 
time. 

At the same Court there appeared before us, the undersigned 
magistrates, M. Daniel McElduff, inhabitant of Kaskaskia, who 
has requested us to receive his declaration in regard to a theft 
and house-breaking, which was made at his house in the said 
village of Kaskaskia*. 

And after the said Daniel McElduff made oath before us on the 
Holy Gospels to make his declaration sincere and truthful, he 
declared that on the twelth of the month of Mav last — he is not 
able to tell the exact hour but it was at the break of dav — he 
perceived that the shutter of a window of his house had been 
forced and that some one had torn away the hinge from the bottom 
of it, and that it had beeri done with force in the preceding night, 
and in a moment he noticed that his negress and her child were 
missing with several effects and pieces of furniture; that the next 
day he was informed by some persons that the negress and her 
child were in the pK)ssession of M. Glamorgan, merchant of St. 
Louis, and that he had been seen on the river with the said 
negress and child and two negroes whom he had had seized at 
Ste. Genevieve, and that he was ascending the river to return to 
St. Louis; and that it would appear that M. Glamorgan made 
the abduction of the said negress at night from his house; that 
some days before, the deponent, being at St. Louis, went to see 
M. Glamorgan in order to pay him or to make arrangements; that 
he had offered him slaves to make a sale thereof for him; and 
that M. Glamorgan had offered them to M. Dubreuil and that 
after having spoken to him himself, the deponent agreed with M. 
Dubreuil, for the price of eighteen hundred piastres^ to sell him two 
negroes, two négresses and two children; of this sum M. Dubreuil 
was to remit nine hundred piastres to M. Glamorgan in treasury 
notes or peltries as instalment on that which he, the deponent, 
owed, and that he would receive the other nine hundred piastres in 
hard cash from the hands of M. Dubreuil. This was signed by 
agreement between M. Dubreuil, M. Glamorgan, M. George 
Morgan, and the deponent who pledged himself to deliver the 



386 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

tenir sa Convention a Surpris une saisie de M*" Peyrét Commandant 
a S^ Louis p*" seraparer des dits Esclaves, a qui le S*" francois valée 
a Eu ordre de M*" peyroux de les remetre et les a traduit a S' Louis 
ou ils sont En sa posession Et a remis a M^ dubreuil la Convendon 
quils a voient signé Entreux. et que quelque jours après il est 
descendu avec deux nègres p^ faire la fraction Et lenlevement de 
la négresse qui a voit resté, ainsy quîl le déposé En tête de la 
présente declaration. 

que comme une pareille tromperie ne peut être regardée que 
Comme un vol manifeste Et Enlevement nocturne fait avec frac- 
tion, et une supercherie manifeste le declarant a requis acte contre 
led' s*" Clamorgan p*" Le poursuivre Criminellement ou il p>ouroit 
être trouve requérant a cette fin quil luy soit deli\Té contre led' de 
Clamorgan une prise de Corps pour être pris et arrêté sur cette 
Rive sil peut y Etre découvert declarant que sa présente deposition 
Est sincere Et Veritable sous le sermant quil a fait. 

Ducharme Daniel McEldufiF 

pierre liiperche B** Dubuque 

Phillipe Engel A^ Girardin. 

Et Ledit jour En vertu de la declaration ci dessus faite par le 
S*" daniel mich^ Doff Et de Sa requisition au bas dicelle. il es enjoint 
et ordonné aux bailly. ou huissier de cette dépendances ou autres 
quil aparliendra sur cette Rive ameriquaine de Saisir Et arrêter Le 
Corp et ])erst)nne du S*" de Clamorgan par tout ou il poura être 
trouvé sur cette terre et dépendance ameriquaine pour être detenu 
pristmnier dans les prison de cette cour ou autres ou il poura être 
pris juscjues a son Entière justification et quil en soit par justice 
ordonné donné par la Cour lesd' jour Et an. 

A* Girardin. 

» Al tlu" iMul of thi" vuliiinc* cuntaininK tliestrttlement of thcCharlcWlIec^atr. — Cak.Rtc^ 
in !îilK>villi'. III., there h.i» Ixhmi Ixiuiul the i'<>lIovvini{ letter all<lres«^d lo Antuine Girardin: 
"Sir: When 1 w.js l.i>t M St. Lc»'iis, I sotiKtl :il] matîiTi in Difference bclvrecn me and Mr. 
Jame^ Cl.iin'»rK.iii. t^r whiih rea^um and in oursuan^e «>f iiiirSoulcmeiit I brg that the pnxe» 
issue<l ont of your Court at my Inst.incr, m :v. (if y^m & thr Couri should think pniper) be 
sioi);h'«1 & th.»! »ii fii.îiuT Pr<Mtx*ilin>{s m.iy 'k' mi le I'.ieriMii. 

On my Return fnim St. I-xvais to thi»* Plaie 1 i.illel at your House with ihr Intentiitn ol 
Kivini; y<ni the s.ime ailvire but us I was nut (<>rtunale eno'iKh tv> t'md you at Home i take this 
up|H>tiunitv to inform you of it. I am Sir vour most obedient & very obliged humble servant, 
Dunl McL'MufT. Ka&ka.skia pth July 178Û " 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1789 387 

said slaves at Ste. Genevieve at the house of M. Vallé ; and this 
he had done, with the exception of a negress who was in child 
bed and whom he had agreed to send after her recovery. After 
the said negroes were sent across to Ste. Genevieve, the said M. 
Glamorgan, instead of keeping his agreement, obtained by deceit a 
writ of seizure from M. Peyrez, commandant at St. Louis, to obtain 
possession of the said slaves and M. Fr. Vallé received an order 
from M. Peyrez to deliver them to him; and he took them to St. 
Louis where they are in his possession; and he delivered to M. 
Dubreuil the covenant which they had signed together; and that 
some days after, he came down with two negroes to make the 
house-breaking and abduction of the negress who remained be- 
hind, even as the deponent has depK)sed in the beginning of the 
present declaration. 

That, since such a deception could only be regarded as a 
manifest theft and nocturnal abduction with house-breaking 
and manifest fraud, the deponent prayed for a writ against the 
said M. Glamorgan to prosecute him by criminal action, whero 
he may be found; praying to this end that there be delivered to 
him a capias for his apprehension and arrest on this bank, if he 
can be discovered here; and he declares under the oath which he 
has made that his present depK)sition is sincere and true. 
[Signed] 

DuGharme. Daniel McElduff. 

Pierre Laperche. Bte. Dubuque. 

Philippe Engel. Ant. Girardin. 

And the same dav in virtue of the declaration hereabove made 
by M. Daniel McElduff and of his requisition there below, com- 
mands and orders are given the bailiff or huissier of this depend- 
ency, or others whom it shall concern on this American bank, to 
apprehend and arrest the body and person of M. Glamorgan where- 
ever he can be found in this land and American dependency that he 
may be detained a prisoner in the prison of this Court, or of others 
where he may be apprehended, until his entire vindication and a 
decree thereof by justice has been made. Given by the Court the 
said day and year.^ Ant. Ghrardin. 



388 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a la même cour. 

délivré une Saisie au s*" pierre laCoste Contre Chatelereau pro- 
visoire et privilégie avec injonction au S^ mailler de la faire Exécu- 
ter p*" la s« de de [sic] douze Cent quatre dix livres quatre sols en 
pelterie. 

La Cour est ajournée au i**" juillet prochain. 

A* Girardin. 

du lo [?] juin délivré une saisie contre pierre Billet a la requisi- 
tion de piere La fleur pour saisir un Boeuf ou une jeune i>aire de 
boeuf quil a Echange a piere martin. 

du i8 juin délivré un ordre a francois hamoux p^ faire payer 
13 minots de bled a la sucession de moore p' Les frais de récolte 
adressé a M*" Biggs Et Bond Exécuteurs testamentaire. 

du 30 [sic] juin délivré une saisie a B*« mercier Entre les mains 
de B^« alary sur Charles Bequet p' saisir neuf piastres que led* 
alary doit a bequet. 

du 23 juin 1789. Délivré une Saisie a David Waddel pour 
saisir conservatoirement Et privilégier"* Les Biens mobiliairs Et 
Effets app^" a francois Clark tant a la belle fontaine grand Ruis- 
seau que autres Endroits de ce district, ladite saisie portant prise 
de Corp contre led^ francois Clark pour la somme de six Cent vingt 
huit livres en piastres Echus depuis le 1**" 8^^* 1788 a deffaud par 
luy de payer signée led* ordre dantoine girardin Présidant. 

du 30 juin. Délivré une ordre dassignation a Isidore savoy 
dit Cadien contre m/" de S* pierre curé p' paroitre a la cour du i**^ 
juillet. 

du même. jour, délivré un ordre dassignation a Gabriel Baron 
Contre pierre martin p*" paroitre a la même cour. 

Evidently a later insertion after the following entries were made. 



COURT RECORD, JUNE, 1789 389 

At the same Court, 

Issued a writ of seizure to M. Pierre LaCoste against Chatele- 
reau, provisional and privileged, with injunction to M. Mailhet to 
have it executed for the sum of twelve hundred and forty li'vres four 
sols in i>eltries. 

The Court adjourned to the first of next July. 

Ant. Girardin. 

June 10 [ ?], issued a writ of seizure against Pierre Billet at 
the requisition of Pierre Lafleur to attach an ox or a yoke of 
young oxen which he exchanged with Pierre Martin. 

June 18, issued a summons to François Hamoux to compel 
the estate of Moore to pay 13 minois of wheat for the costs of the 
harvest, addressed to MM. Biggs and Bond, testamentary 
executors. 

June 30 * issued a writ of seizure to Bte. Mercier into the 
hands of Bte. Alarie on Charles Becquet to seize nine piastres 
which the said Alarie owes Becquet. 

June 23, 1789, issued a writ of seiziu^e to David Waddel to 
seize by way of preservation and privilege the personal goods 
and effects belonging to Francis Clark in Bellefontaine, 
Grand Ruisseau and other places of this district. The said writ 
of seizure contains a capias against the said Francis Clark for 
the sum of six hundred and twenty-eight livres in piastres, due 
since October i, 1788; given for default of payment by him and 
the said writ is signed by Antoine Girardin, President. 

June 30, issued a summons on complaint of Isidore Savoy 
called Cadien against M. de St. Pierre curé that he appear at 
the Court July i. 

Same day, issued a summons to Gabriel Baron against Pierre 
Martin that he appear at the same Court. 



390 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a une Cour du l**" juillet 1789. 
M^* ant« girardin Présidant B^« Dubuque 

Philipe angel Louis Chatel 

Charle Ducharme henry Biron 

p^« Laperche 

M^ Charles cadron demandeur Contre Maturin Bouvet 

deffendeur 

Le S^ Charles cadron Reclame une Cloche Contre le S*" Bou- 
vet quil dit SEtre Réservé de paroUe verballe. Et comprise dans 
ses autres meubles quil Sest réservé par son contrat de vente con- 
senty aud^ s^ Bouvet Et a déclaré quil Setoit réservé Expressé- 
ment la Cloche de parole verbale avec led* s*" Bouvet. 

oui led* S*^ Bouvet quil a dit que le s^ Cadron lui avoit vendu 
la Cloche Et quelle faisoit partie du fond Etant Cloué Et atachée 
sur deux poteaux En terre avec des planches Clouée dessus 
les poteaux Et quil dit faire partie du terrain comme y Etant 
atachée et plante. 

Led* S** S* pierre [sic] a répliqué que quoy que la Cloche ne 
soit pas expressément réservé Sur le contract, quil Se lest réservé 
par trois- fois de parole verbale avec led* s"" Bouvet. 

ce que led* S*" Bouvet a desnié et a soutenu que led* s"" Cadron 
la luy avoit vendue ce qui a Eté Egalement dénié par led* s*" 
Cadron qui a Soutenu que la Cloche lui apartenoient. 

Vu les demandes répliques et réponses des parties la Cour 
après avoir mûrement délibéré que la Cloche Etant atachée sur 
des Poteau planté en terre Et couverte avec des planches, fait 
partie du fond Et y est accessoire Et en concequance ne pou- 
vant S'oter Sans fracture ny ayant dailleurs aucune Conven- 
tion particulière par Ecrit qui prouve que led* s^ cadron se Lest 
réservé particulièrement, ladite Cour adjuge la Cloche au 
fond Comme En faisant partie, condamné le s' Cadron aux frais 
de la sentence. 

M** de S* pierre curé de cette paroisse a présenté une requête 
en datte de cejourdhuy Reclamant des madriers apartenant a 

* A large bell u>M:d to call the farro-handâ to meals. 

' A clerical error M de St. Pierre was in the room waiting for his suit to be called. 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1789 391 

At a Court, July i, 1789. 
MM. Ant. Girardin, President. Bte. Dubuque 
Philippe Engel. Louis Chatel. 

Charles DuCharme. Henry Biron. 

Pierre Laperche. 
M. Charles Cadron, Plaintiff, vs, Maturin Bouvet, Defendant. 

M. Charles Cadron daims a bell from M. Bouvet which he said 
he had reserved by verbal agreement and included with the other 
pieces of furniture which he had reserved by his contract of sale 
entered into with the said M. Bouvet, and he declared that he 
had reserved the bell expressly by verbal agreement with the 
said M. Bouvet. 

Heard the said M. Bouvet who said that M. Cadron had sold 
him the bell and that it was part of the grounds, as it was nailed 
and attached to two posts set in the earth and planks were 
nailed above the posts, and that it made part of the land as being 
attached to and planted therein K 

The said M. St. Pierre [M. Cadron ?] ' replied that although the 
bell was not expressly reserved in the contract, that he reserved 
it three times by verbal agreement with the said M. Bouvet. 

This the said M. Bouvet denied and maintained that the said 
M. Cadron had sold it to him, which has been equally denied by 
the said M. Cadron, who maintained that the bell belonged to 
him. 

In consideration of the prayers, replies and answers of the 
parties and after having maturely considered that the bell, since it 
was attached to posts set in the ground and covered with planks, 
made part of the grounds and is appurtenant to it and consequendy 
could not be taken away without breaking, and that besides there 
was no specific agreement in writing which proves that the 
said M. Cadron reserved it particularly, the said Court adjudges 
the bell to the grounds as making part thereof and condemns 
M. Cadron to pay the costs of the judgment. 

M. St. Pierre, curé of this parish, presented a petition under 
date of to-day, in which he claims some joists belonging to the 
church of Cahokia, which are in the house belonging to Pierre 



392 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

L Eglise des cahos qui sont dans la maison vendue pai décret 
a la porte de leglise saisie en vertu de Ihypoteque que defiFunt du- 
buque avoit sur ladite maison app^® a pierre martin, dont les mar- 
guilier ont fait leur declaration a la deux« Criée ladite maison 
adjugé a M** dumoulin a la troisième Criée pour deux cent Cinq 
livres, ladite Cour assemblée ordonne sur ladite requête que 
les madriers Seront payez a raison de trois livres la piece par qui 
il apartiendra suivant lestimation qui En a Eté cy devant faîte 
et que sil ne se trouvoit pas la quantité que martin a Emprunté 
dans sa maison que ce qui sen manquera sera payé sur le prix 
de adjudication de la maison. 

Isidore savoye dit cadien Contre M** S' pierre Curé 

Le demandeur Reclame quatre minots de pois que M^ S^ 
pierre lui a saisy et quil a laissé après la saisie laissé p>ourir dans 
lendroit saisy, lesdits pois a raison de lo^^ le minot font 40^^ ladite 
Saisie ayant été faite p^ 14^^ que led* savoye offre de diminuer 
sur les 40^^. oui M"^ S** pierre par M"^ philipe angel qui a dit que 
led* demandeur ne sEtoit pas arangé avant son depart p*^ Les 
petites cotes, parties ouis la Cour a condamné M*" S* pierre a 
payer aud* saye [sic] demandeur la somme de vingt six livres p^ 
lexedant de la perte des pois Et aux frais liquidez a 15^^. 

A* Girardin 

Le S*^ Labuxiere a représenté quil avoit fait toutes Ses dili- 
gences p*" le recouvrement de la sucession de deffunt dubuque 
Et même fait son protest a la porte de lEglise dont la Cour a Con- 
noissance. En concequance il luy sera tenu compte de Son 
recouvrence et tant des Billets quil naura pu recouvrer que de 
ceux quil a recouvré a dix p^ Cent En fais[an]t par luy aux 
débiteurs une simple sommation de payer par Ihuissier. 

du 5 juillet, délivré une saisie ef arret a francois Chevalier 
Contre antoine lamarche jusqua ce quil se soit arangé Entreux. 

* St. Charles, in Missouri. 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1789 393 

Martin, that was sold by decree at the door of the church, after 
being seized by virtue of the mortgage which the deceased Du- 
buque had on the said house; concerning which joists the church 
wardens made their affidavit at the second crying of the auction, 
and the said house was adjudged at the third crying to M. Du- 
moulin for two hundred and five livres. The said Court assem- 
bled decrees concerning the said petition that the joists shall be 
paid for at the rate of three livres the piece by whomsoever it 
shall concern in accordance with the appraisement which has 
herebefore been made of them; and that, if there should not be 
foimd in the house the quantity that Martin borrowed, what 
is lacking shall be paid for out of the price of the auction sale of 
the house. 

Isidore Savoy called Cadien vs, M. St. Pierre, curé. 

The plaintiff claims four minots of peas which M. St. Pierre 
seized and which he allowed to rot in the place where they were 
seized. The said peas at the rate of 10 livres theminot amount to 
40 livres and the said seizure was made for 14 livres, which the 
said Savoy offers to deduct from the 40 li'vres. Heard M. St. 
Pierre, represented by Philippe Engel, who said that the said 
plaintiff had not made arrangements before his departure for the 
Little Bluffs.^ Parties heard, the Court condemned M. St. 
Pierre to pay to the said Savoy, the plaintiff, the simi of twenty- 
six livres for the excess of the loss of the peas and to pay the 
costs, set at 15 li'vres. Ant. Girardin. 

M. Labuxiere set forth that he had made all diligence possible 
in the collection of the debts due the estate of the deceased Du- 
buque and had even made his protest at the door of the church, of 
which the Court has knowledge. Consequently there shall be 
allowed him for all his labor of collecting the notes, both for 
those on which nothing has been paid and for those which he has 
collected, ten percent, after he has made a simple summons to 
pay through the huissier. 

July 5, issued a writ of seizure and arrest to François Chevalier 
against Antoine Lamarche to be in force imtil arrangements are 
made between them. 



394 



ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



Â une Cour tenue Extraordînairement le 14 juillet 1789 
tenue par 

M^' ant® girardin présidant Louis chatel 

Jean B^ dubuque heniy Bircm 

Charle ducharme pierre Laperche 

Philipe angel 
Entre Izidore savoye et Catherine Pencrasse sa femme 

plignant demandeurs Contre jean B^® LaBecasse acusé 
detenu aux fers au deffau de prison défendeur 
Ladite Catherine pencrasse accuse ledit jean B^® LaBecasse 
davoir été chés Elle luy demander si elle vouloit venir avec Sa 
fenune p^ Ramasser des mures Et quelle luy avoit Répondu que 
ouy, quil lavoit prise En croup deriere luy et quil avoit passé le 
pont de la prairie du pont et avoit suivy le vieux Chemain des 
dostiures et quêtant dans le Chemain ledit la Bécasse avoit fourché 
un petit sautier dans le Bois, quelle luy avoit dit ou me mené tu 
ce nest pas la le Chemain quil luy avoit dit alors Etant avancé 
dans le Bois descend, il faut que je jouisse de toy. qualors Elle 
avoit dit que cela ne seroit pas Et quelle ny Consenteroit pas. 
quêtant descendue de Cheval led^ La Bacasse lavoit prise et la- 
voit jetée par terre malgré les Cris quelle jetoit Et malgré toute sa 
resistance et quil en avoit joui Et lavoit violée nayant pas asez 
de force p** soposer a son Entreprise Et quil luy avoit même meur- 
tri un Sain ou elle avoit déjà mal quil lui avoit Ensuite demandé 
si elle vouloit quil la ramené au village, quelle ne sy etoit pas 
oposée parce quelle se trouvoit dans le bois et quil lavoit Ramenée 
jusques au pont ou elle avoit descendu de deriere luy et quit la- 
voit quittée a cet Endroit dans un Etat de la plus grande afflic- 
tion. 

,oui aussi led^ Labecasse qui est convenu avoir Eté Chercher 
ladite Catherine pencrosse chéselle p^ aler aux mures et quil convient 
luy avoir fait la proposition En Chemain mais quil ne lavoir p>oint 
touchée ni forcée Et quil convient avoit tor de luy avoir fait cette 
proposition quil etoit pris de Boisson Et que ladite pencrasse 
nacuse pas la vérité lors quelle dit quil la forcée, que voyant 
quelle ne vouloit pas consentir il lavoit Ramené au pont ou il 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1789 395 

Ât a Court meeting in special session, July 14, 1789, held by 

MM. Ant. Girardin, President. Louis Chatel. 

Jean Bte. Dubuque. Henry Biron. 

Charles DuCharme. Pierre Laperchc. 

PhOippe Engel. 
Isnx)R£ Savoy and Catherine Pencrasse, on complaint of 

his wife, Plaintiffs, vs, Jean Bte. Labecasse accused 

and held in irons for lack of prison, defendant. 
The said Catherine Pencrasse accuses the said Jean Bte. 
Labecasse of coming to her house to ask her if she wished to 
come with his wife to gather mulberries and that she had answered, 
''yes;" and that he had taken her behind him on the croup and 
that he had passed the bridge of the Prairie du Pont and had 
followed the old road of the enclosures, and that being in the 
road the said Labecasse had turned off on a little path in the 
woods; and that she had said to him: ''Where are you taking 
me? This is not the road;" that he had said, after having ad- 
vanced into the woods: "Gret down! I must enjoy you;" that, 
when she had said that this should not be and that she would 
not consent thereto, he, having dismounted, had taken her and 
thrown her on the ground in spite of the cries which she uttered 
and in spite of all her resistance, and that he had enjoyed her and 
had violated her, since she did not have enough strength to oppose 
his undertaking; and that he had even bruised one of her breasts 
which was already sore; that he had afterwards asked if she 
wished him to take her to the village and that she had made no 
opposition because she was in the woods; and that he had brought 
her back to the bridge, where she had dismounted from behind 
him; and that he had left her in that place in a condition of 
greatest affliction. 

Heard also the said Labecasse who acknowledges that he had 
sought out the said Catherine Pencrasse at her house to go for 
mulberries; and he acknowledges that he had made the proposal 
to her on the road, but he says he did not lay his hands on her 
or force her; and he acknowledges that he was in the wrong in 
having made the proposal to her and that he had been drinking; 



396 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



lavoit quittée, qui est tout ce quik ont dit pour leurs demandes 
et deffences. 

Le tout examiné Et considéré la Cour ayant En connoissance 
que ladite Catherine pencrasse setoit déjà exposée il y a deux ans 
a Etre forcée par ledit Labecasse par le récit qui en a Eté fait au 
présidant de la cour Et Setant de Nouveau exposée volontaire- 
ment aux Entreprises dud^ Labecasse p^ avoir accepté la partie 
de mures quil luy a proposé Et ayant dans le Bois remonté derierc 
led* labecasse p** sen revenir au village après le prétendu viol 
quelle dit avoir Eté commis En sa personne, ce qui paroît a la 
Cour quelle na pas Evité ny Eloigné le danger dont Elle se plaint 
au Contraire quelle y a donné occasion. La Cour par Delibera- 
tion a mis les parties hor de Cour Et de procès a ce sujet Et leur 
impose silance pour le prétendu viol, deffend aud* Labecasse 
d'atenter a lavenir sur la Chasteté de ladite pencrasse et le Con- 
damne a rester deux fois vingt quatre heures au fers a la garde 
du bailly de La Cour ou il Sera noury au pain et a leau a 
commencer de ce jour heure présente Enjoint au bailly dy 
tenir la main Et que la présente punition soit observé Et ce 
a cause de latentat que led* Labecasse a formé contre la vertu 
de ladite pencrasse. Condamme ladite Cour les parties En 
Chacun la moitié des frais de Lextraordinaire ce qui sera 
Exécuté. 
[Sif^ned] 

DuCharme Philipe Engel 

sa B*« Dubuque 

Louis -f Chatel hBi 

marque pierre Laperche 

Labuxiere grefier A* Girardin. 

Sur les representations faite a la Cour par M^ francoîs trotier 
commandant de ce poste des propos inconcideré tenus publique- 
ment par M^ francois saucier dans la Boisson, ou il a manqué a 
plusieurs personnes En leur offrant les armes avec des termes 
impropres et refusant dobejir a la garde qui avoit ordre de Lar- 
reter et avoir Causé du scandale la Cour ordonne que led* s*" 
saucier tiendra prison vingt quatre heures Et le Condamme en 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1789 397 

and he says that the said Pencrasse does not speak the truth, 
when she says that he forced her; that when he saw that she was 
unwilling to consent, he had brought her back to the bridge where 
he had left her. This is all that they have said in regard to their 
prayers and defences. 

All examined and considered the Court knowing, from a recital 
which has been made to the president of the Court that the said 
Catherine Pencrasse has once before, two years ago, exposed herself 
to being forced by the said Labecasse and that she again vol- 
untarily exposed herself to the undertaking of the said Labecasse 
by having accepted the invitation to go berrying, which he proposed 
to her, and that in the woods she remounted behind the said 
Labecasse to retiun to the village after the pretended violation, 
which she says had been committed on her person, is of the opin- 
ion that she has not avoided nor kept out of the way of the 
danger qf which she complains, but that on the contrary she gave 
occasion to it. The Coiut by decree non-suits the parties and 
imposes silence in regard to the pretended violation, and forbids 
the said Labecasse to make an attempt on the chastity of the 
said Pencrasse in the future and sentences him to remain two 
times twenty-four hours in irons in the custody of the bailiff of the 
Court, where he shall be fed on bread and water commencing from 
this day, the present hour, and commands the bailiff to see to it that 
the present punishment be observed and this because of the attempt 
which the said Labecasse made on the virtue of the said Pencrasse. 
The said Court condemns each of the parties to pay half of the 
costs of the special session for which there will be execution. 
[Signed] 

DuCharme. Bte. Dubuque 

Philippe Engel. hBi 

His Pierre Laperche. 

Louis + Chatel Ant. Girardin. 

mark 
Labuxiere, Clerk. 

On the representation made to the Cowrt by M. François 
Trottier, commandant of this post, of the thoughtless talk made 



398 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

six piastres damande p^ Leglise ce qui sera execute, le con- 
damne aux frais 
[Si}^ned] 
DuCharme Pierre Laperche 

Philipe Engel B'« Dubuque 

sa hBi 

Louis -f Chatel A^ Girardin. 

marque 
Labuxiere N^^ 

a une autre cour extraordinaire du même jour. 
Entre Louis Coste demandeur Contre Ignace Chatigny 

deffendeur 
Le demandeur se plain contre led' ignace Chatigny de ce quU 
luy a pris un Boeuf dans la Commune et quil la donné au s*^ 
bausoleil p** le tuer au moyen dun quartier quil sest réservé luy 
disant quil le lui abandonné comme layant gagné au jeu. que 
luy Coste a dit a Chatigny quil ne luy donneroit pas de Boeuf 
mais quil aloit le payer ce que led' Chatigny avoit accepté, que 
malgré leur Convention led' s*" Chatigny la voit fait prendre et 
lavoit fait tuer aujourdhuy Sans ordre ny Consentement dud' 
demandeur au prejudice de leur Conventions. 

oui led' Chatigny qui reconnu quil Etoit Convenu avec led' 
Coste de recevoir le billet dud' Coste En payement, mais quay- 
ant tardé a luy remetre le Billet Et ayant refusé a francoîs lapen- 
sée de livrer le billet il avoit dit a Beausoleil de Sen aranger pourvu 
quil luy en donne un quartier. 

Le demandeur a répliqué quil avoit gagné ce Boeuf aud' 
Beausoleil, que led' Beausoleil le luy avoit livre. Et que le s*" 
Chatigny ne devoit pas en disposer ny Se payer par Ses mains. 
après Etre Convenu de Saranger Entreux Et de Recevoir le Bil- 
let du demandeur. 

led' Chatigny a demandé la deposition de francois lapensée 
qui a linstant est Conparû après sermant par luy fait de dire la 
vérité a dit qutant [su] present au jeu des parties. Et quapres que 
led' Coste a En perdu le Boeuf quil a dit a Chatigny le Boeuf est a 
vous il vous apartient Et que le s*" alary sy Etant trouvé luy dit 



ï 



>,•;-,- .1.-., c.,.,,.,.-,é„, „,>!?^..,.-yUj,»fc.J 









xrM\t^^ •^'""-'^"tf Cyta/rttf Yp yja^J^J"**" \ , ' 



.csimile of a Page fmm the Record «f the Cahokia Court, 
Joseph Lalmxicre. Clerk. 



\: 



• ••• 

• ••• 

• • 

• • • 



• • • 

• • 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1789 399 

publicly by M. François Saucier while under the influence of 
drink, wherein he insulted several persons by challenging them 
and using improper expressions, and of his refusal to obey the 
guard who had an order to arrest him and of having been the 
occasion of scandal; the Court decrees that the said M. Saucier 
shaU be confined in prison for twenty-four hours and condemns 
him in six piastres fine to the church for which there will be 
execution. Condemned him to pay the costs. 

[Signed] 
DuCharme. Pierre Laperche. 

Philippe Engel. Bte. Dubuque. 

His H B i 

Louis -f Chatel. Ant. Girardin. 

mark Labuxiere, Notary. 

At another Court in special session of the same day. 

Louis Coste, Plaintiff, vs, Ignance Chatigny, Defendant. 

The plaintiff brings complaint against the said Ignance Chati- 
gny that he took an ox of his in the commons and gave it to M. 
Beausoleil to slaughter on condition of a quarter being reserved 
for himself, and he said to the plaintiff that he had lost it to him, 
since he (Chatigny) won it at play; that he, Coste, said to 
Chatigny that he would not give him any ox, but that he was 
going to pay him and this the said Chatigny had accepted; that 
in spite of their agreement the said M. Chatigny had had it 
taken and slaughtered to-day without order or consent of the 
said plaintiff and contrary to their agreement. 

Heard the said Chatigny who acknowledged that he had agreed 
with the said Coste to receive the note of the said Coste in pay- 
ment; but, since he had delayed remitting the note and had 
refused to deliver the note to François Lapancé, he had said to 
Beausoleil to make his arrangements about it, on condition that 
he gave him a quarter thereof. 

The plaintiff replied that he had won this ox from the said 
Beausoleil and that the said Beausoleil had delivered it to him; 
and that M. Chatigny ought not to have disposed of it nor have 
paid himself by his own hands, after having agreed to make 



400 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a coste si vous ne jugez pas propos de venir le livrer je le Connois 
je vous le montreray. 

Le S' B^« alary est comparu après sermant par luy fait de dire 
la vérité, a dit quil avoit offert de montrer le Boeuf a Chatigny par- 
ce quil le Connoissoit, Mais que Coste Navoit Rien répondu, 
quil avoit Seulement dit Nous verrons. 

parties ouis avec les témoins la Cour Condamne le s*" Chatigny 
a rendre ou payer un pareil Boeuf aud^ Louis Coste sans délais Et 
Ennuie le jeu Entreux condamnons En outre led^ Chatigny aux 
frais de Lextraord'* ce qui sera exécuté, les quels frais montant 
a deux cent trente Cinq livres seront payez aud* Coste par led^ 
Chatigny Sans délais. 
[Signed] 
Philipe Engel DuCharme 

Pierre Laperche hBi 

sa B** Dubuque 

Louis -f Chatel A^ Girardin. 

marque 

29 juillet La Cour est ajournée au i*"" aoust 1789. 
Délivré un ordre d'assignation a francois hamoux contre 

michel peltier dit antaya p"" paroitre a la Cour du i®' aoust pro- 
chain. 

30 juillet délivré a M*" jean dumoulin une saisie provisoire et 
Conservatoire des sucres Effets pelterie, Créances et debtes que 
le s^ Jean B^* dubuque a Entre Ses mains appartenants au S*" 
LaCoste actuellement a la riviere des ilinois avec deffences de 
Sen dessaisir quil nen soit par la Cour ordonné. 

J*^ Dumoulin. 
7 août délivré un ordre a M^ aRondel Contre Louis Coste. 

* No reason known for the heavy costs. 



COURT RECORD, JULY, 1789 401 

arrangements with him and to receive the note from the plaintiff. 

The said Chatigny demanded the deposition of François La- 
pancé, who now appeared and after oath had been made by him 
to tell the truth, said that he was present at the game between 
the parties, and that, after the said Coste lost the ox, he said 
to Chatigny, "The ox is yours, it belongs to you," and that M. 
Alarie who was present said to Coste: "If you do not judge it 
fitting to come to deliver it, I know it and will show it to you." 

M. Bte. Alarie appeared and after oath was made by him to 
tell the truth, said that he had offered to show the ox to Chatigny, 
because he knew it; but that Coste had answered nothing, that 
he had onlv said, "We will see." 

After the parties and the witnesses were heard, the Court con- 
demns M. Chatigny to render, or pay for, a similar ox to the said 
Louis Coste without delay and annuls the play between them. 
We condemn furthermore the said Chatigny to pay the costs of 
the special session, for which there will be execution. These 
costs amount to two hundred and thirty five livres and shall be 
paid to the said Coste by the said Chatigny without delay. ^ 

[Signed] 
Philippe Engel. DuCharme. 

Pierre Laperche. hBi 

His Bte. Dubuque. 

Louis + Chatel Ant. Girardin. 

mark 

July 29, the Court adjoiurned to August i, 1789. 

Issued a summons to François Hamoux against Michel Pelle- 
tier called Antaya that he appear at the Court of the first of next 
August. 

July 30, issued to M. Jean Dumoulin a provisional and con- 
servative seizure of the sugar, effects, peltries, claims and debts, 
which M. Jean Bte. Dubuque has in his possession, belonging to 
M. LaCoste at present at the Illinois river, with prohibition to 
divest himself thereof except he be ordered thereto by the Coiurt. 

Jn. Dumoulin. 
August 7. Issued a summons to M. Arundel for Louis Coste. 



4oa ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a line Cour du 8 aoust 1789. 
M" antoine girardin Philipe angel 

B*« dubuque Louis chatel 

Charles ducharme henry Biron 

Le s*" William aRundel demandeur Contre Louis Coste 

deffendeur 

Le demandeur demande au deffendeur la livraison de Six 
milliers de farine quil luy doit par Ses Billets Echus ne pouvant 
atendre plus long terme a cause de Son Voyage de misilimakinac 
Et quil soit Condamné aux frais. 

Oui le deffendeur quil a reconnu Ses Billets Et devoir ladite 
quantité de farine et a dit p^ deffences quD offroit de payer mais 
quil avoit Besoin de quelques jours de délais pour pouvoir faire 
batre son Bled, le faire moudre et faire payer ceux qui lui doivent, 
quil requeroit un délais suffisant, qua bout du terme que le s^ 
arondel pouroit luy accorder ainsy que la Cour il prometoit de 
payer En Entier. 

Vu par la Cour les Billets dud' Coste Echus. Et les récoltes 
que Ion vient de finir. 

La Cour du consentement dud* s^ arondel a accordé aud* 
Coste le reste de ce present mois daoust pour payer les six 
milliers de farine aud* s^ aRundel p^ tous délais, faute de quoy 
Et led* terns passé le condamnons a payer Sans délais a quoy 
faire il sera Contraint par saisie Et vente de Ses Biens le Con- 
damnons aux frais et dépens. 

Le S^ Grassiot Négociant de la Rive espagnole Est intervenu 
pour la dame veuve G root lequel a demande quil soit surcit 
toutes poursuittes ny quil soit donné aucunnes Saisies Et Rendu 
aucunnes sentences Contre la Succession dud* deffimt groot son 
Mary quelle n'ait pris Connoissances des Créances de ladite suc- 
esion Et des Biens dicelle afin de pouvoir Se metre En Etat de 
payer un Chacun Si la Sucession SufEt. 

Sur quoy la Cour a accordé au s^ grassiot j>^ ladite veuve dicy 
au mois de Novembre prochain p^ tout délais pour prendre les 
Connoissances Requises. Se reservant ladite Cour le droit et 
privilege darreter et Saisir Lesdits Biens qui sont sur Son district 



COURT RECORD, AUGUST, 1789 403 

At a Court, August 8, 1789. 
MM. Antine Girardin. Philippe Engel. 

Bte. Dubuque. Louis Chatel. 

Charles Ducharme Henry Biron. 

M. William Arundel, Plaintiff, vs. Louis Coste, Defendant. 

The plaintiff demands of the defendant the delivery of six 
thousand pounds of flour, which he owes him according to his 
matured notes, and for which the plaintiff cannot wait longer 
because of his journey to MichiUimakinac; and prays that the 
defendant be condemned to the costs. 

Heard the defendant who said that he acknowledged his 
notes and that he owed the said quantity of flour, and said for 
defence that he offered to pay, but that he needed some days 
delay in order to have his wheat thrashed and ground, and to 
make those pay who owed him, and that he prayed for a sufl^cient 
delay; that, at the end of the time which M. Arundel and the Court 
could grant him, he promised to pay in full. 

The Court having seen the matured notes of the said Coste 
and the crops, the harvesting of which has just been finished, with 
the consent of the said M. Arundel, granted the said Coste the 
balance of this present month of August to pay the six thousand 
pounds of flour to the said M. Arundel and no longer; in default 
of which after the said time is passed, we condemn him to pay 
without delay, to do which he shall be constrained by seizure and 
sale of goods. We condemn him to pay the costs and charges. 

M. Gratiot, merchant from the Spanish bank, intervened for 
Madame Groot, widow, and prayed that there be stayed aU suits 
and that there should not be given any seizures nor rendered any 
judgments against the estate of the said deceased Groot, her 
husband, until she has informed herself of the assets of the said 
estate and of the goods thereof in order to be in a position to pay 
each creditor, if the estate sufficed. 

Whereupon the Court granted M. Gratiot for the said widow 
from now to the month of November next and no longer in order 
to obtain the requisite knowledge; and the said Court reserves 
to itself the right and privilege to attach and seize the said goods 



404 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

■ 

qui ne pouront être transférez Sur lautre Rive sans quau préalable 
Et avant toute Choses les Créanciers de ce District ne soient 
Entierm^ payez et Satisfait de ce qui poura leur Etre dub. Et 
En Cas de refus de payement lesd^ Biens être vendus jusques a 
parfaite liquidation Par deliberation. 

A* Girardin. 

Sur les contestations Entre Pierre troge Et Jacques Piquet 
pour une petite ûlle remise par la dame piquet a la dame troge. 
Et que ladite femme piquet Reclame La Cour a décidé que la 
dame troge Rendra lenfant a la femme piquet Sa mere, Sous les 
conditions que piquet ou sa femme payeront a la dame troge sa 
penssions Entretiens Soins et peines quelle a pris depuis queUe 
la et ^u jour que ladite piquet la luy a remise sur le compte que 
produira le s^ troge ou sa femme qui sera taxé par deux arbitres 
qui nommeront un troisième En Cas de Contestations Entreux, 
Et le reliquat de compte payé comptant aud' troge par led* piquet 
et sa femme avant d'Enlever L'enfant ordonnons aud* piquet dy 
satisfaire sans délais. 

La Cour est adjoumée au i**" de 7^* prochain. 

A* Girardin. 

7 Août délivre un ordre a francois Clark contre david Waddell 
p*" paroitre a la cour du i^^ 7^^® avec deffences de metre la saisie 
quil a obtenu contre led^ Clark a execution, non plus que de trans- 
porter les Billets dud^ Clark a peine de nulite des transports. 

10 aoust délivre un ordre a Benjamain B'ayram Contre david 
Waddel p*" paroitre a la Cour prochain du i^^ 7^*"®. 

15 aoust Délivré un ordre de Saisie au S^ Bouvet Contre le 
Nommé Buyat p"" saisir Entre Les mains de piere troge le bled ou 
autre Effets quil peut avoir Entre ses mains app* aud* Buyat p*" 
sûreté de la somme de Cinquante sept livres quil doit aud* S*" Bou- 
vet, avec deffences de Sen dessaisir a peine dEn repondre la dite 
saisie donné par jean B^*" dubuque magistra a bas du compte dud* 
S*^ Bouvet. 

N Bouvet. 

du 5 7^" délivré un ordre a Charles quil [sic] habitant de la 
prairie du pont Contre Nicolas schemitz du grand Ruisseau p^ 
paroitre a la Cour de mardy prochain 8 de ce mois. 



COURT RECORD, AUGUST, 1789 405 

which are in this district, which goods may not be transferred to 
the other bank until first of all the creditors of this district be 
paid in full, and satisfaction made for that which may be due 
them; and in case of refusal of payment the said goods are to be 
sold up to perfect liquidation. By resolution. 

Ant. Girardin. 

In regard^ to the dispute between Pierre Troge and James 
Piggott over a little girl confided by Madame Piggott to Madame 
Troge and whom the said woman Piggott reclaims, the Court 
decided that Madame Troge shall return the child to the woman 
Piggott, her mother, imder the condition that Piggott or his wife 
shall pay Madame Troge for the board, maintenance, care and 
trouble, which she has given, since she has had her and from the 
day that the said Piggott confided her to her care, according to 
the accoimt, which the said Troge or his wife shall bring and 
which shall be estimated by two arbitrators who shall name a third 
in case of disagreement between them; and the balance of the 
accoimt shall be paid in cash to the said Troge by the said Pig- 
gott and his wife before taking the child away. We command 
the said Piggott to satisfy it without delay. 

The Court adjourned to the first of September next. 

Ant. Girardin. 

August 7. Issued a summons to Francis Clark against David 
Waddell that he appear at the Court of September ist, with 
prohibition to put into execution the seizure, which he obtained 
against Clark, or to assign the notes of the said Clark on penalty 
of nullity of the assignments. 

August 10. Issued a sununons to Benjamin Byram against 
David Waddell that he appear at the next Court of September i. 

August 25. Issued a writ of seizure to M. Bouvet against 
the named Buyat, to attach the wheat or other effects, which 
Pierre Troge may have in his possession belonging to the said 
Buyat, for surety of the sum of fifty-seven livresy which he owes 
the said M. Bouvet, with prohibition to Troge to divest himself 
thereof on penalty of being held responsible for the said seizure 
of them. Given by Jean Bte. Dubuque, magistrate, below the 
account of the said M. Bouvet. N. Bouvet. 



4o6 



ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



du 7 7^^ I ordre a M*" aRondel contre ant. harmand dit sans 
façon. 

dud' jour un ordre a M^ aRundel Contre j B*« Labecasse. 

8 7^® un ordre a frs monplesir Engagé disidore LaCroiz 
contre Joseph marie. 



a une Cour du 8. 7^« 1789. 
M*"" ant« Girardin Présidant henry Biron 
B*« DuBuque Philipe angel 

p»"« Laperche Charle ducharme 

8 7^« délivré un ordre a Wiliam aRundel contre Louis Coste. 

dud* jour a la même Cour. 
M*" William aRundel demandeur Contre Louis Coste défendeur 
Sur la requête du s^ aRundel demandant aud* Coste la somme 
de onze Cent soixante dixhuit livres Six sols, vu les repense 
dud* coste la Cour a ordonné que la saisie faite par le s^ aRundel 
sur Louis Gaud de Cent piastres Sera Bonne et valable a ordonné 
aud* Louis gaud de vuider ses mains En celle du s'' aRundel, et 
ordonne p^ les six cent soixante dixhuit livres restant quil payera 
contant ou tiendra prison jusqua ce quil ait donné Caution solva- 
ble, condamne led^ Coste aux Dépens Et frais. 

dud* jour: délivré un décret a thom Bredy Bailly j^ areter 
Louis Coste et le tient a sa garde jusqua ce quil ait donné caution 
au s^ aRundel. 

Solivan : Sur Lexposé de jean Solivan quil a prêté Sa jument a 
Jean dempsey qui a Eté tue par les sauvages, la Cour ordonne que 

^ I find the name (Charles Gill among the names of Americans in lUinoia, and 
as the name intended here. 

' The foUnwinK costs of thb case were recorded on a scrap of paper which has 
into the book near the end: 

frais contre coste a la demande de Mr aRundel. 

pr W pre ordre Et sentence Et copie i$ 

pr X rrquetie du 7 7 bre 10 

pr Saisie et serment sitr louis gaud 10 

pr I ordre de ce jour pr faire venir Cosit 5 

pr la sentence sur la registre S 

pr le décret et enregistrement 5 

pr le billet 5 



it 
bound 



COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1789 407 

September 5. Issued a summons to Charles Gill [?]* in- 
habitant of Prairie du Pont against Nicolas Smith of Grand 
Ruisseau that he appear at the Court of Tuesday next, the 8th of 
this month. 

September 7. One sununons to M. Arundel against Ant. 
Harmand called Sansfacon. Same day. A simunons to M. 
Arundel against J. Bte Labecasse. 

September 8. A summons to Fr. Monplesir, engagé, of 
Isidore LaCroix, against Joseph Marie. 

At a Court, September 8, 1789. 
MM. Ant. Girardin, President. Henry Biron. 
Bte. Dubuque. Philippe Engel. 

Pierre Laperche. Charles DuCharme. 

September 8. Issued a simunons to William Arundel against 
Louis Coste. 

Same day at the same Coiu^. 
M. William Arundel, Plaintiff, vs, Louis Coste, Defendant. 
At the request of M. Arundel, who demands of the said Coste 
the sum of eleven hundred a^nd seventy-eight livres six sols, and 
in view of the replies of the said Coste, the Court decreed that 
the seizure made by M. Arundel on Louis Gaud of one hundred 
piastres shall be good and valid; and it commanded Louis Gaud 
to deliver them into the hands of M. Arundel. And in regard 
to the six hundred and seventy-eight livres remaining the Court 
decreed that he (Coste) shall pay cash or be confined in prison 
untD he has found solvent bondsman therefor. Condemned the 
said Coste to pay the costs and charges.' 

Same day. Issued a decree to Tom Brady to arrest Louis Coste 
and hold him in custody until he has given surety to M. Arundel. 
Sullivan. On the declaration of John Sullivan that he loaned 
to John Dempsey his mare, which had been killed by the savages,* 
the Coiut decrees that the said Sullivan shall take Dempsey's and 
that an appraisement shall be made to decide their relative values, 
and the difference is to be paid. 

' Dempsey was supposed to have been killed by the Indians, and he was actually scalped» 
but reco\Tred from his wound.— Reynolds, Pioneer History, 143. 



4o8 



ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



led^ solivan prendra celui de dempsey Et sera Estimé p^ savoir si la 
valeur vaut celle de dîmpsey et la plus ou moins valoir être i>ayée. 

a la même Cour. 

M*" DUMOULIN demandeur Contre Pierre Lacoste défendeur 
Le s^ dumoulin a produit un Compte a luy dub par pierre 
Coste de la somme de deux mille onze livres douze sols six deniers 
par ses Billets et comptes, lesquels BiUets led^ LaCoste a reconnu 
Veritable Et a produit un compte quil répète contre le s' dumoulin. 
La Cour ordonne que les Billets et Comptes produit par le s*" 
dumoulin dans lequel est compris les frais des Effets quil a Envoyé 
Chercher dans la riviere des ilinois seront payez privilegierement 
led^ S*" dumoulin Etant p^ saisissant' sur la pelterie sucre Et 
autres Effets descendus avec les frais de la présente instance et 
autres qui seront fait a ce sujet Et quant au compte produit par 
le s^ LaCoste ordonne que le Canot y mentionné sera pa3ré par 
le s^ dumoulin avec les autres articles le tout a raport darbitres 
Et Gens Connoissant. ordonne en outre que la pelterie de- 
scendue sera délivrée a M*" dumoulin Sur ce qui luy est dub et 
si elle ne suffit les sucres seront vendus demain au Contant au 
plus offrant et dernier Enchérisseur jusques a la Concurance de 
ladite somme Et frais Et si surplus y a déposé au greffe p^ être 
remis a Ses autres Créanciers Et a Eté déduit par ces présentes 
après examen fait du Compte produit par led^ LaCoste la somme de 
quatre vingt Cinq livres p^ le montant dud* compte, Evaluation du 
Canot Et médecine partant revient aud^ s** dumoulin dix neuf cent 
vingt six livres douze sols six deniers non compris les frais de justice. 

a la même Cour. 

Le S*" DeClamorgan demandeur Contre Pierre LaCoste 

deffendeur 

Le demandeur demande au deffendeur le payement de deux 
Billets lun de la somme de quinze mille neuf cent quarante Sept 
livres quatorze sols En argent s^ son obligation En datte du 30 
9^« 1787. passé au greffe de S* Louis par laquelle il apeit que led* 

1 The words "Ledt Sr dumoulin Etant pr saisissa$U** were inierted in the manin. Tlie 
asterisk, which marks the place for insertion, was placed after ** Sr " and before **LaCo8t^" 
below. Since the expression is without meaning m that place, I have insetted it liei«. la 
both oises the place of insertion falls at the beginning d the line in the manuscript, ao that 
thb mistake could easily have been made. 



COURT RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1789 409 

At the same Court. 

M. Dumoulin, Plaintiff, vs, Pierre Lacoste, Defendant. 

M. Dumoulin brought an account due him by Pierre LaCoste 
for the simi of two thousand and eleven ItT^res twelve sols six 
deniers according to his notes and accounts; which notes the said 
LaCoste recognized as true, and he brought an account, which 
he claims from M. Dumoulin. The Court decrees that the notes 
and accounts exhibited by M. Dumoulin, in which is included the 
costs of the effects which he sent to seek at the Illinois River, shall 
be paid by preference, since the said M. Dumoulin is first judg- 
ment creditor,* out of the peltries, sugar and other effects brought 
down, with the costs of the present suit and of others which shall 
be made in the matter; and as to the account exhibited by M. La- 
Coste the Court decrees that the canoe mentioned therein shall 
be paid for by M. Dumoulin with the other articles, all on the report 
of arbitrators and appraisers. The Court decrees, furthermore, 
that the peltries brought down shall be delivered to M. Dumoulin 
on that which is due him; and if it is not sufficient, the sugar 
shall be sold to-morrow for cash to the highest bidder up to the 
equivalent of the said sum and costs; and if there is a surplus, it 
shall be deposited at this office to be remitted to his other creditors. 
And there has been deducted by these presents, after examination 
was made of the account exhibited by the said LaCoste, the sum 
of eighty-five livres, as the amount of the said account and the 
value of the canoe and medicine; therefore there is due to the 
said M. Dumoulin nineteen hundred and twenty-six livres twelve 
sols six deniers, which does not include the costs of justice. 

At the same Court. 

M. Clamorgan, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre LaCoste, Defendant. 

The plaintiff demands of the defendant the payment of two 
notes, one for the siun of fifteen thousand nine hundred and forty- 
seven livres fourteen sols in money according to his obligation 
under date of November 30, 1787, drawn up at the record-office 
of St. Louis, from which it appears that the said LaCoste should 
pay at Michillimakinac for the release from M. Clarmorgan a 
sum of nine thousand livras in money; an4 since he has pot satis- 



4IO ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

LaCoste devoit payer a missilimakina a la décharge du s' Gla- 
morgan une somme de neuf mille livres En argent a quoy Nayant 
point satisfait la Cour Condamne led^ LaCoste a payer son obli- 
gation en Entier avec les interest et frais. Condamne pareille- 
ment led^ LaCoste a payer son autre Billet montant a la somme 
de Sept cent quatre vingt trois livres dix huit sols ainsy quil est 
porté au pied dun Compte avec interest et frais. Le tout après 
que led^ LaCoste a Reconnu Ses dits Billets et Comptes. En 
concequance permet au s*" Glamorgan de faire saisir par la suite 
les effets quil poura trouver apartenir aud^ Coste a la reserve 
de ceux déjà saisy Et Séquestrés ce qui sera exécuté. 

Ijà Cour est ajournée au i*^ 8^""« 1789. 

A* Girardin. 

du 30 7^'* délivré un ordre p^ fr trotier contre p^« lafleur 

un ordre p^ fr Saucier contre M*" dumoulin 

un ordre p^ Coste contre sansfacon 

un ordre p^ idem contre Louval 

un ordre p*" id contre macarty 

un ordre p' id contre martin 

un ordre p*" id contre janot lapensée 

un ordre p^ id contre Cecire 

un ordre p^ id contre antaya 

a une Cour du i*"*^ 8^« 1789. 
M" Girardin Présidant p*"® Laperche 

Charles ducharme henry Biron 

jean B*^ dubuque Magistra 

Entre le s*" François trotier demandeur Contre pierre La- 
fleur deffendeur 
Le demandeur redame contre le deffendeur la somme de 
quarante sept livres quinze sols par son compte p*" fournitures 
a luy faite le deffendeur a reconnu son compte et a dit quil luy 
etoit dub sept gardes quil avoit Eté Employé par ordre de M*" 
trotier p*" laffairc de brisson demande que cette somme montante 
a 35^^ luy soit déduite sur son compte. 

sur quoy la Cour condamne le deffendeur a payer son compte 
a M*" trotier sauf son recour p^ ses gardes ainsi quil est decide par 
la sentence des jurés concernant laffaire de Brisson condamné 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1789 411 

fied this, the Court condemns the said LaCoste to pay his obli- 
gation in full with interest and costs. The Court condemns the 
said LaCoste likewise to pay his other note amounting to the 
sum of seven hundred and eighty-three livres eighteen sols^ as 
is entered at the foot of an account, with interest and costs; aU 
decreed after the said LaCoste recognized his said notes and 
accounts. Consequently the Court permits M. Clamorgan to 
have seized the effects, which he can ûnd, belonging to the said 
Coste with the reservation of those already seized and sequestered, 
for which there wiU be execution. 

The Court adjourned to October i, 1789. 

Ant. Girardin. 
September 30. 

Issued a summons to Fr. Trottier against Pierre Lafleur. 

A summons to Fr. Saucier against M. Dumoulin. 

A summons to Coste against Sansfaçon. 

A summons to the same against Lonval. 

A summons to the same against Macarty. 

A summons to the same against Martin. 

A summons to the same against Janot Lapancé. 

A summons to the same against Cesirre. 

A summons to the same against Antaya. 

At a Court, October i, 1789. 

MM. Girardin, President. Pierre Laperche. 

Charles DuCharme. Henry Biron. 

Jean Bte. Dubuque. Magistrates 

M. François Trottier, Plaintiff, vs, Pierre Lafleur, Defendant. 
The plaintiff brings a claim against the defendant for the sum 
of forty-seven livres fifteen sols by his account for supplies sold 
to him. The defendant recognized his account and said that there 
was due him pay for seven guards and that he had been employed 
by order of M. Trottier for the affair of Brisson and he demands 
that this sum amounting to 35 livres be deducted from his account. 
Whereupon the Court condemns the defendant to pay his 
accoimt to M. Trottier saving his recourse for his guards as it 
is decided by the verdict of the jurors concerning the affair of 
Brisson. Condenmed Pierre Lafleur to pay the costs which are 



412 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

pierre lafleur aux frais liquidez a trois piastres qui seront avancés 
par M*" trotier et a luy rembources par la fleur. 
La Cour est ajourné au i**" 9^® 1789. 

Â^ Girardin. 
LaChanse: du 6 8*^ 1789, délivré au s' LaChansse une saisie 
p»" une Vache Et Son vau sur pierre martin. 

antaya: dud^ jour délivré une saisie a antoine peltier dit antaya 
contre le nommé Wilson Entre les mains de Louis Costa p^ 20 
minots de mahis que led* Wilson doit. 

du 8 8^® délivré une Saisie avec ordre de vendre a deffaud par 
pierre troge de voider ses mains Entre celles du s*" Bouvet de la 
farine ou bled quil a apartenant a antoine Buyat le i^ ordre de 
Saisie ayant Eté signiffie par thom Bredy le 15 aoust p*" la s* de 57. 
ajouter les frais de ladite saisie Et de present exécutoire fait 97*^ 
laquelle Exécutoire a Eté délivrée audit S*" Bouvet. 

N Bouvet. 
Par Extraordinaire a la demande de Charle Germain. 

aux témoins 
f I ordre a M^ trotier 
I I ordre a ignace Grondine 
témoins -1 1 ordre a francois Grondine 
I ordre a duchcnau 
I ordre a louis gaud 
aux magistrats 
I ordre a M^" girardin 
I idem a Mr Philipe angel 
I id. a Mr dubuque 
I id. a Mr ducharme 
I a Laperche 
I a Biron 
I a Chatel 
Les ordres ci dessus nous ont Eté délivrés marq de 

Brady + 

Charles Germain 
I ordre a Louis p^ séquestre le Chelval in [sic] 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1789 413 

■ 

set at three piastres, which shall be advanced by M. Trottier and 

reimbursed to him by Lafleur. 

The Court adjourned to November i, 1789. 

A. Girardin. 
Lachanse, Antaya 

October 6, 1789. Issued to M. Lachanse a writ of seizure 

for a cow and its calf on Pierre Martin. 

Same day. Issued a writ of seizure, to Antoine Pelletier called 

Antaya against the named Wilson, of 20 minois of com in the 

hands of Louis Coste and which the said Wilson owes. 

October 8. Issued a writ of seizure with order of sale because 

of the failure by Pierre Troge to deliver into the hands of M. Bouvet 

the flour or wheat, which he has, belonging to Antoine Buyat. 

The first writ of seiziure was served by Tom Brady on August 15 for 

the sum of 57 livres -, adding the costs of the present seizure and of 

the present execution it makes 97 livres, which execution was 

delivered to the said M. Bouvet. N. Bouvet. 

SpeciaUy at the prayer of Charles Germain. 

To the witnesses. 

I summons to M. Trottier. 

I simunons to Ignace Grondine. . ' " 

I summons to François Grondine. 

I smnmons to Duchenau. 

I summons to Louis Gaud. 

To the magistrates. 

I siunmons to M. Girardin. 

I ditto to M. Philippe Engel. 

I ditto to M. Dubuque. 

I ditto to M. DuCharme. 

I to Laperche. 

I to Biron. 

I to Chatel. 

The simunons above named have been delivered to us. 

Brady. Mark of 

+ 

Charles Germain. 

I order to Louis to sequester the horse. 



414 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

A une cour tenue Extraordinaîrement 
a la demande Et requisition de Charles Germain Contre 
Louis Gaud. 

13 8^« 1789. 
M^* antoine girardin Présidant Pierre Laperche 
Charles ducharme henri Biron 

Philipe Engel Louis Chatel 

B*« Dubuque magistra 

Le S*" germain a dit quil reclamoit contre Louis gaud Son 
cheval que les sauvages lui avoient vole. Et quil avoit fait marché 
avec led^ Louis gaud que sil luy ramenoit son Cheval quil lui 
donneroit une vache Et son veau a Choisir sur les siennes, que 
led* Louis gaud avoit Emmené le Cheval mais quil ne vouloit pas 
luy rendre a moins dune vache Et son veau Et de plus un taureau 
de dix huit mois, quil offroit de remetre ladite vache Et le vau. 
mais quil netoit pas obligé suivant Ses conventions de donner le 
tauraux de plus, que led* Louis gau Etoit libre de lammener pour 
le prix convenu ou de le laisser. Et conclu[d] aux frais de Lcx- 
traord^*^ contre led* Louis gaud. 

I^ed* Louis gaud a répondu quil netoit point convenu des 
faits que led* germain avance quil est vray quil est convenu avec 
led* germain quil feroit son possible p' Emmener son Cheval 
mais que sil luy Coutoit plus que la valeur de la vache Et le vau 
quil luy payeroit les Surplus ce quil a Eté desavoué par led* 
Germain qui a soutenu quil netoit Convenu que de la vache et 
le vau offrant de fournir Ses preuves a la Cour par témoins. 
sur quoy led* Germain a fait Comparoitre m*" francois trotier 
commandant Lequel après que la cour la En sommé de dire 
vérité a dit que sEtant trouvé chés le s*" Louis gaud lors que ger- 
main y Est Entré p*" reclamer son Cheval, quil a dit a Louis 
gaud mon oncle comme voulés vous vous aranger je viens Chercher 
mon Cheval, votre vache Et le vau son dans ma Cour venez 
les Choisir, que Louis gaud avoit répondu votre Cheval ma 
Coûté plus que cela je ne peut pas vous le donner p*" le vache 
Et le vau si vous voulez me donner un taurau de dix huit mois de 
surplus vous laurés. ou jen ay un de pareil age si vous le voulez 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1789 415 

At a Court meeting in special session at the prayer of 
Charles Germain, vs. Louis Gaud. 

October 13, 1789. 
MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Pierre Laperche. 
Charles DuCharme. Henry Biron. 

Philippe Engel. Louis Chatel. 

Bte. Dubuque. Magistrates. 

M. Germain said that he claimed from Louis Gaud his horse 
which the savages had stolen from him; and that he had made 
a bargain with the said Louis Gaud that if he brought his horse 
back to him that he would give a cow and her calf to be chosen 
among his stock; that the said Louis Gaud had brought away 
the horse, but that he refused to deliver it to him except for a 
cow and her calf and a bull of eighteen months to boot; that he 
offered to give the said cow and her calf; but that he was not 
obliged according to his agreement to give the bull to boot; that 
the said Louis Gaud was free to bring it back for the price agreed 
upon or to leave it; and he concludes that the costs of the 
special session should be found against the said Louis Gaud. 

The said Louis Gaud replied that there was no agreement in 
regard to the facts which the said Germain advances; that it is 
true that he agreed with the said Germain to do his best to bring 
his horse away; but that if it cost him more than the value of the 
cow and calf that he should pay him the extra cost, which has been 
denied by the said Germain, who maintained that the agreement 
was only for the cow and calf and he offers to furnish proofs 
to the Court by witnesses. Whereupon the said Germain sum- 
moned M. François Trottier, commandant, who, after the Court 
summoned him to tell the truth thereof, said that he was present 
at Louis Gaud's when Germain entered there to reclaim his 
horse; that he said to Louis Gaud: "Uncle! What are you 
going to do about it ? I have come to get my horse. Your cow 
and calf are in my yard. Come and choose them;" that Louis 
Gaud replied: "Your horse cost me more than that. I can't 
give it to you for the cow and calf. If you wish to give me a bull 
of eighteen months to boot, you shall have it. Or I have one 



4i6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

je vous le donnerez Et je garderay le Cheval a quoy Germain 
Navoit pas voulu Consentir, quil luy avoit répliqué je suis 
convenu avec vous de vous donner une vache Et son vau je vous 
loffre je ne suis pas convenu de vous donner de surplus ou il 
faloit laisser mon Cheval. 

a fait venir ignace Grondine lequel après sermant par luy 
fait de dire la vérité luy avons demandé sil a Connoissance du 
marché de Charles germain et Louis gaud a dit quil avoit con- 
noissance Etant au p6 avec led*^ Louis gaud comme son Engagé 
led^ Louis gaud lavoit Envoyé avec maillet pour aCheter le Cheval 
quil Etoit party avec mailhct mais quEtant aux qu'étant [sic] 
arrivé aux Cotes, il Sen Etoit Revenu que a son retour louis gaud luy 
avoit dit. pourquoy Est tu revenu tu auroit du y aler tu sera Cause 
que Si je nay pas le Cheval, je nauray pas une vache et son veau 
qui ma Eté promise p*" le Cheval qui est tout ce quil a dit savoir. 

avons fait venir francois Grondine Lequel après sermant par 
luy fait de dire la vérité luy avons demandé sil a Connoissance du 
marché fait Entre Charles Germain Et louis gaud, a dit que quel- 
ques jours après que louis Gaud Et germain Se Sont En arangé 
luy deposans a Eté trouver louis gaud et luy a demandé sil vouloit 
luy Emmener sa jument que les sauvages avoient vole que louis 
gaud luy avoit dit que sil vouloit luy donner une vache Et son veau 
comme faisoit germain quil la luy Emmeneroit sil la trouvoit que 
luy déposant avoit Consenty de luy donner une vache Et son veau 
ou quarante piastre sil Emmenoit sa jument, mais quil ne lavoit 
pas Emmenée, qui est tout ce quil a dit savoir. 

avons fait venir francois ducheneau lequel après sermant par 
luy fait de dire la vérité luy avons demande sil a Connoissance du 
marché fait Entre Louis gaud Et Charles germain a dit que Etant 
au pé Et alant avec maillet qui avoit déjà acheté le Cheval dont 
est question p*" Louis gaud il avoit demandé a maiUet ce quil avoit 
Coûté quil luy avoit répondu jay donné deux baril dau de vie a 
choisir sur huit Et deux filles [filet ?] que luy deposans luy avoit 
répondu cest Bien Cher, que maillet avec [sic] répliqué, ce nest 
pas trop Cher puisque Louis gaud a une vache et son vau p*" avoir 
le Cheval des sauvages qui est tout ce quil a dit savoir. 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1789 417 

of like age; if you wish it, I will give it to you and I will keep 
the horse; " that Germain had not wished to agree to this, and 
that he had answered: "I agreed with you to give you a cow and 
her calf. I offer it to you. I have not agreed to give you more 
and [if it cost more] you should have left my horse.'' 

Have simimoned Ignace Grondine whom, after taking oath to 
tell the truth, we asked if he had knowledge of the bargain of 
Charles Germain and Louis Gaud; and he said that he had 
knowledge, since he was in Peoria with the said Louis Gaud as 
his engage; and that the said Louis Gaud had sent him with 
Mailhet to buy the horse and that he had set out with Mailhet; 
but that having arrived at the Bluffs, he had returned; that on 
his rettim Louis Gaud had said to him: "Why have you come 
back? You should have gone there. You will be the cause 
that I do not have the horse and I shall not have the cow and 
her calf, which have been promised me for the horse. " This 
is aU that he said he knew. 

We have simmioned François Grondine, whom, after oath 
was made by him to tell the truth, we have asked if he had knowl- 
ledge of the bargain made between Charles Germain and Louis 
Gaud and he said that some days after Louis Gaud and Germain 
had made their bargain, he, the deponent, was at Louis Gaud's 
and asked him, if he wished to bring back for him his mare which 
the savages had stolen, and that Louis Gaud had said to him 
that if he was willing to give him a cow and her calf as Germain 
was doing, that he would bring it back to him, if he found it; 
and that he, the deponent, had agreed to give him a cow and her 
calf or forty piastres, if he brought back his mare; but that he 
had not brought it back; which is all that he said he knew. 

We simimoned François Duchenau, whom, after he had made 
oath to tell the truth, we asked if he had knowledge of the bargain 
made between Louis Gaud and Charles Germain, and he said 
that he was at Peoria and was walking with Mailhet who had 
already bought the horse in question for Louis Gaud, and he 
asked Mailhet what it had cost and that he had answered him: 
"I have given two barrels of brandy to be chosen among eight and 



4i8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

avons fait venir antoine girardin garçon habitant lequel après 
sermant par luy fait de dire la vérité luy avons demandé sQ a 
Connoissance du marche Entre louis gaud Et Charles Germain 
a dit. quEtant present Chés Louis gaud le jour que Germain y 
est venu, led^ germain luy a dit mon oncle Emmenez moy mon 
Cheval je vous donnerez une vache Et son veau, que luy déposant 
Etant a boire le ûlet na pas fait atention a ce quil peuvent setre dit 
de plus lecture a luy faite de sa declaration a dit contenir vente Et 
que cest tout ce quil sait. 

parties ouies et vu les depositions des témoins, la Cour assem- 
blée ayant mûrement examiné. Elle a Condamné Et condanme 
Louis gaud a rendre le Cheval a Charles germain. Et a recevoir 
La vache et le vau quil est convenu de luy donner, suivant la 
deposition des témoins condamnons En outre led^ Louis gaud 
En tous les frais Et dépens de Lextraordinaire qui seront avancez 
par led^ germain Et a luy rembourcez par led^ Louis Gaud suivant 
le Compte arrêté par la Cour montant a la somme de quatre Cent 
quatre vingt dix sept livres dix sols ce qui sera exécuté nonobstant 
toute ©position ou apelation. aux Cahos led^ jour 13 8^* 17^ 
Extraordinairement. 
[Si}^ned] 

B*« Dubuque Pierre Laperche 

h B i sa 

Philipe Engel Louis H- Chatel 

DuCharme marque 

Labuxiere grefier A* Girardin. 

du 26 [?] ^^^ délivré une saisie a Charle germain Contre charly 

cadien sur un Cheval Entre les mains du s^ Bergeron, 
dud^ jour délivré au même une saisie contre le même j>*" le Bled 
quil a chés la dame alary. 

1 Filet is an expression still used amung the French of Canada and the Missisaippi valley. 
As used below by tnc next witness it means a drink from a faucet or bunghole. In this place 
both the reading of the wurd and the interpretation are doubtful. 

' Another cuse uf un exces.sive charge for justice, but tlie session was special and the irit- 
nesses numerous. 



COURT RECORD, OCTOBER, 1789 419 

two swigs;* that the deponent had answered, "It is very dear; " 
that Mailhet had answered: "It is not too dear, since Louis 
Gaud has a cow and her calf for getting the horse from the sav- 
ages''; which is all that he said he knew. 

We smnmoned Antoine Girardin, a boy and resident, whom, 
after he had made oath to tell the truth, we asked if he had knowl- 
edge of the bargain between Louis Gaud and Charles Germain 
and he said that he was present at Louis Gaud's the day that 
Germain came there; that the said Germain said to Gaud: "Uncle, 
bring my horse back to me and I will give you a cow and her calf; 
that he, the deponent, was taking a swig and did not give attention 
to what they may have said further. Reading made to him of 
his affidavit and he has said that it contained the truth and 
that it is all that he knows. 

After the parties were heard and in view of the depositions of 
the witnesses, the Court in assembly after mature examination, 
condemned Louis Gaud to deliver the horse to Charles Germain, 
and to receive the cow and the calf which the latter agreed to give 
him,according to the depositions of witnesses. We condemn further- 
more the said Louis Gaud in all costs and charges of the special 
session, which shall be advanced by the said Germain and reim- 
bursed to him by the said Louis Gaud, according to the account 
determined by the Court and which amount to the sum of four 
hundred and eighty-seven livres ten sols,^ for which there will be 
execution notwithstanding all opposition or appeal. At Cahokia 
the said day, October 13, 1789. Held specially. 
[Signed] 

Bte. Dubuque. Pierre Laperche. 

hBi His* 

Philippe Engel. Louis -|- Chatel. 

DuCharme. mark. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. A. Girardin. 

October 26 [?]. Issued to Charles Germain against Charly 
Cadien a writ of seizure of a horse in the possession of M. Bergeron. 
Same day. Issued to the same a writ of seizure, against the 
same, of the wheat which he has at Madame Alarie's. 



420 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

A une Cour du deux Novembre 1789. 
M*^" antoine girardin Présidant Pierre Laperche 
Jean B*« dubuque Louis Chatel 

Charles ducharme henry Biron 

Philipe angel Magistrats 

a ladite Cour. 
My Laille demandeur Contre Louis Coste deffendeur 
Le demandeur répète contre le deffendeur 116*^ 17* En argent 
Et 23^*^ 17" En farine que le deffendeur Convient devoir sur quoy 
le[5tV]Cour le Condamné a payer sans délais Condanmons le s"" laille 
aux frais p*" Navoir pas demande son payement laquelle sentence 
sera exécutée sous vingt quatre heures. 

a la même cour. 
FRANCOIS HUBERDEAU demandeur Contre pierrc durbois 

deffendeur . 
Le demandeur répète contre le deffendeur un billet de Cent 
Cinquante livres Echus. 

le deffendeur la reconnu veritable. 

sur quoy la Cour condamne le deffendeur a payer son Billet 
savoir la farine a 30*^ le Cent Et le mahis a 5^^ le sac marchand, 
le tout sans délais condamne dubardeau [sic] aux frais liquidez a 
15*^ tant p*" Huissier lordre au greffier que la présente sentence. 
délivré un décret du prise de Corps a ladite Cour a demande 
de M*" de Clamorgan Contre francois Clark ameriquaîn. 

a la même Cour. 
La Cour est ajournée au i**" x^" 1789. 

A* Girardin. 
du 10 9^^*^ 1789. 
délivré une saisie a M*" Dumoulin chargé p*" m'" Labadie, une 
Saisie conservatoire contre jean B** Lapierre forgeron et sa 
femme sur la somme de 1166^^ que luy doit Philipe gervaîs con- 
jointement avec sa femme sous Ihypoteque de leurs Biens en 
datte du jour de hier par leur obligation déposée au Notaria de 
cette justice payable a la toussaint 1790 ladite saisie faite p*" la 
somme de 280^^ en paux de Chevreuil Razée payable En may 
1790 J** Dumoulin 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1789 421 

At a Court, November 2, 1789. 
MM. Antoine Girardin, President. 
Jean Bte. Dubuque. Pierre Laperche. 

Charles DuCharme. Louis Chatel. 

Philippe Engel. Henry Biron. 

Magistrates. 
At the said Court. 
M. Laille, Plaintiff, vs, Louis Coste, Defendant. 
The plaintiff brings claim against the defendant for 116 livrts 
17 sols in money and 23 livres 17 sols in flour, which the defendant 
acknowledges that he owes. Whereupon the Court condemned 
him to pay without delay. We condemn M. Laille to pay the 
costs for not having demanded his pa>inent, which judgment 
shall be put in execution within twenty-four hours. 

At the same Court. 
Francois Huberdeau, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre Dubois, 

Defendant 
The plaintiff brings claim against the defendant for a note of 
one himdred and fifty livres^ which has fallen due. 
The defendant acknowledges it as genuine. 
Whereupon the Court condemns the defendant to pay his 
note, to wit: the flour at 30 livres the hundred and the com at 
5 livres the trading sack, and all without delay; and condemns 
Huberdeau to pay the costs, fixed at 15 livres as well for the 
huissier and the order to the clerk as for the present judgment. 
Issued a writ of capias at the said Court on prayer of M. 
Clamorgan against Francis Clark, American. 

At the same Court. 
The Court adjourned to December i, 1789. 

Ant. Girardin. 
November 10, 1789. 
Issued to M. Dumoulin, trustee for M. Labadie, a writ of conser- 
vative seizure against Jean Bte. Lapierre, blacksmith, and his wife 
on the sum of 1 166 livres, which Philip Gervais, jointly with his wife, 
owes Lapierre under mortgage of their goods according to their obli- 
gation, dated yesterday, deposited in the office of the notary of the 



423 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



du a6 9 ^« 1789 
délivré une saisie a M*" antoine thibault Contre jean B*« Lapierre 
pour saisir Conservatoirement Entre les mains de philîpe gervais 
la somme de deux Cent onze livres et 26^^ p^ la saisie sur la 
somme de Neuf cent soixante Et quelque livres que led^ gervais 
doit aud^ Lapierre par son obligation au Notaria de ce poste 
payable lauthomne 1790 avec deffences de sen dessaisir quil 
nen soit par la Cour ordoné ladite saisie délivré a thom Bredy 
huissier signée ducharme magistra 

P. Tabeàu 
du 28. 9^« délivré une Saisie privilégiée Et provisoire au s*^ 
Robidoub. sur les Biens meubles, une maison Et quatre Che- 
vaux apartenant a Louis gaud jusqua ce que la Cour En ay or- 
donné p*" sûreté de la s« de 1464*^ en pelterie que led* Louis 
gaud doit aud^ Robidoub p^ marchandises de traite. 

Jh Robidou 
délivré un ordre a pierre Gassien p'" faire comproitre 

devant la Cour au i®*" x^® antoine la Cource. 
délivré un ordre a M*" dumoulin contre marin pencrasse. 
délivré un ordre au s*" harmand contre Gabriel Baron. 



30-9 



bre 



ibrc 



ibre 



30 
30 

du. 30. g^^ délivré un ordre a motard contre fs. Lapensée. 



a une Cour du i**" décembre 1789. 
M" antoine girardin Présidant p*"* LaPerche 
Philipe angel Louis Chatel 

B*« Dubuque Magistrats 

M*^ Dumoulin Contre marin Pencrasse 
Le demandeur répète Contre le deffendeur la somme de quatre 
vingt dix sept livres douze sols six deniers p^ 55^ de sucre net 



COURT RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1789 423 

jurisdiction and payable on All Saints day, 1 790 ; the said seizure was 
made for the sum of 280 livres in buckskin, payable in May, 1790. 

Jn. Dumoulin. 
November 26, 1789. 

Issued a writ of seiziure to Antoine Thibault against Jean Bte. 
Lapierre to seize conservatively from the hands of Philippe Gervais 
the smn of two hundred and eleven livres ^ and 20 livres, for the 
writ of seizure, from the simi of nine hundred and sixty and some 
livreSy which the said Gervais owes the said Lapierre by his 
obligation at the office of the notary of this post payable in the 
autumn of 1790, with prohibition to divest himself of whatever 
there is thereof. Decreed by the Court, the said writ of seizure 
was delivered to Tom Brady, huissier, and was signed by Du- 
Charme, magistrate. P. Tabeau. 

November 28. 

Issued a writ of privileged and provisional seizure to M. 
Robidou on the personal property, a house and four horses be- 
longing to Louis Gaud, until the Court has decreed thereon, to 
be held for surety of the sum of 1464 livres in peltries, which the 
said Louis Gaud owes the said Robidou for merchandise of trade. 

Jh. Robidou. 

November 30. Issued a summons to Pierre Gassien to cause 
to appear before the Court of December ist Antoine LaCource. 

November 30. Issued a summons to M. Dumoulin against 
Marin Pencrasse. 

November 30. Issued a summons to M. Harmand against 
Gabriel Baron. 

November 30. Issued a summons to Motard against Fr. 
Lapancé. 

At a Court, December i, 1789. 
MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Pierre Laperche. 
Philippe Engel. Louis Chatel. 

Bte. Dubuque. Magistrates. 

M. Dumoulin, Plaintiff vs. Marin Pencrasse. 
The plaintiff brings claim against the defendant for the sum 
of ninety-seven livres twelve sols six deniers for 55 lbs. of sugar net 



4^4 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



a 35' 6^ la Lx avec les frais, le deffendeur a reconnu devoir 
la dite somme mais quil navoit pas de quoy payer pour le 
present. 

Vu la reconnoissance dud^ marin Pencrasse qui a reconnu 
devoir ladite somme la Cour la Condamné a payer Sous quinze 
jours aux mêmes conditions de L'Encan Bled ou farin Et aux 
frais. 

a la même cour 

Sur la requête expositive des S" Laille Et arundel marchand 
de ce poste que quelques marchands de St Louis faisoient des 
avances au s^ Louis gaud, qui se trouve Extrêmement En debte, 
les quels Enlèvent le produit des avances qui a Eté faîtes aud^ 
Louis gaud par les marchands et autres particuliers de ce poste ce 
qui fait un tor Et une fraude notable a ceux qui avancé aud^ Louis 
gaud sur cette partie tant aux marchands qua dautres particuliers 
de ce dit poste, La Cour En vertu de la requête du s"" Laille Et du 
s^ arundel Et autres représentant deffend aud^ Louis gaud de 
faire aucun payement sur lautre Rive ny dy faire traverser 
aucunnes pelteries ou payement ny même aucunes marchan- 
dises Effets de quelque nature quils soient declare En outre la 
saisie faite par le s<^ Robidoub de nule valeur Et comme non 
faite quil nait auparavant Entièrement satisfait toutes les 
Créances PU dehtes quil doit sur cette Rive a peine -de Confisca- 
tion des dites pelteries ou payement quil pouroit Elnvoyer qui 
seront saisie p^ satisfaire aux Créances dicy ce qui sera Execute 
lesd* jourEt an. 

A^ Girardin. 
a la même Cour. 

PiERRK Gassïen demandeur Contre Antodœ LaCoijsce 
défaillant Nayant voulu comparoir après assignation a luy 
donnée le jour de hier. 

Vu la demande dud* Gassien contre Led^ LaCource mon- 
tant a la somme de trois cent dix livres, savoir 250*^ p*" une 
terre Et 06^^' p^ salaire douvrage. condanmons led^ antrâie 
LaCource a payer led^ Gassien sans délais et aux frais et 
dépens. 



COURT RECORD, DECEMBER, 1789 425 

at 35 sols 6 deniers the pound with costs. The defendant ac- 
knowledged that he owes the said sum, but says that he has no 
means to pay at present. 

In view of the acknowledgment of the said Marin Pencrass, 
who has acknowledged that he owes the said sum, the Court con- 
demned him to pay within the fortnight wheat or flour on the same 
conditions as given at the auction. Condemned him to pay the 
costs. 

At the same Court. 

On the explanatory petition of MM. Laille and Arundel, 
tradesmen of this post, that some tradesmen of St. Louis were 
making to M. Louis Gaud, who is greatly in debt, advances which 
are absorbing the proceeds of the advances which were made to 
the said Louis Gaud by traders and others individuals of this post, 
an act which is effecting a wrong and considerable fraud to those 
on this side, both tradesmen and other individuab of this post, who 
have made advances to the said Louis Gaud ; the Court in virtue 
of the petition of M. Laille and M. Arundel and other representa- 
tives forbids the said Louis Gaud to make any payment on the 
other bank, to send across any peltries or payment or likewise 
any merchandise, effects of whatsoever nature; and it declares, 
furthermore, the seiziure made by M. Roubidou of no value and 
as not made, until the said Gaud has first entirely satisfied all the 
claims and debts which he owes on this bank, on penalty of con- 
fiscation of the said peltries or payment that he may send and these 
shall be seized to satisfy the claims of this place, for which there 
will be execution the said day and year. 

Ant. Girardin. 
At the same Court. 
Pierre Gassien plaintiff, vs. Antoine LaCource absent, having 

refused to appear after summons was served on him yesterday. 

In view of the claim of the said Gassien against LaCource 
amoimting to the sum of three hundred and ten livres, to wit 250 
livres for a plantation and 60 livres for wages, we condemn the 
said LaCource to pay the said Gassien without delay with costs 
and charges. 



426 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

a la même Coiir. 
Le s' Motard demandeur Contre Francois Lapensée def- 

fendeur 

sur les contestations des comptes réciproques que les deux 
parties ont produit lun contre lautre. La Cour a renvoyé les deux 
partis pardevant M'' William aRundel Et M^ jean dumoulin Et 
M*" Laille p*" arbitrer led* compte Et Larreter auquel arrêté de 
Compte les parties se soumetront ce qui sera execute. 

La Cour est ajournée au i®^ janvier 1789. 

A* Girardin. 
du 3 X^« 1789. 

Est comparu au greffe de cette justice Le S^ antoine Thabault 
Négociant de Cahos lequel a requis enregistrement de Lordon- 
nance cy après. 

Nous antoine girardin Présidant Et magistra de la Cour du 
district des Cahos. Sur les representations a nous faites par le 
s*" antoine tabault Négociant de cette Rive et y ayant sermant de 
fidélité Etablissant Son domicile En la maison de Charles Lefevre 
habitant de ce poste, lequel En Sa dite qualité de Citoyen de cette 
dite Rive auroit apris que les Biens de Louis gaud traiteur de ce 
poste avoient Eté Saisis par le S' Robidoub marchand de la Rive 
esi)agnole Sous prétexte davances faites aud* Louis gaud laquelle 
saisie a Eté par cette Cour Ennulee le premier de ce mois, afin 
que les vray Citoyen de cette Rive, reconnus pour tel ayent le 
privilege dEtre payez Sur les Biens dud* Louis gault preferable- 
ment a tous les autres Commerceants Etrangers qui nont 
aucun sermant de fidélité Sur cette Rive Et gouvemment ameri- 
quain. 

EN CONSEQUANCE nous avons Permis Et Permetons aud* 
S' antoine thabault Négociant de cette Rive y ayant Sermant de 
fidélité Et y ayant Etably son domicile de Saisir, arrêter Et metre 
Sous la main de la justice tous les Biens meubles Et immeubles 
dud* Louis gault comme Son dernier Equipeur. Saisir, arrêter 
Séquestrer Et y Etablir gardien et dépositaire a toutes les pelteries 
graisses huiles et autres effets que led* Louis gault poura faire Et 
En mener icy de ces traites même ceux quil Se trouvera avoir En 



COURT RECORD, DECEMBER, 1789 427 

At the same Court. 

M. MoTARD, Plaintiff, vs, François Lapancé, Defendant. 

On account of the disagreement of the reciprocal accounts 
which the two parties have brought against each other, the Court 
dismissed the two parties to arbitrate and settle the said account 
before M. William Arundel, M. Jean Dumoulin and M. Laille 
to which settlement the parties shall submit; for which there will 
be execution. 

The Court adjourned to January i, 1789. 

Ant. Girardin. 
December 3, 1789. 

There appeared at the record office of this Court M. Ant. 
Tabeau, merchant of Cahokia, who required the registration of 
the following decree. 

We Antoine Girardin, president and magistrate of the Court 
of Cahokia, on the representation made to us by M. Antoine 
Tabeau, merchant of this bank, who has made oath of fidelity there- 
to and established his domicile in the house of Charles Lefevre, 
resident of this post, and who, in his quality of citizen of this bank, 
has learned that the goods of Louis Gaud, trader of this post, 
had been seized by M. Robidou, merchant of the Spanish bank, 
under pretext of advances made to the said Louis Gaud, which 
seizure was annulled by this Court the first of this month, in order 
that the true citizens of this bank, and known as such, should 
have the privilege of being paid from the goods of the said Louis 
Gaud in preference of all other alien merchants who have taken 
no oath of fidelity on this bank and to the American government. 

IN CONSEQUENCE we have permitted and do permit the 
said Antoine Tabeau, merchant of this bank who has taken oath 
of fidelity thereto and established his domicile thereon, to seize, 
distrain and place imder the hand of justice all the goods, personal 
and real, of the said Louis Gaud, as last furnisher; to seize, dis- 
train, sequester and establish a guardian therefor and a depositary 
for all peltries, tallow, oil and other effects which the said Louis 
Gaud may make and bring thereof to this place by his trades, and 
also those which he shall be found to have in his possession in his 



428 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

sa pocession dans Sa maison, Lesquelles pelteries Seront mises 
En depot a la Garde Et ches le S*" isidore laCroix qui sen Chargeia 
jusqua la Cour prochaine pour En Etre ordonné ce que de raison, 
le tout pour Sûreté des Sommes dEquipement que led* S*" Tha- 
bault a fait aud* Louis gault En qualité de marchand citoyen de 
cette Rive Et comme dernier Equipeur Et encore pour sûreté de 
Cent Soixante treize livres En argent ou pelterie que led* Louis 
gaud reste devoir Sur Son obligation de LEncan de defihmt augus- 
tin dubuque Echus depuis le quinze davril dernier suivant Linter- 
vention du S^ Labuxiere Chargé de ladite sucession Enjoint au 
bailly de cette Cour de procéder a ladite saisie aussitost la requisi- 
tion dud* S^ thabault avec les formalité requises donnons la pré- 
sente Saisie Non sur les Chevaux qui serviront aud* Louis gault 
pour plus grande facilité dans Son Commerce, mais sur tous autres 
articles Et effets cy devant détailles conditionelement que le s^ 
a Rundel et laille seront present lors de la livraison des pelteries 
Et effets du s' Louis gault au dépositaire le s^ LaCroix £t 
en feront eux même linvantaire Et la présente sera Enregistrée 
au greffe de ce poste pour y avoir Recour quand Besoin sera 
donné aux Cahos le 3 X^* 1789. signé Thabault Saisissant Et 
ant*^ Girardin Présidant. Et a linstant Loriginal du present 
Enregistrement remis ez [sic] mains dud* s' Thabault lesd* jour 
Et an. 

Labuxiere grefier. 

Je Soussigné a deffaud huissier comme ayant été Requis par 
luy en presence des témoins Soussignés signiffié la présente sen- 
tence Et Saisie a la dame Louis gault En labsence de son mary En 
parlant a Sa person En son domicile led* jour Et an que dessus 
signé Billet p*" thom Brady huissier. 

En concequance avons saisis et Saisisons une maison a vide 
maintenant ladite dame Et sa famille, une armoire a deux Battans, 
un miroir a cadre dor une paire de Boeuf une vache avec son 
veau, deux génisses de trois ans Cinq pourceaux, plusieurs meubles 
de ménages aux Cahos le 3. X^* 1789 signé Billet p*" thom Bredy. 
En outre plusieurs marchandises drats couvertes &c. que ladite 
dame a déclaré avoir Reçu de M^ thabault lors que son Epoux a 



COURT RECORD, DECEMBER, 1789 429 

house; which peltries shall be deposited in the custody and at the 
house of M. Isidore LaCroix, who shall be intrusted therewith 
until the next Court, that there may be decreed concerning them, 
for which this act is sufficient. This is done to assure the sums 
for equipment which the said M. Tabeau has made to the said 
Louis Gaud, in his title of citizen trader of this bank and last 
furnisher, and also for surety for one hundred and seventy-three 
livres in money or peltries which the said Louis Gaud still owes on 
his note given for the goods bought at the auction of the deceased 
Augustin Dubuque, matiired since the fifteenth of April last, 
according to the intervention of M. Labuxiere who is intrusted 
with the said estate. And we have enjoined on the bailiff of this 
Court to proceed to the said seizure as soon as he receives the 
requisition with the necessary formalities from the said M. Ta- 
beau. We do not give the present writ of seiziu'e on the horses, 
which will serve the said Louis Gaud to conduct his commerce 
with greater facility, but on all other articles and effects here- 
before mentioned in detail, under the condition that MM. 
Arundel and Laille shall be present at the time of the delivery of 
the peltries and effects of M. Louis Gaud to the guardian, M. 
LaCroix, and they shall themselves make an inventory thereof; 
and the present shall be registered at the office of this post in 
order to have recourse thereto, when there shall be need. 
Given at Cahokia December 3, 1787. Signed Tabeau, execution 
creditor, and Ant. Glrardin, president. And now the original 
of the present registry was delivered into the hands of the said M. 
Tabeau the said day and year. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. 

I, the undersigned, in default of the huissier and as requested 
by him, in the presence of the undersigned witnesses, have served 
the present decree and writ of seizure on Madame Louis Gaud in 
the absence of her husband and I have spoken to her in person 
at her place of residence, the said day and year as above. Signed 
Billet for Tom Brady, huissier. 

In consequence we have seized and do seize a house vacated 
now by the said lady and her family, a closet with two folding 



430 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



pris son Equipement, cahos le 3. X^« 1789 Billet p*" thom Bredy 
F. Saucier Et isadore lacroix témoins 

Nous Soussignés avons receptez la quantité de Cinq cent quar- 
ante trois livres Et demi des paux de Chevreuil livrés par m*" Louis 
gault a M^ isadore lacroix, sur les quelles il se trouve Cinquante 
deux livres visiées Et une grande parties parmi les Bonnes trop 
mouillés pour ne pas souffrier une grande diminution, de plus nous 
avons compte Sept paux dours, quatre mauvaises paux doussons 
signe izadore LaCroix, arundel, saucier. 

Sur les quatre heures après midy je me suis transporté En la 
maison ou reside le s^ LaCroix et ay Saisy au Nom de thom Bredy 
huissier de ce district les pelteries mentionnées cy dessus Et ay 
Saisy le tout dans la susdite maison sous les garanties du S^ an- 
toine thabault led^ jour Et an que dessus En presence du s^ isi- 
dore la Croix qui a signé la present, signé izidore laCroix. P" 
Billet p^ thom Brady. 

Et a linstant moy grefier soussigné ay Remis loriginal du 
present Enregistrement aud* s*" antoine Thabault lesd* jour 
Et an. 

P Tabeau Labuxiere grefier 

Du 7 X^« 1789 
une saisie p^ Le S*" Labuxiere contre motard 

Nous antoine girardin Présidant magistra &c. Nous saisis- 
sons Et arrêtons Entre les mains de francois Lap>ensee la somme 
de 85*^ que led* motard doit au s*" Labuxiere st le Comte de frais 
a luy dub par led* motard Et par nous arrêté luy faison defences 
de sen dessaisir enver qui que ce soit que le compte ne soit Entière- 
ment payé par led* motard aud* s*" Labuxiere a peine d En repond 
En Son nom Et jusqua Ce que la Cour En ay ordonné aux Cahos 
le 7 X^« 1789. Signé ant* girardin Présidant. 

Reçu la présente saisie francois Lapancé 
Du 28. X^^<^ délivré un ordre a la veuve henry Golding ameri- 

quaine contre josiah Ryan habitant ameriquain demeurant a 

la Rivierre de laigle pour coraparoitre a la cour du 2. janvier 

1790. pour repondre a la demande de la dite veuve pour 

lenlevement que led* Golding a fait de Ses effets Et Biens. 



COURT RECORD, DECEMBER, 1789 431 

dcx)rs, a mirror with gilt frame, a yoke of oxen, a cow with her 
calf, two three year old heifers, five pigs, several pieces of furniture. 
At Cahokia December 3, 1789. Signed, Billet for Tom Brady. 
Fxirthermore some merchandise, cloth, coverings, etc, which 
the said lady declared she had received from M. Tabeau at the 
time that her husband took his equipment. Cahokia, Decemljer 
3, 1789. Billet for Tom Brady, F. Saucier, and Isidore LaCroix, 
witnesses. 

We, the undersigned, have received the quantity of five hun- 
dred and forty-three and a half pounds of deer-skins, delivered by 
M. Louis Gaud to M. Isidore LaCroix, among which there are 
found fifty-two pounds spoiled and a large part of the good, 
too moulded not to suffer a great decrease in value. Furthermore, 
we have account of seven bear-skins, four bad skins of bear's cubs. 
Signed, Isidore LaCroix, Arundel, Saucier. 

At four hours after noon I have gone to the house where M. 
LaCroix resides and seized in the name of Tom Brady, huissier of 
this district, the peltries mentioned above and have seized all in 
the house aforesaid imder the guaranty of M. Antoine Tabeau, 
the said day and year as above, in the presence of M. Isidore 
LaCroix who has signed the present. Signed, Isidore LaCroix, 
Pierre Billet for Tom Brady. 

And now I, the undersigned clerk, have returned the original 
of the present registry to the said M. Antoine Tabeau the said 
day and year. 

P. Tabeau. Labuxiere, Clerk. 

December 7, 1789. 
A writ of seizure for M. Labuxiere against Motard. 

We, Antoine Girardin, president, magistrate etc. We seize 
and attach the sum of 85 livres, in the possession of François 
Lapancé, which the said Motard owes M. Labuxiere according to 
the account of costs due to him by the said Motard and by us 
closed; and we forbid him to part therewith to any one whom- 
soever until the account be paid entirely by the said Motard 
to the said M. Labuxiere, on pain of being responsible therefor 
in his name, and until the Court has issued decree thereon. 



432 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



du 30 X^^ délivré un ordre a antoine harmand dit Sans façon 
Contre William Biggs ameriquain pour paroitre a la Cour du a 
janvier 1790. 



Du 2. janvier 1790. a une Cour tenue pax 
M " antoine girardin Philipe angel 

Charles ducharme Bte Dubuque 

Pierre Laperche 
Entre la veuve henry golding demanderesse Contre 

josiAH RYAN deffendeur 
après avoir oui les parties En leur demande Et Réponse la Cour 
les a renvoyé pardevant le juge de leur district p' En prendre con- 
nojssance. 

a la même Cour 
Entre Louis Gaiîd demandeur Contre le S' thabault reprsenté 

par Le S*" Papin deffendeur 
le demandeur requière par sa requête présentée cejourdhuy a 
la Cour que la saisie faite de Ses Biens meubles pelterie Effets et 
immeubles Soit levées par le tor quelle luy Cause dans son com- 
merce Et lempcche de satisfaire Ses créanciers de même que p)ar 
le manque de marchandises que le S^ thabault est En deffaud de 
luy fournir suivant sa Convention. Et requière En outre que le 
s^ thabault soit condamné a luy payer tous des domagement de 
ladite saisie tor retard frais Et dépens. 

oui le S^ papin procureur dud* s*" thabault qui a requis a la 
decizion de laffaire soit Renvoyée pardevant des jurés, a quoy 
est inter\'enû le S*" laille qui Sest oposé comme interesse a ce 
que ladite affaire soit decide par jurés conjointement avec led^ 



COURT RECORD, JANUARY, 1790 433 

At Cahokia December 7, 1789. Signed, Ant. Girardin, President. 

Received the present writ of seizure, François Lapancé. 

December 28. Issued a summons on demand of the widow 
Henry Golding, American, against Josiah Ryan, American in- 
habitant, dwelling at the Eagle River, to appear at the Court of 
January 2, 1790, to answer to the prayer of the said widow for the 
removal of her goods and chattels, which the said Golding has 
made. 

December 30. Issued a summons on demand of Antoine 
Harmand called Sansfaçon against William Biggs, American, to 
appear at the Court of January 2, 1790. 

January 2, 1790, at a Court held by 
MM. Antoine Girardin. Philippe Engel. 

Charles DuCharme. Bte. Dubuque. 

Pierre Laperche. 
The widow Henry Golding, Plaintiff, vs. Josiah Ryan, Defen- 
dant. 
After having heard the parties in their prayers and answers 
the Court dismissed them to the judge of their district who will 
take cognizance thereof. 

At the same Court. 
Louis Gaud, Plaintiff, vs, M. Tabeau, represented by M. Pepin, 

Defendant. 

The plaintiff prays in his petition, presented this day to the 
Court, that the seizure, made of his personal property, peltries, 
effects and real estate, be raised on account of the wrong, which it 
does him in his business and which hinders him from satisfying 
his creditors, and also on account of the failure of M. Tabeau to 
furnish him merchandise in accordance with his agreement; and 
he prays, furthermore, that M. Tabeau be condemned to pay 
him all damages from the said seizure, namely for wrong, delay, 
costs and charges. 

Heard M. Pepin, attorney of the said M. Tabeau, who has 
reqiiired that the decision of the case be left to jurors; in which 
M. LaiUe has intervened, who was opposed, as interested party. 



434 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Louis gault qui ont requis la decizion de ladite affaire par la Cour 
Et que la dite saisie Soit levée. Parties ouyes. 

La Cciur a levé Et levé toutes saisies faites et obtenues par le 
s*^ thabault sur les biens meubles Et immeubles pelteries Et autres 
Effets dud^ Louis Gault, la met au Néant Et Remet led* Louis 
(iault pocession de tous Ses Biens pelteries marchandises Et 
effets, a luy Enjoint de payer primitivement privilegierement Et 
par prefferance a ceux de la Rive espagnole tous les Créanciers de 
cette Rive qui seront privilégiez aud* S*" thabault Et Roubîdoub qui 
nauront leur privilege quaprés les dits Créanciers dicy payez, con- 
damne la dite Cour le le s»" thabault a Suporter toutes pertes dépens 
domages qui pouroit être survenus aux {>elteries saisies mise En 
depot chés le s*" izidore laCroix, le condamne pareillement En 
tous les frais dépens de ladite saisie et du procès. Et le S*" Robî- 
doub aux frais de la Saisie par luy obtenue, la Cour ayant Eté 
informée que le s*" thabault par la voye du S*" papin avoit Enlevé 
des huilles Et Graisses saisies malgré la defiances a luy faites 
dans les saisies pre[ce]dantcs Et au mépris de lautorité de la Cour 
Les avoir transportée sur la Rive Espagnole ce qui sera execute 

a^ Girardin 

Entre M*^ DeClamorgan demandeur Contre Louis Coste 
et sa femme deffendeur non comparant après assignation a eux 
donnée 

Vu le Billet dud* Coste et sa femme de 815 L de farine EkJius 
la Cour Les condanne a payer Et aux frais Et aux frais [sic] 

a^ girardin 

La cour est ajournée au p^« février 1790 

a* Girardin 



A une Cour du i®*" Février 1790. 
M^" Antoine girardin Présidant Philipe angel 
B^« dubuque Charle ducharme 

Ne setant présenté aucunne cause nous avons adjoumé la 
cour au i®*" de mars prochain 

a^ Girardin 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1790 435 

to having the case decided by jurors, as was also the said Louis 
Gaud, and they have required the decision of the said case by the 
Coiut and prayed that the said seizure be raised. Parties heard. 

The Court has raised and does raise all seizures made and 
obtained by M. Tabeau on the personal and real property, pel- 
tries and other effects of the said Louis Gaud and annuls them; 
and returns to the said Louis Gaud the possession of all his 
property, peltries, merchandise and effects; and has commanded 
him to pay first, and by privilege and preference to those of the 
Spanish bank, all the creditors of this bank who shall be privileged 
before the said MM. Tabeau and Robidou, who shaU have their 
privileges only after the said creditors of this place are paid; and 
the said Couit condemns M. Tabeau to bear all losses, expenses 
and damages which may have occurred to the peltries seized and 
deposited at the house of M. Isidore LaCroix; and condemns 14m 
likewise in all costs and charges of the said seizure and suit, and 
M. Robidou in the cost of the seizure obtained by him, the Court 
having been informed that M. Tabeau with the assistance of M. 
Pepin had carried off and transported to the Spanish bank some oil 
and grease, which was seized, in spite of the prohibition made to 
him in the preceding writ of seizure and in defiance of the authority 
of the Court; for which there will be execution. 

Ant. Girardin. 
M. Clamorgan, Plaintiff, vs. Louis Coste and his wife, defen- 
dant, not appearing after summons was served on them. 

In view of the note of the said Coste and his wife for 815 
pounds of floiu*, which has matured, the Court condemns them 
to pay it with the costs and charges. 

Ant. Girardin. 

The Court adjourned to February i, 1790. 

At a Court February i, 1790. 
MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Philippe Engel. 
Bte. Dubuque. Charles DuCharme. 

No cause having been presented, we adjoiimed the Court to 
the first of March next. 

Ant. Girardin. 



436 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

A une Cour Extraordinaire Du deux février 1790 
M*^" antoine girardin Présidant B** dubuque 
Philipc angel Charle duchanne 

Louis Chatd 
La cour SIEGEANTE Contre le S*" Jean marie Papin dtoven 
de la Rive espagnole detenu aux fers prisonnier a lagarde de thom 
bredy Bailly de la cour. 

Avons fait comparoitre le S^ Louis Lebrun habitant de ce 
p)oste lequel après sermant par luy fait de dire la vérité Sur les 
Saints Evangiles luy avons demande a quel dessein le s' Papin 
avoit Eté chés luy le dimanche trois de janvier dernier. 

a repondu que le s»" Papin avoit Eté chés luy ledit jour vant 
la messe luy demander sil vouloit luy prêter sa maison pour 
faire une assemblée, quil avoit une requête a presenter aux habi- 
tans, quil vouloit faire cette assemblée pour avoir une Cour de 
juré pour apeller de la sentence de la cour Et voir Sil pouvoit se 
relever de son affaire qui est tout ce quil a dit savoir lecture a luy 
faite de Sa déposition a dit contenir vérité y a persiste a dit ne 
savoir signer Et fait sa marque ord*"®. 

marque + de a* Girardin 

Louis Le Brun 
Avons fait paroit*"® le s*" Joseph Lapensée habitant de ce village 
lequel après sermant par luy fait sur les Saints Evangiles de dire 
vérité luy avons demande ce que le s»" Papin luy a dit lors quil a 
Eté aujourdhuy p*" Larreter 

a dit quen le conduisant en prison le s»" Papin luy avoit dit 
pourquoy ont ils Employé le peuple p^ mareter. ils ont raison 
par jL'e (jue si setoit des magistra je ne sait pas ce quil en nauroit 
Eté (jui est tout ce quil a dit savoir lecture a luy faite de sa declar- 
ation a dit contenir vérité y a persisté Et a déclaré ne savoir signer 
a fait Sil marque ord*"® 

marque a^ Girardin 

-f 
de Joseph Lapensée 

> Thr cHsr i» intrrrstinK. whrn it is rrmcniberr<i that thr Spanish subjects were doing 
tlicir utmost t<> drivr the Tn^nih from the AmcricHii Bottom. Ahhuugh the case w%s appar- 
ently bu?«rU on ii cumnicrtial transaction, this attempt to undermine the power of the Court 
may l>e due to the same ix)licy pursued by the Spanish at Kaskaskia. See fntrodm^i^n^ p. czlii. 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1790 437 

At a special session of the Court, February 2, 1790. 
MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Charles DuCharme. 
Philippe Engel. Louis Chatel. 

Bte. Dubuque. 
The Court in session vs, M. Jean Marie Pepin, citizen of the 

Spanish bank, detained in irons as a prisoner in the custody 

of Tom Brady, bailiff of the Court.* 

We have summoned M. Louis Lebrun, inhabitant of this post, 
of whom, after oath was made by him on the Holy Gospels to tell 
the truth, we demanded for what purpose M. Pepin had been 
at his house Sunday the third of January last. 

He answered that M. Pepin had been at his house the said 
day before mass to ask him if he would lend him his house for 
the purpose of holding an assembly; that he had a petition to 
present to the inhabitants and that he wished to have this assem- 
bly in order to have a court of jurors so that he could appeal from 
the sentence of the Court and see if he could not obtain relief in 
his affair; which is all that he said he knew. Reading was made 
to him of his deposition and he said that it contained the truth 
and persisted therein; and he said that he did not know how to 
sign and has made his mark. 
Mark + of 

Louis Lebrun Ant. Girardin. 

We have summoned M. Joseph Lapancé, inhabitant of this 
village, of whom, after oath was made by him on the Holy Gos- 
pels to tell the truth, we demanded what M. Pepin said to him 
at the time he went to-day to arrest him. 

He said that while conducting him to prison M. Pepin had 
said to him: "Why have they employed the people to arrest 
me ? They are right, because if it had been magistrates, I do not 
know what would have happened;" which is all that he said that 
he knew. Reading was made to him of his deposition and he said 
that it contained the truth and persisted therein; and he said 
that he did not know how to sign and has made his mark. 
Ant. Girardin Mark + of 

of Joseph Lapancé. 



438 ILLINOIS lUSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Ladite cour a fait comparoitre En la Chambre du greffe led^ S** 
Papin, lui a Eté demandé par M^ Le présidant girardin pour quoy 
il avoit reparu sur cette Rive Et En ce village le jour de hier au 
mépris des deffences au mépris des deffences [sic] qui luy ont Eté 
cy devant faites sans en demander une permission au commandajit 
de ce poste ou a un magistra de la cour tel quil luy Eté Enjoint 
par notre décret du quatre janvier dernier Et pourquoy il avoit 
encore paru et reste deux jours la semaine passée dans ce village 
contre led* décret. 

a Eté Longtems Sans repondre Et après Lavoir sommé de 
repondre a dit quil navoit Rien a dire que ce netbît pas icy ou fl 
repondroit. 

Luy a Eté demandé pourquoy il a dit aujourdhuy a ceux 
qui ont Eté pour Larreter quon se servoit du peuple p' Larreter 
que si savoit Eté des magistra il ne se seroit pas laissé prendre si 
facilement. 

a dit quil navoit Rien de repondre. 

La Cour ayant mûrement délibéré Entrelle a déclaré led^ s^ 
Papin Perturbateur du repos public En ce vilage ateint et convaincu 
davoir voulu Exiter une sedition contre la cour Et tenu dans ce dit 
vilage des discours Contrelle tendant a menaces, mépris et aten- 
tatoire a son authorité et autres propos injurieux pour reparation 
de quoy ladite Cour le Condamne a tenir prison aux fers a la 
garde du Bailly de deux miliciens Et dun officier de milice pen- 
dant cinq jours au bout du quel tems sera mis dehor de la 
prison et conduit par la garde au missbipy Enjoint a luy de 
traverser sur la partie Espagnole et de ne jamais reparoitre 
En ce village Et dépendances de ce district sans ime permis- 
sion du Commandant de ce poste ou dun magistra a peine de 
punition Corporelle le condamnons En outre En tous les frais 
de lextraord^® que la cour a liquidez a la somme de quatre 
cent quarante livres En argt suivant le compte arrêté quil payera 
Comptant avant de sortir de prison ce qui sera exécuté par 
privilege Et nonobstant toute représentations, donné Et deli- 

1 The decree is not in the Record. 



COURT RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1790 439 

The said Court summoned to the chamber of the clerk the 
said M. Pepin and asked him through M. the President Girardin, 
why he had reappeared on this bank and in this village yesterday 
in defiance of the prohibition which had been herebefore made 
him, without asking permission therefor from the commandant 
of this post or one of the magistrates of the Court, as he was 
fcommanded by our decree of the fourth of January last; and 
why he had again appeared and remained the past week in this 
village contrary to this decree.* 

He has been a long time without answering and, after 
having summoned him to answer, he has said that he 
had nothing to say, that it was not here where he would 
answer. 

It was asked him why he said to-day to those who have been 
to arrest him that they made use of the |>eople to arrest him, 
that, if it had been magistrates, he would not have permitted him- 
self to be taken so easily. 

He said that he had nothing to answer. 

The Court having carefully deliberated declared the said M. 
Pepin a disturber of the public peace in this village, caught and 
convicted of having wished to excite a sedition against the Court ; 
and he has held in this said village discourses against it, leading 
to menaces, defiance and outrage on its authority, and other 
injurious talk; for reparation of which the said Court condemns 
him to be held in prison in irons under the custody of the bailiff, 
two militia-men and an oflScer of the militia for five days; at the 
end of which time he shall be placed outside of the prison and 
conducted by the guard to the Mississippi, and commanded to 
cross to the Spanish part and never to reappear in this village and 
the dependencies of this district, without a permission of the com- 
mandant of this post or of a magistrate, on pain of corporal punish- 
ment. We condemn him furthermore in all the costs of the special 
session, which the Court fixes at the sum of four hundred and 
forty livres in money according to the account drawn up, which he 
shall pay before leaving prison, for which there will be execu- 
tion by privilege and notwithstanding aU representations. 



440 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

beré par la dite Cour led* jour deux février mil sept Cent 
quatre vingt dix. 
[Signed] 

DuCharme Philipe Engel 

Sa B^ Dubuque 

Louis -f Chatel a* Girardin 

marque 

a une Cour du 3. mars 1790. 
M" antoine girardin Présidant B*« dubuque 
Philipe angel P"* Laperche 

Charles ducharme Louis Chatel 

Mr aRundel Négociant a fait comparoitre michel peltier pour 
luy payer la somme de quarante quatre livres En argent par 
son compte après luy avoir demandé. 

Led* michel Peltier a répliqué que M' Rondel luy avoit dit 
quil ne le presseroit pas Et quil ne Croyoit pas quil le forceroit a 
le payer présentement quil Etoit surpris quil luy envoyoit une 
assignation quil sen Etoit Raporté a sa parole. 

a quoy le s^ Rondel a répondu quil avoit Eté chés luy demander 
son payement Et quil Etoit sur son depart quil avoit Besoin de 
son argent quil ne se souvenoit aucunement de luy avoir dit quil 
luv donneroit du tems. 

m 

La Cour condamné led* michel Peltier antaya a payer comp- 
tant et sans délais son Compte de quarante quatre livres. Et 
condamne le S*" arundel aux frais sur ce quil est Convenu de ne 
pas presser led* antaya Et quil a déclaré ne pas sen souvenir led* 
antaya ofrant des preuves, a quoy le S' Rondel sest soumis p^ 
lesd* frais ce qui sera exécuté. 

a le Même Cour 
M*" RoNDEL Contre Joseph Cecire. 

M*" Rondel demande aud* Cecire un Compte de la somme de 
trente livres par son Compte ce que led* Cecire Est Convenu 
mais quil ne [X)uvoit payer par ce que Ion ne le payoit pas surquoy 
la Cour Condamne led^ Cecire a payer au s^ aRundel sans délais 
Et aux frais Et dépens. 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1790 441 

Given and determined by the said Court the said day, Feb- 
ruary 2, 1790. 

[Signed] DuCharme. Philippe Engel. 

His Bte. Dubuque. 

Louis + Chatel Ant Girardin. 

mark 

At a Court, March 3, 1790. 
MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Bte. Dubuque. 
Philippe Engel. Pierre Laperche. 

Charles DuCharme. Louis Chatel. 

M. Arundel, merchant, summoned Michel Pelletier to pay him 
the sum of forty -four limes in money according to his account, 
after having demanded it of him. 

The said Michel Pelletier replied that M. Arundel had told him 
that he would not press him and that he did not believe that he 
would com|>el him to pay now ; that he was surprised that he sent 
him a summons, that he had relied on his word. 

To which M. Arundel answered that he had been to his house 
to demand of him his payment; and that he was about to leave; 
that he had need of his money; that he did not remember at all 
having said to him that he would give him time. 

The Court condemned the said Michel Pelletier Antaya to pay 
in cash and without delay his account of forty-four livres; and con- 
demns M. Arundel to pay the costs, because he agreed not to 
press the said Antaya and has declared that he did not recollect 
it, when the said Antaya offered proofs, whereon M. Arundel 
has submitted for the payment of the said costs, for which there 
will be execution. 

At the Same Court. 
M. Arundel vs. Joseph Cestrre. 
M. Arundel sues the said Cesirre for an account of the sum of 
thirty livres according to his account to which the said Cesirre 
agreed; but which he does not pay, because some one does not 
pay him. Whereupon the Court condemns the said Cesirre to pay 
to M. Arundel without delay and to pay the costs and charges. 



442 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIGNS 

Mr Rundel demandeur Contre janot lapensée defandeur nay- 

ant voulu paroitre et après avoir Eté apellé par trois fois a la 

porte de Laudience assignation luy ayant Eté donnée par 

Ihuissier de la Cour le Jour de hier. 

Le demandeur demande aud^ lapensée le payement de son 
compte p^ fourniture de marchandises montant a la somme de 
Cent soixante onze livres atendû son depart p^ la prairie du Chien 
ne pouvant atendre plus longtems. 

La Cour vu le refus dud^ deffendeur de paroitre après assigna- 
tion a luy donnée, la dite Cour le Condamne a payer sans délais son 
dit Compte montant a Cent soixante onze livres et aux frais et 
dépens. 
FRANCOIS TURGEON demandeur Contre le fevre forgeron nayant 

voulu paroitre après assignation a luy donnée Et apelle par 

trois Cris a la porte de laudience le s' Chatei comparant p^ 

luv. 

Le demandeur demande au deffendeur le payement de son 
salaire p^ fauchage de foin montant a la s^ de soixante une livres 
sur quoy le s*" Chatei a dit que le s' Lefe\Te luy avoît dît quil ne 
luy devoit que quarante neuf livres sur quoy la Cour a condamné 
le deffendeur a payer sans délais ce quil doit aud* turgeon mon- 
tant a soixante une livres et aux frais Et dépens ce qui sera 
Exécuté. 

ANTOINE HARMAND dit SANS FAÇON demandeur Contre M*' jean 

DUMOULIN deffendeur 

Le demendeur demande au deffendeur ime paire de Boeuf quO 
luy a vendu p*" la somme de 550^^ Et une paire de soulier luy ayant 
Consenty son billet de pareille somme pour payer dans le mois de 
ybrc prochain En farine au prix du Cour les quels Boeuf led* s*" 
dumoulin sest obligé verbalement de luy livrer a sa demande quil 
requeroit sur le refus de M*" dumoulin que la Cour loblige a luy 
livrer lesd* Boeuf M*^ dumoulin a répondu quil offroit de livrer 
lesd^ Boeuf quil reconnissoit les avoit vendu mais que par megarde 
le billet du s*" sans façon Etoit déchiré quil luy en avoit représenté 
les morceau quil avoit Reconnu quil demandoit avant de luy 
livrer les Boeuf quil luy donna un Caution p^ payer aud* tems et 



COURT RECORD, MARCH, 1790 443 

M. Arundel, Plaintiff, vs. Janot Lapancé, Defendant, who has 

been unwilling to appear, after having been called three times 

at the door of the audience chamber, the summons having 

been served on him yesterday by the huissier of the Court. 

The plaintiff demands of the said Lapancé the payment of 

his account for supplies of merchandise amounting to the sum 

of one hundred and seventy-one livres ^ because of his departure for 

Prairie du Chien, and since he cannot wait longer. 

In view of the refusal of the said defendant to appear after 

summons was given to him, the said Court condemns him to pay 

without delay his said account, amounting to the sum of one 

hundred and seventy-one livres and to pay the costs and charges. 

François Turgeon, Plaintiff, vs. Lefevre, smith, who has 

not wished to appear after summons was given him, and he 

was called three times at the door of the audience chamber and 

M. Chatel appeared for him. 

The plaintiff demands of the defendant the payment of his 
wages for mowing grass, which amount to the sum of sixty-one 
livres. Whereupon M. Chatel said that M. Lefevre had told him 
that he owed the plaintiff only forty-nine livres. Whereupon the 
Court condemned the defendant to pay without delay what he 
owed the said Turgeon, amounting to sixty-one livres and to pay 
the costs and charges, for which there will be execution. 
Antoine Harmand called Sansfaçon, Plaintiff, vs. M. Jean 

Dumoulin, Defendant. 
The plaintiff demands of the defendant a pair of oxen which he 
sold to him for the sum of 550 livres and a pair of shoes, having 
accepted from him his note of like sum payable in the month of 
September next in flour at the price current; which oxen the said 
M. Dumoulin boimd himself verbally to deliver to him on demand. 
He prayed, on the refusal of M. Dumoulin, that the Court compel 
the latter to deliver to him the said oxen. M. Dumoulin an- 
swered that he offered to deliver the said oxen and that he ac- 
knowledged that he had sold them, but that by inadvertance the 
note of M. Sansfaçon was torn ; that he had shown the pieces of it to 
him; that Harmand acknowledged that he, Dumoulin, demanded, 



444 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

quil luy Consenty un autre billet a la place de celuy qui Etoit dé- 
chiré par inadvertance, vu aussi la declaration de M" aRundel 
Et izidore laCroix témoins aux conventions des parties. La Cour 
ordonne aud^ antoine harmand de fournir un Caution au s' 
dumoulin avant de luy livrer lesd* Boeuf Et de luy refaire un 
autre Billet En place de celuy déchire Et a defaud par led* s' 
harmand de ce faire sous huit jours le marché sera de nule valeur 
Et En satisfaisiint a la présente sentence ordonne au s*" dumoulin 
de livrer lesd^ Boeuf condamne led* harmand aux frais. 
La cour est ajournée au 1*^ avril prochain. 

a* gîrardin. 



A une Cour du premier avril mil sept Cent quatre vingt dix. 

M" antoine Girardin Présidant Charle ducharme 
Philipc angel Louis Chatel 

Le s*" Layle marchand de Canada demandeur Contre François 

LAPENTSÉE deffendeur. 

Le demandeur demande au deffendeur la quantité de 298^} 
de farine ou en argent 119*^^ lo' quil lui doit par son Billet Echu 
Et aux frais et dépens oui le S*" Lapensée qui a reconnu devoir 
ladite Somme et quil na pas refusé le paj-ment au demandeur. 
Et quil ofïriMt Encore de payer, oui aussi led* demandeur qui 
a dit quil avoit demandé nombre de fois Son payement aud* 
deffendeur Et quil la voit toujour remis de jour En jour jusqua 
aujourdhuy. 

La cour par deliberation a Condamné le deffendeur a payer 
sans délais son Billet En farine ou argent Contant Et sans délais 
montant a 2(>8^J de farine ou iiq***. io* En argent et aux frais 
et dépens, ce (jui sera exécuté 

a la même cour 
le Nomme Wadel demandeur Contre pierre Lafleur deffen- 
deur. 

Le demandeur a exposé a la Cour quil avoit acheté une vache 
pleine du S^ Latleur p*" quinze minots de mahis Et Cent livres 
de Lard moyennant qui ce seroit une Bonne vache laitière Et 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1790 445 

before delivering the oxen to him, that he give surety that he 
would pay at the said time and that he make another note in 
place of that which was torn by inadvertence. In view also of the 
affidavits of MM. Arundel and Isidore LaCroix, witnesses of the 
conventions of the parties, the Court decrees that the said Antoine 
Harmand furnish surety to M. Dumoulin, before the latter delivers 
to him the said oxen, and make another note in place of the torn 
one; and in default by the said M. Antoine Harmand to do this 
within a week, the bargain shall be null; and if he satisfies the 
present decree, the Court orders M. Dumoulin to deliver the said 
oxen ; and condemns the said Harmand to pay the costs. 
The Court adjourned to the first of April next. 

Ant. Girardin. 

At a Court, April i, 1790. 

MM. Antoine Girardin, President. Charles DuCharme. 
Philippe Engel. Louis Chatel. 

M. Layle, trader from Canada, Plaintiff, vs. François La- 

PANCÉ, De^ndant. 

The plaintiff demands of the defendant the quantity of 298Î 
lbs. of flour or 119 livres 10 sols in money, which he owes him on 
his note, and costs and charges. Heard M. Lapancé who acknowl- 
edged that he owed the said sum and said that he did not refuse 
the payment to the plaintiff and offered still to pay it. Heard also 
the said plaintiff, who said that he had demanded a number of 
times his payment of the said defendant and that he had always 
put him off from day to day until to-day. 

The Court, on deliberation, condemned the defendant to pay 
without delay his money in flour or money, amounting to 298jlbs. 
of flour or 119 livres 10 sols in money, and to pay the costs and 
charges for which there will be execution. 

At the same Court. 
The named Waddell, Plaintiff, vs. Pierre Lafleur, Defendant. 

The plaintiff sets forth to the Court that he had bought a cow 
with calf for fifteen minois of com and a hundred pounds of bacon 
with the understanding that it was a good milk cow and without 
fault; and that he had taken the cow to Grand Ruisseau; but that. 



446 ILLINOIS lUSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

sans deffaud Et quil avoit Emmené la vache au grand Ruisseau 
mais quêtant velée Elle navoit pu nourir son veau Et quil Etoit 
mort la mere n'ayant pu nourir que de plus il setoit aperçu que 
ladite vache navoit que deux trions que les deux autres Etoient 
Secs, quil avoit fait son payement aud* s' Lafleur. quil Requé- 
rait que le S' Lafleur luy remete une autre vache prête a vêler 
Bonne Et sans deffaut. ou luy remetre son payement et aux frais 
et dépens que dailleur il ne Croyoit pas que ce fut la même vache 
que le deffendeur luy avoit proposé. 

oui led^ S** Lafleur deffendeur qui a dit quil avoit vendu 
ladite vache aud* Wadel En presence de M*" schemitz Et de meu- 
nier qui a Serv>' dinterprete, quil la averti de la visiter et que si 
eUe ne luy Convenoit pas de la Laisser Et de ne pas lanmiener 
quil ne vouloit point de reproches, que le S*" schemitz lavoit 
visitée que vadel Lavoit visitée Et quil sen Etoit trouvé Con- 
tant Et luy avoit mis une Corde dans les cornes et Lavoit Em- 
menée. 

En concequance avons fait faire sermant sur les Saints Evan- 
giles au S** 3chemitz achison qui ont dit être present Et qui 
ont Expliqué a la Cour Les mêmes dires du demandeur. Vu 
aussi le Certifficat du Nommé meunier qui a Servy dinterprete 
aud^ marché et visite de ladite vache cy joint et sermante devant 
deux magistrats de la Cour, donné a cause de son depart led^ 
certifficat En faveur de s*^ Lafleur. Le tout examiné la Cour a 
renvoyé les parties a la prochaine Cour jusques a larivée du 
Nommé meunier qui a servi dinterprete Et de témoins, y ayant 
contrariété de deposition Entre les deux témoins de Wadel et de 
lafleur. 

La Cour est ajournée au i**" may prochain. 

A^ Girardin 

1 The Court never met again, for on the a7th of the month Governor St. Clair established 
the county of St. Clair. Thus after eleven years of existence the Court foyndec) by John 
Todd came to^an end. — Smith, St. Clair Paper s^ ij, 165. 



COURT RECORD, APRIL, 1790 447 

after calving, she could not nourish her calf not being able to 
suckle it, and it was dead; that, moreover, he noticed that the 
said cow had only two teats, the other two being dry; that he 
had made his payment to the said Laâeur and that he prayed 
that M. Lafleur give him another cow ready to calve, good and 
without fault, or return to him his payment, and pay the costs 
and charges; that besides he did not believe that it was the same 
cow which the defendant had offered. 

Heard the said M. Laâeur, defendant, who said that he had 
sold the said cow to the said Waddell in the presence of M. Smith 
and of Meunier who acted as interpreter; that he warned him to 
examine her and if she did not suit to leave her and not to take 
her away, that he did not wish reproaches; that M. Smith had 
examined her, that Waddell had examined her and that he was 
satisfied with her, had put a rope on her horns and led her away. 

In consequence we have caused MM. Smith and Atchison, to 
make oath on the Holy Gospels and they have said that they were 
present and declared to the Court the same as the plaintiff. In 
view also of the certificate of the named Meunier, who acted as 
interpreter for the said bargain and examination of the said cow, 
herewith joined and sworn to before two magistrates of the Court 
and given because of his departure, the said certificate being in 
favour of M. Lafleur, and after all was examined, the Court dis- 
missed the parties to the next Court until the arrival of the named 
Meunier who acted as interpreter and witness, since there is a con- 
tradiction between the testimony of the two witnesses of Waddell 
and that of Lafleur. 

The Court adjourned to the first of May next.* 

Ant. Girardin. 



EXTRAITS DES REGISTRES DE LA JURISDICTION 

DES CAHOKIAS. 

Enprese [Over a third of the leaf torn off.] 

Et leque aux Sieur 

Livre de compte obligation 

les Ilinois et ce an Consideration 

me faira le plaisire de donne soixa a leglisc 

dire Cent une messe et deux Service a de mor en foy 

je luy donne le present pour luy Servire aux Besoin sans que ne 
puis linquitter ne Sachan Signe après lecture faite je ay fait ma 
marque a St Louis le 28 may 1773. 

P Chanarde (signe) marque 4- de maroy 

témoin Blondeau tem 

L*an Mil Sept Cent Soixant quatorze le vingt deux de No- 
vember, fut Present le Sieur Charle Marois pardevant nous dit 
notaire que la Présente donnation qu'il a faite en faveur de Clem- 
[ent] L'anglois est Sa mesme tenneur en cas de mort, et faire dire; 
de plus Cinquant maisse Basse pour le Repost des âmes du père 
et de la mere du dit Marois aux Caokias Les jour et an susdit, 
pd signe -h Marque de Charles Marois 

Senet No** 

Vu et approuvé le testament en L'autre Part donnons pou- 
voir au Sieur L'anglois de le mettre en Execution pour\'û qu'il 
acquite toutes les dettes dû Deçedé Donné au Kahôs a 8*^ Sep'* 
1778. Signe G. R Clark 

Kahôs this 12**» Dec' 1778 

True Copy of the orginal 

Richard McCartv P N 

' Cahoki.i TfCDnl in tho courthouse of St Clair County. III. It wa5 origiiudly bound in a 
flcxil)!*' paixr lovcr. Iiut is now Ixiund in old parchment cowrs and the iR^iole bound again 
in Miff «oMTs. 'I'bc si;e of the paper is 15 by oj inches. There are 58 paxes, four of which 
arc ))lank . Thi y nrc numbered Folio 5. ^t\ . Evidently one page is missing at the beginning. 
The wriicrs an' the su((cssivc notary-clerks of the Court, who generally signed themselves as 
notaries, althniiRh most of the cntric^ an- such as French law required to be registered by the 

448 



EXTRACT OF THE REGISTERS OF THE MAGIS- 
TRACY OF CAHOKIA.» 

In presence [Over a third of the leaf torn off,] 

and bequeath to M 

account book, note 

the Illinois and this in consideration 

will give me pleasure to give sixty to the church .... 

to say one hundred and one masses and two services to .... of dead. 
In faith [of which] I give him the present to serve him in case of 

need without that cannot disturb him. Not knowing how 

to sign, after reading made, I have made my mark at St. Louis, 
May 28, 1773. signed, Mark -h of Marois. 

P. Chanarde, Witness. Blondeau, Witness. 

The twenty second day of November of the year one thousand 
seven hundred and seventy-four was present before us, said notary, 
M. Charles Marois, who declared that the present donation, which 
he has made in favor of Clement Langlois is his last wish in case of 
death ; and that he wished to have said furthermore fifty low masses 
for the repose of the souls of the father and mother of the said 
Marois. At Cahokia the day and year aforesaid, signed 

-h Mark of Charles Marois. 

Senet, Notary. 

Seen and approved the testament on the other part and we 
give power to M. Langlois to put it in execution, provided he pays 
all the debts of the deceased. Given at Cahokia, September 8, 
1778. Signed, G. R. Clark. 

Cahokia this 12th of December, 1778. 
True copy of the original, 
Richard McCarty, P. N. 

clerk, which title should have been used" in the majority of cases. The book corresponds to 
tike record of the modem recorder, but since there are entries of acts which are not purely 
legal instrunmiU^ the word junsdicliaH has been translated by magistracy. The transcrip- 
tioo is by the editor. 

449 



450 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

[Reverse of torn leaf] able 

on bien da. . . . 

en Date 28*» d. . 

le 22"^ de Novembre 

par le Commandant de 

jour de September 1778. 

Peletries 

nque Barricquede Taffia a la j »«^^ib c* k 

Douze Cent Cinquant Livre en Peletries ) 



1250' 



f_ M^ << « 



il (C 



Item Deux Cent quatrevingt Livre de peau de chev- % ^ ^^ ^^ 
reuil 

Livres en Peletries 



« « 



. . nviroin quarant Livre de mauvais poudua 

feu a Quarant Livres en Peletries ) 

Item trois case de Savon de france a quatrvingt dix ) 

Livres en Peletries ) 

,\ 

Estemer une Grand et une petit marmitte a vingt Six ) 

Item un Cruche et un méchant prélat a quinze ) ,, ^, 

Livre ) ^^ 

Item deux fuzil fin a Soixant quinze Livre 75 " " 

Item trent neuf aun Gros Brin a trent sols L'aune 58.. 10 " 

Item deux mais une neuf et l'autre vieux a vingt 4 

trois livre f 

Item treze mouchoir rouge mais petit a Cinquant \ ^^ 

sols p*" mouchoir ) 

Item une Chapeau avec une Loupe et Button dore ) ^^ ,^ 

a quinze livres J 

Item une Cullotte et une veste de Drouguette de i ^^ ^^ 

soye a Trent Livres ) 

Item une Vielle vest d'Indienne et une jillet de taf- ) ,, ^^ 

ata a trois Livre J ^ 

Item une vest et un Cullot de rats de Castore ai ,, , 

quinze Livres j -^ 

Item une Veste de drap Brun a Beuillain de velour 1 

' ri2i ** ** 

noir a Douze Livres f 



CLERK'S RECORD, DECEMBER, 1778 451 

[Reverse 0} torn leaf] able 

well 

under date of 28,. . 

the 22nd of November 

by the commandant of 

day of September, 1778. 

Peltries 

casks of tafia at the ) livres sols de 

twelve hundred and fifty livres in peltries. M 2 50 

. .about forty pounds of poor gim powder at forty j « « 

livres in peltries. ) 

Item, three cases of French soap at nine livres in ) 

peltries. ) 

Item, two hundred and eighty pounds of deer-skin. 280 
Appraised a large and a small saucepan at twenty- I ^ 

six livres in peltries. ) 

Item, one pitcher and one tarpaulin at fifteen ) « « 

livres. ) 

Item, two good guns at seventy-five livres. 75 " " 

Item, thirty-nine ells of coarse hemp [rope?] at \ « « 

thirty sols the ell. J 

Item, two trunks, one new and the other old, at I « « 

twenty-three livres. ) 

Item, thirteen handkerchiefs, red but small, at fifty j *« 

sols per handkerchief. 1 

Item, one hat with ornament and gold button at fif- ) « « 

teen livres. 1 

Item, one pair of breeches and one vest with silk ) 



« « 



<( « 



(( <( 



drugget at thirty livres. 
Item, one old vest of printed calico and one tafeta ) « « 

waistcoat at three livres. ) 

Item, one vest and one pair of breeches of beaver \ „ « 

at fifteen livres. ) 

Item, one vest of brown cloth a BeuUlain[?] 

black velvet at twelve livres. 



., 



12 " " 



452 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



Item un Capeaut de Cade Brun et un Jillet noir 
tous les deux Vieu a Sept Livre 

Transporte a Tautre pa[rt] 



\ 



(< (i 



[L1972] 



(Folio 3 Kahôs i77^«) 



Suitte de Lautre part 
Un Vest de Taffita Vert a douze livre cy 
Item un Capot de Cade avec de parament de Ve- ï 

lour de Cramoiser a douze Livres Ç 

Item une Habit & une Culot de Taffata de Coleur ^ 

du Cendre tous les deux vieux f 

Item deux Coupon d'une p* de p* du Rubon et deux ^ 

Livre de files de Eppinette a douze Livres f 

Item deux p^ de Bas de Soyes a demie use a la j 

some de Douze Livre )" 

Item deux mouchoir demie user avec deux drap de ^ 

Beaufort de quatre aun vieu a dix huit Livre f 
Item une petit miroire une Boucle ou Savonette une 

petit pot avec d'pomade deux douzaine petit 

Boutton a diamond et un p' de Boucle de jarri- 

tiere d'argent a six Livres 
Item six aun de polonaise rouge a Six Livre p*" aun 
Item Quatre Sac de grose toil a Six Livre 
Item une Faulx une Pistolet un sortin une Goblet 

de Cristal et enviroin huit Livre de Savon tous 

a vingt Livres 
Item deux Terreine & un Serotte a Trois Livre 
Item une Bodette une mattalass une Petit lit de 

plume une vielle Casette une vielle Castete et 

une Gratte a Trente trois Livres 



Peletries 
L 1972 
12 



12 



12 



12 



18 



36 
6 

20 



33 



<( 44 



(< <i 



(( Ci 



« C< 



<< It 



tl <i 



(^ 41 



(( (( 



4( (i 



<( a 



n 1% 



4( t* 



<( 44 



Montant en Peletries 



L 2147 '* ** 



> At tint the pages are numbered folio, and later alternately folio and reverso, which is the 
correct form. 



CLERK'S RECORD, DECEMBER, 1778 

Item, one cloak of brown cade[7\ and one black ) 
waistcoat, both old, at seven Ivures, S 



453 



il H 



Carried forward. 



(Folio 3. Cahokia 1778)* 



L 1972 



« u 



Brought forward 
One vest of green tafeta at twelve livres 
Item, one cloak of cade [ ?] with trimmings of crim- I 

son velvet at twelve livres, S 

Item, one coat and one pair of breeches of ash color, ) 

both old. I 

Item, two remnants of [ ?] ribbon and two (^ 

pounds of spinet strings at twelve livres, 1 

Item, two pair of silk stockings, partly worn, at the \ 

sum of twelve livres. S 

Item, two handkerchiefs, half used, with two Beau- ) 

fort sheets of four ells, old, at eighteen livres, ) 
Item, one little mirror, a buckle, a soap ball, a lit- 1 

tie jar with pomade, two dozen little diamond 1 

buttons and one pair of silver garter buckles, at 

six Livres. 

Item, six ells of red polonaise at six livres an ell 
Item, four coarse cloth sacks at six livres. 
Item, a scythe, a pistol, a sortin, [ ?] a glass goblet \ 

and about eight pounds of soap, all at twenty >• 

livres. ) 

Item, two earthen jugs' and a seroUe[?] at three I 

livres. \ 

Item, one strap bed, one mattress, a little feather 

bed, one old casket, one old tomahawk and a 

scraper at thirty-three livres. 



Peltries 
L 1972 
12 



12 



5 



12 



12 



18 



36 
6 

20 



33 



« 



(( 



(< 



(( 






(( (( 



(( « 



u <c 



« (t 



(( C( 



(( « 






ii (( 



(( It 



(( ({ 



Amounting in peltries L 2147 " " 

> Terreine is the name given earthen jugs used for clarifying the river water. 



li (( 
(t 

It ti 
(< 
l« 

It (» 

It it 

7.6 

(< (( 

«« 

<( (i 

<( n 
«< t< 
(< <( 



454 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Etats de Billiets due et par que Due 

Item par la [sic] Sieur Honoré 60 

p*" le S*" Durand Neg* 27.10 

p une mandat de S*^ Jo^ allarîe 15 

p' Je" Lambert 150. 10 

p^ LeBeau DeChene 82. 10 

p^ L S^ Valle Chasseur 103 

p^ Le Petit Baribeau 310 

p' 2 Billet de S^ michot Placette 239.17.6 

p^ L S*" Lepierre 304 

pf r S^ Bapt allary 48.5 

p^ Aimable Lapage 150 

p' Sanfacon Lai® 242 

p*" maillie 197 

p*^ argent de Colonie 55 

Porte autre part L 41 31. 12 [6] 

(FoUo 4 Kahôs 1778.) Peletrics 

Porte d'autre Part L 4131. 12.6 

Etats des Dettes par Livres de comptes 
&ca &ca &ca 

Items Mons^ Pichette 2.10 ** 

M. Jervais [torn] 

M. Glaude Gagnier [lom] 

M. Chas DuCharme 8 [iom] 

M Mercier fils 5 

M. Fagot fils 32.10 

M. Pierre Chuavin 150 Ib farine &c i.io 

M. Louis La mars d* méchant 19. 10 

M. Milhomes forgeron 85. 16 

M Théophile Lemai 25. 12 

M Mylotte le jeune 3. 15 

M Mylotte Taine 18. 15 

M^ Pierre martin Ensigne 21. 15 

M. Bap* Saucier 24 

M. Joseph allarie & Compagnie 15 

M. George 2. 10 



et (( 
i( 
t( 
(( 
II 
<< 
(( 
i( 
t( 

(( t( 

<4 



CLERK'S RECORD, DECEMBER, 1778 455 

Statement of notes due and by whom due. 

Item, by M. Honoré 60 ** " 

by M. Durand, merchant 27 10 " 

by an order of M. Jos. Alarie 15 " " 

by Jos. Lambert 150 10 " 

by Le Beau Dechene 82 10 " 

by M. Vallé, hunter 103 

by Le Petit Baribeau 310 

by two notes of M. Michot Placette 239 17 6 

by M. Lapierre 304 " 

by M. Bte. Alarie 48 " 5 

by Aimable Lepage 150 " 

by Sansf açon Sr 242 

by Mailhet 197 " 

by Colonial money 55 



(( (( 

6 

(< 

s 

(( 
l( (( 

(( 
(( (( 



(( 



Carried forward L4131 12 

(Folio 4 Cahokia, 1778.) PdtrieS 

Brought forward L4131 12 

Statement of debts in liwes of account, 
etc. etc. etc. 

Item, M. Pichet 2 10 

M. Gervais iom 

M. Claude Gagnier torn 

M. Chas. DuCharme 8 torn 

M. Mercier, Jr S " " 

M. Fagot Jr 32 10 

M. Pierre Chauvin, 150 lbs. of flour, etc i 10 

M. Louis La Mars called Méchant 19 10 *^ 

M. Milhomme, blacksmith 85 16 

M. Théophile Lemay 25 12 

M. Milot Jr 3 15 

M.MaotSr 18 15 

M. Pierre Martin, ensign 12 15 

M. Bte. Saucier 24 

M. Joseph Alarie & Company 15 






456 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIOXS 

M. Drouart 26. iS '* 

M. D'etre 2. 10 *' 

M' Thomaâ Brady 3j. 15 •' 

M. Germain Voyageur 65 "" '* 

M. Joseph Giroux 47. ro ^ 

M. Francois Trotticr Ecuycr 14 •' ** 

M. Domon Soldat 4- 10 " 

M. Gagnon La Mason 20 *' " 

M. Jimme frinos 12. 25 '* 

M. Etienne Eté i. 5 *' 

M"** Laflanme le jeunne 6. 5 " 

M" Denau Si Hanson 7. 10 *' 

M. Renard Déloge 6. 5 ** 

M. Touranjeau Lieu' 9. 15 '" 

M. Monette 4. 10 " 

M. B*« Metot 2. lo '* 

M. Dormeur Lafleur i. 5 

M. Beaulieu 5 

M. Charles Valle Chasseur 2. 10 

M. Mercier père i. 5 ** 

M. Chabot 21 






k* t* 



porte autre part [L 4731 12 " ] 

(Folio 5 KahAs 1776.) PelctricS 

Suitte de Tautre Part L 4731. 12 '" 

M^ Govard d' Barron p' compte 13. 10 " 

M. Louis Pillet 4. 5 " 

M Joseph LaPança 2. 15 ** 

M. Demoulin 7. 10 " 

M. Prennovaux 18 ** " 

M. LaGrave 5 " " 

M. Rassette 6 " " 

M. Antoine Boyer 2. 10 ** 

M. Reille 1. 17.6 

M. Louis Trottier 2. 10 " 

M. Cocue Coorville 3. 15 ** 



CLERK'S RECORD, DECEMBER, 1778 457 



M. George 2 10 

M. Drouart 26 18 

M. Détre 2 10 

M. Thomas Brady 33 15 

M. Germain, traveler 65 " 

M. Joseph Giroux 47 10 

M. François Trottier, Esquire 14 " 

M. Domon, soldier 4 10 

M. Jimmie Frincs 12 5 

M. Etienne Eté i 5 

Madame Laflamme Jr 6 5 

MM. Denau & Henson 7 10 

M. Renard Desloges 6 5 

M. Touranjeau, Lieut 9 15 

M. Mouette 4 10 

M. Bte. Methot 2 10 " 

M. Dormeur Lafleur i 5 

M. Beaulieu 5 

M. Charles Vallé, hunter 2 10 

M. Mercier, Sr i 5 

M. Chabot 21 " 



Carried forward L4731 12 

[Folio 5 Cahokia, 1778) PdtrieS 

Brought forward L4731 12 

M. Govard called Baron for account 13 10 

M. Louis Pillet 4 5 

M. Joseph Lapancé 2 15 

M. Dumoulin 7 10 



C( 

it 
« 

« 

« 
« 
« 
tt 
il 
tt 
tt 
tt 



tt 
tt tt 



tt 
tt 
tt 



tt 



tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 

M. Prenouvau 18 " " 

M. Lagrave 5 " 



« 
tt 
tt 



M. Racette 6 " 

M. Antoine Boyer 2 10 

M. Reilhe i 17 6 

M. Louis Trottier 2 10 " 

M. Cocue Courville 3 15 



(( 



4S8 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Comptes des negress 

La négresse a Govard 8i " * 

Le negre a Mon*" Trottier Joseph 35. 10 " 

La miillatresse a M*^ Saucier 80 " " 

Francois negre a LeCompte 41 

Rose négresse a M Buteau 8 

Sasa negre a Jacquett 16 

Rose la negress a M*^ Saucier 21 

Moreaux le negre au Compte 16. 5 

Cabrie Negre a M*" Touranjeau 11 

Negress a Robert 6 

manuel a Beaulieu 7 

Thérèse negress a Beaulieu 21 

Etienne La sauvage a Taillion 4 

Cotton de maillier a Touranjeau 10 

Alexis Sauvage a Cadien 26. 10 

Jean Bap* Negre a Beaulieu 35. 10 

Pompée negre a Sanfaçon 7 



it u 

It (( 

<C (t 

tt it 
«( 

it u 

(( it 

it ti 

It (( 

I ti 

C( (< 

it 

(I 
«( it 



montant en Peleteries L 5,224. 19. 6 

Erreur dans l'original de 30. 18. 6 

montant de Toriginal L 5,255. 18 ** 

Apres avoir tous Estemer et Examinier n'ayant plus rien 
Trouver des Biens du Défunt Charls Marois nous avons Clos 
ledit Inventaire en Presence des Messieurs Francois Trottier 
Capitaine de Milice et pierre Martin Ensignc de milice tous les 
deux Resident du Village de Cahokias arrette a la somme de Cinq 
Mille Deux Cent Cinquante Cinq Livre dixhuit sols six deniers en 
Peletries le jour et L'an cidevant Stipules &ca. 

Signe fr". Trottier 
marque de Pierre Martin un Croix 
Jn° B, Mansen Scripsit 

Enregistrée a la requisition de Mons^ Clement L'anglois 14 de 
Dec' 1778 

pd 40»^ m Richard McCarty C. & N. P. 

1 Moreau, sold to Lecompte, and Manuel, aoi^ to Beaulieu, were the «Kgrtw executed 



« « 
<( 
(( 
<< « 
(( (( 
(< << 
« <c 

s " 

« « 
(( 
<< (( 
(( << 
(( << 
(( 
<( 



CLERK'S RECORD, DECEMBER, 1778 459 

Account of négresses. 

The negress to Govard 81 

The negro to M. Trottier, Joseph 35 10 

The mulatto girl to M. Saucier 80 " 

François, negro, to Lecomte 41 

Rose, negress, to M. Buteau 8 

Sasa, negro, to Jacquet 16 

Rose, negress, to M. Saucier 21 

Moreau, negro, to Lecomte * 16 5 " 

Cabrie, negro, to M. Turanjeau 1 1 

Negress to Robert 6 

Manuel to Beaulieu 7 " 

Thérèse, a negress, to Beaulieu 21 

Etienne, the savage, to Taillon 4 

Cotton de Maillier to Touranjeau 10 

Alexis, savage, to Cadien 26 10 

Jean Baptiste, negro, to Beaulieu 35 10 

Pompée, negro, to Sansfaçon 7 " " 

Amounting in peltries L 5,224. 19. 6 

Error in the original of 30. 18. 6 

Amount of the original 5*255. 18. ** 

After having appraised and examined everything and having 

found no other goods of the deceased Charles Marois we have 

closed the said inventory in the presence of MM. François Trottier, 

captain of the militia, and Pierre Martin, ensign of the militia, 

both residents of the village of Cahokia and agreed on the sum of 

five thousand two himdred and fifty-five livres eighteen sols six 

deniers in peltries the day and year here before stated etc. 

Signed Fr. Trottier. 

Mark of Pierre Martin, a cross. 
John B. Mansen scripsit. 

Registered at the requisition of M. Clement Langlois, the 14th 

of December 1778. 

Pd. 40 li'vres in money [ ?] Richard McCarty, N. P. 

for poisoning M. and Madame NicoUe. Pompée, sold to Harmand called Sansfaçon, is the 
negro over whom the Utter bad so much trouble in regard to the payment. See pp. 135, 137, 
iq6, n. i. 



46o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Le soussigné resident Des Rahos Compte Des Illinois a3rant 
été appelle au Service de sa patrice Et étant a present audit Ser- 
vice qui peut lappeller hor de cette Conte Et Province et pour faire 
son devoir audit service est obligé d'abandonné toute Commerce 
Et nayant D'autre Moyen pour payé ses debts quavec L'argent 
Courant de ce pays. Cest pourquoy tous Ceux qui ont quelque 
Demande Contre luy sont requis de ce presenter pour en recevoir 
Le payement dlie au dix de juin au quel temp le service de son 
patrie Loblige de donner toute son attention, pourquoy il ne pour- 
oit repondre a aucune action intenté Contre luy. quau retour Du 
dit Service, ainsi Ceux qui doivent audit Suppliant Sont requis de 
faire payement Sans plus de delay toutes personnes qui ont de Ses 
Bons ou Billet de Subsistance pour la Compagnie Sont requis in- 
cessament de les presenter pour En Etre payé. 

Donné au Fort Bowmante 4 juin 1779, Signe Richard McCarty 
Capitaine du batailon Illinois. 

Enregistré a la Requisition du Mons*" richard McCarty, Le 
4 juin 1779 fr. saucier N. P. 



(Folio 7, KahAs 1770O 

Dans Le Cour de Septembre prochain Je payeray a lordre de 
Mons^ Dav^* MCrai et Comp*^® La Somme de deux Milles quatre- 
vingt treize Livres Cinq Sols en Castor et Pelleteries Savoir le Cas- 
tor a cinquante Sols, Les Loutres a Six franc. Et Les autres pelle- 
teries au prix Courant du poste pour Valeur reçue dudit Sieur Et 
ne Sachant signé a fait sa marque ordinaire en presence de té- 
moins cy apris. au Grand MaKokité Le 29 Juillet 1779 une 

croix pour Joseph Roy -h Lafantaisi témoins. 

Dans Le Court de Septembre prochain Je payeray a L'orde 
de Mens Dav<^« MCrai et Compa"^"® La Somme de deux Cent 
quarante huit Livres dix Sols payable en Castor Et pelleteries 
Savoir Le Castor a Cinquante sols La livres Les Loutres a Six 
frans pour Valeur reçue p^ Son Compte en Marchandises a Défaut 

* This announcement was made in anticipation of the contempTated expédition against 
Detroit in June, 177Q. — English, Conquest of Ike Northwest, i, 369. 



CLERK'S RECORD, JUNE, 1779 461 

The undersigned, a resident of Cahokia in the county of the 
Illinois, having been called to the service of his country and being 
at present on the said service, which may call him out of this 
country and province, and in order to perform his duty in the said 
service, is obliged to abandon all commerce; and not having 
other means to pay his debts except with the current money of 
this country, he requires for this reason that all those who have 
any claim against him present themselves to receive the payment 
due therefor on the tenth of June, at which time the service of his 
country obliges him to give all his attention;^ and also this is the 
reason why he cannot answer action brought against him until 
his return from the said service; and also those who owe the said 
petitioner are required to make payment without longer delay; 
and all persons who have his bons or notes of support for the 
company are required immediately to present them to be paid 
therefor.» 

Given at Fort Bowman, June 4, 1779. Signed Richard Mc- 
Carty, Captain of the Illinois Battalion. 

Registered at the requisition of M. Richard McCarty June 4, 
1779. Fr. Saucier, N. P. 

(Folio 7, Cahokia, 1779.) 

In the Court of September next I will pay to the order of M. 
David McCrae and Company the sum of two thousand and ninety- 
three livres five sols in beavers and peltries, to wit: the beaver 
at fifty solsy the otters at six francs and the other peltries at the cur- 
rent price of the post, for value received from the said gentleman; 
and not knowing how to sign, he has made his mark in the presence 
of witnesses hereafter named. At Grand Makokite,* the 29th of 
July, 1779 — a cross for Joseph Roy. -h Lafantaisie, witness. 

In the Court of September next I will pay to the order of M. 
David McCrae and Company the sum of two hundred and 
forty-eight lii/res ten sols payable in beaver and peltries, to wit: 
the beaver at fifty sols the pound, the otters at six francs ^ for value 
received according to his account in merchandise; in default of 
which, if I cannot sell the said merchandise, I promise to return 

'Grand Makdcite is in ihc present state of Iowa. 



402 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

de quoy si je ne puis vendre Les dites Marchandises de Les re- 
mettre en même nature Comme Elle Sont porté sur ma facture 
Et ne Sachant signé jay fait ma marque ordinaire en presence 
de témoins ci après, au Grand makokité Le 29 Juillet 1779. — 
marque dé Joseph Roy -h . 
La fantaisie Témoins 

Enregistré a La requisition du Sieur Charle Gratiot Lre 17 
D'aoust 1779. F. Saucier N""® P 

A qui Conque il appartiendra dautant que Charle Gratiot 
Isaac Levy, et Jean Baptiste Hubert Lacroix sujet de la Republic 
de la Virginie et habitant de la Ville des Cahoskias, a>'ant repré- 
senté quayant fait des dépenses considerables en cherchant a pro- 
curer et ramasser un Capitale ou une Masse Convenable pour le 
Commerce Sauvage, Et quil Sera dans leurs pourvoir de fournir 
Les Etats en provisions ou autre Chause nécessaire, Lesquelles 
sont a présent difficultueuse a avoir En Consequence Nous trou- 
vo[ns] nécessaire de les autoriser a accomplir leurs désirs ayant de- 
mandé une traitte Exclusive pour un Certain tems selon les limites 
prescrites. 

(Folio 8, KahAs 1779) 

a present il faut savoir que pour mieux les autoriser a Exécu- 
ter Leur Dessin patriotique Jay accordé Et accorde par ses pré- 
sente aux dits Charle Gratiot Isaac Levy Et Jean Baptiste Hubert 
Lacroix de ce Jour Jusqu'au premier D'avril prochain Le seul 
Et Exclusif pouvoir de commerce et Libre trafic selon Les Limites 
prescrites cy bas; Cest a dire, Commencent a la Ville des Cahos- 
kias de la montant Le Mississipi Jusqu 'a lentré de la rivierre des 
Illinois, et de Chaqu'unes des pointes ou places des dittes bornes, 
leurs limites Setendeons sur le Coté de l 'Ouest Vingt Lieu Dans 
les profondeurs. 

Toutes fois que ceux qui ont Eté revêtu des permis pour Les 
dittes traittes. Et qui ont des Marchandize destiné pour Le même 
Commerce, il Leur Sera permis d'en disposer Selon Les bornes 
prescrittes, Jusquau premier d'octobre prochain. 

Pourvue que Laditte Societté Sera en tout tems responsable 



CLERK'S RECORD, AUGUST, 1779 463 

them in the same kind as they are entered in my invoice; and 
not knowing how to sign, I have made my mark in the presence 
of witnesses hereafter named. At Grand Makokite the 29th of 
July. Mark of Joseph Roy -f . 

La Fantaisie, witness. F. Saucier, N. P. 

Registered at the requisition of M. Charles Gratiot, August 

17» 1779- 

To whomsoever it may concern : Inasmuch as Charles Gratiot, 
Isaac Levy and Jean Baptiste Hubert LaCroix, subjects of the 
Republic of Virginia and inhabitants of the village of Cahokia, 
have shown that they have made considerable expense in seeking 
to procure and collect a capital and a suitable fund for trade with 
the savages; and inasmuch as it will be in their power to furnish 
the States with provisions and other necessary things which are 
at present difficult to obtain: consequently we find it necessary 
to authorize them to accomplish their desires, as set forth in their 
prayer for an exclusive trade for a certain time within prescribed 
limits. 

(Fdio 8, Cahokia, 1779) 

Now it must be known that in order to empower them better 
to carry out their patriotic design, I have granted and do grant 
by these presents to the said Charles Gratiot, Isaac Levy and Jean 
Baptiste Hubert LaCroix from this day until the first of April 
next the sole and exclusive power of trade and free traffic within 
the limits prescribed herebelow: that is to say, commencing at 
the village of Cahokia, from there ascending the Mississippi up 
to the mouth of the Illinois river; and from each point and 
place of the said boundaries we extend their limits on the side of 
the west [east ?] twenty leagues in depth. 

Nevertheless it should be known that it is permitted those who 
have been given permission for the same trade and who have 
merchandise destined for the same commerce, to dispose thereof 
within the prescribed limits until the first of October next. 

Provided that the said society shall be at all times responsible 



464 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

pour Leur bonne Et Juste Conduitte au pouvoir Civile Comme si 
devant Et se soumetteront aux Loix Requise. 

Donné sous ma main Et Seaux aux Cahoskias le premiers Jour 
de Septembre Et la quatrième Année de notre Republic axmo 
Domini, 1779. signé John Todd. 

Je Sertifie La présente pour veritable Copie tirés de l'anglois 
aux Cahoskias 2™« Septembre 1779. Signé W [ ?] Gooding, secy. 

Enregistré a la requisition du Sieiu* Charle Gratiot aux Cahos 
Les lo"* 7^" 1779. 

fr. Saucier N»"*. P 

Moy Le Soussigné natif de Connatucit dans la nouvelle Engle- 
terre Comté de Hartford ayant son nom Et autre pour Lequel Je 
suis Commencer et aist Etabli (dans L'année de notre seigneur mQ 
Sept Cent soixante et quinze) une Certaine quantité de terrin sur 
le Bord du Mississipy a L'esté vis a vis le Village de St Louis du 
Coté Des Espagnol sur L'oust de la dit rivierre quantité point 
Connu tennant du Coté du Sud le long La rivierre de M"" Labbé 
Commenceant a une branche entre dans le Mississipi du bord du 
quel en allant ouest Jusqu 'a lac manissioui Entre Dans Laditte 

(Folio 9, Ka6s 1779.) 

rivierre de mr Labié, Et du Coté du nord Commenant a un Cer- 
tain Cautonier vis a vis une Certaine Cote de rocher sur le Bord 
despagne du mississipy en allant ouest Jusqu 'au Lac dudit Manis- 
sioui, Etant et Joignant du Coté D'ouest pardevant par le missis- 
sipy par le Sud par la rivierre de m*" Labié par L 'est par le lac 
manissioui et au nord par de terre non concédé Et Come Le Sous- 
signé ait fait de Grand depence pour Etablir des Moulin Sur La 
dite rivierre de m*" Labbé ou ils sont actuellement il a Fait suivant 
La Coutume Du pays prendre Et en a fait Clau et Labourer ime 
partis D 'un Certain Terrain de La Largeur de dix arpant sur le 
Coté du Sud dudit Rivierre allant de ladite rivierre sud au nord du 
Grand marrais Joignant du Coté de ouest au terre prise j>ar Les 
habitants des Cahôs et a l 'est au terrin non Consedé Et Comme 

1 The French of this document is impossible, and several passages, of which the opening 
one is the worst, are untranslatable. McCarty's French is at best remarkable, but this docu- 
ment excels the others in peculiarities. It h;w seemed impossible to certify the correctness 
of each error, so I will give a blanket certihcate that the abo>'e is a correct transcriptioQ. The 



CLERK'S RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1779 465 

for their good and just conduct to the civil power as herebefore 
and submit themselves to the required law. 

Given under my hand and seal at Cahokia, the first day of 
September and the fourth year of our Republic Antw Domini 
1779. Signed John Todd. 

I certify that the present is a true copy translated from the 
English. At Cahokia, September 2, 1779. Signed 

W. [?]Goodin, Sec'y 

Registered at the requisition of M. Charles Gratiot at Cahokia, 
the loth of September, 1779. Fr. Saucier, N. P. 

I, the undersigned, native of Connecticut in New England, 
county of Hartford, in his name and another's, have begun to 
and have laid off (in the year of our Lord, 1775) a certain 
strip of land on the east bank of the Mississippi and opposite 
the village of St. Louis of the Spanish side on the west, area 
not known.* It extends on the southern side along the river of 
M. Labbé, commencing at a branch which enters the Mississippi, 
from the banks of which it extends west as far as where lake 
Manissiouri enters the said river of M. Labbé; and on the north 

(Folio 0, Caholsia ^779.) 

commencing at a certain roadway [?] opposite a certain rocky 
bluff on the Spanish bank of the Mississippi, it extends west to 
the said lake Manissiouri, being bordered on the west by the 
Mississippi, on the south by the river of M. Labbé, on the east 
by the lake Manissiouri and on the north by non-ceded land. 
And since the undersigned has been at great expense to establish 
mills on the said river of M. Labbé, where they are at present, he 
has caused it to be taken up in accordance with the custom of the 
coimtry and has made enclosure thereon and put in cultivation 
a part of a certain field of ten arpents in extent on the southern 
side of the said river, extending from the said river south to the 
north of the Grand Marais ' and adjoining on the western side the 
land occupied by the inhabitants of Cahokia and on the east the land 

handwriting of the original is very clear, so that the only chance of error is through oversight; 
but since every line oflfiered its own peculiarities in grammar and spelling, the document nas 
been studied more carefully Uian others. 

' A river in Cahc^a district. 



466 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

quand Le Soussigné a pris Ces dit terrins il n'etoit point deter- 
miner dans quel province Elle Sera Le Soussigné n'avoit point 
fait application a aucune pour des titres. Le Commandant pour 
Lors Etant dans ce pays (Cap^ Lord) me disoit que mes Etab- 
lissement Etoit suffisant pour me procurer icelle quand cella seroit 
decidoist a présent par La faveur de DIEU nous vivant sur et dans 
un état Libre et indépendant et nous Jouissons de tous nos Droit 
comme peuple Libre Je madresse au Majistrat dud* District 
quil fasse Enregistrer dans leur Gref ce placar que par la Suitte 
personne ignore mes prétention en foy de quoy Jay Signé la pré- 
sente au Cahôs le lo joiu* de Juin 1779. 

(Signé) Richard M. Carty 
Enregistré a la requisition de Sieur richard M Carty aux le 11 
octobre 1779 

fr saucier Nr P. 

Extrait Des registres de la Juridiction Des Cahôs. 

aujourdhuy dixième Jour du mois de Septembre mil Sept Cent 
Soixante Et Dix neuf, Est Comparu au Greffe de Se Siege marie 
aubuchon porteuse du testament de deffeunt rené Locat passé 
pardevan Le notaire Soussigné Le vingt quatre Juin contenant 
Ce qui Suit. 

(Folio 10, Kaôs 1779.) 

Lan mil Sept Cent Soixante Et dix neuf le Vingt quatrième 
Jour du mois de Juin fut présent Sieur René Locat habitant de- 
meurant au Village des Cahôs Lequel Etant malade depuis Long- 
tems sans neanmoin desprit mémoires Et entandement ainsi quil 
a paru au notaire soussigné, et des témoins Enfins només Considé- 
rant quil n 'en rien de plus Certins que La Mort ni de plus incer- 
tains que Son heure Crayant D 'en Etre prévenu sans avoir dis- 
poser du peu de Bien quil a plut a dieu Luy donner a fait dicter 
et nomé audit Notaire et témoins soussigné Son present testament 
et ordonnance de dernière Volonté En La manière qui Suit PRE- 
MIEREMENT Comme Chrétien Et Chatholique a reConunandé 

1 This claim was allowed to McCarty's heirs by the U. S. laod commiasiocMTS. — A 
State Pap., Pub. Lands, u., x6o. 



CLERK'S RECORD, OCTOBER, 1779 467 

not conceded. And since at the time when the undersigned took up 
these said lands it was not decided in what province this country 
was to be, the undersigned did not make application to any one 
for title-deeds, and the commandant at that time in the country. 
Captain Lord, told me that my buildings were sufficient to pro- 
cure for me the same when it should be decided. Since now by 
the favor of God we are living safe and {r\ a free and independent 
state and are enjoying all our rights as a free people, I address 
myself to the magistrates of the said district that they may cause 
to be registered in their office this annoimcement that in the future 
no person be ignorant of my pretentions. In faith of which I 
have signed the present at Cahokia the loth day of June, 1779.* 

(Signed) Richard McCarty. 
Registered at the request of M. Richard McCarty on the nth 
of October, 1779. 

F. Saucier, N. P. 

Extract of the Registers of the Magistracy of Cahokia. 
To-day the tenth day of the month of September, 1779, there 
ap{>eared at the office of this Court Marie Aubuchon, bearer of 
the last will and testament of the deceased René Locat, made 
before the imdersigned notary the 24th of June, which contains 
what follows: 

(Folio 9 Cahokia 177 q-) 

The year, 1779, the 24th day of the month of June, there was 
present M. René Locat, inhabitant domiciled in the village of 
Cahokia, who, having been sick for a long time without loss, how- 
ever, of intelligence, memory and understanding, as appeared to the 
undersigned notary and witnesses named below, and considering 
that there is nothing more certain than death and more uncertain 
than its hour, and fearing to be overtaken thereby without having 
disposed of the litde property which it has pleased God to give 
him, has dictated to the said notary and imdersigned witnesses 
his present last will and testament in the manner which follows: 
In the first place as Christian and catholic he recommends his 
soul to God the Creator, Father, Son and Holy Ghost, supplicat- 
ing His divine goodness, by the infinite mercy of our Lord Jesus 



468 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Son ame a dieu Le Créateur père fils Et S^ Esprit Suplîant Sa di- 
vine Bonté par les mérite infinie de notre Seigneur JESUS 
CHRIST et par L'intercession de la Cour Celeste Le placer au 
royaume des Cieux au nombre des bienheureux VEUT et entand 
Ledit testateur que Ses deptes Soyent payé et tor par Luy fait si 
auqu'un Se trouve reparés par son héritier Cy après nommés, il 
desire premièrement que Son Coprs [su] soit Entéré dans Le Simitier 
de cette paroisse au nombre des fidelle trépassé Et quil Luy Soit 
Cinquante Messe ou Services pour le repos de Son ame pendant le 
Cour de l 'année Et quand aux regards de tous Les Biens meubles 
immeubles propres acquits et Conquest a Luy appartenant de telle 
nature quils puissent Etre Et en quelle Endroits quils Soyent Situé 
Sans auqu'un riserve, il les donne Et abandonne a dame Marie 
aubuchon Son épouse pandant Sa vie durante pour en Jouir Sen 
Servire et en recevoir Lusufruct et même Les Vendre ou aliéner si 
elle Se trouve dans le cas d 'en avoir besoin, et en disposer Comme de 
Chose a Elle appartenant de plain droits en Cas de nécessité pan- 
dant son veuvage, Et se pour reConnoitre Les bons services peines 
soins et ontentions que lad^^® dame Marie Aubuchon sa femme a 
eu pour luy et quil espère quelle aura tant quil plaira a dieu de 
Les Lesser ensemble; Et après La mort de Lad^** dame Marie 
aubuchon Led^ Testateur Substitue pour Son Héritier univer- 
selle Et Légitime La personne de Gabriel Marlot son Beau fils a 
qui il donne Et abandonne de tout Et a toujour En plaines pro- 
priété tous les biens Meubles Et immeubles propres acquets Et 
Conquets qui resteront de lad^^*^ succession après La mort de 
ditte dame Marie aubuchons sa mere Et Epouse dud^ testateur, 
ce que led* Gabriel Marlot prendra La ditte Succession En l 'état 
quelle Se trouvera, après La mort de Sa ditte Mere, Si mieux toute 
fois il n'aime y renoncer. 

(Folio II, Kaôs 1779.) 

Et pour tous Les autres prétendants a laditte Succession il 
leur Donne Et Lègue a chaqu'un La Somme de Sinq Sols ime fois 

' The regular words used to describe the manner in which property has been acquired. 
I'he propres are property obtained by direct inheritance or gift from aflcendants; the acquets. 
that acquired in other ways before marriage; the conqu<ts are same, only acquired after mar- 
riage— \ioliet. Hist, du droit civil Français, 8^4. 



CLERK'S RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1779 • 469 

Christ and by the intercession of the Celestial Court to receive 
him in the Kingdom of Heaven among the number of the blessed. 
The said testator wishes and requires that his debts be paid and 
that if any wrong is found to have been committed by him that 
reparation be made by his heir hereafter named. He desires 
first that his body be interred in the cemetery of this parish among 
the number of the faithful who have departed this life and that 
there be held fifty masses or services for the repose of his soul during 
the course of the year. As regards all his real and personal prop- 
erty, inherited or acquired before or after marriage,* belonging to 
him of whatever nature and in whatever place it may be situated 1 
without any reserve he gives and devises it to Marie Aubuchon, 
his wife, to possess and make use thereof during her natural 
life and to receive therefrom the usufruct and even to sell and 
alienate it, if she finds there is need thereof, and to dispose 
thereof as a thing belonging to her in full right, in case of necessity, 
during her widowhood; and this is done to give recognition to 
the good services, labor and care which the said Madame Marie 
Aubuchon, his wife, has had for him and which he hopes she 
will have so long as it shall please God to leave them together; and 
after the death of the said Madame Marie Aubuchon, the said 
testator substitutes for his sole and legitimate heir the person of 
Gabriel Marlot, his stepson, to whom he gives and devises entirely 
and forever in full proprietorship all the real and personal property, 
inherited or acquired before or after marriage, which shall re- 
main of the said estate after the death of the said Madame Marie 
Aubuchon, his mother and wife of the testator; that is to say that 
the said Gabriel Marlot shall take the said estate in the state that 
he shall find it after the death of his said mother, if he does noi 
prefer to renounce it. 

(Folio II, Cahokia, 1779.) 

And to each of the other prétendants to the said estate he 
gives and bequeaths the sum of five sols in full satisfaction of all 
claims; and he revokes and annuls all other testaments which he 
may have made herebefore to the prejudice of the present one, 
which alone he determines to be his last will and testament and 



470 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

payé révoquant Et annullant tous autres testaments quil |>oiirroit 
avoir fait ci devant aux prejudice des présentes au 'quelles Seul il 
Sarette Comme Etant Sa dernière Volonté quil Entant toujour 
Etre valable nonobstant Surrannation ou l 'absence du tems atendu 
que Sa Maladie le pouroit encore prolonger Longtems ci dont il 
ne peut prévenir La finie. Et pour l'exécution des présentes a 
nommé pour Son procureur Testamentaire La personne de Mon- 
sieur Cerré. Marchand résidant aux KasKasKias, pour agir et 
faire valoir après Son decest le present Testament qui nous a été 
ainsi dicté et nommé par led^ Sieur Testateur en presence des té- 
moins et nous notaire Soussigné et a luy Lue et relu quil a dit En- 
tendre et veut quil Soit ainsi Exécuté selon Sa teneur. 

Fait en La Maison dudit rené Locat En presences des Sieurs fran- 
cois trotier Equier, p*^* Godin Cap^* de Milice Michel Beaulieu J° 
B^*" Saucier Et Amable Lepage Tous Cinq habitant residens aux 
Cahôs a ce requis et appelles pour témoins qui ont avec nous 
Notaire Signé Le present Testament et led^ rené Locat a dit ne le 
Savoir de ce interpelle a fait une Croix pour marque après Lecture 
faite aux Cahôs Le Vingt quatrième Jour du mois de Juin a six heure 
de relevé Mil Sept Cent Soixante Et dix neuf signé a l'original 
une -h pour marque de rené Locat francois trottier p. Godin 
B'*^ saucier Et amable lepage Et nous notaire soussigné, se requé- 
rant Ladt"** dame marie aubuchon insinuation dud* testament 
Lecture faite di celuy En notre greffe nous Lavons insinué Et 
enregistré sur les registres des insinuation de ce Siege suivant L'or- 
donnance pour servir et valoir Ce que de raison dont acte Le dit 
Jour Et an. fr saucier N*"® P. 

Extrait des registre de La Juridiction Des CaHos. 

aujourdhuy Cinquième Jour du mois de Juin Mil sept Cent 
quatrevint Est Comparu au Greffe de ce Siege Monsieur Richard 
McCarty Capitaine au Bataillion des Illinois porteur d'une Com- 
mission de Capitaine au Contenant ce qui Suit, the COMMON- 
WEALTH of Virginia to Richard McCarthy Esquire. Know 
you that from thé Spécial trust and Confidence which is reposed 
in your patriotism, Fidelity,' Courage, and Good Conduct, you are, 
by these presents, Constituted and appointed Captain of a 



CLERK'S RECORD, JUNE, 1780 471 

which he requires to be held valid notwithstanding the expiration 
or absence of time, because his sickness may still prolong his 
stay here, the end of which he can not foresee. And for the exe- 
cution of these presents he has named for his testamentary 
attorney the person of M. Cerré, trader residing at Kaskaskia, 
to act and cause to be maintained after his decease the present 
testament, which has been signed in the presence of witnesses 
and of us, the undersigned notary, and read and reread to him; 
and he has said he required and wished that it be so put in 
execution in accordance to its tenor. 

Made in the house of the said René Locat in the presence of 
MM. François Trottier Esquire, Pierre Godin, captain of the mili- 
tia, Michel Beaulieu, Jean Bte. Saucier and Amable Lepage, all 
five inhabitants domiciled at.Cahokia summoned and called as 
witnesses, who have with us, the notary, signed the present testa- 
ment, and the said René Locat has said that he did not know how 
to sign and has made a cross for his mark after reading was made. 
At Cahokia the 24th day of month of June at six o'clock in the 
afternoon, 1779. Signed in the original a + for the mark of René 
Locat, François Trottier, P. Godin, Bte. Saucier and Amable 
Lepage and we the undersigned notary. The said Madame Marie 
Aubuchon requiring registration of the said will and testament, 
after reading was made of it in our office, we have inscribed and 
registered it in the record of registrations of this Court in com- 
pliance with the ordinance, that it may be used and have its effect, 
of which this act will certify, the said day and year. 

Fr. Saucier, N. P. 

Extracts of the Registers of the Magistracy of Cahokia. 

To-day the fifth day of the month of June, 1780, there appeared 
at the office of this Court M. Richard McCarty, captain in the 
Blinois battallion, bearer of a commission of captain, containing 
what follows: The Conunonwealth of Virginia to Richard Mc- 
Carty, Esquire. Know you that from the special trust and con- 
fidence which is reposed in your patriotism, fidelity, courage and 
good conduct, you are by these presents constituted and appointed 
captain of a company in the battallion of regular forces raised for 



472 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Compagnie in the Battalion of regular forces raised for the defence 
and protection of this State Illinois County and for repelling 
every hostile invation thereof. You are therefore Carefully and 
diligently to discharge the duty of Captain by doing and perform- 
ing all Manner of things thereunto belonging; and all officers 
and Soldiers under your Command are hereby Strictly charged 
and required to be obedient to your orders as Captain and you 
are to observe and follow Such orders and directions, from time 
to time, as you shall receive from the executive power of this 

(Folio I a, C&h6s 1780.) 

State, or any your Superior officers, according to the rules and 
dicipline of War, in purSuance of the trust reposed in you. 
Witnes patrick Henry Esquire Gouvernour or chief Magistrate 
of the Commonwealth aforesaid, this first day of March in the 
third year of the Commonwealth, annoq dom. 1779. 

fr. saucier Gref Signé) P Henry 

£t au dos Est Ecrit 
Illinois Coimty wit 

Richard McCarty esq. was duly qualified before me to the 
within Commission the 13*^ June 1779. 

(Signed) Jn Todd J'. 

Extrait Des registre de la Juridiction Des Cahokias. 

aujourdhuy Cinquième Jour du mois d'octobre Mil Sept Cent 
quatrevingt Est Comparu au Greffe de Se Siege Est Comparu 
[sic] Le Sieur Yacinte S^ Cirre porteur de Son testament de der- 
nière Volonté passé pardevant Le notaire soussigné Contenant ce 
qui Suit. 

Par devant Le notaire publique aux village des Cahokia et des 
témoins Soussigné fut present Sieur Yacinte Saint Sire demeurant 
a S^ Louis, Désirant Sabsenter pour quelque tems de ce pays. Et 
Considérant quil ny a rien de plus Certain que La mort ni de plus 
incertain que Son heure Crayant d'en être prévenu Sans avoir dis- 
poser du peu de bien quil a plut a dieu Luy donner a fait dicter 
aud^ notaire Et témoin Soussigné Son present testament, et ordon- 
nance de dernière volonté de La manière qui Suit Si il plait a dieu 
de disposer de Luy. premièrement veut et Entand Le dit testateur 



CLERK'S RECORD, OCTOBER, 1780 473 

the defence and protection of this state, Dlinois county, and for 
repelling every hostile invasion thereof. You are therefore carefully 
and diligently to discharge the duty of captain by doing and per- 
forming all manner of things thereunto belonging; and all officers 
and soldiers under your command are hereby strictly charged 
and required to be obedient to your orders as captain, and you are 
to observe and follow such orders and directions, from time to 
time, as you shall receive from the executive power of this state or 

(Folio I a. Cahokia 1780.) 

any of your superior officers, according to the rules and discipline 
of war, in pursuance of the trust reposed in you. 

Witness, Patrick Henry Esquire, Governor or Chief Magistrate 
of the Commonwealth aforesaid, this first day of March in the 
third year of the Commonwealth, in the year of the Lord, 1779. 
Fr. Saucier, Clerk. (Signed) P. Henry. 

And on the back is written Illinois County to wit : 
Richard McCarty Esq. was duly qualified before me to the 
within commission the 13th of June, 1779. 

(Signed) John Todd Jr. 



. Extract of the Registers of the Magistracy of Cahokia. 

To-day the fifth day of the month of October 1780, there 
appeared at the office of this Court M. Yacinte St. Cyr, bearer 
of his last will and testament passed before the undersigned 
notary, containing what follows: 

Before the notary public in the village of Cahokia and under- 
signed witnesses, there was present M. Yacinte Sainte Cyr, 
dweUing in St. Louis, who desires to absent himself some time 
from this country, and considering that there is nothing more 
certain than death nor more uncertain than its hour and fearing 
to be overtaken without having disposed of the little property 
that it has pleased God to give him, he has had dictated to the 
said notary and imdersigned witnesses his present last will and 
testament in the manner which follows, should it please God to 
take him away. In the first place the said testator wishes and 



474 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

que Ses Deptes Soyent payé et tor par Luy fait Si aucun ce 
trouve Et quand au regard de tous Ses biens il donne Et Lègue 
deux mil Livres en argent a Yacinte S^ Cirre fils de pierre S' 
Cirre son fillau. et quand au reste de tout ce qui peut Luy 
appartenir dans Le pays des Illinois, Veut et Entand Led^ testateur 
que La moitié Sera délivré au pauvre et L'autre moitié pour faire 
prié Dieu pour Le repos de Son ame Et pour tout autre qui pouroit 
prétendre a laditte Sucession Sil Sen trouvoit Led^ testateur 
Leurs Lègue et donne a Chaqu'un Cinq Sols une fois payé, révo- 
quant et annuitant par Ces présentes tout autre testament quil 
pourroit avoir fait cy devant au prejudice du présent auquel Seul 
il Sarette Comme Etant sa dernière Volonté quil entend toujour 
Etre valable Et Pour Lexecution des présentes Led^ testateur a 
Choisi Et nommé Pour Son Exécuteur testamentaire La per- 
sonne de Monsieur Gabriel Cerré négociant résidant a Saint Louis 
d'agir en Consequence du présent testament sur tous Les Biens 

(Folio 13, Ca.bâs 1780.) 

quil a et peut avoir dans Le pays des Illinois Et veut quil Soit 
Exécuter Selon Sa teneur Fait et passé En Letude Lan Mil Sept 
Cent quatrevingt Et Le Cinquième Jour du mois d'octobre après 
midy En presence des Sieurs francois trotier B** Dubuc Jn B** 
Lacroix Et charle Lefevre témoins a ce requis qui ont Signé a 
Lexception dud* Sieur Yacinte S* Cirre qui a déclaré ne Le Savoir 
Et a fait Sa marque dune Croix après Lecture faite Suivant L'or- 
donnance ainsi Signé a Loriginal ime -f pour marque de Yacinte 
S^ Cirre fr trotier Ch»^® Lefevre J. B^« Lacroix et B^« Dubuc Et 
nous notaire soussigné. fr saucier 



1781 Extrait des registre de La Juridiction Des Cahôs. 

aujourd 'huy troisième Jour du mois d 'vril [sic] Mil Sept Cent 
quatrevingt un Est Comparu au Gref de ce Siege Le Sieur pierre 
prevost porteur d'une Lettre a Luy adressé Signé Thomas Bentley 
datte du quatorze décembre Mil Sept Cent quatrevint Contenant 



CLERK'S RECORD, APRIL, 1781 475 

requires that his debts be paid and any wrong committed by him, 
if any is found, righted, and as regards all his property, he gives 
and bequeaths two thousand livres in money to Yacinte St. Cyr, 
son of Pierre St. Cyr, his god-son ; and as to the balance of all 
that which may belong to him in the country of the Illinois, the 
said testator wishes and requires that half shall be given to the 
poor and the other half to cause prayer to be made to God for the 
repose of his soul. And to each of the other prétendants to the 
said estate, if any be found, the said testator bequeaths and gives 
ûve sols in full satisfaction of all claims; and he revokes and 
annuls by these presents all other testaments which he may have 
made to the prejudice of the present one, which alone he deter- 
mines to be his last wish and which he requires always to be valid ; 
and for the execution of the presents the said testator has chosen and 
named for his testamentary executor the person of M. Gabriel 
Cerré, merchant residing in St. Louis, who is to take action in 

(Folio 13, Cahokia, 1780.) 

consequence of the present testament in regard to all the property 
which he has and may have in the country of the Illinois and he 
wishes that it be put in execution according to its tenor. Made 
and passed in the office in the year, 1 780, and the fifth day of the 
month of October in the afternoon, in the presence of MM. 
François Trottier, Bte. Dubuque, Jean Bte. LaCroix and Charles 
Lefevre, witnesses summoned for this purpose, who have 
signed with the exception of the said M. Yacinte St. Cyr who has 
declared that he did not know how and has made his mark with a 
cross, after the reading was made, in compliance with the ordi- 
nance. Thus signed in the original a + for the mark of Yacinte 
St. Cyr, Fr. Trottier, Charles Lefevre, J. Bte. LaCroix and Bte. 
Dubuque and we the undersigned notary. 

Fr. Saucier. 

Extract of the Registers of the Magistracy of Cahokia. 

To-day the third day of the month of April, 1781, there ap- 
peared at the office of this Court M. Pierre Prévost, bearer of a 
letter addressed to him and signed Thomas Bendey, dated the 
14th of December, 1780,. containing what follows: Sir: M. 



476 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Ce quil Suit. Monsieur-Le Sieur Dejean propose de vous envoyer 
au détroit porter des Lettres, Comme il vous Connoit et que Je Lui 
ait dit que vous Etié for [sic\ Capable de faire ce voyage, il vous 
donnera douze cent frans, cest un Bon prix je vous Conseille de Le 
faire, vous me rendre Service aussi, attendu que Je veux Exrire 
pour des marchandises; vous ne risqué rien, nous vous conceillerons 
de façon quil ne vous arivera rien; Si vous vous Décidé a y aller 
venés ici tout de Suitte; vous pourrés engager un Sauvage aux 
Cahôs pour vour guider attendu quil faut que vous passié par Le 
môme Chemin que vous avé pris avec Le Colonel Labalme; M*^ 
Dejean ne veut pas que vous passié par Le poste, attendu que Ce 
Chemin n'est pas pratiquable a causes des Eaux, D'ailleur il est 
trop Long: Si vous Croyé ne pas pouvoir avoir un Sauvage, taché 
d'avoir un Blanc pour vous guider. Si vous ne voules pas y aller 
faitte nous réponce tous de Suitte Je Suis votre Serviteur. 

Signé) T Bentley. 
Ce requérant Led* Sieur pierre prevost insinuation de Laditte 
Lettre Lecture faitte D'icelle en nôtre Greffe nous L'avons insinué 
Sur Les registre des insinuations de Se siege Suivant L'ordon- 
nance pour Servir et valoir ce que de raison dont acte Le dit 
Jour et an. fr saucier N P. 

Kolin 14, CahÔ5 1781. 

Extrait des registre de La Juridiction Des Cahôs. 

aujourd 'huy troisième Jour du moi d 'avril Mil sept Cent qua- 
trevingt un est Comparu au Greffe de se Siege Le Sieur pierre 
Prevost porteur D'une Lettre adressé a M" Les habitant Des 
Illinois En General et particulièrement a Ceux Des Caskaskîa 
Contenant Se qui Suite. 

du fort Jefferson le ii Jan 1781 

Mes chers amis et Compatriotes. 

C'est avec Le plus profond regret que Jay appris que vous 
Estes volé et pillié, par ceux que vous appelles nos Gens, soyes 
bien assurés que Jen ressens Beaucoup de peine, et que Jem- 

• The Icttrr is another proof that Bentley maintained his connections with Canada while 
asserting his I'ldelity to the States. See ItUroduciion, p. zcvi. 

2 This is a reference to the cxartions of Bentley, Dodge, and Ropers. Soc IntrodueHem- 
p. xcv. 



CLERK'S RECORD, APRIL, 1781 477 

Dejean proposes to send you to Detroit to carry some letters, 
since he knows you and I have said to him that you are com- 
petent to make this journey. He will give you twelve hundred 
francs; it is a good price and I advise you to do it. You will 
render me a service also seeing that I wish to write for some 
merchandise. You risk nothing. We will advise you so that 
nothing will happen to you. If you decide to go there, come here 
at once. You can engage a savage at Cahokia to guide you seeing 
that it is necessary for you to travel by the same road which you 
took with Colonel Labalme. M. Dejean does not wish you to 
pass by the Post, since that road is not practicable on account of 
water; besides it is too long. If you think you cannot get a 
savage, try to get a white man to guide you. If you do not wish 
to go there, send us an answer at once. I am your servant. 

(Signed) T. Bentley» 
The said M. Pierre Prévost requiring the registration of the said 
letter, after reading was made thereof in our office, we have in- 
scribed it in the record of registrations of this Court in compliance 
with the ordinance, that it may be used and have its effect of 
which this act will testify, the said day and year. 

Fr. Saucier, N. P. 

(Folio 14, Cahokia 178 1.) 

Extract of the Registers of the Magistracy of Cahokia. 

To-day the third day of the month of April, 1781, there ap- 
peared at the office of this Court M. Pierre Prévost, bearer of a 
letter addressed to MM. the inhabitants of the Illinois in general 
and particularly to those of Kaskaskia, containing what follows: 

Fort Jefferson, Jan. 11, 1781. 

My dear friends and compatriots : 

It is with the most profound regret that I have learned that you 
are robbed and pillaged by those whom you call our people.' Be 
well assured that I feel great grief about it and that I shall employ 
my efforts to remedy the causes of all your complaints and grie- 
vances. M. Kennedy has always been duly authorized to conduct 
all our public business in your country. He has at present my 
instructions to make the purchase of supplies for our garrison. 



478 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

ploiray tous mes Efforts pour remédier a touttes Vos plaintes et 
tous vos Griefs; Monsieur Kenedy a tour jour été duement autorisé 
pour gérer touttes nos affaires publique dans vôtre pays, il a actuel- 
lement mes instruction pour faire L 'achapt des vivres pour nôtre 
Garnison, Je vous prie de le Créditer, Car Jay toutte ma Con- 
fiance en Sa Bonne Conduitte, et Ses abilités, particulièrement 
parcequ'il a été Longtems un de vos Concitoyens; J'auray tou- 
jours Egard a vos plaintes, et tant quil Sera a mon pouvoir Jy met- 
teray ordre, mais Comme Le Colonel clark Sera avec nous de bon 
printems. Je Suis persuadé quil vous donnera une ample Satisfac- 
tion de touttes Les injures que vous a réellement faites, fiés vous 
d 'un antiers et généraux payement pour toutes Les provisions que 
M*" Kenedv aura achettés chés vous et Sovés assurés de La bien- 
viellance du Gouvernment Envers vous. Permette moy L'hon- 
neur de me souscrire mes Chers amis et Compatriotes Votre très 
humble et très obéissant Serviteur Et Sincere amy. 

Signé Robert George Cap°* Commandant 

Vray Copie traduitte de Langlais par, signé J Gerault. 

aux Kas Le 24 Janvier 1781 

Ce requérant Led^ Sieur pierre Prévost insinuation de la Ditte 
Lettre, Lecture faitte d'icelle En notre Greffe nous L'avons in- 

« 

sinué et enregistre sur Les registre, des insinuation de Se Siege Sui- 
vant L'ordonnance pour Servir et valoir ce que de raison Dont 
acte. Ledit Jour et an. fr. saucier N P. 

Extrait des registre de La Juridiction des Cahôs. 

aujourd'huy quatrième Jour du mois d'avril est Comparu au 
Greffe de Se Siège Le Sieur pierre prevost porteur D 'un pouvoir 
a Luy Donné par Les habitant des Cahôs pour représenter Leurs 

(Folio 15, Cahôs 1781.) 

Griefs au Gouvernement de Virginie Contenant Se qui Suit. Je 
moy francois trottier Commandant du district des Cahôs a la 
requisition du public, ayant assemblé Les Citoyens dud' district 
pour nomer une personne pour représenter nos Griefs au Gouverne- 
ment de Virginie Et Congrès des Etats unis de L'amerique si 

* Robert George was a native of Virginia and a kinsman of George Rogers Clark. He 
was a skilled gunner and enJisted in the regular army. He was sent with James Williog to 



CLERK'S RECORD, APRIL, 1781 479 

I pray you to trust him, for I have all confidence in his good con- 
duct and his ability, particularly because he has been for a long 
time one of your fellow citizens. I shall always give attention to 
your complaints and so far as it will be in my power I will see 
thereto; but since Colonel Clark will be with you in the spring, 
I am persuaded that he will give you full satisfaction for all in- 
juries which have been really made you. Count on entire and 
generous payment for all the provisions which M. Kennedy shall 
have bought from you and be assured of the good-will of the 
government toward you. Allow me the honor, my dear friends 
and compatriots, of signing myself your very humble and very 
obedient servant and sincere friend. Signed Robert George.' 

Captain Commandant. 

True copy translated from the English by (Signed) J. Gerault. 
At Kaskaskia January 24, 1781. 

The said M. Pierre Prévost requiring the registration of the said 
letter, after reading was made of it in our office, we have inscribed 
and registered it in the record of registrations of this Court in 
compliance with the ordinance, that it may be used and have its 
effect, of which this act will testify, the said day and year. 

Fr. Saucier, N. P. 

Extract of the Register of the Magistracy of Cahokia. 

To-day the fourth day of the month of April there appeared 
at the office of this Court M. Pierre Prévost, bearer of a warrant 
given to him by the inhabitants of Cahokia to represent their 

(Folio 15 Cahokia, 1781.) 

grievances to the government of Virginia containing what follows : 
I, François Trottier, Commandant of the district of Cahokia, at 
the requistition of the public, have assembled the citizens of the 
said district in order to name a person to represent our grievances 
to the government of Virginia, and to the Congress of the United 
States of America if need be. Consequently we have named and 
do name M. Pierre Prévost to whom we give power to make for 

attack the British posts on the Mississippi in 1778. On his return he joined Clark in Illinois 
and sen-ed through the war. This letter won him the good will of the French, and it is men- 
tioned particularly' in the memorial sent by the people of Kaskaskia to the governor of Vir- 
nnia. — Menard Col. Tard. Papers. George died in Utica, Ind. — English, Conquest of the 
Northwest^ i, 366. 



48o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Besoin Est; En Consequence nous avons unanimement nommées 
et nommons Le Sieur pierre prevost auquel nous donnons pouvoir 
de pour nous Et en nôtre nom, Lieu et place, faire nos representa- 
tion audit Gouvernement de Virginie ou autres endroits qui! Sera 
nécessaire Suivant nos Droits Conformément au Loix naturel et 
Coutumes de ce pays; nous Luy recommendon Exprécement de 
Sinterresser pour nous, pour tout Ce qui regarde nos interest 
premièrement, de La façon que nous avons reçue, noury, et Logé 
Les troupes de L'état de Virginie Et Comme nous avons Eté 
payé avec de Largent qui ne nous a été d'aucune Valeur, Ce qui 
nous a ruiné Totallement et nous mis présentement hors d'Etat 
de faire Subsister nos femmes et nos familles, nous ayant été promis 
par Les personnes en place que Ses fournitures nous Seroient payé 
En marchandise a Bonne Composition, au Contraire Ces mêmes 
Marchandises, disoit on destiné pour nous nont Servie qu'a re- 
tirer La plus grande partie a Ces papiers a vil prix ce qui ne Sera 
pas difficile a Luy de prouver; Ce que nous Consentons quil face 
avec toute vérité et equitté possible, Luy Donnant tout pouvoir a 
cette Efïest, promettant avoir tout ce qui Sira fait par Ledit Sieur 
prevost pour agréable Et Le ratifier Si Besoin Est; Et pour Le recon- 
noitre des Service quil Veut Bien nous rendre, nous Luy allouons 
une piastre Gourde pour Chaqu'ne de Ses journées a Compter 

(Folio ï6. CahÔH 1781.) 

du Jour de Son depart de ce poste, Jusqu 'a son arrivé. Et Ce pay- 
able a Son retour Ce dont nous Sommes Convenue, et avons Signé 
aux Cahôs Le 3. D'avril 1781. signé fr trottier, J° B*« Lacroix, 
armant, beaulieu, j b mercié, Langlois, Jervais, dubuc, Jn. Lepage 
L. trogué, B Saucier, Isaac Levy, P. martin, George Blin, une + 
pour Marque de francois Courié une idem pour S"" Lapencé, une 
idem pour ant Boyée une autre idem pour J" poirié, ime idem 
pour Loui gau, une autre idem pour Clem* Alary, une idem pour 
Louis pillet, une autre idem pour piere Dorion, une idem pour 
pierre roy, une idem pour jean Dehay, une idem pour S*^ Cecire, 
une idem pour Ch^«^ Butau une autre idem pour Louis Lebrun. 



1 This petition was carried by Pierre Prévost and Richard McCarty. McCarty was 
attacked by the Indians and killed, and his papers were captured. I do not know whether 
the petition was sent later to the governor or not. See JtUroduciùm, p. dii. 



CLERK'S RECORD, APRIL, 1781 481 

us and in our name and stead our representation to the said 
government of Virginia or other places that it shall be necessary 
according to our rights conformably to the natural law and cus- 
toms of this country. We recommend him expressly to interest 
himself for us and for all that which concerns our interests: firstly 
by telling how we have received, nourished and lodged the 
troops of the State of Virginia and how we have been paid with 
money which has been of no value to us, which has ruined us 
totally and put us out of condition now to support our wives and 
families; and that we were promised by persons in position that 
these supplies would be paid for in merchandise at a fair settle- 
ment, but that this same merchandise, which they said was destin- 
ed for us, was used only for retiring the greatest part of this paper 
at a low price, a proceeding which it will not be difficult for him to 
prove and which we consent that he do with all truth and equity 
possible, giving him all power to this effect. And we promise to 
sanction all that shall be done by the said M. Prévost and to ratify 
it, if need be. And to recompense him for the services which he 
agrees to render us, we allow him a piastre gourde for each 

(Folio 16. Cahokia, 1781.) 

day counting from the day of his departure from this post 
until his arrival, and this payable on his retxun. This we have 
agreed and have signed at Cahokia the 3d of April, 1781. Signed, 
Fr. Trottier, Jean Bte. LaCroix, Harmand, Beaulieu, J. B. Mercier. 
Langlois, Gervais, Dubuque, Jean Lepage, L. Troge, B. Saucier, 
Isaac Levy, P. Martin, George Blin, a -I- for mark of François 
Courier, the same for M. Lapancé, the same for Ant. Boyer, 
another for Jean Poirier, the same for Louis Gaud, another for 
Clem. Alarie, the same for Louis Pillet, another for Pierre Dorion, 
the same for Pierre Roy, the same for Jean Deshayes, the same 
for M. Cesirre, the same for Ch. Buteau, another for Louis 
Lebrun.* 

The said M. Pierre Prévost requiring the registration of the 
said commission, after reading was made of it in our office we 
have inscribed and registered it in the record of registrations of 
this Court in compliance with the ordinance, that it may be used 



482 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Ce requérant Led' Sieur pierre Prévost insinuation du dit pou- 
voir, Lecture faitte de celuy en notre Greffe nous L'avons 
insinué et enregistré Sur Les registre des insinuations de Se Siege 
Suivant L 'ordonnance pour servir et valoir ce que de raison dont 
acte, Le dit Jour Et ans. fr. saucier 

Extrait des registres de la Juridiction des Cahôs. 

aujourd *huy vingt Cinq du mois de mars mil Sept Cent quatre- 
vingt deux Est Comparu au Gref de ce Siege Sieur Joseph motard 
porteur dune procuration passé par devant le notaire Soussigné 
Le vingt trois du présent Contenant Ce qui Suit, pardevant Le 
notaire Soussigné aux village des Cahokia et En présence des 
témoins soussigné nomé, fut présent en Sa personne Sieur Joseph 
motard négocient cy devant résident a S* Louis, Lequel a paj: ces 
présentes fait et Constituer son procureur General Et Spétial La 
personne de Mons*^ michel Beaullieu habitant Demeurant au 
Susdit Lieu des Cahokia, auquel il donne pouvoir de pour Luy 
et En son nom demender Et recevoir, et Se faire rendre Compte 
par Monsieur DuBreiiil S* Cyr des Sommes dont il aura Eté payé 

(Folio 17, Cahds 178a.) 

suivant Letat qui Luy a Eté remis par mondit Sieur motard Et 
Son reçeu au Bas toutte fois que ce ne Sera que Lorsque Mondit 
Sieur DuBreiiil S* Cyr partira du pays a moin que La 
paix ne Ce fasse avant Et que Ledit Sieur procureur Constituer 
trouve occasion de faire parvenir a mondit Sieur motard en europe 
Les Sommes que mondit Sieur DuBreiiil S* Cyr aura Entre Les 
main suivant Led' Etat quil En a reçeu. Et au Cas de depart dudit 
Sieur avant La paix, sera Loisible aud' procureur Constituer de 
remêtre a tel personne quil Jugera a propos La ditte Somme moye- 
nant assurance ou de la Garder Luy même Jusqu'à ce quil a 
puisse faire tenir aud' Sieur motard promettant aprouver et rati- 
fier Comme il aprouve Et ratifie tout Ce qui Sera fait au moyens 
Des présentes Sans quil Soit Besoin d'un pouvoir plus Special fait 
et passé En etude aux Cahôs L 'an mil Sept Cent quatrevingt deux 
Le vingt trois du mois de mars après midy en présence de M™ 

^ The pa^»sa8e is very obscure and the translation has therefore been made as literal as 
possible. 



CLERK'S RECORD, MARCH, 1782 483 

and have its effect, of which this act will testify, the said day 
and year. 

Fr. Saucier. 

Extract of the Registers of the Magistracy of Cahokia. 

To-day the twenty-fifth of the month of March, 1782, there 
appeared at the oflSce of this Court M. Joseph Motard, bearer 
of a power of attorney passed before the undersigned notary, the 
twenty-third of the present month, containing what follows: 
Before the undersigned notary at the village of Cahokia and 
in the presence of the undersigned and named witnesses, there 
was present in his person M. Joseph Motard, merchant hitherto 
residing in St. Louis, who has by these presents made and consti- 
tuted his attorney, general and special, the person of M. Michel 
Beaulieu, inhabitant domiciled in the aforesaid place of Cahokia, 
to whom he gives power for him and in his name to demand and 
receive and to cause to be rendered to him an account by M. 

(Folio 17, Cahokia,' 1782.) 

Dubreuil St. Cyr of the sums which he shall have been paid accor- 
ding to the statement, which has been delivered to him (Beaulieu) 
by the said M. Motard, with his receipt below ; provided this shall 
only be valid when the said M. Dubreuil St. Cyr shall set out from 
the country, unless the peace is made before, and provided the 
said constituted attorney find occasion to send to the said M. Motard 
in Europe the sums which M. Dubreuil St. Cyr shall have in his 
hands according to the said statement which he has received ; * 
and in case of the departure of the said gentlemen before 
the peace, it will be permissible to the said constituted attorney to 
confide to such person whom he judges fitting the said sum, pro- 
vided he receives security, or to keep it himself until he can put 
it in the possession of M. Motard, who promises to approve and 
ratify, as he approves and ratifies, that which shall be done 
by means of this present without there being need of a more spe- 
cial power. Made and passed in the office at Cahokia in the year, 
1782, on the twenty-third of the month of March in the afternoon, 
in the presence of MM. Matthieu Saucier and François Lapancé, 
witnesses summoned for this, who have signed with us, notary, after 



484 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

math. Saucier et frâncois Lap>ancé témoins a Ce requis qui ont Signé 
Et nous notaire Lecture faitte Signé a Loriginal J motard mth. 
Saucier £rancois Lapancé Et fr saucier notaire. Et plus Bas Est 
écrit en outre led^ Sieur motard a déclaré devoir audit Sieur Beaul- 
lieu La Somme de Cinq Cent Livres par Son Billet Laquelle ditte 
Somme il prendra Sur celle quil recevra de m*^ DuBreuîl S* Cyr 
Et a signé Le Jour et an Et Laditte Somme de Cinq Cent Livres 
demender quand il Le voudra Ce requérant Ledit Sieur J. motard 
insinuation de laditte procuration Lecture faitte di celuy en notre 
Gref nous l'avons insinué Et enregistré Sur Les registres Des 
insinuation de Ce Siege Suivant L'ordonnance pour Servir Et 
valoir ce que de raison dont acte ledit Jour et ans. 

fr saucier 



Extrait des registre de la Juridiction des Cahôs. 

aujourd'huy Cinq du mois de Septembre mil Sept Cent quartre 
vingt deux Est Comparu au Gref de ce Siege sieur Gabriel Cerré 
porteur d'une obligation de Sieur ant. armant, a la Suitte de 
laquelle il Contient Ce qui suit, ayant Eté Condanné par la 
Cour de payer la ditte obligation, Je moblige Sous l'hipoteque 
de tous mes Biens Generallement payer au Sieur Gabriel Cerré 
La Somme de mil Six Cent quarente Six livres En argent Et 

(Folio 18, Cahôs 178a.) 

1 'interest de laditte Somme dans un an de Cette datte Sans que 
l'une obligation Déroge a l'autre Et pour plus Grande Sûreté, 
Jay par ces présentes hypotequé plus Spetialement ma maison 
Sise et Situé au village de Cahô tenant d 'un cotté a Jean Lapencé 
Et de L'autre Séparé par une rue aux Cahô le 5 7^® 1782 A har- 
mand. Et plus Bas Est écrit, Je Soussigné que la rente de la 
Somme Si dessu ma été payé Jusqua ce Jour au Cahô le 5 7^* 
1782. Cerré. ce requérant Led* Sieur Cerré insinuation dud' 
obligation, Lecture faite diceluy En notre Gref, nous L'avons 
insinué, et enregistré Sur Les registres des insinuations de ce 
Siege Suivant l'ordonnance pour Servir et valoir ce que de raison 
dont acte Le dit Jour Et ans. fr saucier N P 

» See pp. 135, 137. 



CLERK'S RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1782 485 

reading was made. Signed on the original, J. Motard, Mth. Sau- 
cier, François Lapancé and Fr. Saucier, notary. And below is 
written: Furthermore the said M. Motard declared that he owed 
the said M. Beaulieu the sum of five hundred livres by his note, 
which said sum he shall take from that which he shall receive 
from M. Dubreuil St. Cyr, and he has signed the day and year, 
and the said sum of five hundred livres he may demand, when he 
shall wish. The said M. J. Motard requiring the registration of 
the said power of attorney, after reading thereof was made in our 
oflSce, we have inscribed and registered it in the record of regis- 
trations of this Court in compliance with the ordinance, that it 
may be used and have its effect , of which this act will testify, 
the said day and year. Fr. Saucier. 

Extract of the Registers of the Magistracy of Cahokia. 

To-day the fifth of the month of September, 1782, there 
appeared at the office of this Court M. Gabriel Cerré, bearer of 
an obligation of M. Ant. Harmand, at the end of which is contained 
what follows: Having been condenmed by the Court to pay the 
said obligation,* I bind myself by the mortgage of all my goods 
generally to pay to M. Gabriel Cerré the sum of one thousand 

(Folio 18, Caht^ia, 1782.) 

six hundred and forty-six livres in money and the interest of the said 
sum in a year from this date, without one obligation being deroga- 
tory to the other; and for greater surety I have, by these presents, 
mortgaged more specially my house situated in the village of 
Cahokia, on the one side adjoining Jean Lapancé*s and on the other 
separated by a street. At Cahokia, the 5th of September, 1782. 
A. Harmand. And below is written: I, the undersigned, 
[acknowledge] that the interest of the above sum has been paid 
me up to this day. At Cahokia, September 5, 1782. Cerré. 
The said M. Cerré requiring the registration of this obligation, 
after reading was made thereof in our office, we have inscribed and 
registered it in the record of registrations of this Court in com- 
pliance with the ordinance, that it may be used and have its 
effect, of which this act will testify, the said day and year. 

Fr. Saucier, N. P. 



486 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Extrait des Registres de la Juridiction des cahos. 

Aujourd'huy huitiesme jour de Novembre mil sept œnt quatre 
vingt deux est comparu au greffe de ce siege le Sr Joseph Labuxiere 
procureur des Etats des Virginie porteur de Sa commission Lequel 
En vertu de la Sentence de Messieurs les Magistrats de cette 
Cour En datte du jour de hier Nous a requis Lenregistrement de 
Sa dite Commission portant ce qui suit. 

Je Soussigné jean Girault procureur pour LEtat de Virginie 
En la comté des ilinois. 

Lemploy dofficier militaire auquel il a plû a LEtat de me 
Nommer ne me permetant pas de pouvoir plus longtems Remplir 
la place de procureur pour ledit Etat En la Comté des ilinois a 
laquelle charge jay Eté Nommé par commission en datte du 
Cinq juin 1779. Etant d'une nécessité indispensable de Nom- 
mer une personne capable de me remplacer dans ladite charge 
Connoisant la sage conduite Capacité et experiance du Sr Joseph 
Labuxiere Son Zèle Et affection pour le service delEtat et le Bien 

(Folio 19, Cahôs 178a.) 

du public, je luy Nonuné Et Nomme par ces présentes procureur 
dud^ Etat de la Virginie pour me remplacer En ladite charge dans 
tout letandue de la comté des ilinois En consequance requérir 
pour led^ Etat de Virginie tout ce qui est de la competance de cette 
charge tant en matières Civiles que Crimineles Et a cet Effet 
jouir de tous les honneurs, droits, privileges, Emolumens et pré- 
eminances y atachés, prendre connoissance de toutes succesions 
vacante, ou autres qui tomberon a lintestat. En faire les recherches, 
poursuites et diligences et recouvrement pour En rendre compte 
a qui de droit il apartiendra Et pour le tout Se Conformer aux 
loix Et Statuts Etablis par letat de Virginie En la susdite comté 
des ilinois, prions M*^ Richart Winston gouverneur Civil En la 
dite Comté de prouver notre Nomination En la personne dud* 
S*^ Joseph Labuxiere et de le faire reconoitore En ladite qualité 
de procureur par tous les colons Et Sujets de ladite comté des 
ilinois Et tous autres quil apartiendra En foy de quoy avons signé 
la présente Commission et a icelle aposé notre Cachet ordF^ 
donné En la ville des Caskakias aux ilinois le vingt neuf juin mil 
sept cent quatre vingt un. signé Girault. 



CLERK'S RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1782 487 

Extract of the Registers of the Magistracy of Cahokia. 

To-day the 8th day of November, 1782, there appeared at 
the oflSce of this Court M. Joseph Labuxiere, state's attorney of 
Virginia, bearer of his commission, and in virtue of the decree of 
the magistrates of this Court, yesterday, he has required of us the 
r^stration of his said commission, which contains what follows: 

I, the undersigned Jean Girault, attorney for the State of 
Virginia in the county of the Illinois. 

Since the employment of military officer, to which it has pleased 
the State to appoint me, makes it impossible for me to fill any 
longer the place of attorney for the said State in the county of 
the Illinois, to which office I was appointed by a commission 
dated the fifth of June, 1779; and since it is indispensably neces- 
sary to appoint a person capable of replacing me in the said 
office and I know the wise conduct, capacity and experience of M. 
Joseph Labuxiere and his zele and affection for the service of 
the State and the public welfare, I have appointed and do appoint 
him by these presents state's attorney of Virginia to replace me 
in the said office throughout the whole extent of the county of Illi- 
nois; and consequently to demand for the said State of Virginia all 
that which belongs to the competence of this office both in matters 
civil and criminal; and for this purpose to enjoy all the honors 
rights, privileges, emoluments and dignities attached thereto; 
to take cognizance of all estates in abeyance or others which 
shall be intestate, to make inquiries, suits, proceedings and recov- 
eries therefor, in order to render account thereof to whom by right 
it shall belong; and in all things to conform himself to the laws 
and statutes established by the State of Virginia in the county of 
Illinois aforesaid. We pray M. Richard Winston, civil gover- 
nor in the said county, to approve our appointment in the person 
of the said M. Joseph Labuxiere and to cause him to be recog- 
nized in the said capacity of attorney by all the colonists and 
subjects of the said county of Illinois and by all others whom 
it shall concern. In faith of which we have signed the present 
commission and placed our seal thereon. Given in the village 
of Kaskaskia in the Illinois, the twenty-ninth of June 1781, 
Signed Girault. 



488 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Nous Richart Winston Gouverneur Civil En la Comté des 
ilinois. 

Veû la présente commission que nous avons homologué Et 
homologuons. En consequance avons receû Et recevons led' S' 
Joseph Labuxiere procureur pour lEtat de Virginie En la comté 
des ilinois Et Ses dépendances Sous le Sermant quil a présente- 
ment prêté de Se conformer aux statuts Et règlements dud' Etat 
pour ladite comté des ilinois, laquelle reception nous avons 
faite du Consentement unanime des magistracts Soussignéz tenant 
la cour de justice En cette ville des caskakias En foy de quoy 
avons signé la présente que nous avons scellé de Notre Cachet 
ord*^*^ Et délivré au s*^ Labuxiere pour lui servir ce que de raison, 
En la ville des caskakias aux ilinois le 29 juin 1 781. Signé Richard 
Winston, Jacques lasource magistrat presid*, Godin, janis, Barlieau, 
Louviere tous magistrat Et loriginal de present Enregistrement 
délivré aud' S*" Laubuxiere Et avons signé led* jour et an. 

Labuxiere fr. saucier N. P. 

(Folio 20, CahAs 1783.) 

Extrait des registres de La Juridiction des Cahô. 

Aujourd'huy huitième jour de novembre mil sept Cent quatre 
vingt trois, Est Comparu aux Greffe de Siege le Sieur Charle Charle- 
ville demeurant aux caskaskia porteur d'une reconnoissance du 
Sieur [hlank] pourée, nous a requis Lenregistrement de laditte 
Reconnoissance portant Ce qui suit. 

Jay reçeu de Monsieur Charle Chauvin CharleviDe un reçeu 
de Monsieur fagot de lagarsseniere, Consenti a mondit Sieiu: 
Charle Chauvin Charleville de la Somme de Vingt Et un Mille 
neuf Cent Soixante Et dix Livres Et aux Environs de quatre Cent 
Livres de paux de chevreuil Et un petit paquet de Castor, La 
reconnoissance de Monsieur fagot Lagarceniere En datte du 
huit aoust mil Sept Cent soixante Et dix huit, En outre une pro- 
curation que ledit Charleville ma donné pour pouvoir jx)ursuivre 
Le Sieur fagot En Son nom. Et faire mon possible pour retirer 
La ditte somme suivant le receu de monsieur fagot La Guarsinaire, 
Si Je ne puis rien retirer de M*" fagot Je remettre Les pieces reçeu 
de mons*" Charleville a luy même Et il me remettra le présent 



CLERK'S RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1783 489 

We Richard Winston, Civil Governor in the County of Illinois. 

Having seen the present commission, we have confirmed and 
do confirm it and in consequence we have received and 
do receive the said M. Joseph Labuxiere as attorney for the 
State of Virginia in the county of the Illinois and its dependencies 
under the oath which he has now made to conform to the statutes 
and regulations of the said State for the county of Illinois, 
which reception we have made with the unanimous consent of 
the undersigned magistrates holding the Court- of justice in this 
village of Kaskaskia. In faith of which we have signed the 
present which we have sealed with our seal and delivered to M. 
Labuxiere for his use, of which this act will testify. In the village 
of Kaskaskia in the Illinois, June 29, 1781. Signed, Richard Wins- 
ton, Jacques Lasource, presiding magistrate, Godin, Janis, Barbau, 
Louviere, all magistrates, and the original of the present registry 
was delivered to the said M. Labuxiere; and we have signed the 
said day and year. 

Labuxiere Fr. Saucier, N. P. 

(Foilo 20, Cahokia^ 1783.) 

Extract of the Registers of the Magistracy of Cahokia. 

To-day, the eighth of November, 1783, there appeared at the 
office of [this] Court M. Charles Charleville, residing in Kaskaskia, 
bearer of a receipt from M. [blank] Pouree, and he has required of 
us the registration of the said receipt which contains what follows : 

I have received from M. Charles Chauvin Charleville a receipt 
of M. Fagot de Lagarceniere given to the said M. Charles Chauvin 
Charleville for the sum of twenty-one thousand nine hundred and 
seventy livres and about four hundred pounds of deer-skins and a 
small package of beaver. The receipt of M. Fagot de Lagarcen- 
iere bears date of the eighth of August, 1778; furthermore a power 
of attorney which the said Charleville gave me to empower me to 
sue M. Fagot in his name and to do my best to obtain the said 
sum according to the receipt of M. Fagot de Lagarceniere. If I 
can do nothing about obtaining the sum from M. Fagot, I shall 
return the papers received from M. Charleville to him and he will 
return the present. Made at St. Genevieve January i, 1782. 



490 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

fait a S**® Genevieve le i Janvier 1782. signé lugirre pourée, Ce 
requérant Ledit Sieur Charleville insinuation de Laditte recon- 
noissance Lecture faitte diceluy En nôtre Greffe nous Lavons 
insinué Et Enregistré sur les registre des insinuation, De ce Siege 
suivant L'ordonnance pour servir Et valoir ce que de raison dont 
acte Led* joiu* Et ans. 

fr. saucier N. p. 
Extrait des registres de la jurisdiction des Cahos. 

aujourdhuy dixième jour de Novembre mil sept cent quartre 
vingt trois est comparu le s*" Joseph Labuxiere N^® Lequel Nous 
a Requis enregistrement de la commission qui suit. 

Veu la requête a nous presentee par le s*" Joseph Labuxiere 
en datte du 10 x^" 1782. sachant que le gouvernement n'a Rien 
de plus a coeur que de donner aisance a tous Ses Sujets de gag- 
ner leur vie honestement, de chercher, obtenir et posséder le 
Bonheur partout ou ils pouront L'avoir, et les assister de Son 
authorité et puissance pour que chacun puisse exercer Ses talans 
et être util a la société. 

En vertu du pouvoir a Nous donné par M^ jean Tood Ecuyer 

(Folio 31, Cah6s 1784.) 

gouverneur Civil En la comté des ilinois et Ses dépendances 
Nous avons permis et permetons a M^ Joseph Labuxiere pare 
dEtablir un Notaria en cette dite comté a lendroit ou il fera Sa 
residance et a cette fin de passer et recevoir en qualité de Notaire 
public dans toute Lentendue de ladite comté et district tous actes 
contracts Et invantaires partages, Encan, Et généralement tout 
ce qui est de la competance dun Notaire sans que personne puisse 
sy oposer, Letat voulant que chaque individu jouisse dune plaine 
liberté de metre Sa confience en tel Notaire quil jugera a propos 
en concequance avons ce jourdhuy reçu le sermant d'office dud* 
S^ Labuxiere qui a promis et juré de Se conformer aux Statuts du 
gouvernement Et usages acoutumés, et Sera libre en Cas din- 
compatibilité de Substituer une personne pour faire les fonctions 
de procureur de l'Etat dans les affaires qui le requereront et ou il 
ne pouroit exercer les deux charges dans une même affaire en foy 
de quoy Nous luy avons délivré la présente Commission ainsy que 



CLERK»S RECORD, NOVEMBER, 1783 491 

Signed Léger [ ? ] Pourée. The said M. Charleville requiring the 
registration of liie said receipt, after reading was made thereof in 
our office, we have inscribed and registered it in the record of regis- 
trations of this Court in compliance with the ordinance, that it 
may be used and have its effect, of which this act will testify, the 

said day and year. 

Fr. Saucier, N. P. 

Extract of the Registers of the Magistracy of Cahokia. 

To-day, the tenth of November, 1783, there appeared M. 
Joseph Labuxiere, who has required of us the registration of the 
commission which follows: 

Having seen the petition presented to us by M. Joseph Labux- 
iere under date of December 10, 1782, and knowing that the 
government has desired nothing more than to give facility to all 
its subjects to gain their livelihood honestly and to seek, obtain 
and possess happiness wherever they can obtain it, and to assist 
them with its authority and power in order that each may exercise 
his talents and be useful to society : 

In virtue of the power given to us by M. John Todd Esquire, 

(Folio a I, Cahokia, 1784.) 

civil governor in the county of Illinois and its dependencies, 
we have permitted and do permit M. Joseph Labuxiere Senior, 
to establish a notariat in this said county at the place where he 
shall have his residence and to this end to draw up and receive in 
his capacity of notary public, throughout the extent of the said 
county and district, all instruments, contracts and inventories, 
settlements, auctions and in general to do all that which belongs 
to the competence of a notary, without any person being per- 
mitted to make opposition thereto; for the State wishes that each 
person enjoy full liberty to place his confidence in such notary as 
he shall judge fitting. In consequence we have this day received 
the oath of office from the said M. Labuxiere, who has promised 
and sworn to conform himself to the statutes of government and 
customary usages ; and he shall be free, in case of incompatibility, 
to substitute some one to perform the functions of state's attorney 
in the affairs which require one, and where he cannot exercise 



492 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

de Raison que nous avons signé et Scellé de Notre Cachet ordinaire 
aux Caskakia le douze décembre mil sept cent Cent [sic] quatre 
vingt deux, signé sur la commission Richard Winston Lieutenant 
de Compte. Laquelle Commission nous avons Enregistrée Et remis 
loriginal aud* s^ Labuxiere pour luy servir ce que de raison Et 
avoir recour a enregistrement cy dessus En cas de Besoin dont 
acte lesd* jour et an. 

fr. saucier N*"*. 

Extrait des Registres de la jurisdiction des Cahos. 

Du dix avril mil Sept cent quatre vingt Cinq, aujourdhuy est 
comparu le S*" Joseph Labuxiere tuteur des Enfans mineurs de 
deffunt Jean B^*^ jacquemain dit lajoye de la prairie du Rocher 
Lequel nous Requis lenregistrement cy après. 

Je soussigné tuteur des Enfans mineurs de deffunt jean B*« 

jacquemain dit lajoye de laprairie du Rocher averty tous ceux 

qui ont pris des effets a lencan dud^ deffunt jacquemain que led* 

Encan dans le present mois davril et que les adjudicataires ayent 

a payer eux ou leurs cautions leurs adjudications Entre les mains 

de M^ Barbeau capitaine commandant a la prairie du Rocher qui 

levu" donnera quittance En mon absence Faute de quoy il leur est 

déclaré quil payeront les frais et dépens que Ion fera pour aler chés 

eux leur demander le recouvrement Et en outre Linterest Suivant 

la Loix Et coutume Etablie pour les mineurs fait En mon domicile 

des Cahos le 9 avril 1785. signé Labuxiere Et plus Bas Est Ecrit 

Envoyé une copie aux Kas a M' de Montbrun et a M*" Barbeau 

pour afficher chacun dans les Lieux de leurs dépendances le 10 

avril 1785. 

signé Labuxiere tuteur 

fr. saucier N. P. 

(Folio 36. 1786.) 

aujourdhuy vingt huit décembre mil Sept cent quatre vingt 
Six est comparu au greffe de ce siege le S' gabriel Baron habitant 

^ Ail pages between the reverse of folio 3i and folio 36 aie omitted. These pages con- 
tain the copies of documents in a suit between Laurent Durocher of St. Louis and PoUard& 
Masson of Detroit in regard to a consignment of goods. The men interested are all from 



CLERK^S RECORD, APRIL, 1785 493 

the two duties in the same affair. In faith of which we have deliv- ♦ 
ered the present commission and have signed and sealed it with 
our seal at Kaskaskia, the twelfth of December, 1782. Signed 
on the commission, Richard Winston, Coimty Lieutenant; which 
commission we have registered and returned the original to the 
said M. Labuxiere that he make use thereof and have recourse to 
the above registry in case of need; of which this act will testify, 
the said day and year. 

Fr. Saucier, Notary. 

Extract of the Registers of the Magistracy of Cahokia. 

On the tenth of April, 1785, to-day, there appeared M. Joseph 
Labuxiere, guardian of the minor children of the deceased Jean 
Bte. Jacquemain called Lajoye of Prairie du Rocher, who has 
required of us the registration of what follows: 

I, the undersigned guardian of the minor children of the de- 
ceased Jean Bte. Jacquemain called Lajoye of Prairie du Rocher, 
notify all those who have taken goods at the auction of the de- 
ceased Jacquemain, the said auction [having been held] in the 
present month of April, that the purchasers have to pay for them or 
[give] their surety for their purchases into the hands of M. Barbau, 
captain commandant at Prairie du Rocher, who will give them 
receipts in my absence; in default of which, notice is given to them 
that they shall pay the costs and charges, which are made in going 
to them to demand the recovery, and also the interest according to 
the law and established custom for minors. Made in my domicile 
at Cahokia April 9, 1785. Signed, Labuxiere. And below is 
written : Sent a copy to Kaskaskia to M. de Monbreun and M. 
Barbau for each to post in the places of their dependencies, April 

10, 1785. 

Signed Labuxiere, guardian. 

Fr. Saucier, N. P. 
♦ ♦♦♦««♦♦♦♦♦♦ 

(Folio 36, 1786.) 

To-day the twenty-eighth of December, 1786, there appeared 
at the office of this Court M. Gabriel Baron and Marie Louise 

St. Louis or Detroit, and the ducuments do not form an integral patt of the Cahokia records 
The entries are lAade by Joseph Labuxiere in the years 1786 and 1787. 



494 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

du poste des cahos et marie Louise Buteau son Epouse porteur 
de leur contract de mariage passé devant Senet Notaire aux 
Cahos le vingt huit septembre mil Sept cent Soixante Seize Portant 
la donnation qui suit. Et pour se donner des preuves de LafiFection 
réciproque quils Se portent Lun et lautre ils Se Sont fait et ce font 
par ces présentes donnation mutuelle réciproque et a jamais irre- 
vocable autant que donnation puisse valoir au dernier vivant d'eux 
de tous et uns Chacuns les Biens meubles et immeubles propres 
acquets et conquets que le premier mourant aura et laissera au 
jour et heure de Son deces poiu* enjouir par le dernier vivant En 
plaine propriété et comme de chose luy apartenante de plain droit, 
cette présente donnation mutuelle Et réciproque ainsy faite pourvu 
toutes fois quil ny ait point denfant nez ni a naitre dud^ mariage 
car en Cas denfant ladite donnation Sera nule de plain droit ainsy 
convenu Et accordé, ce requérant les dits S*" et dame Baron in- 
sinuation de la présente donnation nous lavons insinuée et en- 
registrée sur le present registre dinsinuation et denregistrement 
du greffe de ce Siege pour servir aud* s*" dame Baron ce que de 
raison dont acte lesd^ jour et an. 

Labuxiere N^*^ gf îr 

(Page 40. 1787.) 

requisition de M' Joseph Janez It Commi" Du 18 janvier 
1787. 

avis au Public 

Le Soussigné Etant chargé de Prendre connoissance des abus 
de Nature publique qui ont été commis ici a L'entour il est Bien 
mortiffié de voir que ces abus Sont Enormes et frequants mais 
comme la Nature de Sa Commission est telle qu'il ne peut pas 
pour le present les Examiner comme il le voudroit Et que dailleurs 
il est plus glorieux de prévenir les Crimes de peur qu'on ne les 
commete que de les punir après quils Sont commis, il avertit donc 
le public par ces présentes que toutes personnes ou personnes 
qui après cette date Commetra ou occasionnera quelque Ravage, 
ou pillage ou destruction Soit au fort de Chartre ou a lEncien 

1 Continuation of the Laurent Durocher documents to the revetse of folio 30. 



CLERK'S RECORD, JANUARY, 1787 495 

Buteau, his wife, bearers of their contract of marriage passed 
before Senet, notary at Cahokia, the twenty-eighth of September, 
1773, containing the donation which follows: And in order to give 
proofs of the reciprocal affection which they have one for another, 
they have made and make by these presents mutual, reciprocal 
and irrevocable donation, in so far as a donation can be valid, to 
the survivor of them of all and each of the goods, personal and 
real, inherited or acquired before or after marriage, which the 
first one dying shall have and leave on the day and hour of his or 
her decease, to be enjoyed by the survivor in full proprietorship 
and as a thing belonging to him or her in full right. This present 
mutual and reciprocal donation is so made, provided, however, 
that there should be no child bom nor to be bom of the said mar- 
riage; for in case of a child the said donation shall be null in full 
right as agreed and granted. The said M. and Madame Baron 
requiring the registration of the present donation, we have in- 
scribed and registered it in the present record of registrations of 
the office of this Court that the said M. and Madame Baron may 
make use thereof, of which this act will testify, the said day and 
year. Labuxiere, Notary Clerk. 

♦ * * ♦♦ * #:K * 4c :|e 4^^ 

(Page 40, 1787) 

Requisition of M. Joseph Janez, Lieut. Commissary, January 
18, 1787. 

Notice to the Public. 

The undersigned being appointed to take cognizance of the 
abuses of a public nature, which have been committed here in the 
surrounding places, he is very mortified to see that such abuses 
are great and frequent; but as the nature of his commission is 
such that he cannot examine them as he would wish to, and since, 
besides, it is more glorious to prevent crimes which one fears will 
be committed than to punish them after they are committed, he 
wams the public, therefore, by these presents that all persons or 
person, who after this date shall commit or cause any depredation, 
robbery or destruction either at Fort de Chartres or at the former 
college of the Jesuits at Kaskaskia or at the old fort on the moun- 



496 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

College des jésuites aux Caskaskias ou a lEncien fort Sur la mon- 
tagne qui commande la ville ou a quelque magasin ou bâtiment 
publique ils peuvent Satendre qu'ils Seront punis très sévèrement 
puisque de la depend le Bonheur dun gouvernement qui veut être 
juste et Equitable. 

toutes personnes qui a en main quelque chose ap|>artenante 
au public est averty de le rendre au plustost. 

Le Soussigné Sestimeroit heiureux Si les personnes qu 'on Scait 
avoir démoli le vieux College des jésuites vouloient profiter de 
cet avis pour y remetre les matériaux quils en ont Emporté Et 
pour rétablir les Bâtiments dans lEtat ou ils Etoient auparavant, 
dautant plus que dans peu il espère qu'on y mettra un Corp de 
troupes En garnison lequel aura Besoin de ces Bâtiments Et fera 
les Enquêtes nécessaires concernants les dites personnes Si elles 
negligent cette precaution, signé Joseph janes Lt. com^® aux 
Kaskakakias [sic] le ii Janvier 1787. 

Lu publié et affiché a la porte de L Eglise des cahos par moy 
Joseph Labuxiere N^^ et greffier aud* lieu le 18 Janvier 1787. 

Labuxiere grefier. 

Du 19 février 1787 
Est comparu le S^ augustin dubuc marchand voyageur Etant 
de present aux Cahos a Lissue de la Cour de justice Séante En 

(41. 1787) 
la Chambre du greffe Lequel après avoir présenté a la dite cour 

la requête cy après en a requis lenregistrement En ce dit greffe 

que jay transcrit Sur le registre des Enregistrement mot a mot 

suivant loriginal ainsy quil Suit. 

a Monsieur jean B^® LaCroix présidant Et Messieurs Les 
juges de la cour du district des cahos 
Messieurs 

augustin dubuque marchand voyageur de montreal résidant 
a present en ce poste faisant par procuration du S"" valentine 
jautard avocat En la dite ville a Ihonneur de vous représenter 

> Tanis was appx>intcd commissioner cither by the go\-ermnent of the revived French party 
after the receipt of a letter from CoMress or else by George Rogers Clark, who wa» at this 
time in Vinccnnes. I'he notice is eWJentlv directed against John Dodge, who had poeaessioQ 
of the old fort on the bluffs and who had taken cannon and other material for fortiftcation from 
the Jesuit building in the village, known as Fort Clark. See Introdtution^ p. axTiii. 



CLERK'S RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1787 497 

tain which commands the village or at any storehouse or public 
building, they may expect that they will be punished very severely, 
since therefrom depends tbe welfare of a government which de- 
sires to be just and equitable. 

Every person who has in his possession anything belonging to 
the public is notified to return it as soon as possible. 

The undersigned would think himself fortunate, if the persons 
who are known to have demolished the old college of the Jesuits 
would profit by this notice to bring to it the materials which they 
have taken therefrom and to rebuild the structures in the condition 
in which they were hitherto, since it is hoped that in a short time 
there will be stationed there in garrison a corps of troops, who will 
have need of these buildings; and the necessary enquiries con- 
cerning these persons will be made, if they neglect this warning. 
Signed at Kaskaskia, January 11, 1787, Joseph Janez, Lieut Com. 

Read, published and posted on the door of the church of 
Cahokia by me, Joseph Labuxiere, notary and clerk of .the said 
place January 18, 1787.* 

Labuxiere, Clerk. 

February 19, 1787. 

There appeared M. Augustin Dubuque, traveling trader, at 
present in Cahokia, at the door of the court of justice sitting in 
the office of the clerk; and after having presented to the said 
Court the following petition, he has required the registration there- 
of in this said office ; and I have transcribed it on the record of the 
registrations word for word according to the original as follows: 

To M. Jean Bte. LaCroix and MM. the Judges of the Court of 
the District of Cahokia. 

Sirs: 

Augustin Dubuque, traveling trader of Montreal, resident at 
present in this post, and acting by power of attorney of M. Valen- 
tine Jautard, lawyer in the said city, has the honor to show you 
that, in virtue of the decree under date of the sixth of the month 
of November last, of which it has pleased you to cause him to be 
informed, he had believed that [he would have received justice] 
in accordance with the legality of the claims which the said M. 



498 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

quen vertu de la Sentence quil vous a plû luy faire Signiflâer en 
date du Sixième du mois de Novembre dernier il auroit Crû qiia- 
prés la validité des droits que a requis led^ s^ jautard Sur les Biens 
Cy devant appartenants aux missions Etrangères Situés En ce 
village paroisse de la S^® famille consistant En une maison de 
pierre et Son terrain ainsy quime terre Et autres effets tel quil 
est Ennoncé par le contract de vente quen a fait en Son vivant 
le S^ Jean Lagrange au S^ jautard par acte passé pardevant m' 
Labuxiere Notaire Royal en datte du quatriesme juin de Lannée 
mil Sept cent Soixante Cinq dont led^ S*" Lagrange avoit acquis 
le tout de M^ francois forget duverger prêtre et missionnaire des 
missions Etrangères grand vicaire de M^ Leveque de quebec 
faisant et agissant alors au Nom de M*" Le Supérieur des missions 
Etrangère de paris, par acte passé devant led* M' Labuxiere notaire 
Royal des [Illinois]le Cinquiesmede Novembre mil sept cent Soixante 
trois Sous le gouvernement de M' de Neyon alors gouverneur de 
ce pays au Service de Sa majesté le Roy de france. Le supliant 
ne peut cacher Sa Surprise connoissant la probité des arbitres 
Nommés par la communauté des habitans de ce village pour 
donner leurs opinions Sur la validité ou 1 invalidité des titres cy 
dessus mentionnés, de voir avec quelle authorité (et Sil m'est 
permis Sans blesser la modestie des dits arbitres) avec quelle 
legerité ils ont Cassé Ennuie et mis au Néant les actes passés il 
y a vingt Cinq a vingt six ans par main de Notaire Royal, tems 
ou le pays Etoit sous la domination française et jouissoit dune 
justice Etablie Et réglée Et ou toutes personnes en place N 'auroit 
Eu la témérité de passer ou recevoir aucun acte qui ne fut con- 
forme aux loix Sans Encourir les risques de punition. 

quil me soit permis Messieurs de vous observer quel seroit Ce 
droit des gens Si la Cour daujourdhuy toute respectable quelle 
est, Et quel pouvoir qui luy soit Confié, avoit le droit de Casser 

(4a, 1787.) 
les actes passez sous les gouvernements français et anglais Sous 

lesquels nous avons Successivement passez dans lespace d£nviron 

quatorze a quinze ans, quelle seroit la Sûreté publique, y auroit-il 

* For an account of the purchase by Jautard, see Thwaitea, Jtsmt Rdatioms^ Led., 37. 



CLERK'S RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1787 499 

Jautard has made to the property heretofore belongmg to the 
foreign missions situated in this village, parish of the Holy Family, 
and consisting of a stone house with its lot as well as a plantation 
and other effects, such as is described by the contract of sale, 
which M. Jean Lagrange during his life made thereof to M. 
Jautard by instrument passed before M. Labuxiere, royal notary, 
dated June 4, 1765, all of which the said M. Lagrange had ac- 
quired from M. François Forget Duverger, priest and mission- 
ary of the foreign missions and grand vicar of the bishop of 
Quebec, acting at that time in the name of M. the Superior of 
the foreign missions of Paris, by instrument passed before the 
said M. Labuxiere, royal notary of the [Illinois], on the 5th 
of November, 1763, under the government of M. de Neyon, at the 
time governor of this country in the service of His Majesty the 
King of France.* The petitioner cannot conceal his surprise, since 
he knows the probity of the arbitrators appointed by the commimity 
of the inhabitants of this village to give their votes on the validity or 
invalidity of the titles hereinabove mentioned, at seeing with what 
authority (and if it is permitted without wounding the modesty 
of the said arbitrators) with what levity they have put aside, an- 
nulled and set at naught the instruments passed twenty-five to 
twenty-six years ago by the hand of a royal notary, at which time 
the country was under the French dominion and enjoyed an estab- 
lished and regulated justice and when no person in office would 
have had the temerity to pass or receive any instrument, which did 
not conform to the laws, without incurring the risks of pimishment. 
Permit me, gentlemen, to inform you what this right of the 
people would be, if the Court of to-day, wholly honorable as it is, 
and what the power which is confided to you would be, did the 
right exist of setting aside the instruments passed imder the French 
and English governments, under which we have successively 
passed in the space of about fourteen to fifteen years. What would 
be the public surety ? Would there be any individual who could 
flatter himself with enjoying acquisitions which he has made or will 
leave to his descendants, without running the risk of seeing them 
forfeited ? Would not such a power become absurd which instead 



500 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

aucun particulier qui pu se âater de jouir des acquisitions quil a 
faites ou laissées a leurs descendans Sans courir les risques de 
S*En voir dechû, un tel pouvoir ne deviendroit-il pas absurde qui 
au lieu de veiller a la Sûreté publique par le maintien des loix 
donneroit atteinte a les Enfreindre, le droit des gens Est un droit 
que toutes nations Civil izées* respectent Et Se rendent réciproque- 
ment les uns aux autres, lorsque le pays fut rendu par le traité 
de paix aux Englais Ion a vu cette nation respecter Et metre En 
force tout acte de justice passez Sous le gouvernement français, 
comme maintenant que nous Sonunes au pouvoir des Etats unis 
de Lamerique Ion verra cette puissance maintenir dans toute 
Sa force toutes loix et usages existants Sous les deux gouverne- 
ments antérieurs les puissances Conquérantes ont le droit da jouter 
au pays qu'ils ont conquis les loix qui leurs Sont propres mais 
non pas de Casser celles qui regnoient precedament 

Le Supliant vous représente très respectueusement quen vertu 
de la procuration a lui livrée par le S' valentin jautrad avocat 
resident a montreal pour Se nantir des Biens cy devant mentionnez 
quil avoit légitimement acquis de deffunt S^ jean Lagrange Et 
dont il a joui paisiblement pendant lespace denviron vingt un an 
Sans interuptions ni apellation de qui que ce soit il a En conce- 
quance Lanneé dernière fait DéCrétter La dite Mission avec 
les Dits Biens En presence de témoin, pendant trois Mois de 
Suitte a la porte de L'église au nom du dit Sieur Valentine Jau- 
tard Comme à lui appartenant Sans que qui que Ce Soit Se pré- 
sentât pourym'ettre Empechment, et ont été vandû Juridicque- 
ment Selon les Loix et Coutumes du païs à la porte de L'église, 
La quel vente Le Suppliant Entend quil est Lieu Sauf au Colége 
des Mission Etrangères d'avoir Leurs recours Contre Leurs agent; 
Le Suppliant a L'honneur de vous observer Messieurs que Lorsque 
il a donné Sa Signature pour Se Soumettre à la Desition des Arbi- 
tres il ne Croyoit pas avoir affaire à ses propres parties puisse qu'il 
ce Disent ou ils sont Connu Etre de la Communauté des habitans 
Il ne veut pas dire par la qu 'il est Crû m 'al Decider mais il san- 
tient deCément que faisant corps Dans le nombre des paroissiens 
ils aurait Dû Ce Récuser au lieu de prendre Le ton dautorité de 



CLERK^S RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1787 501 

of watching over the public surety through the maintenance of the 
laws should give a blow to break them. The right of the people 
is a right which all civilized nations respect and submit to recip- 
rocally. When the country was surrendered to the English by the 
treaty of peace, that nation was seen to respect and put in force all 
acts of justice passed under the French government. Since now 
we are in the power of the United States, it will be seen that this 
power maintains in all their force the laws and usages which have 
existed under the two preceding governments. The conquering 
powers have the right to add to the country, which they have con- 
quered, the laws which are their own ; but not to annul those which 
were in force before. 

The petitioner sets forth to you very respectfully that, in virtue 
of the power of attorney given him by M. Valentine Jautard, * 
lawyer residing in Montreal, to take possession of the property 
hereinbefore mentioned, which he had legitimately acquired from 
the deceased M. Jean Lagrange and which he has enjoyed peace- 
fully during the space of about twenty-one years without interrup- 
tion or action from any one, and in consequence thereof, he last year 
caused to be issued in the presence of witnesses and posted, for 
three months together at the door of the church, a writ against the 
said mission and its property in the name of the said M. Valentine 
Jautard as belonging to him, without any one presenting himself 
to make objection thereto; and judicial sale was made according 
to the laws and customs of the coimtry at the door of the church 
which sale, the petitioner understands, is allowed, reserving to the 
college of the foreign missions the right to have recourse against 
their agent. The petitioner has the honor to remark to you, gen- 
tlemen, that when he gave his signature to submit himself to the 
decision of the arbitrators, he did not believe that he had an affair 
with the interested parties. Since they say it or are known to be 
of the community of the inhabitants, and he does not wish to say by 
that it is believed the decision was unjust, but he feels that, since 
they were of the number of the parishioners, they ought properly 
to have challenged them instead of taking the tone of authority to 
annul and set aside authentic instruments legally passed imder a 



502 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

(43. 1787.) 

Casser et d'anéanter des actes authentiques passer L 'également 
Sous un Govemement sage; Le Suppliant ne peut voir quavec Peine 
que Les susdits arbitres annonCent dans un passage de Leurs Sen- 
tance que Le dit Suppliant est Nantie De titres authentiques de la 
part du S^ Jautard et dans un autre ils disent quils N'en à pas 
sufl&samant puisquil En demande d'autres ils osent Encx>re avan- 
cer que Le S^ abbé forget s 'est Evadé furtivement de pais dans le 
tems quils scavent Le Contraire, Leiurs senfence prouve que 
L 'abbé forget a Emporter Les fonds de la Mission En france, C 'est 
donc La Mission même qui a opérer dans Ce fait, puis qu'Qs avoit 
Mis La Gestion et La Conduite Entre les mains du dit forget et que 
personne ne Ce soit opposer a la sortie des fonds L'orsqu'il partie 
du pais; dans Le Convoy de Monsieur de Neyon alors Gouverneur 
du pais; Le Suppliant Doit donc Etre Certain que Le dit forget 
avoit tous pouvoir dans Ladministration de cette Mission et Les 
habitans n'en ont point Douter puisquils ont acquis de Lui, et 
quand même il N'auroit pas Été muny d'un pouvoir particulier, 
il a L té Connu membre de La Mission et Vicaire général et par 
consequant toutes Les ventes ou transsactions faites par lui sont 
pour le Compte de la dite mission, il est donc plus que Ridicule 
aux arbitres de prendre Le haut ton d'autorité de Casser et annul- 
1er des actes Sacrés, un tribunal de Justice Légale Les respecte 
partons, il ny a que Le deffaut de forme qui puisse Les annéantir, 
mais il est deffendu à des arbitres Den Connoitre. Ce Considéré 
il vous Plaise, Messieurs Declarer La dite sentence null et Randu 
par des Personnes incompétentes, dire que Leiu* pouvoir ne 
s'etand pas Jusqu'à decider une affaire de Droits qui n'appar- 
tient qu'au tribunal Competent, de plus le suppliant vous prie, 
Messieurs, de le recevoir appelant de La siisdite sentence et de Lui 
En Expédier acte afin qu 'il puisse se pourvoir partout ou à qui 
le droits appartiendra, et ferez droit. Présenté par moi soussigné 
à la cour respective des Cahokias le 15 •"* février 1787 au Kaho- 
kias. signé dubuc Et a 1 instant ladite requête a Eté Remise aud^ 
s"" dubuque par moy greffier Soussigné après la seance de la Cour 
tenue par M" fr. Saucier présidant au lieu et place de s' jean B^ 



CLERK'S RECORD, FEBRUARY, 1787 503 

well-conducted government. The petitioner can see only with 
pain that the arbitrators aforesaid announce in a passage of their 
verdict that the said petitioner is provided with authentic titles 
from M. Jautard and in another they say that he has not sufficient 
of them, since they demand others. They also dare to advance 
that M. Abbé Forget left the country at the time secretly, when 
they know the contrary. Their verdict proves that the Abbé 
Forget has carried the funds of the mission to France. It is then 
the mission itself which has acted in this deed, since they have 
placed the action and conduct in the hands of the said Forget and 
since no one has made opposition to the departure of the funds, 
when he set out from the country in the convoy of M. de Neyon, 
at that time governor of the country. The petitioner ought then 
to be certain that the said Forget had all power in the administra- 
tion of this mission; and the inhabitants have had no doubt there- 
of, since they have acquired property of him ; and if even he should 
not have been armed with a particular power, he has been known 
as a member of the mission and vicar- general and consequently 
all the sales or transactions made by him are for the account of the 
said mission ; and it is therefore more than ridiculous for arbitra- 
tors to take the high tone of authority of annulling and setting aside 
sacred acts — a tribimal of civil justice would respect them every- 
where. There is only the defect of form which could annul them, 
but it is forbidden arbitrators to take cognizance thereof. In con- 
sideration of this, gentlemen, you should decide to declare the said 
verdict null and rendered by persons incompetent, and to say that 
their power does not extend to deciding a question of law, which 
belongs only to a competent tribunal. 

Furthermore the petitioner prays you, gentlemen, to receive 
his appeal from the verdict aforesaid and to expedite an act thereof 
in order that he can plead every where * in regard to whom the 
rights belong and obtain justice. Presented by me, the under- 
signed, to the honorable Court of Cahokia, the 15 th of February, 
1787, at Cahokia. Signed, Dubuque. And now the said petition 
has been returned to the said M. Dubuque by me the undersigned 
clerk, after the sitting of the Court, held by MM. Fr. Saucier, presi- 



504 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

(44. 1787.) 

LaCroix — At. girardin — Louis Chatel — M saucier — Clement 
alary — et Joseph Lapensée a qui ladite Requête a Eté présentée Et 
par eux apointee au bas dicelle ainsy quil suit vu par la Cour 
assemblée la requête cy dessus du s^ dubuque Ensemble la sentence 
rendue par les députez arbitres Nommez par la Communauté des 
habitans des cahos auxquels led^ s^ dubuq a promis de sen 
raporter par son Ecrit En datte du sept Novembre 1786. la Cour 
a débouté le s*" dubuque de toutes ses demandes et chef dobserva- 
tions mentionnés En sa requête Et a Confirmé et Confirme la 
sentence desdits députez et ordonne quelle sortira son plain Et 
Entier Effet nonobstant tout apel. donné aux Cahos le 19 février 
mil sept cent quatre vingt sept, signé au bas de Lapointe de 
ladite requête remise au s^ dubuque At girardin — M^ saucier — ^ime 
-fpour marque de Joseph Lapensée — une -f pour marque de Cle- 
ment alary, une + pour marque de Louis Chatel — f^. Saucier 
présidant et le grefier soussigné 

Aug. Dubuq Labuxiere 

aujourdhuy premier Mars mil Sept cent quatre vingt Sept est 
comparu au greffe de ce siege le s' augustin dubuque marchand 
voyageur lequel a requis Lenregistrement de la procuration cy 
après 

Pardevant les notaires de la province de quebec résidants a 
montreal Soussignez M^ valentin jautard avocat demeurant fau- 
bourg S^ Joseph prés cette ville de montreal lequel a par ces pré- 
sentes fait et constitué Son procureur general et special la pesonne 
de M*" augustin Dubuc Négociant voyageur actuellement En cette 
ville auquel il donné pouvoir de pour luy et En Son Nom aliéner 
vendre, cedder, et transporter a qui Bon luy Semblera Et pour 
tel prix et Sommes que led^ S*" Contsitué jugera les terrains cy 
après dessignez Savoir, un lopin de terre Situé au village des 
cahokias paroisse de la S^*^ famille contenant Environ trois cent 
pieds de terre de front. Sur neuf cent pieds de profundeiu* Sur 
lequel Est construite une maison de pierre ainsy et dans lEtat ou 
elle Se trouve actuellement, plus une terre de quatre arpents de 
front situé anteritoire des cahos a prendre du Rigolet en pro- 



CLERK'S RECORD, MARCH, 1787 505 

dent in the place and stead of M. Jean Bte. LaCroix, Ant. Girardin, 
Louis Chatel, M. Saucier, Clement Alarie, and Joseph Lapancé, 
to whom the said petition was presented and by them referred. 
Below is also what follows: Seen by the assembled Court the 
above petition of M. Dubuque, together with the verdict of the 
deputed arbitrators appointed by the community of the inhabitants 
of Cahokia, to whom the said M. Dubuque has promised to leave 
the decision by his writing dated November 7, 1786. The Court 
has overruled all the prayers and principal observations mentioned 
in the petition of M. Dubuque, and has confirmed and does con- 
firm the verdict of the said deputies, and decrees that it shall have 
its full and entire effect notwithstanding all appeal. Given at 
Cahokia February 19, 1787. Signed below the reference of the 
said petition returned to M. Dubuque, Ant. Girardin, Mt. Saucier, 
a -h for the mark of Joseph Lapancé, a-h for the mark of Clement 
Alary, a -f for the mark of Louis Chatel, Fr. Saucier, president, 
and the undersigned clerk. 

Aug. Dubuque. Labuxiere. 

To-day, the first of March, 1787, there appeared at the office 
of this Court M. Augustin Dubuque, traveling trader, who has 
required the registration of the power of attorney here following : 

Before the undersigned notaries of the province of Quebec, 
residing at Montreal, M. Valentine Jautard, lawyer living in the 
faubourg St. Joseph near this city of Montreal, has by these 
presents made and constituted his attorney, general and special, 
the person of M. Augustin Dubuque, traveling merchant, at pres- 
ent in this city, to whom he has given power to sell, alienate, cede 
and transfer for him and in his name, to whom it shall seem good 
to him and for what price and sum which the said constituted 
attorney shall determine, the lands hereafter designated: to wit, 
a piece of land situated in the village of Cahokia, parish of the 
Holy Family, containing about three hundred feet frontage and 
about nine hundred feet in depth, upon which is constructed a 
stone house, in whatever condition it is found at present; also a 
plantation of four arpents frontage situated in front of Cahokia 
extending in depth from the trench to the bluffs, adjoining on 



So6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

(45. 1787) 

fondeur jusques aux cotes, joignant dun costé au S*" Clermont Et 
de lautre costé au Nommé dorion Suivant les designations 
Portées aux contracts dacquisitions que led^ S*" Constituant en a 
faite de feu S^ jean lagrange vivant Négociant aux caskakias par 
contract passé devant M' Labuxiere Notaire en datte du quatre 
juin rail Sept cent Soixante Cinq dont led* S' lagrange avoit acquis 
le tout de M^* francois forget duverger prêtre et missionaire des 
missions Etrangères grand vicaire de M^ Leveque de quebec faisant 
et agissant alors au Nom de M*" le Supérieur des missions Etrangères 
de paris par acte passé devant led* M*" Labuxiere des [Illinois] 
le Cinq Novembre mil Sept cent Soixante trois, dont tous les dits 
titres y Enoncés ont été remis aud* S^ Constitué pour et en vertu 
diceux en prendre pocession au Nom dud* S^constituant, les vendre 
comme dit est au meilleur avantage que led* constitué trouvera 
Enfin plaider apeller, obtenir jugements aux fins de deguerpisse- 
ments Si personne ou personnes quelconques Sétoient a proprié 
les dits Biens, En un mot passer tous toutres [sir] de vente revêtir 
lacquereur ou les acquéreurs de toute propriété au Nom dud* 
Constituant Et du produit des ventes En recevoir iceux deniers 
et den donner quittances ou en passer tous actes au profit des 
acquéreurs, prometant led* S*" constituant avoir tout pour agré- 
able ce que led* S»" Constitué fera, donnant pouvoir de constituer 
un ou plusieurs procureurs Sans Besoin de ratification de la part 
dud* S*" constituant voulant que la présente vaille jusqua revoca- 
tion expresse tel laps de tems qui puisse Se couler, car ainsi prome- 
tant &c. obligeant &c voulant &c nonobstant &c. fait et passé 
a raontreal Etude des Soussignéz lan mil Sept cent quatre vingt 
Cinq le dix neuf May avant midy, ces présentes délivrées En Bre- 
vet, et a mond* S*" constituant Signé ces présentes avec les Notaires 
Lecture faite Suivant Lordonnance — signé v jautard — Foucher — fr. 
LeGuay Notaires, et plus bas est Escrit Nous René ovide hertel 
Ecuyer Seigneur de Rouville L'un des juges de Sa Majesté En 
Sa Cour des playdoyers Communs, district de Montreal province 
de quebec &c. &c. Certiffions a tous quil appartiendra que M" 
f r. LeGuay et antoine foucher qui ont Signé et délivré ces présentes 



CLERK'S RECORD, MARCH, 1787 507 

one side M. Clermont's and on the other the land of the named 
Dorion according to the description contained in the contracts 
of acquisition, which the said constituter made therefor with the 
late M. Jean Lagrange, during his life merchant at Kaskaskia, 
by contract passed before M. Labuxiere, notary, under date of 
June 4, 1765, all of which the said M. Lagrange had acquired from 
M. François Forget Duverger, priest and missionary of the 
foreign missions and grand vicar of the Bishop of Quebec, acting 
at that time in the name of M. the Superior of the foreign missions 
of Paris, by act passed before the said M. Labuxiere, royal notary 
of the [Illinois] on November 5, 1763. All the said title deeds here 
mentioned have been delivered to the constituted attorney that he 
may by virtue thereof take possession in the name of the said con 
stituter, and sell them, as said, to the best advantage, that the said 
constituted attorney shall find ; finally that he may plead, appeal and 
obtain judgments for the purpose of ejectments, if any person or 
persons, whatever, has appropriated the said property, in a word to 
make all contracts of sale and to invest the purchaser or purchasers 
with full property rights in the name of the said constituter and to 
receive the money from the product of the sales and to give receipts 
therefor or to pass all acts to the profit of the purchasers; the said 
constituter promises to sanction all which the said constituted attor- 
ney shall do ; and gives him power to constitute one or more attorneys 
without the need of ratification on the part of the said constituter; 
and he wishes that the present be valid until express revocation 
without regard to the time which may elapse; for thus promising 
etc. binding, etc. willing, etc. notwithstanding etc. Made and 
passed at Montreal in the office of the undersigned, the year 1785, 
the nineteenth of May before noon. These presents were delivered 
in brevet and the said M. constituter signed these presents with 
the notaries, after reading was made according to the ordinance. 
Signed, V. Jautard, Foucher, Fr. Le Guay, notaries. And 
below is written — We, René Ovide Hertel Esquire, Seigneur de 
Rouville, one of judges of His Majesty in his Court of Common 
Pleas, district of Montreal, province of Quebec etc. etc. certify to 
all whom it may concern that MM. Le Guay and Antoine Foucher, 



5o8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

(46. 1787.) 

Sont notaires En cette province que foy doit être ajoutée aux 
actes quils passent tant en jugements que hors Certifions En outre 
que le papier timbré nest point En usage dans cette dite province 
En foy de quoy nous avons signé ces présentes et a icelles aposé 
le seau de nos armes ordinaires donné a Montreal En notre hotel 
le 19 May 1785 signé hertel de Rouville 

Et plus Bas est Ecrit, je Soussigné augustin dubuque je trans- 
porte la présente procuration a M^ jean dumoulin Négociant 
pour lexercer Et la faire valoir En tous son contenu, de même et 
ainsy que jaurois pu faire le metant et transmetant En mon lieu 
Et place aux Cahos le dix sept Novembre mil sept cent quatre 
vingt Cinq, signé A. Dubuc. 

Et a linstant ladite procuration a Eté délivrée par moy gref- 
fier soussigné aud^ s^ augustin Dubuc lesd* jour Et an. 

Aug, Dubuque Labuxiere 

aujourdhuy vingt quatre avril mil sept Cent quatre vingt Sept 
est comparu au greffe de la jurisdiction des Cahos aux ilinois M' 
huges buvard porteur des pieces Suivantes lequel En a requis 
Lenregistrement Suivant Et transcrit sur le present registres lui 
même atendu que le greffier nentend pas la langue anglaise ainsy 
quil Suit 

Know all men by these presents that I John Askin of Detroit 
Merchant have made ordain'd Constituted & appointed & by these 
presents do make ordain constitute & appoint in my place & 
stead put & depute M*" Hugh Heward of Detroit aforesaid my 
true & lawful attorney for me & in my Name & for my Use to 
ask Demand recover & receive of & from any person or persons 
indebted to me or any of my former Copartnerships. — giving & 
granting to my said attorney my sole & fuU power & authority to 
take pursue & follow such legal Courses for the Recovery receiv- 
ing & obtaining of the same as I myself might or could do were 
I personally present & upon receipt of the same Acquittances & 

(47, 1787) 
other sufficient Discharges for me & in my Name to sign Seal & 

deliver as also one or more Attorney or Attomies under him to 



CLERK^S RECORD, APRIL, 1787 509 

who have signed and delivered these presents, are notaries in this 
province and that faith should be given to instruments which 
they draw up as well in judgments as elsewhere. We certify, 
furthermore, that the stamped paper is not in use in this province. 
In faith of which we have signed these presents and have thereon 
placed the seal of our customary coat of arms. Given at Montreal 
in our mansion, May 19, 1785. Signed, Hertel de Rouville. 

And below is written : I, the undersigned Augustin Dubuque, 
transfer the present power of attorney to M. Jean Dumoulin, 
merchant, to carry out and put into effect in all its contents even 
as I could have done, using and transmitting it in my place. At 
Cahokia November 17, 1785. Signed A. Dubuque. 

And now the said power of attorney has been delivered by me, 
the undersigned notary, to the said M. Dubuque the said day 
and year. 

Aug. Dubuque Labuxiere. 

To-day, the twenty-fourth of April, 1787, there appeared at 
the oflSce of the jurisdiction of Cahokia in the Illinois M. Hugh 
Heward, bearer of the following documents and he has required 
the registry thereof and has transcribed them in the present 
register himself, since the clerk does not understand the English 
language, as follows: 

I St piece. 

Know all men by these presents that I, John Askins of Detroit, 
merchant, have made, ordained, constituted and appointed and 
by these presents do make, ordain, constitute and appoint and in 
my place and stead put and depute Mr. Hugh Heward of Detroit 
aforesaid my true and lawful attorney for me and in my name and 
for my use to ask, demand, recover and receive of and from any 
person or persons indebted to me or any of my former co-partners; 
giving and granting to my said attorney my sole and full power 
and authority to take, pursue and follow such legal courses for 
the recovery, receiving and obtaining of the same as I myself 
might or could do, were I personally present; and upon receipt 
of the same, acquittances and other sufficient discharges for me 
and in my name to sign, seal and deliver; as also one or more 



5IO ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

substitute or appoint & again at his pleasure to revoke & further 
to do & perform & execute for me & in my Name all singular 
Thing or Things which shall or may be necessary touching & 
concerning the premises as fully & entirely as I the said John 
Askin ought or could do in & about the same or as if more especial 
authority was required than is herein given — ratifying allowing 
& confirming whatever my said Attorney shall lawfully do or 
cause to be done in & about the Premises by virtue of these 
presents. 

In witness whereof I have hereimto set my Hand & Seal the 
fifteenth Day of November in the year One Thousand Seven 
Hundred & Eighty Six. 

(signed) John Askin 
Signed Sealed & delivered in presence of 

John McCaslan Witness Et a linstant Loriginal 

William Park Remis a M^ hugues huvard 

Hugh Heward Labuxiere 

2nd. 
Know all men by these presents that we John Askin George 
Leith & Angus Mackintosh of Detroit & Directors of the 
Miamis Company for ourselves & in behalf of the said Company 
have made ordained Constituted & appointed & by these Pres- 
ents do make ordain constitute & appoint & in our place & 
Stead put & depute M*" Hugh Heward of Detroit aforesaid our 
true & lawful Attorney for us & in behalf of the said Company 
in our names & for our use to Demand recover or receive of 
& from any person or persons indebted to the said Company 

(48. 1787) 
Giving & granting to our said Attorney our sole & full power & 

authority to take pursue & follow such legal Courses for the 

Recovery receiving & obtaining of the same as we ourselves might 

or could do were we personally present. And upon the Receipt 

of the same Acquittances & other sufficient Discharges for us & in 

our Names to sign Seal & deliver as also one or more Attorney or 

Attomies under him to substitute or appoint & again at his 

pleasure to revoke ; & further to do & perform & execute for us 



CLERK»S RECORD, APRIL, 1787 511 

attorney or attorneys under him to substitute or appoint and again 
at his pleasure to revoke; and further to do and perform and exe- 
cute for me and in my name all singular thing or things which 
shall or may be necessary touching and concerning the premises 
as fully and entirely as I, the said John Askin, ought or could 
do in and about the same or as if more special authority was 
required than is herein given ; ratifying, allowing and confirming 
whatever my said attorney shall lawfidly do or cause to be done 
in and about the premises by virtue of these presents. 

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal, this 
fifteenth day of November, in the year one thousand seven hundred 
and eighty-six. Signed John Askin. 

Signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of John McCaslan, 
witness William Park. 

And now the original was returned to M. Hugh Reward. 
Hugh He ward. Labuxiere. 

2nd. 

Know all men by these presents that we, John Askin, George 
Leith and Angus Mackintosh of Detroit and directors of the 
Miamis Company, for ourselves and in behalf of the said company 
have made, ordained, constituted and appointed and by these 
presents do make, ordain, constitute and appoint, and in our 
place and stead put and depute Mr. Hugh Heward of Detroit, 
aforesaid, our true and lawful attorney for us and in behalf of 
the said company, in our names and for our use, to ask, demand, 
recover or receive of and from any person or persons indebted 
to the said company; giving and granting to our said attorney 
our sole and full power and authority to take, pursue and follow 
such legal courses for the recovery, receiving and obtaining of 
the same as we ourselves might or could do, were we personally 
present; and upon receipt of the same, acquittances and other 
sufl&cient discharges for us and in our names to sign, seal and 
deliver; as also one or more attorneys under him to substitute 
or appoint and again at his pleasure to revoke ; and further to do 
and perform and execute for us and in our names all singular 
thing or things which shall or may be necessary, touching or 



512 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

& in our Names ail singular Thing or Things which shall or may 
be necessary touching or concerning the premises as fully & 
entirely as we the said Directors ought or could do in & about 
the same or as if more especial Authority was required than is 
herein given. Ratifying allowing & confirming whatever our 
said Attorney shall lawfully do or cause to be done in & about the 
premises by Virtue of these Presents. 

In Witness whereof we the said Directors in behalf of the said 
Company have hereunto set Hands & Seals the Twentieth Day 
of November in the Year One Thousand Seven Himdred & 
Eighty Six. 

(signed) John Askin 
Signed Sealed & delivered In presence Angus Mackintosh 
of John McCaslan Witness George Leith 

Mont [illegible] Trimble a Linstant remis a M' hugues 

huvard 
Hugh He ward. Labuxiere. 

Monsieur 

comme vous Nignorés pas que je suis Charge par ordre de 
notre Cour de la succession de deffunt M*" augustin dubuque, 

(4Q, 1788) 

VOUS avez En main une négresse Et Son Enfant a luy app** je 
vous suplie de la remetre avec son Enfant a M*" aRondel avec qui 
je me suis arrangé pour la Conduire aux Cahos lieu auquel 
Elle doit Etre vendue pour le compte de la Sucession ce faisant la 
présente Lettre que je vous Envoy par M*" aRundel vous servira 
dample décharge par son reçu de ladite negrese Et son Enfant 
que vous ferés metre au bas de la présente Crainte de tous perils 
Et Evénements a votre décharge 

jay Ecrit au mois Novembre dernier par le détroit Et Rivierre 
des ilinois a mad® votre soeur Et luy marque de vous Envoyer 
Sa procuration, ou a tout autre quelle voudra Choisir, si contre 
mon atcnte on me refusoit la Négresse Et son Enfant je vous 
préviens que je la laisse sur les Risques perils Et fortunes de qui 

1 John Askins was a merchant and fur-trader of Sandwich township, Ontario. He was 
serving a^s commissary at Michillimackinac in 1774. Later he served in the British army and 
was retired in 181 2. He married into one of the old French families of Detroit. — liick. 



CLERK'S RECORD, APRIL, 1787 513 

concerning the premises as fully and entirely as we, the said 
directors, ought or could do in or about the same or as if more 
special authority was required than is herein given; ratifying, 
allowing and confirming whatever our said attorney shall lawfully 
do or cause to be done in and about the premises by virtue of these 
presents. 

In witness whereof we, the said directors, in behalf of the said 
company have hereunto set our hands and seals, the twentieth 
day of November, in the year one thousand seven hundred and 
eighty six. 

Signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of John Mc- 
Caslan, witness. (Signed) John Askin.* 

yiont[leUcrs illegible] Trimble. Angus Mackintosh. 

George Leith. 
Now it was returned to M. 
Hugh Heward. Hugh Heward. 

Labuxiere. 

Sir: — 

As you are not ignorant that I am intrusted by order of 
the Court with the estate of the deceased M. Augustin Dubuque 
and you have in your possession a negress and her child belonging 
to him, I pray you to deliver her with her child to M. Arundel, 
with whom I have made arrangements to conduct her to Cahokia, 
where she is to be sold for the account of the estate. By doing 
this the present letter, which I am sending you, will serve you for 
a full discharge, through the receipt for the said negress and her 
child which you will cause to be written at the bottom of the pres- 
ent tor fear of all perils and emergencies in regard to your dis- 
charge. 

I have written in the month of November last via Detroit and 
the Illinois river to Madame your sister and instructed her to 
send to you her power of attorney or to any other whom she 
wishes to choose. If, contrary to my expectations, the negress 
and her child are refused me, I warn you that I leave her at 

Pionrer and Hist. Col., xxv.. 606. The Burton library of Detroit, Mich., contains many of 
his papers. — Thwaites, Descripiivt List of MSS. CoUectùms, 124. 



514 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

il apartiendra me reservant En ce Cas de faire mes poursuites 
pour et au profit de la Sucession contre qui javiseroy Bon 
Etre, cy joint la lettre original a nous Ecritte au sujet par M*" 
Cruzat. 

Si jay diffère a la faire transferer icy Le mauvais tems et les 
glaces En son Causes Et Sur ce que vous maviez dit que vous 
Lenveriez par une ocasion sure. 

jay Ihonneur detre M*" Votre serviteur signé Labuxiere le lo 
mars 1788 a M^ Pratte Neg* a S^* genevieve. 

Lettre de M*" Cruzat Ecritte a M*" saucier présidant de La Cour. 

Mousieur 

En concequance de la lettre que vous mavez Ecritte hier jay 
passé a M^ Prate a S^* genevieve lordre de tenir a la disposition 
de votre Cour Et de livrer a Sa demande la négresse qui est Ches 
luy app*« a la sucession du feu aug^**^ dubuque persuadé que je 
suis que les Créanciers de cette Rive suivront dans cette Succession 
les même droits que les Créanciers qui sont sur la votre, jay 
Ihonneur dEtre très parfaitment M^ votre &c. &c. signé francois 
Cruzat S* Louis le 14 9*^^® 1787 a M' f*" saucier Magistrat aux 

Cahos. 

(50, 1788.) 

Testament de james moore 

aujourdhuy premier Septembre mil Sept cent quatre vingt huit 
est comparu le S^ dorciere faisant pour et au Nom du S*" Gabriel 
Ceré absent porteur du testament de james moore Lequel nous 
en a pour et au nom dud* S*" Ceré Requis Lenregistrement ainsi 
quil Suit. 

AU NOM DE DIEU AMEN moi James Moore de la Belle- 
fontaine du pays des ilinois Etant en parfaite Santé de Corp 
desprit et de mémoire je rend grace a dieu de rapeller a la mémoire 
la mortalité de mon corp Et Sachant que le Sort de tout homme 
est de mourir une fois je fais ordonne et constitue ce present mon 
testament et dernière intention cest a dire principalement et la pre- 
miere chose de toute je donne et recommande mon ame entre les 

1 Sec decree uf Court in this case, where the Spanish creditars were not given the same 
rights. ^M^ra, p. 313. 



CLERK'S RECORD, MARCH, 1788 515 

the risk, peril and fortune of him whom it shall concern, reserv- 
ing to myself, in that case, to make my suit for and to the 
profit of the estate against whom I shall think it to be right. 
Joined herewith is the original letter written us on the subject 
by M. Cruzat. 

If I have deferred having her transferred, the bad weather 
and the ice are the causes thereof and also because you said that 
you would send her at the first safe opportunity. 

I have the honor, sir, of being your servant. Signed La- 
buxiere, March 10, 1788. To M. Pratte, Merchant at Ste. 
Genevieve. 

Letter of M. Cruzat written to M. Saucier, President of the 
Court. 

Li consequence of the letter that you have written me yester- 
day, I have given to M. Pratte at Ste. Genevieve order to hold 
at the disposition of your Court and to deliver on its demand the 
negress which is at his house belonging to the estate of the late 
Augustin Dubuque, since I am persuaded that the creditors of 
this bank will enjoy the same rights in this estate as the creditors 
who are on your bank etc.* Signed François Cruzat, St. Louis, 
November 14, 1787. To François Saucier, Magistrate at Cahokia. 

Testament of James Moore. 

To-day the first of September, 1788, there appeared M. Dor- 
siere, acting for and in the name of M. Gabriel Cerré, absent, 
bearer of the testament of James Moore, and he has, for and in the 
name of the said M. Cerré, required the registry thereof, as follows: 

In the name of God, amen, I, James Moore of Bellefontaine 
of the country of the Illinois, being in perfect health of body, soul 
and memory, render thanks to God for recalling to memory the 
mortality of my body; and knowing that the lot of every man is 
to die once, I make, ordain and constitute this present my last 
will and testament: that is to say, firstly and the first of all I 
give and recommend my soul into the hands of Almighty God 
who gave it and I recommend my body to the earth to be interred 
in Christian burial and the funeral to the direction of my testa- 
mentary executors, that at the general resurrection I may receive it 



5i6 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

mains de dieu tout puissant qui la donna Et je recommande mon 
corp a la terre pour être Enterré dans la descente Chrétienne les 
funérailles a la direction de mes exécuteurs testamentaires qu'a 
la resurrection générale je ne le reçoive Encore par le pouvoir 
Supreme de dieu Et quand aux biens terestres quil a plu a dieu 
de me donner dans cette vie je donne me démet et dispose desdits 
Biens de la manière ef forme Suivante. 

Premièrement je donne et lègue a Catherine Moore ma femme 
Bien aimé le tier de tous mes Biens tant meubles qu'immeubles 
après que mes debtes Seront tous legitement payées cest mon in- 
tention que je veux qu'on execute pendant Son veuvage quant 
aux Nègres Bingo et judik cest mon intention quils retournent 
a M*" Tobias Barshares Si il veut les reprendre Et Sen rendre 
responsable a la Sucession de jean allison Si non les dits nègres 
Seront vendus a lEncan ou vendus particulièrement Si les Exé- 
cuteurs testamentaires le jugent plus Convenables et leur pris 
assuré a lusage de la Sucession de feu jean allison: tant qua toutes 
les terres que je possède actuelement cest mon intention quelles 
Soient Egalement devisee Entre mes Cinq fils, Excepté que mon 
fils William aura deux parts, les terres défrichées Seront partagées 
aussi Bien que les terres En Bois Et En pagées a la discretion 
des exécuteurs Si après mentionnés, je donne Egalement a Mon 
fils William le Cheval apellé Pasbai, Et im livre ap>ellé ou inti- 

(51. 1788.) 
tuté trajedies de tivay Et le premier volume du Spectateur, Et 

a mon fils jean le compagnon du jeune homme, et pour mon fils 
James les oeuvres dabraham courley Et a Henoch le Septième 
volume du Spectateur Et a Milton le paradis perdu de tniUon 
Et les oeuvres de M*" Sauvage intitulé le vagabond; Et a ma fille 
marie le premier volume des oeuvres de Shakespear, avec une 
partie Egale de tous mes Biens meubles, et tous le restant de livres 
Sera Egalement partagé Entre tous. Et mon fils Wiliam aura mon 
violon, jordonne Et constitué pareillement Gabriel Cerré Shad- 
rick Bonde Et Thomas Biggs d'Etre mes Exécuteurs de ce pres- 
ent testament Et mes dernières volontés, a qui je recommande de 

' Il would have been a simple matter for the French clerk to have read for tPotwoy the 
de tivay of the text. Courley is certainly Cowley. 



CLERK'S RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1788 517 

again by the supreme power of God; and as to the temporal 
goods, which it has pleased God to give me in this life, I give, 
devise and dispose of the said goods in the manner and form 
following : 

Firstly, I give and bequeath to Catherine Moore, my well 
beloved wife, the third of all my property both personal and real, 
after my debts shall be all legitimately paid; it is my intent which 
I wish to be executed during her widowhood. As to the negroes 
Bingo and Judik, it is my intent that they return to M. Tobias 
Barshares, if he is willing to take them back and to hold himself 
responsible therefor to the estate of John Allison ; if not, the said 
negroes shall be sold at auction or sold at private sale, if the testa- 
mentary executors judge it best, and their price assured to the 
use of the estate of the late John Allison ; as to all the lands, which 
I possess at the present time, it is my intent that they be equally 
divided between my sons except that my son, William, shall have 
two parts. The cleared lands shall be divided as well as those in 
woods and in farm-yard at the discretion of the executors here- 
after mentioned. I give equally to my son, William, the horse 
called Pasbai and a book called or entitled " Tragedies of Otway "* 
and the first volume of the **Spectator"; and to my son, John, 
" The Companion of the Young Man" ; and to my son, James, the 
works of Abraham Cowley; and to Henoch, the seventh volume 
of the ** Spectator" ; and to Milton, " The Paradise Lost" of Milton 
and the works of M. Savage entitled "The Vagabond"; and to 
my daughter Mary, the first volume of the works of Shakespeare 
with an equal part of all my personal goods; and all the remaining 
books shall be equally divided among all; my son, William, shall 
have my violin. I ordain and constitute likewise Gabriel 
Cerré, Shadrach Bond and Thomas Biggs to be my executors 
of this present last will and testament, to whom I recommend 
that they leave all my property in the hands of my wife during 
her widowhood until the boys are of age; and that at that time 
each of them, as they come of age, withdraw his share; but if 
there appears to the testamentary executors that there is the 
least appearance of waste in the property, it is my intent that 



5i8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

laisser tous les Biens entre les mains de ma femme pendant Son 
veuvage jusqua ce que les garçons Soient en age et pour lors 
chacun d'eux a mesure quils viendront En age tireront leur part 
mais SMl paroit aux Exécuteurs testementaires qu'il y ait la moin- 
dre aparance de degat dans les Biens, cest mon intention quil le 
prenne entre leurs mains et le place au plus avantageux pour le 
Benefice des Enfans Et par le present je desaprouve, révoque 
et Ennuie tous les autres testaments antérieurs a celui ci ainsi 
que les Exécuteurs par moi nommés ci devant dans mes pré- 
cédants legs et intentions, je rattifie Et confirme ce present, et 
aucun autre pour être mon testament et mes dernières intentions, 
En concequance de quoy jy ay posé ma Signature Et mon cachet 
ce trente unième jour de May, Lan de notre Seigneur mil Sept 
cent quatre vingt sept signé James Moore j cachet l signé Cacheté 
Lu prononcé et déclaré par led* James moore comme Son testament 
Et Ses dernières intentions en presence de nous qui en sa presence 
Et en presence de chacun de Nous avons Signé nos Noms ci des- 
sous Signé Michel Huff — John Slaughter -f Sa marque — frs. 
Clark — et plus Bas est Ecrit je certiflûe la présente traduction 
Conforme a la original Signé L Dorsiere 

Enregistré conforme a la traduction par moy N'« Publique 
Soussigné. 

Labuxiere N*"^ P. 

aujourdhuy troisième jour de Septembre mil Sept cent quatre 
vingt huit est comparu au greffe et Notaria du poste des cahos 
aux ilinois le S*" jean B*® Dumay habitant dud* lieu porteur de 
Son contract de mariage avec félicité Peltier Son Epouze passé 
devant M^ Labuxiere N^* aud* lieu des cahos En datte du dix* 
jour de juin mil Sept cent quatre vingt Six par lequel il apert la 
donnation que led* Comparant a fait de tous Ses Biens meubles 
Et immeubles quil laissera au jour Et heure de Son trépas a ladite 
félicité Peltier, la dite donnation portée Sur Son Contract de 
mariage contenant ce qui Suit. Et ledit futur Epoux pour donner 
des preuves dune veritable affection a ladite fut\u*e Epouse et luy 
marquer qu'il veut Bien Servir d'un veritable père a Ses Enfans 
ayant accepté leur tutelle p^ veiller a leurs interest et les aider de 



CLERK'S RECORD, SEPTEMBER, 1788 519 

they take it in their hands and place it to the best advantage 
for the interest of the children. And by the present I disapprove, 
revoke and annul aU other testaments previous to this as well as 
the executors named by me herebefore in my previous wills and 
testaments. I ratify and confirm this present and no other to 
be my last will and testament; in consequence of which I have set 
thereon my signatiu^ and my seal, this thirty-first day of May in 
the year of our Lord 1787. Signed James Moore \^\ Signed, 
sealed, read, pronounced and declared by the said James Moore to 
be his last will and testament in his presence and in the presence 
of us, who, in his presence and in the presence of each of us, have 
signed our names hereunder. Signed Michel Huff, John Slaugh- 
ter + his mark, Francis Clark. And below is written, I certify 
that the present translation conforms to the original. Signed, L. 
Dorsiere. 

Registered, according to the translation, by me, the undersigned 

notary public. 

Labuxiere, N. P. 



To-day, the third day of September, 1788, there appeared 
at the office and notariat of the post of Cahokia in the Illinois, 
M. Jean Bte. Dumay, inhabitant of the said place, bearer of his 
contract of marriage with Félicité Pelletier, his wife, passed before 
M. Labuxiere, notary, in the said place of Cahokia under date 
of the tenth day of June, 1786, in which there appears the donation 
which the said appearer has made of all his property, personal and 
real, which he shall leave on the day and hour of his death, to the 
said Félicité Pelletier. The said donation is contained in his con- 
tract of marriage and is as follows: And the said future husband, 
in order to give proofs of a veritable affection to the said future 
wife and to show her that he wishes to serve as a true father to her 
children, the guardianship of whom he has accepted, to watch over 



Sao ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Ses avis Et conseil Et marquer 4 la future Epouse une veritable 
amitié, il luy a fait a Elle Seule donnation pure Simple Entre vif 
Et a jamais irrevocable En la meilleure forme que donnation 
puisse valoir de tous les Biens meubles et immeubles quil lais- 
sera au jour et heure de Son trépas En cas quil decedde Sans En- 
fans avant la dite future épouse Et même de ladite somme de dix 
mille Sept cent quatre livres portée En Linvantaire dud^ dumay 
pour en jouir disposer et apartenir a ladite future Epouse Sans 
retour comme de Chose a Elle apartenante de plain luy en don- 
nant toute propriété Sans que personne y puisse prétendre au- 
cunne Chose, comme un bien quil a acquis et gagné par ces pén- 
ibles travaux dont ladite future Epouse Sera libre de disposer a 
sa mort En faveur de qui Bon lui semblera Sans que les Enfans 
dud^ picart Son premier mary Et dElle puisse prétendre aucunne 
chose que ce quelle voudra Bien leur donner cette présente don- 
nation ainsi faite toutes fois au Cas quil ny ait aucunes enfans 
vivants nez ni a naitre dud^ futur mariage dud^ dumay et de la- 
dite future Epouse car au cas dEnfant ladite donnation Sera nule 
de plain droit et Sans difficulté &c. Ce requérant led* jean B*® 
dumay insinuation de la dite donnation, Nous lavons insinué 
et enregistré Sur les registres de cette jurisdiction après en avoir 
fait lecture, pour servir Et valoir ce que de raison a la dite felictié 
pel tier, et a ledit dumay fait sa marque ord^® ne sachant signer 
lesd* jour et an 

marque -I- de Labuxiere 

Jean B*« dumay 



aujourdhuy vingt quatre mars mil sept Cent quatre vingt neuf 
est comparu jean marie dorion tuteur de la mineure lamarche 
demeurant aux Cahos lequel nous a requis enregistrement du 
billet cy après. 

Je Joseph Robidoub Soussigné declare devoir Et promet payer 
dans le courant du mois doctobre de lannée mil sept cent quatre 
vingt dix a lordre de M*" jean marie dorion la Sonune de 
sept Cent piastres En Bon courant ou la valeur en pelterie de 



CLERK'S RECORD, MARCH, 1789 521 

their interests and to aid them with his counsel, and to show the 
future wife a true affection, has made to her alone a true and 
simple donation inter vivos and irrevocable, in the best form that 
donation can be made valid, of all the personal and real property 
which he shall leave on the day and hour of his death, in case that 
he dies without children before the said future wife, and also of 
the said sum of ten thousand geven hundred livres contained in 
the inventory of the said Dumay, to enjoy, dispose of and to 
belong to the said future wife without requital as a thing belong- 
ing to her, and he gives it to her in full proprietorship so that no 
person can make any pretense thereto, as it is property which he 
has acquired by his labor, of which the said future wife shall be 
free to dispose at her death in favour of whom it seems best to 
her, and so that the chQdren of the said Picart, her first husband, 
and of herself can make claim to nothing except what she shall 
be willing to give them. This present donation is so made, 
however, in case only that there are no living children bom or to be 
bom of the said future marriage of the said Dumay and the said 
future wife. In case of a child the said donation shall be null in 
full right and without diflSculty etc. The said Jean Bte. Dumay 
requiring the registration of the said donation, we have inscribed 
and registered it on the records of this magistracy, after having 
made a reading thereof, that it may be of use and validity to the 
said Félicité Pelletier, of which this act will testify. And the said 
Dumay has made his mark, not knowing how to sign, the said day 
and year. 

Mark + of Labuxiere. 

Jean Bte. Dumay. 

To-day, the twenty-fourth of March, 1789, there appeared 
Jean Marie Dorion, guardian of the minors Lamarche, dwelling 
at Cahokia, who has required of us the registration of the follow- 
ing note: 

I, the undersigned Joseph Robidou, declare that I owe and 
promise to pay in the course of the month of October of the year, 
1790, to the order of M. Jean Marie Dorion the sum of seven hun- 
dred piastres in current ham, or the value in peltries of receipt at 



522 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

(sa, 1789.) 

Recette au prix Courant de Lecheance pour un Nègre quil ma 
vendue Nommé Minan âgé dEnviron trente Cinq ans provenant 
de la Sucession de feu Buet Et pour plus grande Sûreté du S*" 
dorion. je Soussigné auguste Chouteaud me rend garant Et caution 
de la Susdite Somme de Sept cent piastres Et m'oblige la payer 
conmie En faisant ma propre affaire Et debte comme principal 
débiteur a S* Louis le vingt Mars mil Sept cent quatre vingt neuf, 
signé J H Roubidoub. p*". caution aug*® Chouteau. 700 Piastres. 

Et a 1 instant remis led^ Billet En original aud^ S^ jean marie 
dorion qui a déclaré ne savoir signer et a fait sa marque ord^*^. 

marque de -h Jean Marie dorion Labuxiere greffier 

W Arundel témoin 

Kjiow au Men by these presents that we Ekiward William Gray 
Esquire William Goodall, John Lilly, Peter Bouthiellier, and 
Robert Cruickshanks merchants executers of the last will and 
Testiment of William Kay late of Montreal in the district of 
Montreal, in the Province of Quebec merchant deceased Have 
made Ordained, authorized, constituted and appointed and by 
these presents DO make Ordain, authorize, constitute and appoint 
Josiah Bleakley late of michelrmakinac, but now of Montreal 
aforesaid merchant, Our true and Lawful attorney, for us, and in 
our name or (otherwise) and to and for our use as Executors as 
aforesaid, to ask demand sue for recover and receive of and from 
all and every person or persons whatsoever whom it doth, shall 
or may concern, and particularly of and from David McCrai, 
David McCrai and Co, Pierre antoine Tabeau, Jean Baptiste 
morelle, James Aaron Holt, and Charles Gratiot at michel- 
makinac or elsewhere in the upper Country, all such sum and 
Sums of money Debts Dues and Demands whatsoever, as are due, 
owing payable or belonging to the said William Kay at the time of 
his Decease, and now are or hereafter may become due, owing, 
payable or belonging to as the Executors of his said last Will and 
Testament, for or by reason of any cause, matter or thing what- 
soever and to compound and agree to take less than the whole for 



CLERK'S RECORD, OCTOBER, 1789 523 

the current price at maturity, for a negro, which he has sold 
me, named Minan, aged about thirty-five years, coming from 
the estate of the late Buyat; and for greater security of M. Dorion, 
I, the undersigned Auguste Chouteau, hold myself as guarantor 
and surety of the aforesaid sum of seven hundred piastres and 
pledge myself to pay it as if it was my own business and debt as 
principal debtor. At St. Louis, the twentieth of March, 1789. 
Signed, J. H. Robidou. For surety, Auguste Chouteau, 700 
piastres. 

And now the said note in original was returned to the said 
M. Jean Marie Dorion, who has declared that he did not know 
how to sign and has made his mark. 

Mark of -|- Jean Marie Dorion. Labuxiere, Clerk. 

W. Arundel, witness. 

Know all men by these presents that we, Edward William Gray 
Esquire, WQliam Goodall, John Lilly, Peter Bouthiellier and 
Robert Cruickshanks, merchants, executors of the last will and 
testament of WiUiam Kay, late of Montreal in the district of 
Montreal in the province of Quebec, merchant deceased, have 
made, ordained, authorized, constituted and appointed and by 
these presents do make, ordain, authorize, constitute and appoint 
Josiah Bleakley, late of Michillimakinac but now of Montreal 
aforesaid, merchant, our true and lawful attorney, for us and in 
our name or (otherwise) and to and for our use, as executors as 
aforesaid, to ask, demand, sue for, recover and receive of and from 
all and every person of persons whatsoever whom it doth, shall or 
may concern, and particularly of and from David McCrae, David 
McCrae and Co, Pierre Antoine Tabeau, Jean Baptiste Morelle; 
James Aaron Holt and Charles Gratiot at MichiDimakinac or 
elsewhere in the upper country, all such sum and sums of money, 
debts, dues and demands whatsoever, as are due, owing, payable 
or belonging to the said William Kay at the time of his decease, 
and now are or herafter may become due, owing, payable or 
belonging to as the executors of his said last will and testament, 
for or by reason of any cause, matter or thing whatsoever and to 
compound and agree to take less than the whole for all or any of 



524 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

all or any of the debts or Demands aforesaid, where the whole in 
all appearance cannot be got, And upon payment, recovery or 
receipt thereof or of any part or parts thereof. Acquittances, or 
other Good and suflScient discharges in the Law for the same, for 
us and in our names as Executors as aforesaid accordingly to make, 
Seal and deliver, and Generally to do, transact, manage and 
perform all other matters and things any wise relating to the 
premises in such manner as to our said attorney shall appear most 
advisable and Expedient as fully amply and effectuaUy in all 
respects as if the most special powers were to our Said Attorney 
for the purposes aforesaid by us given, or as we ourselves might 
or could do personally, AND an Attorney or Attomies under him 
for the purposes aforesaid, with the like or more limited powers, 
to make and at his pleasure to revoke. 

HEREBY allowing ratifying and confirming all and what- 
soever our said Attomev or his Substitute or Substitutes shall 
Lawfully do or cause to be done in or about the Premises by Virtue 
of these Presents IN WITNESS whereof we have hereunto sett 
our hands & Seals the twenty fifth day of April in the Year of Our 
Lord One thousand Seven Hundred & Eighty Eight. 
Signed Seal'd and Edw<^ Wm Gray [ls] 

delivered in the presence of W Goodall [ls] 

J° BouthiUier John Lilly [ls] 

Sami Genard P BouthiUier [ls] 

R Cruickshank [ls] 

Lequel Enregistrement a Eté fait a la requisition du M*" Charles 
Grassiot conforme a loriginal Et transcrit par me jean dumoulin 
Neg^ au deffaud par moy N*"® d'Entendre la langue Englaise 
aux Cahos le 28 S^*"* 1788 

Ch Gratiot 
J° Dumoulin 
Josiah Bleakley 



CLERK'S RECORD, OCTOBER, 1788 525 

the debts or demands aforesaid, where the whole in all appearance 
cannot be got; and upon payment, recovery or receipt thereof 
or of any part or parts thereof, acquittances or other good and suf- 
ficient discharges in the law for the same, for us and in our names 
as executors as aforesaid, accordingly to make, seal and deliver 
and generally to do, transact, manage and perform all other matters 
and things an3n¥ise relating to the premises in such manner as 
to our said attorney shall appear most advisable and expedient 
as fully, amply and effectually in all respects as if the most special 
powers were to our said attorney for the purposes aforesaid by us 
given, or as we ourselves might or could do personally; and an 
attorney or attorneys under him for the purposes aforesaid, with the 
like or more limited powers, to make and at his pleasure to re- 
voke. 

Hereby allowing, ratifying and confirming all and whatsoever 
our said attorney, or his substitute or substitutes shall lawfully 
do or cause to be done in or about the premises by virtue of these 
presents. In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands and 
seals the twenty-fifth day of April in the year of the Lord, one 
thousand seven hundred and eighty-eight. 

Signed, sealed and Edw. Wm. Gray [LS] 

delivered in the presence of Wm. Goodell [LS] 

Jn. Bouthiellier Jonne Lilly [LS] 

Samuel Genard. P. Bouthiellier [LS] 

R. Cruickshank [LS] 

This registry was made on the requisition of M. Charles Gra- 
tiot and conforms to the original and was transcribed by me, 
Jean Dumoulin, merchant, in default of a knowledge of the 
English language by me, notary, at Cahokia, October 28, 1788. 

Ch. Gratiot. 
Jean Dumoulin. 
Josiah Bleakley. 



CAHOKIA DOCUMENTS. 

French 

Gratiot to G. R. Clark, February 3, 1779. 
Monsieur 

Je suis au desespoir que mes affaires icy soyent dans le cas de 
me priver de me joindre avec nos jeunes gens, pour vous prouver 
le désir que j^aurois en toute occasion de vous témoigner mon 
attachem^ et mon Zèle en tout ce qui vous regarde, et vous as- 
surer en même tems de Taffection que vous vous ete sy dignement 
acquise de tous les citoyens de ce Village, dont je me flatte que 
dans toute les occasions vous les verres U\é et dévoué entière- 
ment a tout ce qui conserne les Interest de la Cause dont vous 
êtes le deffenseur dans ce pays. Pour ce qui me regarde, comme 
je suis dans la triste Nécessité de rester, cy je puis vous être icy 
de quelques utilité, j'espère que vous n*epargnerés pas dans 
auqu'une occasion celui qui est pour la vie 

Votre très humble & Dévoué 

Serviteur Ch Gratiot 

NB: Mes respect s'il vous plait le Cap** Bowman 

et tous vos officers vous obligere infiniment C G*. 

Aux Cahos le 3^ Février 1779 

[On the reiferse] Jespere qu'au Retour de votre Campagne 
nous aurons le plaisir de vous voir en notre Village, et que vous 
viendrés avec vos Messieurs nous aider a boire Notre Vin, dont 
je crains bien que cy vous tardis longtems il ne Surisse de telle 
manière quil n'y ast plus moyen den boire. 

* The following documents corne from scwral archives. This collection does not con- 



tain all the stray papers from Cahokia of the period, but it does contain all the important 
'ments, hitherto unprinted. Several dociiments from the Dr. MSS. were puolished 



known docin 



by F. J. Tumor in Am^. Hist. Rev., viii., 491 ct seq. Other papers haw been printed by 
M. I. J. Griffm in Amer. Cath. Hist Researches, New Series, ii., 3. The classification into 
French and English documents was necessitated by the composition of the book. 



526 



CAHOKIA DOCUMENTS.» 

FRENCH. 

Gratiot to G. R. Clark, February 3, 1779.' 
Sir: 

I am in despair because my affairs here are in such condition 
that they prevent me from joining with our yoimg men, in order to 
prove to you the desire which I have of testifying to you on every 
occasion my attachment and zeal in all that concerns you, and to 
assure you at the same time of the affection, which you have so 
worthily earned from all the citizens of this village, whom, I flat- 
ter myself, you will see on all occasions zealous for and entirely 
devoted to everything which concerns the interest of the cause, of 
which you are the defender in this country. As far as I am con- 
cerned, since I am under the sad necessity of remaining behind, 
if I can be of any use here, I hope that you will not spare, on any 
occasion, him who is for life 

your very humble and devoted servant, 

Charles Gratiot. 

N. B. My respects, please, to Captain Bowman and all your 
ofl&cers and you will oblige infinitely 

C. Gratiot. 
At Cahokia, February 3, 1779. 

[On the reverse] I hope that on the return from your cam{)aign 
we shall have the pleasure of seeing you in our village and that you 
will come with your gentlemen to aid us in drinking our wine, but 
I fear that if you delay a long time, it will come about that there 
will be no longer means of drinking any. 

> Dr. MSS., 49j3i original manuscript. The letter was written to Claris at the time he 
was preparing to set out for Vincennes. Dr. Louise Phelps Kellogg kindly collated the i»xx>f 
of all the documents from the Draper MSS., printed in this volume, with the originals. 



527 



528 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

McCarty to his Wife, April 28, 1779. 
Ma chere femme Voila la dernière foy que je vous écrit cet 
anné un des postes de St. Martin et celuy par votre frère laid &c. 
depuis quelque tems je necesse de rêver de vous et ma chere fille 
je vouderette a dieu que vous pouvroient être ici, je craigne fort 
pour eux et vous tacher ma chere femme de venir avec quelqu'un 
me rejoindre ici avec eux est il possible ma chere que vous ne 
pouvroit point trouver quelqu'un Voila Mad. la Captitaine Mc- 
Durald souhait que vous estoit ici pour me voire en ma habit 
d'ordonnance Je suis Capitaine dans la Bataillon des Islnois et 
aide de Camp du Commandant en chef du department ouest. 
Voila vous me dira bien de avancement subite mais il est vray; 
je cherche dans cet temps de trouble de affixer un Bien être pour 
nos Enfants et je ne peut le faire pour nous, mais cy vous estoit 
rie vous seray bien en cas de ma mort. Votre pention est assure 
en s'adressant a l'Etat ou Republique de Virginie. Mon Moulin 
en mon absence par la grand Abbat de pluie est encore partes 
mais mon General m'ait promis de faire camper un Regement 
dans le beau temps au moulin pour la remettre tacher donc ma 
chere femme de venir me joindre je ne doute point que vous en- 
tenderoient parler de moy car j'ai eu Bon part dans la prise de 
Gouverneur Hamilton et je me flatte que je lui ait rendu service 
dont il a eu besoin par sa meurteure qu'il faisoit commettre 
journalm^ sur les femmes et les Enfants de mes Compatriotes et 
je croy que cy le Traitteur de Mississippi me rend justice je suis 
chere a eux par le soin que je en ai prise vis a vis les sauvages &c. 
et que je prend constammnet. Chere femme tacher de me rejoin- 
dre et votre famille, vous cousine espère cela au moins cy vous 
me haissoit point je suis en espérant de vous y voire avec estime 
et respect a grand mere, mama oncle Baby & Tant & les français 
sont nos alliés. 

Votre affectioné marie 
Richard M. Carty Capne 

Islinois Bataillon 

* Can. Archives, B.. 182. p. 71, from a c»py. AH the cx>pics from the Haldimand CoUec- 
tùm printed in this volume were furnished by the Canadian Archives. 



LETTER FROM McCARTY, APRIL, 1779 529 

McCarty to His Wife, April 28, 1779.* 
My dear wife: — ^This is the last time that I shall write you this 
year, one by the posts of St. Martin and that by your brother etc' 
For some time past I have had to dream of you and my dear 
daughter. I wish to God that you might be here, since I have great 
fear for them and you. Try, my dear wife, to come with some 
one to join me here with them. Is it possible, my dear, that you 
cannot find any one ? There is Madame Captain McDurald who 
wishes that you were here to see me in my uniform of orderly. I 
am captain in the Illinois battalion and aid-de-camp of the com- 
mander in chief of the western department. There you are, you 
will tell me, very suddenly advanced ; but it is true I am seeking in 
this time of trouble to establish a fortune for our chQdren and I 
cannot do it for ourselves ; but if that be nothing to you [ ?], you 
will be well fixed in case of my death. Your pension is assured 
by sending to the State or Republic of Virginia. My mill in my 
absence has been carried away by the great downpour of rain; 
but my general has promised me that he will have a regiment en- 
camp in the spring at the mill in order to set it up again. Try 
then, my dear wife, to come and join me. No doubt you have 
heard people speak of me, for I was prominent in the capture of 
Governor Hamilton, and I flatter myself that I rendered him 
service, of which he has had need on account of the murders, 
which he has caused to be conmiitted daily on the wives and 
chQdren of my compatriots; and I believe that, if the traders 
of the Mississippi render me justice, I am dear to them on 
account of the care which I have taken against the savages etc 
and which I am taking constantly. Dear wife, try to join me and 
your famQy ; your cousin hopes it, if you do not hate me. I am 
living in hof)e of seeing you here. With esteem and respect to 
grandmother, mamma, uncle, baby and aimt; and the French are 
our allies. 

Your affectionate husband 

Richard McCarty, 
Captain Illinois Battalion. 

' The first sentence, like others in the letter, is diffioUt to interpret. 



530 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Cahos 28 avril 1779 

Addressed a Madame MacCarty Chez sa mere a Montreal. 

Endorsed: Letter from one Richard MacCarty at Cahos to 
his wife at Montreal, dated the 28th April 1779. Rec*^ the 24th 
of July. 
Inhabitants of Cahokia to G. R. Clark, April ii, 1780. 

A L'Honorable George Rogers Clark Equier 

Colonel et Commandant en Chef des troupes de l'Etat de Vir- 
ginie dans le Comté des Illinois et ses dépendances &c: &c: &c: 
Monsieur 

Dans la situation deplorable ou nous nous trouvons â present, 
nous vous députons la personne de Monsieur Charles Gratiot Tun 
de nos citoyens, pour vous représenter notre détresse, et la Calamité 
ou les Nations Sauvage de tous cotés nous Réduisent; Nous Sommes 
a la Veille d'être attaqué dans notre Village par des Partis consid- 
erable de Sauvages, et de ne pouvoir travailler a la Culture de 
nos terres cy nous N'avons de prompt Secours; C'est pourquoi nous 
prenons la liberté de nous adresser a vous, par la conûance et 
l'espérance que nous avons de votre bonté et de l'affection que 
vous nous avés toujours témoignée. Mais ce qui nous afflige le 
plus en cas que vous envoya tant icy du Monde, que nous n'eus- 
sions pas les provisions qui leur Seraint nécessaire; Monsieur 
Gratiot pouvé facilement vous instruire des facultés de notre 
village et l'avons chargé de conférer avec vous a cet effet, y ayant 
mis toute notre confiance et que vous ne travaillera de Concert 
que pour nous procurer la paix et la tranquil ité et ne cesserons 
de faire des Voeux au Ciel pour votre Conservation et prospérité. 

Nous avons l'honneur detre 

Monsieur Vos très humbles et dévoués 
Serviteurs 
Aux noms des Citoyens du village des Cahoskias le onzième d' 
Avril 1780 

Antoine Girardin F. trottier 

que beaulieu. 

mar -h de J. B. Saucier 

pierre martain J. B. H. LaCroix 

Dr. Af55., 5oJa7, original nunuscripc. 



CAHOKIANS TO CLARK, APRIL, 1780 531 

Cahokia April 28, 1779. 

Addressed, To Madame McCarty, at her mother's, Montreal. 

Endorsed: Letter from one Richard McCarty at Cahokia to 
his wife at Montreal, dated the 28th of April, 1779. Received the 
24th of July. 

Inhabitants of Cahokia to G. R. Clark, April ii, 1780.* 
To the Honorable George Rogers Clark, Esquire, Colonel and 

Commander in Chief of the troops of the State of Virginia in 

the County of the Illinois and its Dependencies etc. 
Sir: 

In the deplorable situation in which we find ourselves at present 
we are deputing to you the person of M. Charles Gratiot, one of 
our citizens, to set before you our distress and the misery to 
which the savage nations from aU sides are reducing us. We are 
on the eve of being attacked in our village by considerable parties 
of savages and will not be able to work at the cultivation of our 
fields, if we do not have prompt succor.' That is why we take 
the liberty of addressing ourselves to you on account of the confi- 
dence and hope which we have in your benevolence and affection, 
which you have always shown us; but what afflicts us the most 
is this, that in case you send us many men, we should not have 
the provisions which would be necessary for them. M. Gartiot 
can easQy inform you of the capacity of our village and we have 
charged him to confer with you for this purpose; for we have placed 
aU our confidence therein and that you will only work hand and 
hand with us to procure us peace and repose and we will not cease 
making prayers to Heaven for your preservation and prosperity. 

We have the honor of being, sir, your very humble and devoted 
servants. In the name of the citizens of Cahokia, the eleventh of 
April, 1780. 
[Signed] Antoine Girardin. F. Trottier. 

Mark + of Beaulieu. 

Pierre Martin J. B. Saucier. 

J. B. H. LaCroix. 

' The attadc was made on Cahokia and St. Louis on May 36th. The British had expected 
to surprise the inhabitants of the two villages. This shows that they were warned over a 
month before the attack. The rooet important documents giving the history of the attack 
have been published in the Missouri Hist. Soc. CotUdions^ ii., No. 6, pp. 41 «I s€q. See also 
this volume, p. 53Q. 



532 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Petition of Cadeen Lausage, July 6, 1780. 
A L'Honorable Cour du District des Cahoskias 
Messieurs : 

Cadien Lausage a Thonneur de vous représenter très respec- 
tueusement qu'ayant laissé en depot Tautonne dem''* une Cara- 
bine chez Veuve Germain Jaquet pour trois Cent livres de farrine 
que le Suppliant devoit a la ditte Dame étant sur son depart 
pour les Pays d'enhaut ou ses affaires Tappeloit, qu'en outres 
qu'il avoit laissé la ditte Carabine sur les pretentions qu'en avoit 
formé le S"" Ch^ Gratiot disant quelle avoit été prise a un sauvage 
l'autonne dern*"*^ et quil avoit ordre de la retirer. 

Mais quelle a été sa surprise lorsqu'à son retour en se village 
il a voulu aUer payer la ditte Dame Jaquet et restirer la ditte 
Carabine; elle lui a dit quelle avoit été saisie par l'ordre privée 
de Mons*" Franc* Trotié alors Juge de Police en faveur de Jos^ 
Alary pour une somme quil lui devoit le Suppliant payable a 
printems, et que les dits Sieurs Trotié et Jos^ Alarr>' l'avoit forcée 
a livrer la ditte Carabine; comme le Sertificat de la ditte Dame 
ainsi que celui de son frère le Prouve. 

Le Suppliant a l'honneur de vous représenter a cela, dexsa- 
miner attentivement c>' le Sr. Fr. Trotié était en droit en sa qual- 
ité de Juge de Police de deli\Ter une saisie de son autorité privée 
et sans celle de la cour, pour une somme pareille a celle la, puis- 
que un Juge de Paix ncpeut Juger au qu'une affaire en son par- 
ticulier passé la somme de vingt cinq sheling de la Province de la 
Virginie, qu'en outre la Suppliant s'ettant arrengé avec le Def- 
fendeur pour payer sur le Mississipy la somme quil lui devoit, 
que le deffendeur devoit chargé deffun Pajet de ses Billets qui 
devoit en recevoir le payement lequel etoit tout fort a lui li\Ter, 
mais que le deffun Pajet n'ayant pas été jus qu'a lui le Suppliant 
c'est vu dans la nécessité de garder le dit payement et de l'apporter 
avec lui lequel il est prêt a faire au Deffendeur. 

' Chi. Hist. Soc., Cah. Rec., original manuscript. Transcription by the editor. 

^ Trottier was a member of the Court at the time. I do not know whether the title of 
justice of the police was given to the jusdce holding the Court during the week or to each justice 
of the peace. Later, one member of the Court was delegated to hear causes between the 
sessions and was called president of the Court and justice of the week. See supra^ p. 55. 



PETITION TO COURT, JULY, 1780 533 

Petition of Cadien Lausage, July 6, 1780.* 
To the Honorable Court of the District of Cahokia. 
Sirs: 

Cadien Lausage has the honor of showing you very repect- 
fully that he left on deposit last autumn a rifle at the house of 
Madame Germain Jaquet, widow, as pledge for three hundred 
pounds of flour, which the petitioner owed the said lady, since he 
was about to depart for the upper country, where his business 
called him; that, furthermore, he had left the said rifle because 
of the claims which M. Charles Gratiot had made to it, aflirming 
that it had been taken from a savage last autumn and that he had 
an order to take possession of it. 

But what was his surprise, when, on his return to this village, 
he wished to go and pay the said Madame Jaquet and repossess 
himself of the said rifle, she told him that it had been seized on the 
private order of M. François Trottier, at that time judge of police,* 
in favor of Joseph Alarie for a sum which he, the petitioner, owed 
him, payable in the spring; and that the said MM. Trottier and 
Joseph Alarie had compelled her to deliver up the said rifle, as the 
certificate of the said lady and that of her brother prove. 

The petitioner has the honor to request this of you, to examine 
carefully, if M. Fr. Trottier was within his rights in issuing, in his 
capacity as judge of the police, on his private authority and with- 
out that of the Court, a writ of seizure for a sum like that, since a 
justice of the peace of the province of Virginia by himself cannot 
pass judgment in a suit for more than twenty-five shQlings; and 
to notice, also, that the petitioner had arranged with the defend- 
ant to pay the sum, which he owes him, on the Mississippi ; that 
the defendant was to have intrusted the deceased Pajet with his 
notes, who was to receive the payment for them and which was 
all ready for delivery to him; but that, the deceased Pajet not 
having come, the petitioner saw himself under the necessity of 
keeping the said payment and of carrying it with him, and this 
he is ready to make to the defendant. 

In consideration of this, sirs, that, since MM. Joseph Alarie and 
Fr. Trottier have by their private authority, and not by that of 



534 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Ce Considéré Messieurs quil vous plaise ordonner que puisque 
les S" Jos^ Alary et F" Trotié se sont cy injustement saisie de 
leurs autorité privée et sans ceUe de la Justice et que le S*" Jos'* 
Alarv s'en soit servv comme il a fait, de vouloir les condanmer 
a payer la ditte Carabine Cent Piastres gourdes qui est le prix 
quelle a coûté et les condamner a tous fraix dep>end, Dommages 
&c: tant de la procedure que dailleur et feres Droit. 

aux Cahos le 6 Juillet 1780 Pr. Cadien Lausage Ch Gratiot 

Inhabitants of Cahokia to De La Balme, Sept. 21, 1780. 

Declaration au nom des Habitants du Village de Cahokias 
aux Islinois addressee au Mons. Motin de la Balme pensionnaire 
du Roi de france et Colonel françois &ca &c &ce 
Monsieur 

Nous soussignés Habitants des Cahokias très [)ersuadé de 
Televation de vos sentiments pour nous joint a cela le Haut rang 
que vous tenez dans le monde dont nous ne pouvons plus douter, 
et plus encor les lustre nom de françois que vous porté et dont 
vous vous faites honneur seul nom pour lequel nous ne cessons 
de soupirer de peur qu'il ne s'etaigne chez nous et pour lequel 
même nous avons toujours été et sommes encore prêts a sacrifier 
non pas nos biens seuls qui ne sont que par trop médiocres, mais 
nos propres viese 

Ces motiffes de Consolation et d*autres non moins legitimes 
nous commande impérieusement d'avoire en vôtre personne une 
si grande Confiance que nous vous prions unanimement de vou- 
loir bien Ecouter d^une oreille favorable la declaraton que nous 
osons vous i)resenter touchant tous les mauvais traitements que 
nous avons souffert patiemmement depuis que les troupes de 
Virginie sont malheureusement arrivé chez nous jusqu'à present. 

Non que nous veuillons entreprendre de vous ennuyer de pla- 
intes innutiles qui ne serviroient a rien pour nous délivrer d'une 
insuportable tirannie, n\ même a nous avancer un bonheur 
plus durable a la Venire, et que nous espérons bientôt. C'est 
pourquoy nous ne voulons que rapporter de la manière la plus 

' Can. Archives, H., 184 vol. 2, p. 447. irom copy. 

3 For an account of the expedition of De U Balme, see Introduction, pp. Izzxiz. ef teq. 



MEMORIAL, SEPTEMBER, 1780 535 

justice, seized the rifle so unjustly and since M. Joseph Alaxie has 
made the use thereof that he has, it please you to condemn them 
tp pay for the said rifle one hundred piastres gourdes, which is the 
price that it has cost, and to condemn them to pay all costs, 
charges, damages etc as well for the procedure as otherwise and 
you will render justice. 

At Cahokia July 6, 1780. For Cadien Lausage 

Charles Gratiot. 

Inhabitants of Cahokia to De la Balme, September 21, 

1780.* 

Declaration in the name of the inhabitants of the village of 
Cahokia in the Illinois, sent to M. Mottin de la Balme, pensioner 
of the King of France and French Colonel etc. 
Sir: — 

We, the undersigned inhabitants of Cahokia, are well i>er^ 
suaded of the loftiness of your sentiments for us and of the high 
rank which you hold in the world, concerning which we can no 
longer doubt, and still more of the illustrious name of Frenchman 
which you bear and honor, the only name for which we do not 
cease to sigh for fear that it be extinguished among us and for 
which we have always been and are still ready to sacrifice not only 
our property, which is only too small, but our own lives.' 

These causes for consolation and for others not less legiti- 
mate command us imperiously to have so great confidence in your 
person that we unanimously pray you to consent to listen with 
favorable ear to the declaration, which we dare to present to you, 
concerning all the bad treatment which we have patiently suffered, 
since the troops of Virginia unfortunately arrived in our midst 
until the present moment. 

We do not desire to attempt wearying you with useless com- 
plaints, which would serve in no way to free us from an insupport- 
able tyranny nor further for us a happiness more durable in the 
future and which we hope for soon. That is why we wish only to 
relate in the most simple and faithful manner the most true things, 
which they (the Virginians) themselves are incapable of calling in 
question. 



536 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

simple et la plus ûdelle les choses les plus veritable sur les quelles 
ils sont eux mêmes incapable de contester. 

Ou les troupes Virginiennes étant arrivés au Kaskaskias il 
y a deux ans passés commandés par le Colonel S*" George Rogers 
Klark, ils se sont saisi de la personne de Monsieur de Rocheblave 
sans que les habitants du dit village se soient mis en devoire 
de leur faire aucunes resistance, vu qu'ils se déclarèrent for- 
mellement amateurs de la liberté pour laquelle ils ne cessoient 
de se battre et encore plus constemment fidelles allies de la France 
leur plus grande protectrice. Il ne leurs fut donc p>as possible 
de faire le moindre signe de vioUence au seul nom des francois 
un fois prononcé devant eux. 

Ces Habitans enûn peu attentifs a leur propre bonheur et 
n'ayant point eux mêmes assez d'esperience pour découvrir leur 
fourberie cachée, Sous de fausse apparence d'honetes gens n'y 
point prévenir les fâcheuses suittes qui les menacoient ainsy que 
nous et qui nont pas manquer de s'effectuer en effet se sont 
rendues avec la plus grande crédulité sans même exiger de voire 
aucuns Titres qui puissent nullement les eclaircire ny leur prouver 
par quelle autorité le Col. Clark s'emparoit de leur village; 
s'aveuglant eux mêmes du doux espoir de se revoir en bien peu 
de temps les très humble et fidèles sujets de leur ancien et très 
puissant monarque le roix de France. 

Nous avons lieu de croire que les Virginiens voyant la trop 
grande Crédulité des Habitants des Kaskaskias et trouvant en un 
mot combien il leur etoit facille de faire le conquête d'un pays 
habité par des gens si credulle et si aisé a gouverner ont sans 
doutte crus à propos de dépêcher promptement le Capitaine 
Jos^ Bowman pour venir s'emparer de notre Village, n'ayant 
uniquement que trente hommes avec eux et sans estre soutenu 
d'aucuns titres reconnus ny des Etats vmis ny même de l'Etat de 
Virginie, ou s'il en avoit s'est épargné la pêne de nous les faire 
voir, ou craignant quelques fâcheuses suittes les voyant nos 
voisins et même maitres des Kaskaskias avons proférer de nous 
rendre plutôt que des nous exposer à de plus grandes risques joint 
à cela les promesses récidivées qu'ils nous faisoient incessamment 



MEMORIAL, SEPTEMBER, 1780 537 

When the Virginia troops arrived in Kaskaskia two years ago, 
commanded by Colonel George Rogers Clark, they captured the 
person of M. de Rocheblave without the inhabitants of said 
village attempting the duty of making any resistance to them; 
because they explicitly declared themselves lovers of liberty for 
which they fought incessantly, and still more constantly as faithful 
allies of the French, their greatest protector. It was not, then, 
possible for the Kaskaskians to make the least sign of violence 
to the name of Frenchmen once pronounced before them. 

These inhabitants, finally, little attentive to their own hap- 
piness and not sufficiently experienced to discover the . con- 
cealed knavery of the Virginians under the false appearance of 
honest people or to anticipate the grievous consequences which 
menaced them as well as us, and which have not failed to take 
effect, have surrendered themselves with the greatest credulity, 
without even exacting a sight of any credentials which might 
enlighten them in any way or prove to them by what authority 
Colonel Clark took possession of their village, for they blinded 
themselves with the sweet hope of seeing themselves again in a 
short time the very humble and faithful subjects of their former 
and very powerful monarch, the king of France. 

We have reason to believe that the Virginians, after seeing the 
very great credulity of the inhabitants of Kaskaskia and finding, 
in short, how easily it was for them to make the conquest of a 
country inhabited by people so credulous and so easy to govern, 
have undoubtedly believed it expedient to despatch immediately 
Captain Joseph Bowman to come and take possession of our vil- 
lage. He had only thirty men with him and was unsupported by 
any recognized credentials either from the United States or even 
from the State of Virginia or, if he had them, he saved himself the 
trouble of showing them to us. And we, fearing some grievous 
consequences in seeing them our neighbors and even masters of 
Kaskaskia, have preferred to surrender rather than expose our- 
selves to greater risks. There should be added to this the repeated 
promises, which they continually made us, of enjoying the sweets 
of liberty and its advantages and the declaration to us, under oath 



538 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

de jouire de douceurs de la liberté et de ses avantages, et nous 
affirment par serment même que la guerre entre l'ammerique et 
la grande Bretagne ne pouvoit pas durer plus qu'une année vue 
que la voix seppuisoient to us les jours et ne tiroit aucune force 
generallement que ce peut être d'ailleurs, enfin les protestations 
réitérés detre toujours sincere et allies fidelles et plus encore 
l'espérance de nous voire un pour assujetie au joug léger de la 
France. Nous ont contraint à les recevoir chez nous comme amis 
croyant bien qu'ils etoient authorise du Congié Même et non pas 
qu'ils formoient un Etat particulier entre eux. 

Nous voyant alors épuisés et réduits a souffrir les fléaux d'une 
guère contre les sujets de la grande Bretagne dont la cause et 
principal point ne nous venoit que par apart aux Virginiens qui 
nous avoit conquis. Nous avons crus nécessaire d'en prévenir le 
Colonel Clark qui etablissoit pour lors la minne de faire ou il avoit 
ammené quantité de famille et Beaucoup de Troupp)es. 

Mais ce dernier il faut croire se voyant à charge tant de monde 
sans vivres, nat point beaucoup hésité de nous envoyer près de deux 
cent hommes, aux quels il s'est joint affectant sous les apparences 
d'un feau zèle le plaisir qu'il avoit de nous estre de quelqu'utilité. 

Quelques jours après son arrivée icy l'armée de nos ennemis 
composé d'un assez nombreuse quantité de Sauvages cy devant 
nos fidelles amis, et fort peu d'englois étant débarqué partie sur 
notre rive et le reste sur les terre espagnolles s'est retirés s'etant 
borné a quelques tis-tis a leur lâche manière de faire la guère sans 
faire un grand Carnage dans notre partie. 

* This may be the meaning, but the passage is very obscure. 

'This statomeiit is probably true, for an attack on Illinois by the states had been 
expected before the appearance of Clark. See Introduction, p. zxzv. 

' The chronology from this point on is difficult to understand. If it is asstuned that the 
narrative follows the rhronoltigical order, as from the connectixTs it appears to do, this attack 
on St. I>oui.s and C'ahokia occurred in the fall of 1778, the retaliation on the Indians imme- 
diately afterwanis, and after that the troops were left in Cahokia, where they still were in 1780. 
All this is impoHsihle, for Great Britain was not at war with Snain, Montgomery had retumet* 
to Virginia, and the trooM were not in Cahokia all the time from 1778 to 1780, as the docu 
ment ilvlf later shows. Therefore, the narrative as it stands is not chronological. 



All this is impossible, for Great Britain was not at war with Snain, Montgomery had returned 

frc 
nt iivii later snows, i nereiore, me narrative as 11 sianns is noi cnronoiogical. 
If we suppose that the writers set down each grievance as it came to tneir minds, new 
difl'icuhies anse. The transition to this passage is too abrupt. On page 543 the writers men 



tion Captain McCarty and add, **of whom we have spoken before," although it b the first 
time hi.s name apiwars. On page 549, near the end of the memorial, the writers declare that 
they will now narrate a detailed account of the treatment they have received from the 
Virginians, and begin with number 1; but that detailed account had already been given. 

yrovci these chrtmologiial and other inconsistencies, it is evident that the pages <rf the 
original memorial had become misplaced before any copy of them was made, aDO subseqxient 



MEMORIAL, SEPTEMBER, 1780 539 

even, that the war between America and Great Britain could 
not last longer than a year, seeing that public opinion was being 
wearied every day and that no conclusion was generally drawn 
that it would be otherwise;* and finally the reiterated protesta- 
tions that they were always sincere and allied friends ; and further- 
more the hope of seeing ourselves again subjected to the light 
yoke of France. Therefore we were constrained to receive them 
among us as friends, believing indeed that they were authorized 
by Congress itself and not that they represented a particular 
state.* 

Seeing ourselves exhausted and reduced to suffer the scourge 
of a war against the subjects of Great Britain, the cause and prin- 
cipal point of which reached us only from the side of the Virgin- 
ians who had conquered us, we have believed it necessar}' to in- 
form Colonel Clark thereof, who was establishing at that time 
the Iron Banks where he had brought numerous families and 
many troops.* 

But this latter, it must be believed, seeing himself in charge 
of so great a number without supplies, has not hesitated long 
to send us almost two hundred men, to whom he joined himself, 
affecting under the appearance of a false zeal, the pleasure which 
he had in being of some utility to us. 

Some days after his arrival here, the army of our enemy, com- 
posed of a sufficiently large number of savages, herebefore our 
faithful friends, and of very few English, having disembarked, 

copies have perpetuated the error. That this is true may be easily proved by transposing this 
passage, including the paragraphs through the one beginning with "On the return from this 
last ill success", with the passage on page 547 beginning with ** We believed also that there", 
and including the paragraphs through the one which begins with "A heifer, about two years 
old", when all difficulties of chronology and interpretation disappear. 

Such memorials as these, of which I ha\'e seen several, were written on folios placed 
together, but unsewed, and folded once. In this case there must have been four folios, making, 
when folded, sixteen pages. The first four pages were in correct order when copied, hut with 
the paragraphs which would fall on the pages 5 and 6 the difficulties begin; then there fol- 
low tour pages of narrative without inconsistencies, and on what would tw pages 11 and la 
further difficulties occur. These pages of the memorial, i. e., 5. 6, 11, and 12, were written on 
the same folio. What has happened is this: one of the first readers of the memorial has 
folded the folio backwards, so that pages 11 and 12 replaced pages 5 and 6. This was not 
noticed by the copyist, because the pages of the memorial were not numbered and because 
each sheet began and ended with a paragraph. 

With this change, the paragraph under consideration b easily explained. The '*«»" 
refers to the expected attack by the British and Indians in 1780; the "miW d^ faire** should 
read mine de fer, which means the Iron Banks south of the mouth of the Ohio, where Clark 
was building Fort Jefferson. See letter from the Cahokians to Clark, asking for his 
assistance, p. 531. 



S40 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Oh! le Col. Clark affectant toujours de vouloir notre bien pub- 
lique sous prêt ex de nous Vanger forma aussitôt avec nous et 
conjointement aux Espagnoles un partis de plus trois cents 
hommes pour aller ravager dans leur propre village les Sauvages 
qui etoient venus nous harceller chez nous ayant substitué en Sa 
place Col. Montgommery pour nous commander et aussitost il 
nous a laissé. 

Il est donc bon Monsieur de vous exposer que les Virginiens 
n'ayant jamais eu aucunne principe d'économie ont été cause par 
leur peu d'arrangement et mauvaise conduitte na point réussi et 
que notre glorieux projets se sons trouvés par leur faute evannouié, 
les Sauvages ayant abandonné leurs Villages les plus proches ou 
nous avons été nous nous sommes vus forcé a relâcher et ne pas 
pousser routte plus loin n'ayant plus presque de vivres ny de poudre 
ny balle ce qu'ils s'etoient chargé de nous fournir eux mêmes, 
l'un des plus grand sujet pour lequel se plaignent tous les jeunes 
gens qui ne veulent plus entendre parler de les suivres en quelques 
lieux que se puisse être. 

Au retour de cette dernière Cacade le Colonel Montgommery 
nous a proposé de garder les troupes que nous souhaitterons pour 
la sûreté de notre Village, deignez aussi rappeller que nous ne 
croyons point qu'il nous faisoit cette offre par un Veritable effet 
de son zélé qu'il nous vouloit montrer mais parcequ'il s'en voyoit luy 
même embarassé. nous avons cru nécessaire de garder avec nous 
cent hommes que nous nous sommes obligé de nourir chez nous 
et comme nous même lesquels sont encore chez nous les uns 
malades et les autres en santées qui ne nous sont qu'a charge et 
qui dans un tems aussi critique que celuy ou nous sommes a présent 
ne daigne point seulement faire la moindre guarde puisqu'ils man- 
quent donc totallement leurs engagements nous ne nous croyons 
plus obligé au soutiens d'un Trouppe qui nous infecte et nous 
ruine en ne nous payant point ce que nous leurs avons jusqu'à ce 
jour avancé qu'avec un monnoye dont nous ne pouvons rien 

* Expedition to the Rock River under the command of Montgomery, while Clark hurried 
south to intercept another army of the enemy on its way to Kentuclty. — Va. SUtU Papers^ iii 
441. Captain Rogers also says that the Spaniards joined Montgomery for the expedition to 
the Rock river.— £>r. MSS., aSjj. 



MEMORIAL, SEPTEMBER, 1780 541 

part on our bank and the remainder on Spanish land, withdrew, 
having limited themselves to some "/w-/w" in their slack man- 
ner of making war without causing a great carnage in our 
country. 

Oh! Colonel Clark, affecting always to desire our public wel- 
fare and under pretext of avenging us, soon formed with us and 
conjointly with the Spaniards a party of more than three hundred 
men to go and attack in their own village the savages who had 
come to our homes to harass us, and after substituting Colonel 
Montgomery to command us in his place, he soon left us. 

It is, then, well to explain to you, sir, that the Virginians, who 
never employed any principle of economy, have been the cause, 
by their lack of management and bad conduct, of the non-success 
of the expedition and that our glorious projects have failed 
through their fault; for the savages abandoned their nearest vil- 
lages, where we have been, and we were forced to stop and not 
push on further, since we had almost no more provisions, powder 
and balls, which the Virginians had undertaken to furnish us.* 
This is one of the greatest subjects about which all the young 
men complain and they no longer wish to hear talk of following 
the Virginians to any place whatsoever. 

On the return from this last ill success, Colonel Montgomery 
proposed that we keep the troops which we wished for the safety 
of our village. Deign also to recall that we do not believe that he 
made this offer from a true effect of his zeal, which he wished 
to show us; but because he saw himself embarassed. We be- 
lieved it necessary to keep with us a hundred men, whom we are 
obliged to support at our homes, and like ourselves they are still 
with us, some sick and others well ; and they are only a charge to 
us and at a time so critical as this present, they do not deign to 
do the least guard duty. Since, therefore, they fail totally in 
their engagements, we do not believe ourselves bound to the sup- 
port of a body of troops, that infect and ruin us by not paying 
for what we have up to this day advanced to them except with 
a money with which we can buy nothing ; for property infinitely 
more considerable than ours would be weakened very quickly and 



542 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

avoire des biens infiniement plus considerable que les notre, 
s'alterroient bien vitre et s'eppuiseroient enfin si comme nous ils 
s*avanceroient toujours et ne recevoient rien. 

Joint à cela encor nous avons Thonneur de vous observer qu'il 
est arrivé ici dernièrement que le Capitaine Hallars logant dans ce 
village, s'est adonner a entrer dans la maison d'un Habitant de ce 
Village, ou etoit logé un Soldat de sa compagnie lequel s'est plaint 
de la mauvaise nourriture bien qu'il fut à la table de son haute 
homme chargé d'une nombreuse famille, et qui n'a qu'un 
bien trbs mediocre enfin le Capitaine prenant un ton impérieux 
dit qu'il pretendoit que les soldats fussent bien traitté et qu'il 
lui ordonnoit de tuer ses poulies jusqu'à la dernière, et qu'après 
il le forcheroient d'acheter ailleurs a prix d'argent n'ayant pas 
lui même assez de raison ou n'en vouloit point avoire ny croire 
qu'il ne tendoient tous qu'a la ruine et insuportable captivité de 
tous les Habitants. 

En outre le major Rich^ Me Carty dont nous avons déjà parlé 
mécontent disoit il du mauvais procédé des Habitants à leurs 
égards; auroit souhaitter Commander en chef ce village afin de 
faire prendre une partie des principaux Habitants dicy pour les 
mettre au fers et les envoyer ainsy gainer dans la Virginie n'étant 
pas encor rapasé de la vaine et trop grande crédulité avec laquelle 
il nous ont jusqu'icy abusé. 

Il nous plaira aussy croire que dernièrement Major William 
ayant envoyé chez Monsieur gagné habitant de ce lieux un soldat 
avec un ordre pour y loger. Cet homme qui depuis un assez long 
espace de temps a voit eu l'importunité jusqu'au nombre de /quatre 
a la fois et qui en avoit encor un dans le même moment ne se croy- 
ant point obligé de prendre ce dernier par plusieurs fois ré- 
cidivez le renvoyé parrer son ordre refusant constemment de le 
recevoire Le Major William même s'emportant en une furieuse 
Coller s'est munis de deux bon pistolets avec resolution de le luy 
faire revoire son soldat par la force, en ayant rencontré en chemin 
ledit gagné il luy a appliqué un de ses pistolets sous la gorge le 
menaçant bien fort de luy flamber le tette s'il ne vouloit incon- 
tinent obéir a son ordre et loger son soldat. 



MEMORIAL, SEPTEMBER, 1780 543 

finally exhausted, if like us, the owners were always making ad- 
vances and receiving nothing in return. 

Joined to this also, we have the honor to inform you of -rhat 
happened here recently. Captain Hallars [Kellar?] happened 
to enter into the house of an inhabitant of this village where was 
lodged a soldier of his company, who complained of the bad food, 
although he was at the table of a host intrusted with a numerous 
family who has only a very small property. Finally the captain, 
assuming an imperious tone, said that he meant that the soldiers 
should be well treated and he ordered the man to kill his 
fowls up to the last one, and afterwards compelled him to buy 
elsewhere at the money price, because he did not have or did 
not wish to have sufficient reason for believing that they 
were reducing to ruin and insupportable captivity all the inhabi- 
tants. 

Furthermore, Major Richard McCarty, of whom we have 
already spoken, discontented, he said, with the bad behavior 
of the inhabitants towards them, had wished to be chief com- 
mander of this village in order to have arrested a part of the 
principal inhabitants thereof so that he might put them in irons 
and send them, thus caught, to Virginia, since he is not satiated 
with the vain and too great credulity by means of which they 
have imtil now deceived us. 

It will please you also to consider that lately Major William 
sent to the house of M. Gagné, an inhabitant of this place, a 
soldier with an order to lodge there. This man, who for a suffi- 
ciently long time had had the vexation of as many as four at a time 
and who had one of them still at the very time, did not believe 
himself obliged to take this last, and several times sent him back 
to get rid of his order, and refused constantly to receive him. 
Major William himself, flying into a furious passion, armed 
himself with two good pistols in the determination to force him 
to receive his soldier; and having met on the way the said Gagné, 
he placed one of his pistols at his neck and threatened fiercely 
to blow off bis head, if he did not agree immediately to obey his 
order and lodge his soldier. 



544 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Dernièrement aussi le même Major William ayant envoyé 
chez un nommé lefebre forgeron pour emprunter quelques Bouteil- 
les de taffia Ce dernier luy a fait repondre que n'étant point maitre 
puisqu'il le debitoit pour vm autre qui le payoit pour ses peinnes 
il ne luy etoit point possible de prendre sur luy et qu'il étoit prêt 
a luy en céder cent pots s'il le souhaittoit moyennant qu'il donne- 
roit de l'argent comptant aussitôt et sans attendre d'avantage le 
Major envoya un officier ou sergent accompagné par six soldats 
avec ordre de saisir tous les taffias que le dit lefevre pou voit a voire 
et ce sans doutte au profit des Etats de Virginie, mais ce dernier 
leur ayant montré le lieux ou ses Brissons etoient referme ils 
n'ont point osé faire fraction et en a été aquitté au moyen d'un 
cruche qu'il a été oblige de leurs donner. 

Pour mieux vous faire Connoitre le peu d'indulgence qu'ils 
avoient pour nous le peu de soins qu'ils prennoient de s'attirer nos 
coeurs et même davantage leur impitoyable genre de gouverner 
un peuple sur lequel ils voyoient a voire pris trop d'avantage, ils 
sont exigé de expressément et nous ont forcé de leur fournir une 
quantité considerable de farinne pour mettre en Magazin et pour 
les Besoins de l'Etat, Voulant disoient ils faire une expédition pour 
notre salut generalle sans nous dire formellement ny ou ils vouloient 
aller ny ce qu'ils vouloient faire. 

oh! comme nous n'avons pas tout a fait paru disposé a consentir 
trop aveuglement à leur requisition ils ont des ce moment voulu 
opprimer la force par la force, et Sans plus tarder au envoya un de 
leurs officiers un sergent suivie de quelques soldats pour faire la 
visite dans tous les moulins de ce village afin de combiner par eux 
mêmes selon les farennes qu'ils y trouveroient Et qu'ils en pour- 
roient prendre pour eux cette guarde conduitte par leurs mauvais 
princippes ont osé forcer les portes qui se sont trouvé fermé 
menacent même de donner de leurs Carabines ceux qui seroient 
assez hardis de s'opposer a leur infâme violence osait de plus 
imprimer Sur les portes de chaque moulin Tetampe de l'Etat de 
Virginie comme luy appartenant. Entre ceux qui ont des moiilins 

1 After the return from the Rock River expedition Major Williams was left in commaod 
of the troops at Cahokia, suftersediiig McCarty. — English, Conqtust of the Northwest, iL, 790. 



MEMORIAL, SEPTEMBER, 1780 545 

Lately also, the same Major William,^ having sent to the house 
of a man named Lefevre, blacksmith, to borrow some bottles of 
tafia, this latter answered that he was not the owner, since he 
sold them at retail for another who paid him for his trouble, and 
that it was not possible to assume the responsibility and that he 
was ready to give him a hundred jugs thereof, if he wished to pay 
cash. Immediately and without waiting longer, the major sent an 
ofl&cer or sergent accompanied by six soldiers with an order to 
seize all the tafia which the said Lefevre might have; and this 
without doubt to the profit of the estates of Virginia; but after 
this last had shown the place where his liquor was locked up, 
they did not dare to break in and he has been freed from them 
by paying a jugfull which he was obliged to give them. 

In order that you may better understand the little indulgence 
which they have for us and the little care they take to win our 
affections and even more their pitiless manner of governing a 
people, over whom they see they have taken such an advantage, 
we tell you that they exacted expressly, and have compelled us 
to furnish, a considerable quantity of flour to put in their store- 
house for the needs of the state, since they wished, they 
said, to make an expedition for our general welfare, without 
telling us explicitly where they intended to go or what they wished 
to do. 

Oh! As we have not appeared wholly disposed to consent too 
blindly to their requisition, they have from that moment deter- 
mined to put down force by force; and without further delay they 
sent one of their officers, a sergent followed by some soldiers, to 
search all the mills of this village in order to make collections on 
their own accoimt, according to the amount of the flour which 
they found there and which they could take for themselves. This 
guard, governed by their evil principles, d^ed to break the doors, 
which were locked, and they threatened with their rifles those who 
were bold enough to make opposition to their infamous violence; 
and they dared further to mark on the doors of each mill the stamp 
of the State of Virginia, as a sign that it belonged thereto. Among 
those who had mills, there was only M. Beaulieu, one of the cap- 



546 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

il ne s'est trouvé que M. Beaulieu Tun des Capitaines de milice 
d'icy qui s'y est exposé furieusement et contre lequel ils n'ont point 
osé exercer leur cruelle tiranie. Il nous reste encore à savoir si la 
crainte ou la honte les a Retenus. 

Nous voyant donc ainsy Molesté par nos fidelles alliés au moins 
qui osoient se servir de ce titre prétendu nous avons sollicité afin 
que les soldats fussent dispensé dans chaqu'une de nos maisons 
espérant par la estre moins Captivé et pouvoir mieux conserver 
nos Bestiaux préférant à notre malheureux sort, la jaine d'avoire 
chez soye une troupe de Brigans qui loin de nous estre de quelqu' 
utilité nous sont insuportables et pour les pensions desquels nous 
sommes forcés à tenir des billets de logement en payenient sans 
nul espoir d'en estre jamais payé. 

Nous ne vous dirons point par quel heureux destin nous nous en 
ommes trouvés debarassé. Nous scavons seulement que par un 
bonheur imprévu ils ont été rapellé aux Kaskaskias pour passer 
leur quartier d'Hyver. Ce qui nous a procuré une grande tran- 
uilitté jusqu'à ce printems dernier ou a>'ant été menacé d'une armée 
considerable qui se formoit de la part des royalistes pour venir 
nous combattre et tacher moyen d'achever notre ruinne très per- 
suadé qu'elle etoit avancée a un grand point. 

Nous crûmes donc après n'a voire rien à craindre en commerçant 
avec eux nos Marchandises denrées même nos animaux de toute 
espèce pour leur argent qu'ils nous en asseuré bonnes et qui n'at 
aucuns cours en ce pays pas même entre eux ils nous ont aussy 
chargé d'un nombre immense de lettres de change sur le tresorié 
de Virginie dont nous ne pouvons rien faire et dont nous sommes 
infectes jusqu'à present et ce après nous avoir ôdellement promis 
que ces papiers nous seroient payé en or ou bonnes marchandises 
à grand prix que nous pouvons commercer et gagner considéra- 
blement. 

Non contents encor de nous avoire épuisé et ruiné en nous 
prenant generallement tout nos denrées et animaux sans nous les 
payer ne voulant pas même nous permettre d'en transporter 
sur une autre rive pour en tirer de quoy nous retiré ils menacent 

* Winter of 177^-1780. 



MEMORIAL, SEPTEMBER, 1780 547 

tains of militia of this place, who exposed himself to their violence 
with fury and against whom they have not dared to exercise their 
cruel tyranny. We are still doubtful whether fear or shame 
restrained them. 

Seeing ourselves thus troubled by our faithful allies, at least 
by those who dared to make use of this pretended title, we have 
petitioned that the soldiers should be billeted in each of our 
houses, since we hoped thereby to be less held captive and to be 
better able to preserve our animals, preferring in our unhappy 
lot the inconvenience of having at our houses a troop of brig- 
ands, who, far from being of any use to us, are insupportable 
and for whose board we are obliged to take in payment notes 
for lodgment without any hope of being ever paid. 

We shall not tell you by what lucky fate we were freed from 
them. We know only that by an unforeseen good fortune they 
were recalled to Kaskaskia to pass their winter quarters,* which 
procured for us a great peace until last spring, when we were 
menaced by a considerable army which was formed by the roy- 
alists to come to attack us and attempt means of achieving our 
ruin, being persuaded that it had reached its height. 

We believed, also, that there was nothing to fear in trading 
our merchandise, commodities and even our animals of all kinds 
with the Virginians for their money, which they assured us was 
good, and which had no currency in this country even among 
themselves. They have also loaded us with an immense number 
of letters of exchange on the treasury of Virginia, with which 
we could do nothing and with which we are infected up to the 
present ; and this after having faithfully promised us that these 
would be paid in gold or good merchandise at a good price, with 
which we could trade and make a considerable gain. 

Not content, however, with having exhausted and ruined us 
by taking from us generally all our commodities and animals 
without paying for them and not wishing to permit us to export 
any to the other bank, that we might obtain therefrom wherewith 
to recover from our difficulties [?], they threatened with cruel 
punishments those who should do so without their consent, if 



548 ILLINOIS IHSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

de cruelles punitions ceux qui le pouvoient faire sans leur delibera- 
tion, s'il y etoit surpris et souvant se sentant fort, par la fadUité 
avec laquelle ils nous ont toujours gouverné jusqu'à present qu'ils 
font plus qu'a menacer parcequ'ils en viennent a des faits. 

C'est a ce moment Mons: que nous entreprenons de vous 
faire le plus brièvement que nous pouvons le détaille des insup- 
ortables manières d'agire des Trouppes de Virginie a notre Egard, 
nous qu'ils ne la soit de traiter d'amis et alliés fidelles, ils ont droit 
en quelque sorte parcequ'ils ne trouveroient point ailleur d'amis 
si bons ny si doux pour eux. 

I . Nous commençons donc par vous rapporter icy que le Capi- 
taine Rich** McCarty ayant été renvoyé icy l'année dernière (après 
l'expédition marquée du Detroit) pour y résider en qualité de 
Commandant est arrivé avec une petite garnison de quaxante 

1 Hommes au plus qui se sont logé dans une maison cise en ce 

Village assez propre et spacieuse pour y loger commodément vm 
J certain nombre de soldats (nous voyant dans l'impossibilité de 

I faire autrement) nous nous sommes mêmes obligé tous unanimement 

* de leur procurer une quantité suffisante de farinne Mays et Viandes 

j pour leurs substance qu'ils n'ont pas sans doutte trouvé suffisante 

) puisque les soldats ne se gennoient point pour tuer (même devant 

nous) nos pourceaux et autres animaux sans que leurs Capi- 
i taines ou officiers s'empresassent à y mettre ordre quelques 

j representations qu'on leurs fisse. 

j Probablement un Boeuf de Charue qu'ils ont tué sur la place 

j devant le fort appartenant a un homme pierre Roux que le Cappi- 

taine du détachement a payé mais le tort n'a pas été moins grand 
pour un pauvre Homme a qu'il n'etoit pas possible d'en ravoire 
' un autre pareille. 

Une tor d'environ deux ans qu'ils ont tué a Monsieur Trotier 
qu'il luy ont payé avec un bon encore a estre payé. 

Enfin plusieurs motiffs aussy sencible qu'ils seroit innutile de 
décrire dans cette narration croyant ce que nous avons rapportés 
suffisant pour faire voire la justice de ce que nous avons l'honneur 
de vous observer Monsieur et qui vous font assi voire que les Vir- 
ginniens n'ont jamais eu d'autre butte que celuy de nous opprimer 



MEMORIAL, SEPTEMBER, 1780 549 

they should be caught; and often feeling themselves strong on 
account of the ease with which they have always governed us 
up to the present, they are doing more than threatening, because 
they come to deeds. 

It is now, sir, that we undertake to make for you as briefly 
as possible the detailed account of the insupportable manner the 
troops of Virginia have acted towards us, us whom they were to 
treat as friends and faithful allies; and they are right in a way 
because they would not find elsewhere friends so good and so 
gentle to them. 

I. We begin then by reporting to you here that Captain 
Richard McCarty, having been sent here last year (after the 
failure of the Detroit exjjedition) to take up his residence as 
commandant, arrived with a little garrison of forty men or 
more, who have been lodged in a house situated in this village 
sufficiently propter and spacious to lodge there easily a certain 
number of soldiers. Since we saw the impossibility of doing 
otherwise, we unanimously bound ourselves to procure for them 
a sufficient quantity of flour, com and meat for their subsist- 
ence, which they have not found sufficient undoubtedly, since 
the soldiers made no ceremonies about killing, before our eyes 
even, our pigs and other animals, without their captains and 
officers bestirring themselves to provide therefor, when repre- 
sentations were made to them. 

There was a plough-ox belonging to a man named Pierre 
Roux, which they killed on the square before the fort for which 
the captain of the detachment paid; but the wrong was not less 
great to a poor man since it was impossible to get another 
like it. 

A heifer, about two years old, belonging to M. Trottier, which 
they killed, and for which they settled with a bon still to be paid. 

Finally several counts as obvious as they would be useless 
to describe in this narrative, for we believe that what we have 
reported sufficient to make you see the justice of what we have 
the honor to call to your attention, sir, and which cause us, also, 
to see that the Virginians have never had other end than that of 



{ 



550 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Changeant eux mêmes en la plus însuportable Captivité l'espoir 
dont il nous avoit flatté en entrans sur nos terres de jouir comme 
eux mêmes des douceurs de la plus paisible possession de nos 
bien et d'une entière liberté et qu'ils veulent a present nous ravir. 

C'est ce que nous sommes tous Capable de soutenir par les 
serments les plus inviolable et pourquoy nous avons en faire 
signe pour donner force aux présentes. 

Mais nous ne devons nullement doiitter que le voix de france 
le plus grand de tous les potentas S'ignore très certainement la 
triste et deplorable cituation ou sont a present réduits ses très 
fldeles et bien aimés sujets Canadiens et Creole, par la trop 
grande Crédulité que nous avons eu en la fourberie des Trouppes 
Virginiennes et que nous avons crus ses fldelles alliés crédulité 
si funeste pour nous et dont nous ne sommes des abuse que depuis 
que vous nous avez fait l'honneur de nous aider de vos sages et 
très puissant Conseils. 

Pouvons nous croire que notre généreux et très bon père le 
roix de france nous abandonnoit aussy a notre malheureux Sort 
s'il pouvoit une fois connoitre les fonds de nos coeurs, que nous 
sommes prêts a luy sacrifier nous nous devons croire qu'il penseroit 
plus avantageusement de nous et ne trouveroit de vray bonheur 
pour luy qu'en nous procurant a l'avenir un bonheiu: infinie en 
nous reprenant sous sa protection et nous declarant ses bien aimés 
sujets Espérons chères compatriottes qu'une fois persuadé et 
certain de notre fidellités de coeur que non seulement il nous 
reconnoitra pour ses fidelles enfants et nous fournira tous les 
moyens et secour nécessaires avec lesquels nous pouvons secouer 
le fardeau pesant qui nous écrassent et soutenu par un tel mon- 
arque quelle puissance a l'avenir osera entreprendre de nous 
subjuguer. 

C'est donc Monsieur avec toutte l'affection et zèle que nous 
vous promettons que vous voudrez bien vous intéresser à nos 
maleurs et parler en notre faveur fasse le ciel que par votre inter- 
ception nous puisions parvenir un jour a ce que nous aspirons qui 
n'est autre chose que le bonheur et nous revoir tous francois. 
Nous n'avons autre chose a vous offrir en otage que la plus grande 



MEMORIAL, SEPTEMBER, 1780 551 

oppressing us by changing into the most insupportable cap- 
tivity the hope, with which they had flattered us on entering 
on our lands, of enjoying, like themselves, the sweetness of the 
most peaceable possession of our goods and of a complete liberty, 
of which they wish now to rob us. 

This is what we are all capable of affirming by the most 
inviolable oaths and why we have caused this to be signed in 
order to give strength to these presents. 

But we ought in no way to doubt that the public opinion of 
France, the grandest of all powers, is very certainly unacquainted 
with the sad and deplorable situation to which her most faithful 
and well-loved subjects, Canadians and Creoles, are at present 
reduced by the too great credulity, which we have had, in the 
knaver>' of the Virginian troops and whom we have believed her 
faithful allies; a credulity so fatal for us and of which we have 
been disabused since you have made us the honor of aiding us 
with your wise and very powerful counsels. 

Can we believe that our generous and very good father, the 
King of France, would abandon us so to our unhappy lot, if he 
could once know that in the depths of our hearts we are ready to 
sacrifice ourselves; we must believe that he would think more 
highly of us and would find true happiness for himself only in 
procuring for us in the future an infinite happiness by retaking us 
under his protection and declaring us his well-loved subjects. We 
hope, dear compatriots, that once persuaded and certain of our 
fidelity of heart, that not only he will recognize us as his faithful 
children and will furnish us all the necessary means and succor 
with which we can shake off the heavy burden, which is crushing 
us. And supported by such a monarch, what power in the future 
will dare to undertake to subjugate us! 

It is then, sir, with all the affection and zeal, which we prom- 
ise you, that we ask you to be willing to interest yourself in our 
grievances and speak in our favour. May the Heavens bring it 
about that by your intervention we may be able to attain that to 
which we aspire, which is nothing else than the happiness of 
seeing ourselves again all French. We have nothing to offer you 



552 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

fidellité de coeur avec laquelle nous ne cesserons d'estre éter- 
nellement avec un très profond perspect. 

Monsieur 
Votre Humbles et obiessants scr^*' 
Aux Cahos 21 Sept. 1780 
Signé F. Trottier — Philipe Gen-ay — A. Harmand — Le- 
page — B. Saucier — F. Saucier — Langlois — Chabot — J 
B Dubé — DuCharme — Gabriel Constant — Fr. Courier — J 
G Mercier les Personnes qui ont signé c\' dessus l'ont fait au 
nom de tous les Habitants. 

Endorsed: Declaration des Habitants du Cahokias à Mons: 
le Colonel Balme du Cahos 21 Sept. 17 So. 

reçu le 4"* DeC 1780. 

LiNCTOT TO G. R. Clark. July 31, 1781. 
Monsieur 

Toujours retenu aux Illinois par Maladie, J'attend ai-ec im- 
{Xitience le moment ou ma Santé pourra me permettre d'aller 
vous rejoindre et rendre un Compte exacte de ma mission et 
de mon Séjour en ces endroits. 

Un nommé Clairmoa député avec Six autres particuliers par le 
Commandant de Michilimakinac est arrî\-é a S-. Louis chargé 
I d'une Lettre adressée au habiuas des Cahos pour les exciter a 

I les recevoir ei a se xenir 5ur la denencive contre les Espagnols; 

I Monsieur Dc*r. François Crjza: Lieutenant Cok>Del et Leântenant 

• Gouverr.eiir a >• LlUÎs, après des recherches exanes xu Suiet de 

Ces en\ovtr> cuii a fa:: arrêter e" arrh"anî et S'ecan: zifonné de 

la L^::rt n:tr-:::r.né c> dessus S'en esî ^znzxkré. et s'esî eosuine 

, o>r::>.^r:t dar-s v.'e^tte a£aire cvxnzie uz h:ci=je entî^recaenî roué au 

; Ser\ ::e ies Pui^^^azces U-ks. Ne r«sr:^znoLsfa:i: pc-ini de Maixres 

ab>v\.:s aux Cah^.>f ;ue les .\ner6cuai:is Viinrje'^rs de oeoe 
rvLr.ic, -1 - i. rxis :^- ce*. :ir rï-n-în? rinr^ie à iVurres tu 'au Maîor 
W ill^r:^ .Vz:tr quaiz e: enrù:; t p.'Ur les £:âis diurtz^ que cette 

:«uir ? u:^ .sas >-.,i.z.:i>t ..TT-.LiinK7r àiL 3i:r ur 3. ^ fr.oc au3 



LINCTOT TO CLARK, JULY. 1781 553 

in hostage except the greatest fidelity of heart which we shall never 
cease having. With a very profound respect 

Sir 
your humble and obedient servants 
At Cahokia September 21, 1780. 
Sipned : 

F. Trottier, Philippe Gervais, A. Harmand, Lepage, B. Saucier, 
F. Saucier, Langlois, Chabot, J. B. Dubé, DuCharme, Gabriel 
Constant, Fr. Courier, J. G. Mercier. The persons who have 
signed hereabove have done so in the name of all the inhabitants. 

Endorsed: Declaration of the Inhabitants of Cahokia to M. 
Colonel Balme. Cahokia September 21, 1780. 
Received December 4, 1 780. 

LmcTOT TO G. R. Clark, July 31, 1781.* 
Sir: 

Still detained in the Illinois by sickness, I am waiting with 
impatience the moment when my health will permit me to rejoin 
you and render a detailed account of my mission and of my so- 
journ in these parts. 

A man named Clairmont, deputed with six other individuals by 
the conmiandant of Michillimackinac, has arrived at St. Louis, 
intrusted with a letter addressed to the inhabitants of Cahokia in 
order to move them to receive the messengers and to hold them- 
selves on the defensive against the Spaniards.^ Don François 
Cruzat, lieutenant colonel and lieutenant governor at St. Louis, 
after a minute examination in regard to these envoys, whom he 
caused to be arrested upon their arrival, and after being informed 
of the letter mentioned above, has taken possession thereof, and 
has, thereafter, acted in this affair as a man entirely devoted to the 
service of the united powers. Since he recognized as absolute 
masters at Cahokia only the Americans, conquerors of this region, 
he did not believe that it was his duty to render account to any 
one except Major Williams, an American and in the employ of the 
states, in as much as this affair appeared to him purely military. 

one would make it appear. It seems almost incredible that both Linctot and Gratiot should 
be ignorant that, at the time they were writing, two of the British agents were in Cahokia by 
permission of the Spanish commandant. 




554 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

avoir fait part de toutes Ses découvertes il lui a envoyé copie 
exacte de la Susditte Lettre: cette conduitte prudente de la part 
de Monsieur De Cruzat na pas laissé d'occasionner des rumeurs, 
des propos indiscrets et dexciter une jalousie outrée dans plusieurs 
particuliers tant aux Cahos qu'au Kaskaskias qui tous en parti- 
culier prétendent être absolus et les Seuls a qui Ion doive rendre 
compte. Comme ceci pourroit occasionner de la mésintelligence 
et querelle entre les deux parties, il seroit bon d'établir en Ces 
endroits un Maitre et Savoir a qui se communiquer en affair d' 
Importance Sans être obligé de Se commuiquer a une populace 
ignorante, emportée, indiscrette, et Souvent partagée dans ses 
opignons. 

Par un exprés nous venons d'apprendre que le Florida a ete 
prise par les Espanols. Monsieur De Galvés, Gouverneur de 
la Nouvelle Orlean et qui Mérite tous les éloges possibles par 
l'activité, intelligence et intrépidité quil a fait paroitre, S'est 
emparé de Pinsacola après lo jours de tranchée ouverte. Je vous 
envoyé le detail de cette prise tel qu'on la envoyé a M*" De Cruzat 
Commandant en ce Poste Les Natchez après avoir été pris par 
le Même Monsieur De Galvez en Son absence Se Sont révolté et 
pris les Armes contre les Espagnols quils en ont chassé ou fait 
prisonnier. Monsieur De Miro occupant la second rang a la 
Nouvelle Orlean les à reconquis de nouveaux. On ne Sait ce 
qui arrivera a M^ Bleomar auteur de cette Révolte et D'autres. 

En attendant le plaisir de vous voir permettes moi de souhait 
a vos Armes tout le Succès possible et de me dire avec Respect 
Monsieur Votre très humble & très 

Obéissant Serviteur, 
S* Louis 31 Juillet 1781 Godefroy Linctot 

Pour Le Service Public 

Gratiot to g. R. Clark, August i, 1781. 
Monsieur 

Je profite de l'occasion que me procure M*". Linctot qui est 
icy malade, pour vous faire part des bonnes nouvelles que nous 
avons avons [sic] reçue par la prise de Pançacole que Monsieur De 

• Dr. MSS., 51J77, origiiuU manuscript. 



GRATIOT TO CLARK, AUGUST, 1781 555 

Consequentiy, after having informed him of all his discoveries, he 
sent an exact copy of the aforesaid letter. This prudent conduct 
on the part of M. Cruzat has not failed to occasion murmurs and 
indiscreet talk and to excite unreasonable jealousy in several 
individuals both at Cahokia and Kaskaskia, all of whom privately 
claim to be absolute and the only ones to whom account should 
be rendered. Since this can cause misunderstanding and strife 
between the two parties, it would be well to appoint in these parts 
some one with power and knowledge to whom communications 
could be made in affairs of importance, so that it would not be 
necessary to make communications to a populace, ignorant, hot- 
headed, indiscreet, and often divided in its opinion. 

By an express we have just learned that Florida has been 
captiu*ed by the Spaniards. M. de Galvez, governor of New 
Orleans, who deserves all possible praise on account of the activity 
intelligence and intrepidity, which he has shown, has posse<ised 
himself of Pensacola after ten days of open trenching. I am send- 
ing you the detail of this capture as it is reported to M. Cruzat, 
commandant of this post. The people of Natchez, after having 
been taken by the same M. de Galvez, have revolted in his absence 
and taken arms against the Spaniards, whom they have driven 
out or made prisoners. M. Miro, who has the second rank at 
New Orleans, has reconquered them. It is not known what will 
be done to M. Bleomar, author of this revolt and of others. 

While awaiting the pleasure of seeing you, permit me to wish 
your arms all possible success and to call myself with respect, 
Sir, your very humble and very obedient servant, 

Godefroy Linctot. 
St. Louis, July 31, 1781. 
for the public service. 

Gratiot to Clark, August i, 1781.* 
Sir: 

I profit by the opportunity which M. Linctot, who is sick, pro- 
cures me to inform you of the good news, which we have received, 
of the capture of Pensacola, which M. de Galvez has subjected to 
the dominion of His Catholic Majesty. From the account which 



556 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Galvez Gouverneur de la Nouvelle Orlean a Soumise a Tobeissance 
de Sa Majesté Catholique, Ton peut dire par la Relation que nous 
avons Reçue icy que ce n'est qu'avec bien des difficultés et par une 
grande intrépidité de la part de ce General, S'il a conquis cette 
Ville et cette Province, ou il a eu le Malheur d'etre blessé en 
enfaisant le Siège mais par bonheur fort légèrement; nous navons 
eu dans l'armeé de M^. De Galvez que trois cent hommes tué et 
blessé, mais dans celle des Anglois cinq cent ont resté mort sur 
le Champt de Bataille et treize cent fait prisonniers tous de troupes 
réglée; Jespere qu'après une prise aussi glorieuse pour les 
armes d'Espagne, et le desaventage des Anglois dans toute leurs 
expeditions, que bientôt nous aurons une paix heureuse qui nous 
procurera l'abondance dont depuis longtems nous sommes privés. 

Je ne sais cy vous aurés été informé quil y a quelques tems, 
un Nommé Clairmon envoyé avec Six hommes par le Command- 
ant de Michilimakinac avec une Lettre adressée aux habitans 
. des Cahos et des Kaskaskias, par laquelle il les engagoient de 
lever des Compagnies de Milice qui Seroient payée par le Roy 
D'Angleterre afin de Sopposer a leurs Ennemis, Ses hommes étant 
heureusement arrêté a S* Louis Monsieur Don Francois Cruzat 
Lieutenant Colonel et Lieutenant Gouverneur en ce Village les 
a arrêté, et a envoyé copie de la ditte Lettre au Major Williams; 
Sans cette prudence de la part de notre Commandant je ne Sais 
Comment les Habitans de votre rive en auroient agi, vous Saves 
ce qu'est un peuple sans chef et ou tout particuliers ce croit en 
droit d'agir en toute liberté et Selon Sa volonté. Je Sais Seulement 
qu'il y en à plusieurs qui ont témoigné du mécontentement de ce 
que M^ Cruzat ne leur remettoit pas une Lettre qui leurs avoient 
été adressée, mais toute personnes qui pencerons un peu juste ne 
pourrons que l'en louer d'en avoir agi de la Sorte. 

Depuis votre depart des Cahos Tannée dernière il m'est arrivé 
bien des évenemens, vous saurés qu'a present ja Suis resident a 
S^. Louis n'ayant pu resté plus longtems dans un village ou il reg- 
noit cy peu d'union par la liberté efrenee qui y regnoit alors, je me 
reserve a la première entrevue a vous conter tous les desagremens 
que jy ai essuie, de plus depuis quelques tems jai été taxcé par trois 



GRATIOT TO CLARK, AUGUST, 1781 557 

we have received here, it can be said it is only with much difficulty 
and by great bravery on the part of this general that he has con- 
quered this town and this province, where he has had the mis- 
fortune to be wounded, while conducting the seige, but fortunately 
very lightly. We had in the army of M. de Galvez only three 
hundred men wounded, but in that of the English five hundred 
remained dead on the battle field and thirteen hundred were made 
prisoners, all regular troops. I hope that after a capture so glori- 
ous for the arms of Spain and the disadvantage of the English in 
all their expeditions, that soon we shall have a favorable peace, 
which will procure for us the abundance of which we have need 
for so long. 

I do not know if you have been informed that, some time ago, a 
man, named Clairmont was sent with six men by the commandant 
of Michillimackinac with a letter addressed to the inhabitants of 
Cahokia and Kaskaskia, by which he invited them to raise com- 
panies of militia, to be paid by the king of England, in order to 
make opposition to their enemies. Fortunately these men stopped 
at St. Louis and Don François Cruzat, lieutenant colonel and 
lieutenant governor in this village, arrested them and sent copies 
of the said letter to Major Williams. Without this prudence on 
the part of our commandant, I do not know how the inhabitants 
of your bank would have acted. You know what people are 
without a head and where every individual believes himself within 
his rights in acting with full liberty and according to his caprice. 
I know only that there are several who have shown discontent, 
because M. Cruzat did not send to them a letter which was ad- 
dressed to them; but all persons who think a little justly can only 
praise him for having acted in such a manner. 

Since your departure from Cahokia last year, many events have 
occurred. You know that at present I am residing at St. Louis, 
since I could not remain a longer time in a village where so little 
unity ruled on account of the unbridled liberty which reigned 
there. I am waiting for the opportunity of the first interview to 
recount to you all the annoyances which I have experienced ; the 
more so because, some time ago, I was accused by three men of 



5S8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

hommes de traison, d'avoir envoyé Ma Berge au Secour de Nos 
ennemis, je vous prie Mons*". de vouloir bien écrire at rendre 
témoignage de ma conduitte a cette Occasion, jespere que Votre 
certificat pourra rétablir mon honneur attaquée et donner du pois 
a ma justification. [Ms. illegible,] le rétablissement de M^'Linc- 
tot pour avoir le plaisir de vous voir et aller faire un tour du 
Côte de la Virginie. 

Permettes moi de vous féliciter Siu: votre avencement au 
Service des Etats Unis, j'espère que l'occasion de vous Signaler 
ne vous Manquerons pas, je Souhaitte que vos armes soyent vic- 
torieuse contre tous vos ennemis, et que Ion vous voye par tout 
avec ce courage, cette prudence et Sagesse qui ne vous a jamais 
abandonee ce Sont les désirs de celui qui est avec respect Votre 
très humble Serviteur Ch Gratiot 

S* Louis le I® Aoust 1781 
[Addressed] A Monsieur 

Monsieur George Rogers Clark Ecuer Brigadié General des 
Armée des Etats Unis et Commandant en Chef du Département 
de West A la Chute 

GiRARDiN TO Sinclair, November 3, 1781. 
Monsieur, 

Vous serez puttetre surpris du motiffe qui me fait prendre la 
liberté de vous écrire cette present Lettre puisque Je n'ai dautre 
vue que de vous prévenir de ce qui se passe icy et des intentions 
de la plus grande partie des Habitans de cette Rives que vous 
pensé véritablement ou bons ameriquains ou bons EspagnoUes 
bien qu 'enter ieurement ils ne soient, suivant ce que je puis voir 
ni lun ni lautre. 

Vous en auriez été déjà persuadé il i a même longtemps si les 
personnes que vous aviez député pour négocier avec vous un 
Traitté de Commerce dans le Mississipy ou dependences des 

^ In March, 17S0, Gratiot and Pepin, protected by trading permits from the Spanish 
commandant and Colonel Montgomery, started with a boatload of goods for Prairie du 
Chien, at that time in possession of the British. They were associated in the enterprise 
with Mr. Kay, of Micnillimackinac. A few leagues above Cahokia they handed the tXMt 
r)ver to a man name<i Cardinal, who conducted it to its destination where he and the crew 
were put in prison and the boat confiscated. On escaping, three of the crew sued Gratiot 
for wage:^, and made the above accusation against him. This was later withdrawn. Tbe 
statement by Cardinal is in Can. Archives, B., 97, vol. ii., p. 536. See also Dillon, Aimait 9f 
St. Louis, I., ao9. 



GIRARDIN TO SINCLAIR, NOVEMBER, 1781 559 

treason and of having sent my barge to the succor of our enemies. 
I pray you, sir, to consent to write and bear witness of my conduct 
on that occasion. I hope that your certificate will be able to 
re-establish my honor, which has been attacked and give weight to 
my justification.' [MS. illegible] the recovery of M. Linctot to 
have the pleasure of seeing you and going to make a tour of the 
Virginia coast. 

Permit me to congratulate you on your promotion to the service 
of the United States. I hope that the opportunity to signalize 
yourself will not fail you; I hope that your arms will be victorious 
against all your enemies and that you may be seen everywhere 
with that courage, that prudence and wisdom, which has never 
failed you. These are the desires of one who is with respect 
your very humble servant, Charles Gratiot. 

St. Louis, August I, 1 78 1. 

Addressed' To M. George Rogers Clark, Esquire 

Brigadier General of the army of the United 
States' and Commander in Chief of the Depart- 
ment of the West. At the Falls. 

GmARDiN TO Sinclair, November 3, 1781.' 
Sir: 

You will be perhaps surprised at the motive which makes me 
take the liberty of writing to you this present letter, since I have 
no other than to inform you of what is taking place here and of the 
sentiments of the majority of the inhabitants of this bank, whom 
you think indeed are either good Americans or good Spaniards, 
although they are not all either one or the other, as I can see. 
You would have been long ago persuaded thereof, if the persons 
whom you sent to negotiate with us a treaty concerning trade on 
the Mississippi or in the dependencies of the Illinois [had exercised 
judgment].* The treaty would certainly have been accepted, 
seeing that it would procure for us the advantage of obtaining our 
necessities in merchandise all and singular, for which we would 
have given in payment either our peltries or commodities. But 

' A mbtake. Clark held this rank in the array of Virginia. 
' Can. Archives, B., 98, p. 87, from a copy. 
* Set supra pp. 553 el seq. 



56o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

islenois qui certainement auroit été accepté vue qu'il nous procur- 
oit l'avantage de tirer nos besoins en Marchandise generallement 
quelconque pour laquelle nous avions donné en payement soit 
nos Pelleries ou Denrées. Mais souffrez que je vous dise que vos 
députés si sont trop malprise pour esper la réussite de leurs voya- 
ges. Vue qu'ils ont arrêté a St. Louis ou ils ne dévoient pas, par 
les Espagnolles qui n'ont que de l'avarice mais très peu de con- 
noissance et naturellement ambitieux jaloux et méfiant quand il 
ne le faut pas, les ont arrêté sans raisons, et nous n'avons pu 
les Ravoir qu'au Moyenne de bon Caution Domiciliés de ce lieu 
qui ont engagé la meiUeure partie de leur bien leurs Corps même 
pour les retirer, bien entendus qu'ils seroient garder a vue chez 
nous sans en pouvoir sortir sous quelque prétexte qui se peutetre 
sans le plein consentement des Commandants de l'une et l'autre 
partie. Ils auroient bien pu s'epagner cette Epocque qui nous 
fait un tort considerable a tous sils si etoient pris comme ils T- 
auroient pus faire, mais ayant vue moi même que c'a n'etoit qu'un 
etouderie que cette faut ne dependoit que du peut de Connoissance 
qu'ils ont pour des affaires d'un telle consequence. Je me suis 
chargé du soin de Monsieur Langlois qui s'est trouve îcy sans 
nule resource auquel j'ai Procure au temps [autant?] qu'il a été 
en mon pouvoir le moyen de se retirer d'icy et c'est par lui- 
même que j'ai l'honeur de vous adresser cette Lettre, qui vous 
informe de la bonne intentions des Habitans de ces Lieux. Je 
les crois disposés pour [?] mes persuader qu'ils ne seroient pas 
fâché de se revoir dependant et sujet a la Domination Angloise. 
Les Besoins les y forcé absolument, ils ne peuvent plus tenir i s 
ont tous un Besoin urgent des marchandises et je pense qu'un 
pavillon angloise seroit bien reçue chez nous si le parti n'etoit 
compris que de Blancs, sans qu'il y eut un seul sauvage avec 
eux, mais s'il y en avoit je douterois fort de l'enterpirse car tout 
le monde de tous les villages de ce continent sont déterminé 
suivant les apparences a bien rendre leur vie plutôt que de ce 
rendre a des barbares. 

Les Commerçants même ne demanderont peut être pas mieut 
qu'a tenter l'entreprise, le grand Profit qu'il pouroit faire dans la 



GIRARDIN TO SINCLAIR, NOVEMBER, 1781 561 

suffer me to tell you that your deputies have made too many mis- 
takes to expect success from their journey; for they stopped at St.' 
Louis, which they should not have done, and the Spaniards, who 
have only avarice but very little knowledge and are naturally 
ambitious, jealous and defiant, when there is no need, have arrest- 
ed them without cause; and we have been able to get them back 
only by means of offering bondsmen domiciled in this place, who 
have engaged the better part of their property and even their bodies 
to release them; and it was indeed agreed that they should be 
kept in sight among us and that they could not leave here under 
any pretext whatsoever without the full consent of the command- 
ants of both places. They might have been able to be spared 
this period which caused a considerable wrong to us all, if they 
had gone at it in the way they might have done; but since I myself 
saw that it was only a heedless action and that this fault was 
the result of the little knowledge which they have for affairs of 
such consequence, I have taken on myself the care of M. Langlois 
who is here without any resources. I have procured for him, 
inasmuch as he has been in my care, the means of withdrawing 
from here; and it is by him that I have the honor of sending you 
this letter, which will inform you of the good sentiments of the 
inhabitants of these regions. I believe them so disposed that I 
am persuaded that they would not be offended at seeing them- 
selves again dependent and subject to the English Government. 
Necessities have absolutely forced them to it; they can no longer 
hold out; they all have an urgent need of merchandise and I 
think that an English flag would be well received among us, if 
the party was composed only of whites without a single savage 
being with it; but if there was, I would be very doubtful of 
the success of the enterprise ; for everybody in all the villages 
of this continent is determined, according to appearances, to 
give up his life rather than to surrender to the barbarians. 

The merchants indeed will demand, perhaps, nothing better 
than to attempt the enterprise. The great profit which can be 
made in trade could compensate them doubly for the expense. 
As for myself, if you decide to make the expedition, I offer my 



502 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

commerce les pouvoit de dommager doublement de leurs fraits 
pour moi si vous trouvez juste d'en faire Texpedition Je m'offre 
en tout ce que je pourrais faire pour vue que je sois avertis par 
quelques personnes éclaire, quelque jour avant Tarrivée des 
parties ici, et j*ose me tenir fort de disposer tous les habîtans a 
vous recevoir librement pour vue toutte fois qu'il n'y aye point 
de Sauvages mêle dans votre Détachement, Je ne doutte pas 
qu'on ne nous accuse de Rebelles pour avoir sans resistance souf- 
fert l'entre des Ameriquains être nous mais que peut faire un 
peuple abandonné que l'on aveugle par mille beaux discours dont 
nous sommes encore a voir les effets joignant a cela crainte de ne 
pouvoir trop vitte abuser de notre Crédulité les menaces de nous 
nuire, si de bon Coeur nous ne consentions a leur faire un serment 
inviolable il nous a don fallut pour nous ménager la propriété 
de nos biens consentir a tout ce qu'ils ont voulus. Nous ne nous 
croirions de ne pas engager a rien, si nous nous relevions nous 
mêmes d'un serment que nous avons été obligé de faire. 

Il est bon de vous observer Monsieur qu'il i aura quelques ob- 
stacles pour passer aux portes que les Espagnolles occupe mais j'ai 
lieu de croire qu'une fois entre che vous vous i trouverez tous les 
besoins de bouches qui vous seront nécessaire pour en faire l'- 
expédition. Je ne doute pas non plus qu'il ni en aye beaucoup 
de nous qui ne se joignant a vous même de ceux qui dependent 
des Espagnolles qui comme nous réduit au plus pressant besoins 
de tous voudront rester neutre ou peutetre se mettre ayant. 

J'espère monsieur qu'en cas que mes speculations n'ayant 
aucuns Lieux et que vous ne veuillez tenter l'enterprise que ma 
Lettre ne sera point communiqué a personne afin de m 'épargner 
ainsi qua celui qui écrit cette Lettre les poursuittes que pour- 
roit faire les ammériquains et les Espagnolles aux quelles pour- 
suittes il ne vous serait pas peutetre aisé de nous sous traire. 

Je suis Monsieur 
en espérant votre protection 
Votre très himible et obéissant Serviteur 
aux Chakokias 3 9^" 1781 (signé) Antoine Gîrardin 

!*H Monsieur Sinclair, Gouverneur. 



GIRARDIN TO SINCLAIR, NOVEMBER, 1781 563 

services in everything that I can do, provided that I am informed 
by some instructed persons a few days before the arrival of the 
parties here; and I dare to hold myself ready to prepare all the 
inhabitants to receive you freely, provided there should be no 
savages mingled in your detachment. I do not doubt that we are 
accused with being rebels for having suffered without resistance 
the entrance of the Americans among us; but what could a 
deserted people do, who were blinded by a thousand beautiful 
speeches, of which we are still to see the results, and there was 
joined therewith, for fear of the impossibility of so quickly delud- 
ing our credulity, threats of destruction, if we should not consent 
cheerfully to make to them an inviolable oath. It was for us a 
necessary gift, to consent to all they have desired, in order to pro- 
cure for ourselves the security of our property. We would not 
believe ourselves in any way bound, if we should free ourselves of 
an oath which we have been forced to make. 

It is well to call your attention, sir, that there will be some 
obstacles to pass at the posts which the Spaniards occupy, but I 
am right in believing that once entered into our villages, you will 
find there all the necessary provisions which you will need in 
order to make the expedition. I no longer doubt but that there 
would be many of us who would join themselves to you, even of 
those who are subject to the Spaniards, who, like ourselves, are 
reduced to the most pressing needs and will wish to remain neutral 
or perhaps to take an active part. 

I hope, sir, that, in case my speculations should have no results 
and you should be unwilling to attempt the enterprise, my 
letter will not be communicated to any one, in order to spare me as 
well as him who writes this letter the prosecutions which the 
Americans and the Spaniards might make, from which prosecu- 
tions it would not be easy for you to screen us. 

I am, sir, in the hope of your protection your very humble and 
obedient servant 
At Cahokia November 3, 1781. (Signed) Antoine Girardin. 

. [Addressed] M. Sinclair, 

Governor. 



I 



564 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Ordinance of the Court of Cahokia, June ii, 1783. 

Lan Mil Sept Cent quatre vingt trois le onzième jour du mois 

de juin En vertu de la Cour tenue cejourd'huy an nom du public, 

pour Délibérer Sur la quantité de terre qui reste a prendre Dans 

La Prairie du pond, propre pour le Culture, a Eté décidé par 

ladite Cour quil Soit fait une recapitulation de la quantité de 

sitoyen Leurs donnant la preference a tous autres, Et quansuitte 

il soit mentioné de la quantité de terre quil peut y avoir a prendre 

Sans faire tor au terrin quil convient de reserver pour la Conmiune 

Et En Suitte que Ion fera passer laditte cloture Commune par 

derrière le terrin qui appartient a Joseph Mesonville, Et de la 

Joindre la Coulé des liar le long de laquelle passera Laditte 

Cloture, Jusqua la pointe a butau Et de la En gagnant La 

pointe de bois du Grand Cotau en Cas quil se trouve assé Dabi- 

tant pour prendre des terre jusque la, Et a Ce deffaut La Cloture 

arrettera a la fin des dernière terre Borné Et prise par les dits 

habitant, Et Sont Convenu En outre que Comme Lesdittes terres 

dans letendu quelles ont ne Sont pas aussi avantageuse Les une 

Comme Les autres, quil faut Des Billet qui Seront tiré au Sort, 

Et que chaq'un qui tirrera Son Billet, Sera forcé de faire Sa 

Cloture Suivant Son numéro Cest a dire prendront lesdittes 

Clotures au bout de Celle des habitants qui ont déjà [?] labourré 

Dans le Cul de Sac de la ditte prairie du pond. Conformément a 

leur quantité de terre. Et que toutes les autres qui reste Seront 

tiré au sort telle quil a Eté cy devant Expliquée Et que tant qu'au 

reste de la prairie Sur la Droitte de la ditte Coule des lîar La 

ditte Cour au nom des habitant, cela Sont réservé pour le pai- 

age de Leurs Animaux La Borne de chaque terres Courant Du 

mississipy au Cotte, et que Si par la Suitte il Se presentoit quel 

qu'autre habitant qui voulussent avoir des terres Et poursuivres 

!J plus loins, il Seront obligé de Suivre La Ligne Directe de la 

Cloture moyenant que le Cotté de la ditte Coulle des liar demeu- 
ra toujour pour Comune aux animaux Et quaprés touttes Clotiire 
de terre Faites Celle qui resteront Sera partagé En Comun a 
chaque habitant qui auront prix des terre dans laditte prairie 

* Chi. Hist. Soc., Cah. Kec, original manuscript. Transcripti<MX by the editor. 



ORDINANCE, JUNE, 1783 565 

Ordinance of the Court of Cahokia, June ii, 1783.* 
The year, 1783, the eleventh day of the month of June, in virtue 
of the Court, held this day in the name of the public to determine 
the amount of land which remains to be taken up in the Prairie 
du Pont, appropriate for cultivation,* it has been decided by the 
said Court that there be made a census of the citizens, giving 
them the preference over all others, and that, thereafter, there 
be set aside the amount of land, which can be taken up without 
encroaching on the ground which it has been agreed to reserve for 
the commons; and thereafter that the said common fence shall be 
made to pass behind the ground belonging to Joseph Maisonville 
and to join there the gully of limestone along which the said fence 
shall run up to Butau's point and from there running to the point 
of woods of the Big Hill, in case there are found sufficient inhabi- 
tants to take up the land as far as that; and if not, the fence shall 
stop at the end of the last land surveyed and taken up by the said 
inhabitants. And it has been furthermore agreed that, since some 
of the said lands are not as desirable in respect to area as others, 
there should be tickets which shall be drawn by lot, and that 
each who shall draw his ticket shall be compelled to make his 
fence in the order of his number; that is to say they shall begin the 
said fences at the end of that belonging to the inhabitants who have 
already cultivated land in the cul de sac of the said Prairie du. Pont 
and build them according to the amount of their land; and that 
the other tickets which remain shall be drawn by lot in the manner 
it has been herebefore explained. And in regard to the rest of the 
prairie on the right of the said limestone gully, the said Court in the 
name of the inhabitants has reserved that for the pasturage of their 
animals, the limit of each land extending from the Mississippi to 
the bluffs, and, if hereafter there should present themselves other 
inhabitants who wish to have lands and to go on farther, they shall 
be obliged to follow the direct line of the fence, on condition that 
the side of the said limestone gully shall remain always a commons 
for the animals; and it has been decided that after all enclosures 
of land have been made, that which remains shall be divided 

^ See supra pp. 153, 159. 



566 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

du pond Car ainsi a Eté Convenu Et accordé fait Et passé aux 
Cahos lan Et Jour que dessu Etant Signé 

sa sa 

Antoine -I- Lamarche L -|- Lebrun 

marque marque 

sa sa 

Jos^ -h Bellefeuil fr -h Courié 

marque marque 

pierre quenel 

F Saucier Greffier 

iNHABriANTS OF CaHOKIA TO CONGRESS, NOVEMBER ID, 1 784. 

Etrait du Regis du Greffe des Illinois En la Ville des Kaskaskias 
A L'honorable Congres. 
Messieurs — 
Cest avec un Vray plaisir que nous habitant des Cahokias et 
des Villages d'alentoure, nous avons apris que par im acte de 
L'assemblée de la Virginie du 20 Janvier 1781. nous somes 
tombé Entierrement sous la Juridictions de Votre honorable 
Corps, dans L'espérance que nous somês que vous nous donneré 
les secours dont nous avons Besoin, et accorderez la Jouissance 
de nos Enciennes Loix, privilege et Coutume, et que comme sujet 
ameriquaîn nous jouirons des mêmes avantage que tous les autres 
habitant Jouissent; nous Etant la moyenne partie de nous autres 
porté Volontairement dans toutes les Entreprise qui se sont formé 
contre Lennemis Comuns; et même fort souvent Exposé nos 
familles a la brutalitée des Sauvages En nous Eloignant délie 
et nous Etant aussy privée du nécessaire pour Contribuer a 
lEntretien des troupes qui on été Envoyé parmis nous, et ces dans 
des tems que nos récolte ont tout a fait manqué, tant par les dé- 
bordement du Mississipi que par les incurtion que faisoient les 
Sauvages sur nos terres, nous avons Enfin dans toutes les occas- 
sions montrée un vray Zelle pour la deffence de la libertée; cest 
pour quoi nous Es{>erons, Recevior Les Benefices de nos peines 
et que Vous aurez Egards aux demandes que nous faisont, et 
qui ne sont que trop Justes pour nous En faire douter la réussites. 



MEMORIAL, NOVEMBER, 17S4 567 

among all the inhabitants who shall have taken up land in the said 
Prairie du Pont; for so it has been agreed and granted. Made 
and passed at Cahokia the year and day as above, there having 
signed, 

his his his 

Antoine + Lamarche L. + Lebrun Joseph -|- Bellefeuil 

mark mark mark 

Pierre Quenel. 
F. Saucier, Clerk. 

Inhabitants of Cahokia to Congress, November 10, 1784.* 
Extract of the Registers of the Record-Office of the Illinois in 
the Town of Kaskaskia.' 
To the Honorable Congress. 
Sirs: — 

It is with a true pleasure that we, the inhabitants of Cahokia 
and of the surrounding villages, have learned that by an act of the 
assembly of Virginia of the 20th of January, 1781, we have fallen 
entirely under the jurisdiction of your honorable body; for we 
hope that you will give us the assistance which we need, and grant 
us the enjoyment of our former laws, privileges and. customs, and 
that as American subjects we shall enjoy the same advantages as 
the other inhabitants enjoy; for we have borne voluntarily our 
proportional share in all the enterprises, which have been formed 
against the common enemy, and even very often exposed our fami- 
lies to the brutality of savages by going far from them, and we have 
often been deprived of the necessities in order to contribute to the 
support of the troops who have been sent among us; and this at a 

* Pat>ers of the Old Congress, XLI.. V., 115. a copy by the clerk of the Kaskankia court. 
The transcripts from the Papers of the Old Cotigress, printed in this volume, were made under 
the direction of the staff of the Bureau of HLst. Research of Carnegie Institution, and were 
collated a second time by Dr. J. FrankUn Jameson. 

*The petition was drawn up by the inhabitants of Cahokia in 1784, but the copy which 
reached Congress was made by the Kaskaskia clerk, which accounts for certain pectdiarities 
of spelling. Labuxierc. the clerk at Cahokia, who wrote the original petition, makes a final 
s which looks like a straight line, and this has been read by the clerk of Kaskaskia as the letter 
t. There are other errors which can be accounted for in a similar way, as, for instance, the 
spelling of the signatures. Also, the clerk of Kaskaskia has added a paragraph to make it 
appear that the Cahokians united with the Kaskaskians in denouncing John Dodge. The 
Caiiokians intrusted the original petition to Major Lebrun, but he was killed before he reached 
the Ohio river. In 1786 the people of Kaskaskia sent a copy of it with a petition of their 
own to Congress. Se« Introduction, pp. cxzix., cxxx. 



568 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Premièrement que Vous nous accordie le droit de Choisir 
parmie nous les personnes les plus Eclairés pour Magistrat qui 
jouront de leurs places quautant quil metriteront la Confiance du 
peuple, et que En Cas de mal Versation nous ayont aussy le même 
droit de les déplacer pour En nomer dautres, et que tous les habi- 
tants qui Viendront setablire parmis nous soient obliger de ce 
Conformé aux Loix qui sont déjà Etablie et sous les quelles nous 
avons et Espérons Vivre En Paix. 

^eme — £^ ^^^ da^Tis toutes les causses de consequence ou le bien 
être de quelque particulier se trouveray tout a fait Engagé, nous 
ayons outre notre Judicature un Endroit ou nous puissions faire 
appelle des Sentence que un de ces particulier ne Croiroit pas 
avoir été Entendue suivant toute la Justice quil avoit lieu dattendre, 
mais que le nombre de ces Causses soient réduite a celle que vous 
croire absolument nécessaire pour le bien aitre de Lendroit et 
que les places des forts ne soient aliéner à aucun particulier, com- 
me actuellement Ledit sieur John Dodge posede une place dun 
fort et que les terraces sont toutes faites depuis le tems que le 
Roy de france posedoit la Collonie des Illinois qui est la deffence du 
Vilage de la Ville des Kaskaskias. 

^emc — Dans lEsperence que nous sommes quune fois le Bon 
ordre Etablie parmis nous, devoir Venir tous les habitant qui 
Ennuyer de ce Voir Exposé a toute Sortes de danger se sont 
Retiré sur la partie EspagnoUe outre cela les avantage qu'ofiFre 
la fertilité de nos terres a ceux qui y Viendront cy Etablir nous 
Soiteriont que vous Voulusies bien Enpecher Labus qui ce fait 
généralement dans tous les nouveaux pavs ou il se trouve toujour 
quelque particulier qui font des achats de quantité de terrin sur 
les quelles ils nonl aucun intantion de setablir que celle de les 
Garder quelque année pour Ensuite les revendre a des prix 
Exhorbitant. 

^eme — ^\yant Heu dattendre que Vous nous Enverrez des troup)es 
dont nous avons besoins pour la surté et la police de lendroit nous 
Espèrent que Vous Voudré bien pourvoire a ce que nous ne soiont 
plus Exposé au même desordre et irrégularité que nous avons 

^ An addition to the original petition made by the Kaskaakians. 



MEMORIAL, NOVEMBER, 1784 569 

time that our crops have completely failed both on account of the 
overflow of the Mississippi and the incursions which the savages 
made on our lands. Finally we have shown on all occasions a 
true zeal in the defence of liberty. This is why we hope to re- 
ceive the advantages of our labors and that you will give heed to 
the petitions which we make and which are only too just to cause 
us doubt of their success. 

Firstly, we pray that you grant us the right of choosing from 
among ourselves the most enlightened persons for magistrates, who 
shall hold their places as long as they merit the confidence of the 
people, and that in case of malversation we have also the same 
right of displacing them in order to name others; and that all the 
persons who shall come to settle among us be obliged to conform 
themselves to the laws which are already established and under 
which we have and hope to live in peace. 

Secondly, we pray that, for all the important suits in which the 
well-being of some individual shall be entirely at stake, we have, 
besides our judicature, a place to which we can make appeal from 
the judgments when one of these individuals believes that he has 
not been heard according to the full justice, which he had the right 
to expect; that the number of these suits be reduced to that which 
you shall believe absolutely necessary for the well-being of the 
place; and that the sites of the forts be not alienated to any indi- 
vidual, as now the said M. John Dodge possesses a site of a fort, 
the earth- works of which have been all built since the time when 
the king of France possessed the colony of the Illinois and which 
are the defence of the village of the town of Kaskaskia.* 

Thirdly, on account of the hope, which we have, that once good 
order is established among us, there are bound to come back all 
the inhabitants who, wearied with seeing themselves exposed to 
all kinds of danger, have withdrawn to the Spanish parts, and 
furthermore on account of the advantages which the fertility of our 
lands offers to those who shall come here to settle, we desire that 
you will hinder the abuse which generally occurs in all new coun- 
tries, where there are always some individuals who make purchases 
of large tracts of land on which they have no intention of settling, 



570 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

déjà Essuiez d'elle, quil ne soiet plus aux pouvoir du Comandant 
de cette troupe de prendre par force chez labitant ce quil croira 
avoir besoin que cette effet vous Voulissiez bien autorisé un 
quelquun pour régler les Enciens Compte de ce que les habitant 
ont déjà fournie, et que cette même personne ou un autre soient 
aussy a même de satisfaire soit En argent ou billet de Credit les 
habitant quil lui fourniront des provisionts pour la troupe et quen 
cas quil Vienent a manquer de quelque nécessaire que Lofficier 
comandant soient obliger davoir recour aux Magistrat de L'en- 
droit qui se serviront des moyens les plus prond et les plus satis- 
fesant aux particuliers pour leurs [procurer] ce quils auroient 
besoint. 

^eme — Comme ayant parmis nous différentes personnes qui par 
les Correspondances qu'il Entretiennes avec les sujets du Roy 
d'anglettere dans [Lint^] du Cotte de Michilimakina et du détroit 
et autre places aux prejudice de notre comerce ainsy qu'une Bendc 
de mauvais sujet qui sasemble et tienne des discours avec les sujet 
du Roy d'anglettere contre les Etats unies et qui insinue dans les 
Esprits foible que le Roy d'anglettere prendra possetion de cette 
Colonie c'est ce qui met le trouble parmie les nations Sauvages et 
nous Expose Journellement dans le perille et Lorsque Voj-ant une 
Justice Etablie Enpecheroit tous les cabales de sa troupie nous 
Eviteroit tous dangers. 

^fme — Pour dernier demande que nous regardont comme Grace 
special, nous Esperont que le Congre aura Egards que depuis 
plusieurs années consequitive nous avons Etée Exposé a manquer 
de tous nécessaire tant par le débordement que le Misissipy a fait 
siu- les terres que nous avions conjointement choisy et que par 
l'inquiétude que nous a toujours causse les nations Sauvages qui 
nous ont obliger a abandoner les Etablissement que nous avions 
déjà faite ce que nous oblige de \'i\Te très retirées nous Esperont 
que vous voudre Bien nous accorder quel qu'année frenchc de 
taxe pour nous remettre dans un Etat a pouvoir vi\Te et soutenir 
notre famelle, et que lors que nous seront oUiger dans payer Vous 
nous accordier le droit Entre nous des personnes qui prcmient 

1 Tbe mranint is aoc ck«r, ssoe the imxagmtak «as nac 



MEMORIAL, NOVEMBER, 1784 571 

but that of holding them some years in order to sell them after- 
wards at an exorbitant price. 

Fourthly, since we have reason to expect that you will send 
troops, of whom we have need for the safety and the police of the 
place, we hope that you will provide for this, that we are no longer 
exposed to the same disorder and irregularity that we have already 
suffered from them; that it be no longer in the power of the com- 
mander of these troops to take by force from the houses of the in- 
habitants what he shall believe he has need of; that for this pur- 
pose you will authorize some one to settle the old accounts for the 
supplies which the inhabitants have already furnished, and that 
this same person or another be also authorized to satisfy either 
in gold or credit-notes the inhabitants who shall furnish him 
provisions for the troops; and that in case he happens to lack 
any necessity, the officer in command be obliged to have recourse 
to the magistrates of the place, who shall use the most prompt 
means and the most satisfactory to the individuals to obtain for 
him what he needs. 

Fifthly, since we have among us several persons who through 
the correspondence which they keep up with the subjects of the 
king of England both from Michillimackinac and Detroit and 
other places to the prejudice of our commerce; and also a band 
of worthless fellows who assemble with the subjects of the king of 
England and make speeches against the United States and who 
are instilling into the minds of the feeble spirits the belief that the 
king of England will take possession of this colony, that is what 
makes the trouble among the savage tribes and exposes us daily 
to peril; and when a justice is seen to be established, it would pre- 
vent all the intrigues and by its troops spare us all danger.^ 

Sixthly, for a last petition, which we regard as a special grace, 
we hope that Congress will consider that for several consecutive 
years we have suffered from a lack of all necessities both on ac- 
count of the inundation of the Mississippi on the lands which we 
have conjointly chosen and because of the disturbance which has 
been caused by the savage tribes, who have obliged us to abandon 
the settlements which we have already made,a fact which compels 



572 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



I: 



connoissance de ce qu'un chaqu'un possède pouront avec plus 
dequitter juger de ce que chaque particulier Doit payer nous avont 
espérer que nos demande Vous pareteront Juste pour doutter 
d'un seule moment que Vous ne nous les acordier pas. 

M^ Le Major Le Brun de Belle Court, porteure de la présente 
cera a même de vous donner un Etat sirconstencier de notre Situa- 
tion actuelle et nous nous reposont Entierrement que Vous Voudré 
bien Ecouter nos demandes et nous somes très Respectueusements 

MESSIEURS 

Vos très humbles et 
aux Cakokias aux Illinois très obéissants les 

ce lo 9 ^'* — 1784 Supliants soussignés 

Signé sur la minutte 
Jean B^«. LaCroix: Dubuque 



Calarie A: Pelletier f*" Courrier: 
A: armant dupuis P. Martin: 



J. Cecire chenier 
J B^« Dumay 
Charle Cadron 
P: Chevallier 
A. Jerardin 
R. Waus[ir</«5/'] 
aimé Compte 
La Bruver 
J. Marois 
Germain 



C. Lefevre: 
J Bissonette 
f. Gramont: 
P: Daurion: 

E. Bouvet: 
J. Roussard 
M: Sa ussier: 
S : Chatelle. 
A. Bover. 



S. LeCompte: Bray 

J. Jervais: P. roy 

S. Pillet: S. lebrun 

P^ : Poupart 

B*« Baron 

B^* alarie. A: Beron 

A. Lamarche. 
B^* Saussier 
f: Saussier 
B^* Merier 
J. BelleCourt 



gagner 
N. Canada 



thimoté de Montbrun Comandant 



Ordinance of the Magistrates of Cahokia, August 28, 1785. 
Nous Antoine Girardin Commandant au poste des Cahos Et 
Jean Bte LaCroix president et magistrat au district dud* poste. 
Etant nécessaire de remédier au Brigendage Et vol qui se Com- 

1 Chi. HUt. Soc^ Cak. Rec., original manuscript. Transcription by the editor. 



ORDINANCE, AUGUST, 1785 573 

us to live very secludedly; and therefore we hope that you will 
grant us freedom from taxation for some years so that we may put 
ourselves in a condition to be able to live and support our families; 
and that when we are obliged to pay taxes, you will grant us 
the right [of choosing] from among ourselves persons who know 
what each possesses and can with more equity judge what each 
individual ought to pay. We hope that our petitions will appear 
to you so just that there will be no doubt for a single moment of 
your granting them to us. 

Major Lebrun de Belcour, bearer of the present, will be able 
to give you a circumstantial statement of our present condition ; 
and we fully trust that you will listen to our petitions and we are 
very respectfully, 

Sirs, 
Your very humble and obedient petitioners, undersigned. 

At Cahokia in the Illinois, this loth of November, 1784. 

Signed on the record 

Jean Bte. LaCroix. Dubuque. 
C. Alarie. A. Pelletier. Fr. Courier. L. Lecomte. Brady. [?] 
A. Harmand. Dupuis. P. Martin. J. Gervais. P. Roy. 
J. Cesirre. Chenier. C. Lefevre. L. Pillet. L. Lebrun. 
J. Bte. Dumay. J. Bissonette. P. Poupar. 

Charles Cadron. F. Grandmont. Bte. Baron. 

P. Chevalier. P. Dorion. Bte. Alarie. A. Baron. 

A. Girardin. E. Bouvet. A. Lamarche. 

R. Watts [?] J. Roussard. Bte. Saucier. 

Aimé Compte. M. Saucier. F. Saucier. 

Labruyer. L. Chatel. Bte. Mercier. 

J. Marois. A. Boyer. J. Belcour. 

Germain. N. Canada. 

Gagné. Thimothe de Monbreun, Commandant. 

Ordinance of the Magistrates of Cahokia, August 28, 1785.^ 
We, Antoine Girardin, Commandant at the post of Cahokia, 

and Jean Bte. LaCroix, President and Magistrate in the district 

of the said post: 

Since it is necessary' to remedy the brigandage and theft, which 



574 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

metent tant de Nuit que de jour dans les champs Ensemancés et 
cultives en Bled froment, Mahis, Poids, fèves, citrouilles melons et 
autres legumes, ainsi que dans les verger ou jardins, ou ces mêmes 
voleurs désolent et Ruinent entièrement le travail et Labeiurs des 
Bons Citoyens qui Se donnent toutes les peines pour avoir leurs 
subsistances et jouir du fruit de leurs travaux, Etant indis{>ensable 
d'arrêter le cour dun desordre aussi pernicieux au bien public il est 
très expressément deffendû a toutes personnes de telle qualité que 
ce puisse être Soit habitant leurs femmes ou enfant et esclaves Aux 
voluntaires, gabans, gens sans aveu ou autres, dentrer dans Les 
champs Ensemancés de grains ou legumes, qui ne leur apartien- 
dron pas ainsi que dans les vergers ou jardins et dy voler ny prendre 
aucune chose que ce puisse être a peine de Cent livres demande 
aplicable moitié au bien public de lautre moitié au dénonciateur; 
d'etre mis huit jours aux fers et promené dans le village des Cahos 
avec Les marques de leur vol pendu au Col pour la premiere fois; 
El de plus grands Châtiments En cas de residive. il est aussi très 
expressément deffendû de passer a traver les terres Ensemancées 
Siot a chaval ou en charete, ordonnons de suivre les chemins de 
ligne a peine de cinquante livres damande contre ceux qui con- 
treviendront a la présente ordonnance Et de payer le domage. Ce 
qui Sera P3xecuté Sans moderation Et la présente sera lue et 
affichée a la porte de cette Eglise Et Enregistré au greffe pwur y 
avoir recour, aux cahos le 28 aoust 1785. 

J. B H LaCroix présidant 

At Girardin Labuxiere grefier 

Pétition oç La Croix in regard to Trade, October 29, 1785. 
A Messieurs Les Magistrats Et respectable Cour du district des 

Cahos 
Messieurs 

Jean B^* LaCroix a Ihonneur de vous exposer que pwur le 
Bien public la Cour luy a accordé le 8. de Mars 1782 la permission 
de la traite avec les sauvages dans ce village aux conditions Ex- 
pliquées dans la Sentence de ladite Cour rendue cedit jour 8. mars 

* Possibly '* gabans" is a corrupdoQ of vagabonda. 



CONCERNING TRADE, OCTOBER, 1785 575 

are committed as well by night as by day in the fields, sown and cul- 
tivated in wheat, com, peas, beans, pumpkins, melons and other 
vegetables and also in the orchards or gardens, where these same 
thieves spoil and ruin utterly the work and labor of the good citi- 
zens who give all their toil to have their subsistence and to enjoy 
the fruit of their labor; since it is indispensable to stay the course 
of a disorder so pernicious to the public welfare, it is very expressly 
forbidden all pen:ons of what quality soever whether inhabitants, 
their wives or wayward children and slaves, vagabonds,^ vagrants 
or others, to enter the fields, sown with grains or vegetables, which 
do not belong to them, and also the orchards and gardens and to 
steal or take anything whatsoever there, on pain of one hundred 
livres fine, payable half to the public treasury and the other half 
to the informer, and of being put in irons for eight days and led 
about in the village of Cahokia with the marks of their theft hung 
around their neck, for the first offence, and of greater punishment 
in case of repetition. It is also very expressly forbidden to pass 
across the sown fields either on horseback or in a wagon. We 
command that the line of the roads be followed on pain of fifty 
livres fine against those who shall violate the present ordinance 
and of paying for the damage, for which there will be execution 
without mitigation. And the present shall be read and posted on 
the door of this church and registered in the record-office in order 
that there may be recourse thereto. At Cahokia, August 28, 1 785. 

J. B. H. LaCroix, President. 
Ant. Girardin. Labuxiere, Clerk. 

Petition of La Crodc in Regard to Trade, October 29, 1785.* 
To MM. the Magistrates and the honorable Court of the 
District of Cahokia. 
Sirs : — 

Jean Bte. LaCroix has the honor to set forth to you that, for 
the public good, the Court granted him on the 8th of March, 1782, 
permission to trade with the savages in this village under the condi- 
tions declared in the decree of the said Court, rendered the said 

' Chi. Hist. Soc. Cah. Rec., orignal manuscript, somewhat damaged by folding. Tran- 
scription by the editor. 



576 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

1 782. ledt S*" LaCroix na point Eté troublé jusqua present dans Sa 
traite mais présentement il se trouve [en] Cas au prejudice Notable 
du public Et de Lexposant qui tend a faire périr Les Citoyens de 
faim sur tout dans d'aussi grandes Calamité comme nous nous 
trouvous présentement. 

Les commerceans Etranger de missilimakina Sont icy Messieurs 
qui Bien loin de Se Contanter de Lazile que nous leur donnons 
pour vendre leurs marchandises aux français traitent des Sauvages 
qui viennent a ce vilage toutes les douceurs que lesd^ sauvages 
aportent Et nous otent par ce moyens les faculté de i>ouvoir vivre 
En nous survandant ces mêmes danrées de traite a des prix 
Exhorbitant El En En faisant des amas au detriment du peuple p*" 
le transporter hor de Lendroit ou Le vendre a des prix plus 
honereux au public comme ces commerceants nont aucun droit de 
traite dans ce village Et que si nous avons quelque douceur a 
traiter des sauvages . .[MS. torn]. . Benefice Nous apartient de 
droit Et non a des Etranger que nous soufr[ons] icy par Bienséance 
ayant Eté renvoyez de la rive Espagnole il nest pas juste de Nous 
laisser Enlever par ces mêmes marchand a nos yeux ce que la 
providence nous offre par les sauvages; ce qui ces marchands 
traitent non Seulement des marchandises a Nos yeux jusques sur 
nos foyer mais Encore ce qui est plus pemici[eux] de la boisson 
Et soutent les sauvages dans un lemp ou on ne sauroit Etre trop 
Circonspect; pour Eviter [les] malheurs qui En peuvent résulter je 
requière Messieurs que vous ayez la bonté de me Continuer dans 
ma traite Et quil soit fait deffance a tous Commerceants Etranger 
de Sy immisser a lavenir dans ce village ni dy traiter aucunne 
Chose avec les sauvages qui y viennent a peine dune amende 
telle quil vous plaira fixer Et de Confiscation de ce quils auront 
traiter sous loffre que fait lexposant de Se Conformer aux Con- 
ditions de la Sentence de la Cour dud^ jour 8. mars 1782. Et que 
cette Branche de Commerce nous Soit Conservée dans notre 
village . . [MS lorn] . . aux Etrangers cest a quoy je Condud aux 
Cahosle 29, S^*"*^ 1785. 

J. B. H. LaCroix. 

* See supra pp. 125, 213. 
> The great flood of 178;. 



CONCERNING TRADE, OCTOBER, 1785 577 

day, March 8, 1782.* The said M. LaCroix has not been troubled 
up to the present in his trading; but now he is in a position very 
prejudicial to the public and to the petitioner and which tends 
to cause the citizens to perish from hunger, especially at a time 
of such great calamity as we find ourselves in at present.' 

The alien merchants of Michillimackinac, gentlemen, are 
here and, far from contenting themselves with the asylum which 
we give them to sell their merchandise to the French, they are 
trading with the savages, who come to this village, for all the 
goods which the said savages bring and are taking from us in this 
way the means of making a living, since they overcharge us for 
these same commodities of trade at exorbitant prices; and to the 
detriment of the people they are making hords of the goods in 
order to transport them out of the place or to sell them at prices 
most burdensome to the public. Since these merchants have no 
right of trade in this village and since, if we have some goods to 
trade with the Indians, [this] advantage should belong to us and 
not to strangers; and since we suffer them here for convenience, 
after having been sent away from the Spanish bank, it is not just 
in us to permit these traders to carry off before our eyes what 
Providence offers us through the savages. But these traders 
are trading before our eyes and up to our very doors not only in 
merchandise but also in what is more pernicious, drink, and are 
favoring the savages at a time when one cannot be too careful. In 
order to avoid the evils which may result therefrom, I pray, 
gentlemen, that you have the goodness to continue me in my 
trading right and that all alien merchants for the future be for- 
bidden to participate therein in this village or to trade in anything 
with the savages who come here, on pain of a fine, such as it shall 
please you to fix, and of confiscation of that for which they shall 
have traded; and in return the petitioner offers to conform to 
the conditions of the decree of the Court of the said 8th of March, 
1782, so that this branch of commerce be preserved for us in our 
village [and not pass] to aliens; and this is -my conclusion. At 
Cahokia October 29, 1785. J. B. H. LaCroix. 

In view of the decree rendered by the Court of the district 
March 8, 1782, by which the said Court granted the right of trade 



( 



578 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Veu la Sentence Rendue par la Cour du district le 8. mars 1782 
par laquelle ladite Cour a accordé la traite des sauvages aud* S*^ 
Jean B^« LaCroix lequel a toujours Exercé ladite traite Sans aucun 
Reproche ni plainte de personne cest pourquoy la Cour assemblée 
a décidé Et decide par la présente sentence que led^ S*" LaCroix 
Sera continué dans ladite traite Exclusivement a tous autres pour 
le Bien public de ce poste Et Sera libre de traiter Laudevie aux 
sauvages a la reserve neantmoins Et Cas très expressément réservé 
quil ne poura délivrer laudevie aux sauvages que lors quil partiront 
de ce de ce [sic] village de façon quil ne Boivent point aud^ village 
Et quil nen resuite aucim domage Et Sera donné une p>ersonne de 
Confiance par la Cour pour veiller a ce que led* S*" LaCroix ne 
leur donne point a boire Et jusques a ce que les sauvages soit 
Conduit avec leurs Boisson a une lieues hors de ce village. Et led* 
S*" LaCroix se Conformera a toutes les Conditions expliquées En la 
Sentence de permission du 8. mars 1782 Envers le public def- 
fandons très expressément a tous commerceants anglais Etrangers 
Résidants depuis peu En ce poste qui nont point de Sermant de 
fidélité aux Etats la traite de Lau dévie sous tel prétexte que ce soit 
a peine de Cent livres demande Et de plus grande peine En Cas 
de residive nenten . .[M S, lorn]. . Neantmoins desroger au Com- 
merce libre des marchands Etranger pour la traite Et de 
. .[MS. torn]. . des marchandises . .[MS. torn]. . et la Cour se 
reserve En cas de prejudice au public de reformer la présente 
permission accordée aud* S^ LaCroix dont elle prendra Con- 
noissance En tems et lieux si les Cas La requière Et le Con- 
tinuons dans son privilege jusqua Revocation expresse de 
Notre part deffendons a qui que ce soit de Le troubler, ni 
inquiéter Et la Présente Sera lu publicé et affiché demain 
dimanche a la porte de cette Eglise a lissue de la messe 
dimanche donné par nous La Cour séant par M" j B*® du Buque 
Charle ducharme fr. Courier. Et thom Bredy ce dernier na voulu 
signer Et les autres ont signé Et aprouvé par m*" trotier com- 
mandant Le 29 S^^^ 1785. 
[Signed] 
Ch DuCharme B Dubuque marque de fr courie 

J B H LaCroix magistrat + 



CONCERNING TRADE, OCTOBER, 1785 579 

with the savages to the said Jean Btc. LaCroix, who has always 
exercised the said right of trade without any reproach or complaint 
from any one, for which reason the Court in assembly has decided 
and does decide by the present decree that the said M. LaCroix 
shall be continued in the said trading privilege, exclusive of all 
others, for the public good of this post; and he shall be free to 
trade in liquor with the savages with this reservation and condi- 
tion, nevertheless, expressly reserved, namely that he can only 
deliver liquor to the savages when they shall set out from this 
village and so that they do not drink in the said village and there 
results no damage therefrom; and there shall be appointed by 
the Court a trustworthy person to see to it that the said M. LaCroix 
does not give them anything to drink and that the savages with 
their drink are conducted to the limits outside of the village. And 
the said LaCroix shall conform to all the conditions declared in 
the decree of permission March 8, 1782. Li regard to the public, 
we forbid very expressly all English merchants, who are alien 
residents for a short time in this post and have not taken the oath 
of fidelity to the states, the trade in liquor under any pretext 
whatsoever on pain of one hundred livres fine and of greater 
pimishment in case of repetition, not [intending], however, to 
detract from the free commerce of the alien traders for the trade 
and [Mss. torn] of merchandise [Mss. torn]. And the Court 
reserves to itself, in case of prejudice to the public, to change the 
present permission granted to the said M. LaCroix, of which 
it will take cognizance in time and place, if the case requires it; 
and we continue him in his privilege until express revocation on 
our part. We forbid any one whomsoever to trouble or distiu-b 
him. And the present shall be read, published and posted to- 
morrow, Sunday, on the door of this church at the close of mass. 
Given by us, the court in session, J. Bte. Dubuque, Charles 
DuCharme, Fr. Courier and Tom Brady ; the last has not wished 
to sign and the others have signed; and it was approved by M. 
Trottier October 29, 1785. 
[Signed] Ch. DuCharme. B. Dubuque 

J. B. H. LaCroix. Mark of Fr. Courier 

Magistrate. 



, 



S8o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Veu et aprouvée par moi major commandant 

fr. trottier 
a que Cette Condissionte Labuxiere greffier 

Le present Privilege Ennullé par la Sentence de ce jour sur les 
registres des audiences aux cahos le 12 9^" 1788 

Labuxiere grefier 

Inhabitants of Cahokia to Congress, July 15, 1786. 

Messieurs des Etats unis de L*amerique tenant Le Congre. 
Messieurs: 

C'est avec la plus sensible peine que les habitants des cahos 
aux Ilinois se trouvent réduit a vous porter les justes plaintes 
et vous demander vôtre protection contre entreprises que M*". Dor- 
sey pentacoste veut former sur terres aux cahos et les desposseder 
d'un Bien qui leu[r] apartient légitimement et dont ils sont en 
pocession eu[x] et leurs pères depuis prés dun Ciecle. 

La prairie du pont a apartenu de tous tems aux habitants, 
tant f>our la cultiver sil en avoit Besoin q[ue] pour servir de Com- 
muns a leurs Bestiaux sans laquelle il leur seroit impossible 
d*En Elever d'aucune espèce. 

..;|Le S*". Gibault curé desservant la cure des Caskakias a 20 
lieues de notre village s'est arrogé le pouvoir secret d'ozer 
disposer de cette prairie En la Concédant a M*^ Le Colonel 
Clark qui a revendu cette même concession a M*" Pentecoste 
qui aujourdhuy veut s'en emparer et en def>osseder les habi- 
tants 

il n'a jamais été au pouvoir d'aucun Edesistique des ilinois 
de disposer du Bien des Sujets, les loix ni leur Etat ne leur ont 
jamais donné un pouvoir si arbitraire. Bien loin d'y avoir eu 
aucunme authorité ni droit, leur devoir a Eté restraint a dire la 
messe et a recevoir la retribution qui leur revenoit pour y célé- 
brer le service divin Et jamais les prêtres de ces Endroits N'ont 
eu la permission ni le privilège de donner des concessions, ce 
privilege n*a anciennement apartenu qu'aux Commandants Et 

* Paptrs oj the Old Congrrss, Ixviii., 37. Original manuscript. 

* The concession was made by Father Gibault to Stephen Trigg, one of Clark's officers, 
on April 21, 1779, and transferred by the latter to Clark on Mj|y 6 of the same 3Pear. Both 
deeds were registered at Kaskaskia instead of at Cahokia. — Kas. Rec., Court Record. The 



MEMORIAL, JULY, 1786 581 

Seen and approved by me, Major Commandant, 

Fr. Trottier 
a que cette Condissionte [ ?] Labuxiere, Clerk. 

The present privilege annulled by the decree of this day 
entered on the registers of the audiences at Cahokia, November 
12, 1788. Labuxiere, Clerk.. 

Inhabitants of Cahokia to Congress, July 15, 1786.* 

Gentiemen of the United States of America holding Congress. 
Sirs: — 

It is with the deepest pain that the inhabitants of Cahokia 
find themselves compelled to bring their just complaints to you 
and to demand your protection against projects which M. 
Dorsey Pentecoste is devising with respect to lands at Cahokia and 
by which he would dispossess them of property which belongs to 
them legally and of which they have been in possession, them- 
selves and their fathers, since almost a century. 

The Prairie du Pont has belonged from all time to the inhabi- 
tants, both for the purpose of cultivating it, if there was need 
thereof, or to serve for commons for their animals, without which 
commons it would have been impossible to raise any kind of 
animals. 

M. Gibault, curé, serving the parish of Kaskaskia 20 leagues 
from our village, has dared to arrogate secretiy the power of 
disposing of this prairie by conceding it to Colonel Clark, who has 
resold this same concession to M. Pentecoste, who to-day wishes 
to take possession and dispossess the inhabitants thereof.^ 

It has never been in the power of any ecclesiastic of the Illinois 
to dispose of the property of the subjects. Neither the laws nor 
their state have ever given them a power so arbitrary. So far 
from having had therein any authority or right, their duty has 
been limited to saying the mass and to receiving the remuner- 
ation which accrues to them for celebrating divine service; and 
never have the priests had the permission or the privilege of giving 
concessions. This privilege has formerly belonged to the com- 

Und commissioners of the U. S. disallowed Pentecostc's claim, because Father Gibault had 
no authority to alienate the lands of the church, and was expressly prohibited from doing so. 
— Amer. State Pap., Pub. Lands, ii., ijg. 



582 ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

commissaire des lieux lors qu'ils y etoient authorizes i>ar le Souv- 
erain Et jamais aucun prêtre ne s est immiscé ni n'a ozé prendre 
une pareille authorité. 

Le S^ Gibault sachant quil navoit aucun droit ni pouvoir de 
concedder, mais f>our se faire un mérite Et tromper la bonne foy 
de M*" Clark luy a fait cette consession frauduleuse Et contre la 
bonne foy publique, aussi en a-t-il gardé le silence Et bien [rten F] 
n'est venu a la Connoissance des habitans jusqua ce jour, dans 
la Crainte quil avoit sans doute quils ne luy fassent la honte Et 
la confusion d'avoir trompé Mr. Clark Et En même temps voulu 
s'il avoit été En son f>ouvoir déposséder les dits habitants de leurs 
Biens par une concession aussi vaine que ténébreuse qu'il a donné 
secrètement au Mr. Clark En voulant le persuader de son faux 
pouvoir. 

que deviendroient les citoyens de cette partie si des trompe- 
ries aussi manifestes et aussi scandaleuses avoient lieu ou seroit 
la sûreté publique des Biens de chaque famille, il ny en auroit 
plus aucunne et le propriétaire ne pouroit pas sassurer d'etre 
tranquille sur son propre foyer, cette Liberté si chère N'en seroit 
que lombre. 

c'est f>our prévenir de si mauvais dessein Et arrêter le Cour 
des Entreprises que le S*" pentecoste veut former sur nos Biens 
fondé sur ce vain titre ou dautres quil auroit pu surprendre et 
obtenir de Nos Siegneurs du Congre a nous honereuses et pré- 
judiciables que nous prenons la Liberté de Nous adresser Nos 
seigneurs Et Souverains a votre tribunal, pour vous suplier de 
regarder la Concession donnée par led^ S^ gibault comme une 
tromperie manifeste donnée par un homme non titré a ce sujet Et 
qui na jamais eu aucun f>ouvoir sur nos Biens la declarer nule 
Et abuzive, Renvoyer M*" pentecoste a se f>ourvoir contre M*" Le 
Colonel Clark Et ce dernier contre Gibault qui sera tenu de nous 
Exiber ses pouvoirs En vertu des quels il veut nous despoceder de 
nos Biens Et terres Et des quels nous sommes En pocession depuis 
letablissement des cahos qui passe plus de 80, ans: pocessions que 
ces prédécesseurs et même les anciens commandants ont toujours 
respectées. 



MEMORIAL, JULY, 1786 583 

mandants and the commissaries of the places, when they were 
authorized thereto by the sovereign; and never has any priest 
interfered or dared to assume such an authority. 

M. Gibault, knowing that he had no right nor authority to 
make the concession, but in order to make a merit and to deceive 
the good faith of M. Clark, has made this concession fraudulently 
and against the public good faith. Also he has kept silent about 
it (and it didn't come to the knowledge of the inhabitants imtil 
this day) on accoimt of the fear, which he undoubtedly had, that 
they would disgrace and confuse him with having deceived M. 
Clark; and, at the same time, he wished, if it had been in his 
power, to dispossess the said inhabitants of their property by a 
concession as vain as underhanded, which he had given secretiy to 
M. Clark, because he wished to pursuade him of his false power. 

What would become of the citizens of this part, if trickeries, 
so manifest and so scandalous, were allowed; and where would 
be the public surety of property? There would no longer be 
any; and no proprietor could be assured of being undisturbed 
in his own home. This liberty, so dear, would be only its shadow. 

It is to anticipate so evil a purpose and to stop the course of 
the attempts which M. Pentecoste wishes to make on our property, 
which attempts rest on such a vain title, or to stop other conces- 
sions, burdensome and prejudicial to us, which he may undertake 
to obtain from our lords of Congress, that we take the liberty, our 
Lords and Sovereigns, of addressing your tribunal, in order to 
pray you to regard the concession, made by the said M. Gibault, 
as a manifest fraud and as given by a man not empowered in this 
matter and who has never had power over our property; and to 
declare it null and improper and to dismiss M. Pentecoste to 
plead against Colonel Clark and this latter against Gibault, 
who shall be held to show us his powers, by virtue of which he 
wishes to dispossess us of our property and lands, which we have 
possessed since the establishment of Cahokia, which is more than 
eighty years; possessions which his predecessors and even the 
former commandants have always respected. 

We dare to hope, sirs, that you will set aside and annul all 



584 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Nous ozons espérer Messieurs que vous voudrés Bien casser 
et Ennuler toutes autres concessions au permissions que le S' 
pentecoste auroit pu obtenir de vous tendentes anous desposseder de 
nos pocessions et quil ne pouroit obtenir plus grande quantité de 
terres que celles que la Cour de ce district luy accordera aux 
Endroit qui ne seront pas Etablis Et qui jusqua present nont pas 
Eté pris par personne, cette quantité ne pouvant excedder 
dix arpents de large sur la Superficie de quatre Cent quarante 
arpents, laquelle quantité de terre lui sera donnée aux Endroits 
qui ne seront prejudicia[ble] a personne. 

ci inclus Nos Seigneurs vous trouvères la Copie de la procura- 
tion que le chapitre de Canada a Envoyé au S*" gibault dont 
l'original est déposé au greffe du district des cahos, par laquelle 
procuration vous verés que le S*" Gibault n'a pu ny du le démem- 
brer ny Concéder aucunne partie ni portion des terres et Bien 
de la mission des Cahos sans lexprés consentement des habitants 
, dud^ lieu a qui tous ces Biens sont transmis pour lEntretien de 
Ladite mission ou prestre que lesdits habitants voudront y Etab- 
lir. Et que par concequant le S*" gibault n'ayant jamais des- 
servy cette cure ny a Eu aucun droit ny pouvoir, dailleur on ne 
Crain pas de L'avancer dans le temps quil a donnée cette pré- 
tendue Concession secrette et hor de la Connoissance des habi- 
tants il etoit interdit par ordre de Leveque de Canada de la 
quelle interdiction on ignore s'il est Encore relevé, or toute inter- 
diction Ennuie tous actes Et contracts qu'il auroit pu faire pen- 
dant quelle a duré et par concequant tous ses pouvoirs se trou- 
voient anéanty. 

Nous vous réitérons Nos Siegneurs avec tout le respect et la 
soumission que nous devons a nos Souverains Et avec toute la 
fidélité que nous vous avons jurée, de nous accorder la justice 
que nous vous demandons, contre toutes les Entreprises du S*" 
pentecoste sur nos biens terres et communes, que vous ne pouvez 
connoitre par vous même a moins qu'une personne Eclairée Et 
sans partialité ne vous en face un fidel raport. c'est En conce- 
quance que nous avons chargé M*". Gabriel Ceré Négociant des 
ilinois porteur de ces présentes de vous donner tous les Eclair- 



MEMORIAL, JULY, 1786 585 

other concessions or permissions, which M. Pentecoste may 
obtain from you, which tend to dispossess us of our possessions, 
and consent that he canfiot obtain a larger amount of land than 
that which the Court of this district will grant him in places 
which shall not be settled and up to the present have not been 
taken up by anyone, such concession not to exceed ten arpents 
in width and four hundred and forty arpents in area; which 
amount of land shall be given to him, where it will not be pre- 
judicial to anyone. 

Enclosed herewith, our Lords, you will find the copy of the 
power of attorney which the chapter of Canada sent to M. 
Gibault, the original of which is deposited at the office of the 
district of Cahokia, from which power of attorney you will see 
that M. Gibault neither could nor should dismember or concede 
any part or portion of the lands and property of the mission of 
Cahokia without the express consent of the inhabitants of the 
said place, to whom all this property is conveyed for the main- 
tenance of the said mission or priest, that the said inhabitants 
shall wish to establish here; and that consequentiy M. Gibault, 
since he has never administered this cure, has had no right nor 
power. Besides we do not fear to advance that, at the time when 
he gave this pretended concession secretly and without the knowl- 
edge of the inhabitants, he was interdicted by order of the bishop 
of Canada, and we do not know if that interdiction is yet removed ; 
but all interdictions annul all acts and contracts, which the one, 
so interdicted, may have made while it lasted; and consequently 
all his powers are annulled. 

We ask again of you, our Lords, with all the respect and sub- 
mission that we owe to our sovereigns and with all the fidelity 
which we have sworn to you, that y/)u grant us the justice, for 
which we pray, against all the attacks of M. Pentecoste upon 
our property, lands and commons, about which you cannot your- 
selves know, unless a person, informed and without partiality, 
makes to you a faithful report thereof. Therefore we have 
intrusted M. Gabriel Cerré, merchant of the Illinois, and bearer 
of these presents, to give you all the necessary information so 



586 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

cissements nécessaires afin de nous rendre la justice que de Bons 
Et fidels sujets doivent atendre de leurs souverains pour la Con- 
servation de nos Biens qui sont a la veille d'Etre en prove a la 
voracité du S^ pentecoste, avide de nous dépouiller de notre 
patrimoine Et nous obliger nous et nos familles a faire un dcgucr- 
pissement de tiranie pour nous obliger a Chercher un azile chez 
letranger après avoir Epuisé notre sang a metre nos terres En valeur 
pour sa rapacité. Nous vous suplions de nous pardonner si nous 
nous servons de ces Expressions La lettre quil Ecrit icy nous prouve 
assez ses intentions de la quelle nous envoyons copie cy jointe. 

Nous vous demandons Nos seigneurs d'Etre maintenus dans 
toutes nos pocessions, usages, coutumes Et loix anciennes sans 
quaucunne authorité y puisse donner ateinte Et que nous navant 
pas le desplaisir d'Etre soumis a aucunne autre justice des ilinois 
connoissant L'incapacité, haine, Et partialité des sujets qui 
pouroient lexercer, mais de Nous donner la permission de nous 
gouverner nous mêmes comme nous avons toujours fait. 

La cour de ce district des cahos a pris sur Elle de Concéder a 
chaque particulier ameriquain ou autres Nouvellement arrivez 
En ce pays Et qui veulent sy Etablir dix arpents de terre de 
large, sur la superficie de quatre cent quarante arpents, dans notre 
district, Nous Nexedons pas cette quantité afin de ménager le ter- 
rain pour que Chacun puisse En avoir et nous fortifier |>ar le 
Nombre d'habitans Et nous metre a labrv des incurssions des sau- 
vages Nous espérons que vous nous otorizerez a Continuer dans 
notre district 

Le S^ |>entecoste a Envoyé icy un procureur arpenteur avec 
d'Emple pouvoir pour mesurer Et Borner sa concession qui con- 
siste a douze mille arpents de terre ou sont comprises toutes les 
notre il doit se metre En devoir de le faire sous peu de jour, cest 
a quoy nous formerons notre of>ositions jusqua ce que nous avons 
reçu vos ordres que nous es|>erons authoriser nos opositions Et 
nous Confirme dans nos pocessions. 

Nous vous suplions Nos Seigneurs de nous Envoyer vos de- 

' Printed in this volume, p. 621. 

^ Probably a reference to the Kaskaskians. 



MEMORIAL, JULY, 1786 587 

that you may render us the justice, which good and faithful sub- 
jects should expect from their sovereigns, for the preservation of 
our property which is on the verge of being a prey to the voracity 
of M. Pentecoste, who is eager to dispoil us of our patrimony and 
to compel us to make of ourselves and our families a sacrifice to 
tyranny by obliging us to seek an asylum among strangers after 
having spent our life-blood in making our lands valuable for his 
rapacity. We beseech you to pardon us if we make use of these 
expressions; but the letter which he has written here proves suffi- 
ciently his intentions, a copy of which we send joined herewith.* 

We pray you, our Lords, that we be maintained in all our 
possessions, usages, former customs and laws so that no authority 
can do violence thereto and that we may not have the distress of 
being submitted to any other court of the Illinois, since we know 
the incapacity, spite and partiality of the subjects who might 
exercise it ;' but we pray you to grant us the permission to govern 
ourselves as we have always done. 

The court of this district of Cahokia has taken on itself to 
concede to each single American or other, who has newly arrived 
in this country and wished to settle here, land in our district of 
the width of ten arpents and with an area of four hundred and 
forty arpents. We do not exceed this quantity in order to man- 
age the land so that each can have some and we may be strength- 
ened by the number of inhabitants and so sheltered from the 
attacks of the savages. We hope that you will authorize us to 
continue to do so in our district. 

M. Pentecose has sent here a surveyor as representative with 
fiJl power to measure and lay out the boundaries of his con- 
cession which consists of twelve thousand arpents of land in 
which are included all ours. He is bound to begin to do it within 
a few days. That is why we shall issue our injunction until we 
have received your commands, which we hope will authorize our 
injunction and confirm us in our possessions. 

We beseech you, our Lords, to send us your decision on all 
the articles of these representations by M. Cerré, our attorney, 
so that we may know to what we are boimd. 



S88 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

cisions sur tous les articles de ces representations par m' Ccré 
notre fondé de pouvoir afin de savoir a quoy nous sommes tenus, 
voicy la quatriesme representations que nous avons Eu Ihon- 
neur de vous adresser sans avoir jamais reçu aucunne réponse 
Nous penssons que si vous avez Eu la bonté de nous repondre 
tout a Eté intercepté au village des Kakakias 

Nous atendons tout de votre Bonté, Equité Et intégrité. 
Permetez Nous Nos Seigneurs de nous dire toujour Vostres 
humbles très obéissants très soumis Et Fidels Sujets Les mag- 
istrats du district des Cahos aux ilinois faisant pK)ur toute la 
Communauté des habitants du d^ lieu, 
aux cahôs des ilinois Le 15. juillet 1786. 
I Trottier J B H La Croix 

Mth Saucier A. Girardin 

de B Dubuque Commandant 

I marque -h Jh de 

La pense Marque -h Louis 

de Chattelle 

Marque -h C Alary 

Labuxiere to Congress, July 17, 1786. 

aux Messieurs du Congrès 
Messieurs 

ayant eu Ihonneur d'avoir Eté Nommé procureur des Etat 
aux ilinois il y a cinq ans au lieu et place du s*" Girault qui occu- 
f)oit cet Employ, depuis ce tems jay pris la liberté de vous 
Ecrire quatre fois et de vous rendre compte de ce quil y avoit de 
plus intéressant aux ilinois soit que mes Lettres ne vous soient 
pas parvenues ou que vos Réponses ne m'ayent pas Eté remises, 
je n\v pu savoir si je devoit continuer mes fonctions dans cette 
charge, la mesinteligences des magistrats des Caskakias et le 
Boul versement des affaires des particuliers occasionnez par quel- 
que personnes avide dargent, ma obligé de me retirer avec ma 
famille aux cahos ou jay trouvé des habitans remplis d'union de 
Concorde Et de fidélité aux Etats Et une cour de justice quils 
ont soin dadministrer avec Equité a ceux qui la reclame. 

1 Papers of the Old Congress, Izviii., 35, original manuscript. 



LABUXIERE TO CONGRESS, JULY, 1786 589 

This is the fourth representation which we have had the honor 
of sending you without having received any answer. We think 
that if you have had the goodness to answer us, all letters have 
been intercepted at the village of Kaskaskia. 

We expect everything from yoiu- goodness, equity and integrity. 
Permit us, our Lords, to call ourselves always your humble, 
very obedient, very submissive and faithful subjects, the Mag- 
istrates of the District of Cahokia in the Illinois, acting for all 
the community of the inhabitants of the said place. 
At Cahokia the 15th of July, 1786. 
[Signed] 

Trottier. J. B. H. Lacroix. 

Mth. Saucier. A. Girardin. 

of 
Mark + Joseph B. Dubuque, Commandant. 

Lapancé. of 

of Mark + Louis 

Mark + C. Alarie. Chatel. 

Labuxierre to Congress, july 17, 1786.* 
To the Gentiemen of Congress, 
Sirs: — 
Since I had the honor of being named state's* attorney at 
the Illinois five years ago in the place and stead of M. Girault 
who held this office,' I have taken the liberty of writing to you 
four times and of rendering account to you of what there was of 
most interest in the Illinois. Either my Jetters have not reached 
you or your answers have not been delivered to me, and I have 
not been able to know whether I ought to continue to perform 
my functions in this office. The misunderstanding of the mag- 
istrates of Kaskaskia and the extreme disorder of the business 
of the individuals, occasioned by some persons greedy for money, 
have compelled me to withdraw with my family to Cahokia, 
where I have found inhabitants filled with unity of peace and 
fidelity to the states, and a court of justice which they are careful 

See his appointment, supra p. 487; also post p. 6as, note 16. 



Sgo ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

si vous jugez Convenable Messieurs que je continue a exercer ' 
cette charge je vous suplie de menvoyer votre commission avec 
les instruction que je doit suivre afin de m'y Conformer Et de 
mériter laplaudissement Et protection de mes souverain, pour 
lesquels je mouray avec fidélité jay Ihonneur detre avec profond 
respect Messieurs 

Votre très humble très obéissant Et fidel sujet 

Labuxierc 
aux cahos des ilinois le 17. juillet 1786 

Public Notice, February 26, 1786. 
Le Public est averty que ceux qui voudront prendre des terres 
audela de Lequiere des terres de la prairie du pont ait a Se pre- 
senter dicy a jeudy prochain deux de Mars, et Se presenteron 
a M*" Girardin pour les metre En liste Et Borner les dites terres 
pour en faire les Clostures, passé Le tems de jeudy, elles seront 
Conceddées a des personnes qui Se Sont déjà présentée donné 
aux Cahos le 26. février 1786 J B H LaCroix 

preside 
Lu publié et affiché a la porte de Peglise des Cahos le dimanche 
26 fer. et lundy 27 fer par moy huissier soussigné 

Pier troge 

Agreement between Inhabitants of Cahokia and Tardi- 

VEAU, August 27, 1787. 

CoUe L Inven"* «fixante Neuvième. 

Sachent tous par ces présentes que les habitants français du 
village des Cahokias et Ses de|>endances a^-unt apointé Barthélémy 
Tardiveau ecuyer leur agent auprès du Congrès a Teffet de de- 
mander et obtenir pour eux la confirmation de leurs anciens droits, 
et en outre d'autres concessions de terres dans ce pavs des caho- 
kias et Ses dépendances prometons et nous obligeons, jointement 
et Séparément, tant f>our nous que pour nos enfans maies, ou 
autres {personnes que nous représentons, de céder, quitter, et 
abandonner en toute propriété aud^ S*" Barthélémy Tardiveau, ses 

* Chi. Hist. Soc, Cak. Kcc, original manuscript. Transcription by the editor. 
' For other references to Prairie du Pont, sec pp. 153, 159, 565. 

' Menard Col., Tardivrau Papers, original manuscript. Transcription by the editor. 

* Notary's index number. 



PUBLIC NOTICE, FEBRUARY, 1786 591 

to administer with equity to those who ask its help. If you 
judge it fitting, sirs, that I continue to exercise this duty, I beg 
you to send me your commission with the instructions which I 
should follow, so that I may conform thereto and merit the 
applause and protection of my sovereigns, for whom I will die 
with fidelity. I have the honor of being with profound respect. 

Sirs Your very humble and 
At Cahokia of the Illinois faithful subject 

the 17th of July, 1786 Labuxiere. 

PUBLIC NOTICE, FEBRUARY 26, 1 786.* 

The public is notified that those who wish to take up land 
beyond the section of the lands of the Prairie du Pont must 
present themselves between now and Thursday, the second of 
March, and they shall present themselves to M. Girardin to be 
put on the list and to have the said lands surveyed for making 
the fences thereof. After Thursday, the lands will be conceded 
to the persons who have already presented themselves. Given 
at Cahokia February 26, 1786.* J. B. H. Lacroix, President. 

Read, published and posted on the door of the church of 
Cahokia, Sunday, February 26, and Monday, February 27, by 
me, the undersigned huissier. Pierre Troge. 

Agreement between the Inhabitants of Cahokia and 

Tardiveau, August 27, 1787.* 

Page L. inventory sixty-nine.* 

Know all men by these presents that [we], the French in- 
habitants of the village of Cahokia and its dependencies, having 
appointed Barthélemi Tardiveau Esquire, our agent at Congress 
for the purpose of petitioning and obtaining for us the confirma- 
tion of our ancient rights and furthermore of other concessions 
of lands in the country of Cahokia and its dependencies, promise 
and bind ourselves jointly and severally as well in our own 
names as in behalf of our male children or of other persons 
whom we represent, to cede, quit and abandon in full owner- 
ship to the said M. Barthélemi Tardiveau, his heirs or assigns 
the tenth part of all the grounds and lands, which he shall cause 
to be conceded in our favor, other than those which are ours 



592 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



héritiers ou ayans causes, la dixième partie de tous les terreins et 
terres quil fera concéder en notre faveur, autre que ceux qui nous 
Sont acquise et dont nous Sommes En pocession par les quatre 
lieues en quarré et sur chaque face qui ont été anciennement con- 
ceddé a la mission et paroisse des Cahokia par M" de Boisbrîant 
et des hursins gouverneur et Comjnissaire députez par le Roy de 
france En ce pays Suivant la concession que nous en avons en 
datte du vingt deux juin mil sept cent vingt deux Lequel dixième 
Sera pour lui tenir lieu de payment de ses peines et Soins, frais 
de voyage ou autres; quil fera poiu- obtenir les dites nouvelles 
Concessions; a la condition que, S'il n'obtient Rien, il N'aura 
Rien a repeter enver nous pour Ses dites p>eines, frais, et Soins, il 
est Entendu que led* s*" Barthélémy Tardiveau ne poura pas 
prendre le dixième des terres qui lui est accordé pour son paye- 
ment dans l'Etendue des quatre lieues en quarré ci dessus men- 
tionnés Et qui apartiennent de plain droit a la mission des cahos 
et aux particliers. ce qui est Stipulé par clause express mais que 
le dit dixième lui Sera donne pour les nouvelles concessions quil 
obtiendra pour Les habitants, dans un ou deux emplacements 
faisant partie de la concession générale quil pourra obtenir; 
pourvu neantmoins que ledit ou les dits emplacements Soient a 
peu prés égaux en qualité de terroir et Situation au reste des terres 
ainsi obtenues. En foi de quoi Nous les magistrats Et principaux 
habitants du village des Cahokias et Ses dépendances avons Signé 
le present concorda Et a icelui apposé le Seau de Notre Cour, 
fait unanimement aux Cahokias le vingt septiesme jour d'Aoust 
L'an mil Sept cent quatre vingt Sept. 
[Signed] 

f . saucier. 

Mth Saucier. 

DuCharme. 

P. Poupar. 

B. Saucier. 



At. Girardin. 
Louis Gaud. 
C Lefevre. 
B. Dubuque. 
T Brady. 
Phillipe Engel. 
Pierre Billet. 
Pierre La fleure. 
Pierre Laperche. 



J B H LaCroix. 
Bap* Baron, 
fr trottier. 
J B* aLarie. 
Joseph Lambert. 
Aug Dubuque. 
Henry Byron, 
jh BelCour. 



CONTRACT WITH TARDIVEAU, AUGUST, 1787 593 



and of which we are in possession, in extent four leagues square, 
which were formerly granted to the mission and parish of Caho- 
kia by MM. de Boisbriant and des Ursins, governor and com- 
missary appointed by the king of France in this country, according 
to the land-grant, which we have, dated June 22, 1722. This 
tenth part shall be understood to take the place of payment to 
him for his labor and pains, costs of travel and other expenses, 
which he shall incur in order to obtain the said new concessions ; 
on condition that, if he obtains nothing, there shall be no cause 
for action against us for his said labors, costs and pains. It 
is imderstood that the said M. Barthélemi Tardiveau cannot 
take the tenth of the lands, which is accorded him for his pay- 
ment, in the extent of the four leagues square mentioned above 
which belongs in full right to the mission of Cahokia and to 
individuals, and this is stipulated by express clause; but that 
the said tenth shall be given as payment for the new concessions 
which he shall obtain for the inhabitants, in onie or two pieces 
of ground making part of the general concession which he 
shall obtain; provided, nevertheless, that the said piece or pieces 
be nearly equal in quality of soil and situation to the rest of the 
lands thus obtained. In faith of which we, the magistrates and 
principal inhabitants of the village of Cahokia and its depend- 
encies have signed and thereto set the seal of our Court. Done 
by unanimous consent at Cahokia the twenty-seventh day of 
August, 1787.* 
[Signed.] 

Ant. Girardin. 

Louis Gaud. 

C. Lefevre. 

B. Dubuque. 

T. Brady. 

Philippe Engel. 

Pierre Billet. 

Pierre Lafleur. 

Pierre Laperche. 



F. Saucier. 
Mth. Saucier. 
DuCharme. 
P. Poupar. 
B. Saucier. 

[5«i/, three fleur- 
de-lis with crown 
above] 



J. B. H. LaCroix. 
Bte. Baron. 
Fr. Trottier. 
J. Bte. Alarie. 
Joseph Lambert. 
Aug. Dubuque. 
Henry Biron. 
Joseph BelCour. 



1 In this same collection, the Tardiveam Papers, there are similar agreements made with 
the inhabitants of Vincennes and Kaskaskis and with the American settlers. 



594 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Inhabitants of Cahokia to Tardiveau, September i, 1787. 

Cotte L. Inv'®. soixante quatorzième. 

Monsieur 

Nous avons reçu les pieces que vous nous avez adressées. 
Nous Nentendons Et ne sommes Convenus avec vous que de 
vous donner le dixième sur les terres qui nous seront nouvellem* 
Conceddées par le congre pour nous et nos Enfans maies, mais 
non pas dans les terres dont nous sommes déjà En pocession qui 
Sont Enclavés dans notre Seigneurie des Cahos, dont nous avons 
un titre Suffisant de la dite Seigneurie de quatre lieues en quarré 
Et de laquelle nous ne Croyons pas avoir Besoin dautre Confir- 
mation, cest pourquoy nous Exceptons ce dixième sur les quatre 
lieues de ladite Seigneurie qui nous apartien par le titre que nous 
En avons et que nous croyons navoir pas Besoin detre confirmé, 
tant qu'aux nouvelles concessions hor de notre Seigneurie que 
vous voudrez Bien nous obtenir nous sonunes toujour d'accord 
Et Convenons de vous en donner le dixième dans un Endroit ou 
deux pour vu toutes fois que cela Soit hors de notre Seigneiurie 
par conventions expresse nous nentendons pas payer aucunes droits 
rentes redevances ni imp>ots p*" les terres que vous nous obtiendres 
du Congre cela nous deviendroit trop onéreux par la suite. 

Nous vous prions dexcepter dans la procuration les pK)uvoir 
que nous avons donné a M*" Cerré que nous nentendons point 
Ennuler et qui ne concernent que la propriété de notre Seigneurie 
et commune p^ tous autres prétendus f>ouvoir donnez par nous, 
nous les desavouons comme faux Et ayant Eté fabriqués hor de 
notre connoissance. Nous ne trouvons que ce Changement a 
faire dans le concorda Et dans la procuration p. larl. qui concerne 
les pouvoir donnez a M*" Cerré. 

Nous avons Ihoneur d'Etre respectueusement et avec atache- 
ment. 

Monsieur 

Votre très humble et très 
obéissant serviteurs 

* Menard Cd., Tardiifau Papers, original manuscript. Tcanscription by the editor. 
2 Xotar>''s indfx number. 
^ See supra, p. 585. 






LETTER TO TARDIVEAU, SEPTEMBER, 1787 595 

Inhabitants of Cahokiato Tardiveau, September i, 1787.* 
Sir: 

Page L. inventory seventy-four.' 

We have received the documents which you have sent us. We 
intend and have agreed with you to give you only the tenth of 
the lands which shall be newly conceded by Congress to us and 
our male children, but not of the lands, of which we are in pos- 
session already and which are included in our seigniory of Caho- 
kia, for which we have the sufficient title of the said seigniory for 
four leagues square and for which we do not believe that we have 
need of other confirmation. This is the reason that we except 
this tenth from the four leagues square of the said seigniory, 
which belongs to us by title-deeds which we have and which we 
believe have no need of being confirmed. In regard to the new 
concessions outside of our seigniory, which you wish to obtain 
for us, we are always in agreement and do agree to give you 
the tenth in one or two pieces, provided, nevertheless, that it is 
outside of our seigniory. By express convention we do not un- 
dertake to pay any duties, rents, dues or imposts for the lands 
which you obtain for us from Congress. That would become 
too onerous in the end. 

We beg you to except in the power of attorney the powers 
which we have given to M. Cerré, which we do not intend to 
annul and which concerns only the ownership of our seigniory 
and commons.' As for all other powers, claimed to be given by 
us, we disavow them as false and as having been fabricated 
without our knowledge.^ We find only this change to make 
in the agreement and in the particular power given to M. 
Cerré. 

We have the honor of being respectfully and with attach- 
ment, 

Sir 

your very humble and very 

obedient servants. 

* a reference to the agent of the French party of Kaskxskia, Parker, who had been given a 
copy of a former petition of the people of Cahokia without consulting them. See Introduction, 
p. cxxz. and also p. 567, n. a. 



596 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

[Signed]. aux cahos le 7 7^*"* 1787. 

f. saucier. * DuCharme. 

A^ Girardin. Phillipe Engel. 

Mth Saucier. B Saucier, 

fr trottier. 
Nous ne vous prions de faire En sorte dobtenir les terres, 
prenant depuis la rivierre de Laigle En remontant le mississippy 
du Costé du Nord-Est. 

nous avons refait la procuration ainsi que le concorda que 
nous espérons que vous agréerez. 

Nous vous prions de nous Envoyer au reçu de la procuration 
et du concorda, a moins que vos occupations ne vous permetent 
de nous En Envoyer un double. 
[Addressed] A Monsieur 

Monsieur Tardiveau 

Commissaire pour le Congre du present 
aux Caskaskia. 

Address by Robert Watts, September 14, 1787. 

Adresse Faite a la Cour des Cahos, Seance tenant par Robert 
Watt Conimandant nomé par icelle au Lieu apelé le Grand ruis- 
seau dans Sa dépendance & District. 
Messieurs: 

Ce n'est Point ma propre Cause qui me traduit aux pieds de 

votre auguste assemblée* C'est Celle de votre sûreté 

votre repos, votre justice & bien mieux Encore Celle de votre 
Supreme autorité que rien ne devroit altérer ny ébranler; & 
c'est Cependant Messieurs Ceque le desordre vient d'enfanter 
anjourdhuy. 

Si vous m'avés comissioner pour soutenir votre Justice en 
veillan pour vous Sur la Sûreté publique & Sur le repos et les 
démarches de Cette poignée d'habitans qui Compose & forme 
le petit vilage du Grand ruisseau. Je ne dois pas vous laisser 

' The postscript appears to be written in a different handwriting from the body of the kctcr, 
but this dittcrencc may be due to a change of pen. The **»«" oif the first pani^aph b on 
insertion, and may be a mistake or a forgery. If so, the clause would be positive inc^^f^r^ ©f 
negauvc, as given in the translation. 

* Chi. Hist. Soc, Cah. Rec, original manuscript. Transcription by the editor. There is 
a copy of the same by the clerk in the Menard Cot., Tard. Paptrs. 

* The dots are in the original. 



WATT'S ADDRESS, SEPTEMBER, 1787 597 

At Cahokia, September 7, 1787. 
[Signed] 

F. Saucier. DuCharme. 

Ant. Girardin. Philippe Engel. 

Matt. Saucier. B. Saucier. 

Fr. Trottier. 
We do not pray you to act so as to obtain the lands which 
extend from the Eagel River up the Mississippi on the north-east 
side. 

We have remade the power of attorney and also the agreement, 
which we hope that you will accept. 

We pray you to send us notice on receipt of the power of attor- 
ney and agreement, provided your work does not permit you to 
send a duplicate thereof.* 
[Addressed] To Monsieur Tardiveau 
Commissioner to Congress 

at present at Kaskaskia. 

Address by Robert Watts, September 14, 1787.' 
Address made to the Court of Cahokia in session by Robert 
Watts, Commandant, named by the Court, at the place called 
Grand Ruisseau, in its dependency and district. 
Sirs: — 

It is not my cause which calls me into the presence of your 

august assembly ' It is that of your security, your 

peace, your justice and far better still that of your supreme 
authority, which nothing should alter or disturb; and yet, gentle- 
men, it is that which disorder is about to bring forth to-day. 

If you have commissioned me to sustain your justice in watch- 
ing for you over the public security and over the tranquility and 
activities of this handful of inhabitants who compose and form 
the little village of Grand Ruisseau, I ought not to allow you to 
remain ignorant a longer time, gentlemen, that there is among 
us one whose would-be pretentions are directed towards weaken- 
ing and diminishing your authority, that authority which 

has always maintained peace • and harmony, that which the 
estates of Virginia even have deigned to respect in giving it their 



59» ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

ignorer plus longtems Messieurs qu'il en est parmi nous dont les 
prétentions Soit disant, se portent a afiFoiblir et dininuer votre 

autorité, elle qui a tourjour Maintenue la paix et 

L'harmonie, elle que les états de Virginie même ont daigner 
respecter en l'aprouvan déslors, elle que ces mêmes états reconoi- 
tront toujour Pour Coopérer a la gloire des états unis. 

De quel oeil après des droits aussi bien Cimenter et émaner 
Pourés vous voir Messieurs Patentât et l'infraction que L'on Comet 
aujourdhuy sur vos pouvoirs. 

un Sieur piquet, Come chef de parti dans la Cabale du Grand 
ruisseau, vient de me dévéstir des titres & qualités Dont J'etois 
honoré par votre respectable Cour, & sur Tenquétte que je me suis 
hâté de faire des Causes d'un procédé Pareil, un Certain roger 
home sans nom & sans honeur auroit vilamement abusé tout Ce 
qui émane de votre autorité au moment ou mon devoir m'oblig- 
eoit de prendre la déffence de votre auguste Cour dans la Con- 
servation de ses droits & de ses privilèges. 

Passeriés vous sous silence Messieurs, des Iniquités qui vont 

jusqu'à blesser L'autorité la plus respectable; Ce n'est 

plus la votre dont II est question en ce moment, c'est Celle Mes- 
sieurs des états de Virginie que vous devés deffendre. C'est elle 
qui est offence dans le Corp respectable qui vous assemble ici, 
Car vous n'êtes a Cet égard que L'image de Leur Justice Come 
Je ne suis au votre que l'électricité de vos Volontés. 

Si tant d'Insubordination devenoit Inpunissable que Devien- 
droit par la suitte votre Sûreté, vos droits inaltérables vos Familles 
& vos biens; ne vous rendriés vous Comptable Envers dieu envers 
les homes, vous en qui chaque Cytoyen doit placer sa Conûance 
par la sûreté quils établissent dans les droits qui vous apartienent 
& que loin de laisser oisifs, deves au Contraire dans des besoins 
aussi pressants faire éclater d'une Manière propre a étouffer 
dans sa naissance le danger évident de voir chaque Cytoyen et 
vous même Messieurs, devenir le jouet d'une Soit disante Cour 
Crée & Innové sans autorité & sans pouvoir dans le lieu de la belle 

^ For the histor>' of Gruid Ruisseau and Bellefontaine, see Inlroétutûm, p. cxlix^ and 
also pp. i8q, n. a, 319, 307. 



WATT'S ADDRESS, SEPTEMBER, 1787 599 

approval thenceforth, that which these same estates recognize 
always as co-operating to the glory of the United States. 

With what eye, after rights so well strengthened and emanated, 
can you see, gentlemen, the outrage and infraction, which is 
being committed to-day on your powers? 

A certain M. Piggott, as party chief in the cabal of Grand 
Ruisseau, has just divested me of the titles and qualities with which 
I was honored by your honorable Court; and at the enquiry, 
which I hastened to make in regard to the causes of such a pro- 
ceeding, a certain Rogers, a man without name and without honor, 
has villainously abused all that proceeds from your authority at the 
moment when my duty obliged me to take up the defence of your 
august Court in the preservation of its rights and its privileges.* 

Would you pass in silence, gentiemen, iniquities which go as 

far as to wound the most honorable authority ? It is no longer 

yours which is in question at this moment; it is, gentlemen, 
that of the estates of Virginia which you ought to defend.' It is 
that which is offended in the honorable body which assembles 
you here; for in this respect you are only the image of their jus- 
tice, just as I am for yours the electricity of your wills. 

If such insubordination were to be unpunishable, what would 
in consequence become of your security, your unalterable rights, 
your families and your property? Would you not render your- 
selves accountable to God and to men, you in whom each citizen 
should place his confidence through the security, which they 
establish, in the rights which belong to you, and which far from 
permitting ease, you ought on the contrary in needs so pressing 
to make blaze out in a manner calculated to destroy in its birth 
the danger, obvious to every citizen and to you also, gentiemen, of 
becoming the sport of a would-be court, created and innovated with- 
out authority and without power in the locality of Bellefontaine, 
where the assemblies must be convoked in order to judge definitely 
on all that shall be carried before their would-be tribunal.* 

Is there not therein a formal defiance made to the most sacred 
authority ? Is that not a violation of the submission which is due to 

^ Commandant Watts' Icnowledge of French is not always equal to his Cicerooian oratory, 
and the result is at times obsourity of meaning. 



6oo ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

fontaine & ou les assemblés Doivent Se Convoquer pour juger 
définitivement sur tout Ce qui Sera porté a leur Soidisan tribunal. 

N^est ce pas la un mépris Formel fait a l'autorité la plus sacré, 
n'est ce pas enfreindre la soumission que Ton doit au Sanctuaire 
le plus Saint, n'est ce pas abuser ouvertement de la Constitution 
Fondamentale des états unis; ou est le droit des Gens ou est La 
Sûreté publique, ou est l'amour de la patrie & ou est Enfin cette 
autorité absolue qui apartien a notre métropole; devés vous 

Messieurs En areter Le Cours Je vous le demande! 

Craignes Cet orage qui gronde déjà sur vos têtes, Craignes le feu 
dangereux dont vous devés redouter les étincelles. Craignes vous 
dis Je Messieurs, Cet attentat aux loix & a L'etats, & Nous vous 
verons bientôt repondre sur chaque individu la Justice que vous 
leur devés, au moment surtout ou chaque Fidel Cytoyen élevé sa 
voix & qu'il s'adresse a vous pour atirer vos bontés sur les mal- 
heurs que Fomentent toujours le Désordre & L'insubordination. 

Oui Messieurs J'entrevois vos regards Favorables sur des 
Evénements qui nous touchent toute en particulier, & dont les 
suittes ne scauroient être que funeste. Je vous vois areter Le danger 
d'une Conduite aussi ireguliere dans une poignée d'êtres erans, 
qui n'ont pas dédaigné de vous demander un asile & une retraite 
lorsque leur propre partrie étoit sourde a leurs besoin. Je vous 
vois dis Je rompre le silence & reprimer le Coupable audace 
Empreinte du Crime de lêze état; que votre Justice Se mani- 
feste & qu'elle éclate & Ce Sera pour vous une augmentation 
a la gloire que vous devés aux états & un monument a vos bontés; 
mais si ces mêmes bontés Passoient Sous Silence de pareils attentats, 
vous veriés bientôt Fouler aux pieds vos droits & votre équité. 

C'est pourquoi Messieurs qu'après avoir mis Sous vos yeux 
La position Fatale d'une circonstance dangereuse, J'ai tout lieu 
d'espérer, Non Come membre particulier des representation que 
J'expose a votre Cour, mais Comme Chargé de la part De toute 
Ceux qui respectent vos droits & vos Immunités, davoir pour 
agréable de Faire transporter Le S*" Piquet habitant dans votre 
district du grand ruisseau, pour le reprimer Dans Ses démarches, 
lui défendre d'exercer & De S'ériger en Soidisan Magistrat et 



WATT'S ADDRESS, SEPTEMBER, 1787 601 

the most sacred sanctuary ? Is that not an open abuse of the funda- 
mental constitution of the United States? Where is the right 
of the people ? Where is the public surety ? Where is the love of 
country and where finally is that absolute authority which 
belongs to our metropolis? Ought you not to stay its course?. . 
I demand it of you ! Do you fear this tempest which rum- 
bles already over our heads; do you fear the dangerous fire, the 
sparks from which you ought to dread; do you fear I say, gen- 
lemen, this outrage on the laws and the estates ; and we shall see 
you soon answering to each individual for the justice which you 
owe him, at a moment especially when each faithful citizen is 
raising his voice in appeal to you to attract your benevolence to 
the evils which are always fomenting disorder and insubordination! 

Yes, Gentlemen, I catch a glimpse of your looks favorable to 
the events which affect us all and severally, and the results of 
which could be only fatal ; I see you stay the danger of a conduct 
so irregular in a handful of erring beings, who have not disdeigned 
to ask of you an asylum and retreat, when their own country was 
deaf to their needs; I see you, say I, break the silence and repress 
the sinful, bold crime of high treason. Let your justice be made 
manifest and let it blaze forth and there will be for you an increase 
in the glory which you owe the states and a monument to your 
benevolence; but if this same benevolence should pass in silence 
such outrages, you would soon see your rights and your justice 
trampled under foot. 

That is the reason, gentiemen, why, after having placed before 
your eyes the fatal position of a dangerous event, I have 
every reason to hope, not as a particular member of the representa- 
tion which I am setting forth to your Court, but as intrusted by 
all those who respect your rights and immunities, that you will 
determine to cause M. Piggott, inhabitant in your district of Grand 
Ruisseau, to be transported in order to restrain his activities, and 
to forbid him to exercise the duties of and set himself up as a 
would-be magistrate and justice of the peace in the whole depart- 
ment and dependency of your Court, on pain of being treated as 
an insurgent and rebel to the United States and of being from now 



6o2 ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Juge de paix Dans tout le ressort & dépendance de votre Cour a 
peine d*être traité comme Infractaire & rebel aux états unis, 
D'être même dés a present regardé comme traitre a vos volontées 
& Constitutions, moriginer & molester en tant que de besoin Le 
Nome benjamin roger habitant au même lieu du grand ruisseau, 
pour avoir méprisé & mal parlé de la Cour ici présente En Con- 
sequence Le faire transporter par devan votre ditte Cour Pour 
L'en faire rétracter & lui en faire Demander & prononcer les 
Excuses Suivant L'exigence du Cas ou telles autres Soumissions 
que Jugerés convenables pour la Satisfaction au respect qui 
apartien a votre Cour, après quoi Messieurs qu'il vous plaise lui 
ordoner reparation Envers Moi de la Grieveté de Ses Insultes 
dans les moments Surtout ou Mon devoir m'obligeoit de Soutenir 
le droit l'honeur & l'interest de votre auguste Cour. 

et pour qui les choses ayent tout L'effet que la Sûreté publique 
a lieu d'atendre de vos bontés, prendre Conoissance Messieurs des 
motifs qui ont done lieu aux habitants de la belle fontaine D'in- 
nover une Cour indépendante de la votre, sans autorité a cet 
effet, sans droits sans soumission sans reserve & sans exception; 
(triste présage Messieurs lorsque le Germe de l'honeur a besoin 
d'une loy plus pressante & plus proche que la votre pour le faire 

eclore), ou bien Messieiu^ est ce pour 

prendre chacun Son éssort ou bien encore est Ce pour enfreindre 
votre Justice & vos droits, ou plustot Messieiu^ en S'éloignant du 
Centre de votre autorité gravitante, est ce pour Secouer le joug 
& mépriser les bontés que vous avés en tout tems répandu sur 
chaque Individu; voila les effets de la reconoissance que vous 
offrent ceux que la nature avare a transplanté dans vos climats 
puissiés vous Messieurs en developan vos droits & votre au- 
torité, faire Germer, dans touts les Coeiu's, les Sentiments inal- 
térables qu 'inspirent le respect & l 'attachemant qui est dû a 
votre auguste Cour; C'est bein Celui Messieurs qui m'oblige 
De vous dire Combien Je ne Cesserai Jamais d'être avec tout 
Celui qui vous apartien 

Messieurs Le plus humble et le plus affcctioné de vos cytoyens 
Aux Cahokia le 14 de 7^* 1787. Robt. Watts 



WATT'S ADDRESS, SEPTEMBER, 1787 603 

on regarded as a traitor to your will and constitution; and to repri- 
mand and punish, in so far as there is need, the named Benjamin 
Rogers, inhabitant of the same place of Grand Ruisseau, for 
having defied and badly spoken of the Court here present, and 
consequently to have him brought before your said Court in order 
to make him retract and to make demand of him therefor and 
to cause him to make his apology according to the exigences of 
the case, or to do such other acts of sumbission as you shall judge 
suitable to satisfy the respect which belongs to your Court; after 
which, gentlemen, that it please you to order him to make repara- 
tion to me for the heinousness of his insults made at the moment 
specially when my duty obliged me to sustain the right, honor 
and interest of your august Court. 

And in order that the affair may have all the effect which the 
public has the right to expect from your benevolence, I hope that 
you will take cognizance, gentlemen, of the motives which have 
caused the inhabitants of Bellefontaine to inaugurate a court 
independent of your own, without authority to do so, without 
rights, without reserve and without pleas, (sad omen, gentlemen, 
when the germ of honor has need of a law more urgent and nearer 
than yours to make it develop) ... or indeed, gentlemen, it remains 
for each to make his own flight, or indeed, again, to violate your 
justice and your rights, or rather, gentlemen, drawing away from 
the center of your weighty authority, to shake off the yoke and defy 
the benevolence which you have at all times diffused for all pers- 
ons; such are the consequences of the gratitude, which those whom 
miserly nature has transplanted into your climate, are offering you. 

May you be able, Gentlemen, by developing your rights and 
your authority, make germinate in all hearts the unalterable senti- 
ments, which inspire the respect and attachment which are due 
your august Court! It is indeed that, gentlemen, which obliges 
me to tell to you how I shall never cease to be in all that which 
appertains to you. 

Gentlemen, the most humble and affectionate of 

your citizens, 

At Cahokia September 14, 1787. Robt. Watts. 



6o4 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Sentence against Piggott and Rogers, September 17, 1787. 

La cour du district des Cohos assemblée Sur Les representa- 
tions a elle faites par le S*" Robert Wath commandant Etably par 
ladite Cour, au grand Ruisseau en datte du quatorze de ce mois 
par laquelle il nous declare et nous prévient de L'attentat et 
insubordination qui tend a une Conjuration populaire de la part 
des habitants américains du grand Ruisseau et de la ballefontaine 
tendante a Se Soustraire a la justice de cette Cour et L'anéantir 
par la suite, En Sarogeant Sur nos terres un droit d'indépend- 
ance Et Envahir notre authorité et privileges Et Nomement le 
nommée Jacques piquet habitant du grand Ruisseau En la dé- 
pendance de ce district acusé de S 'être immissé En magistra et 
juge de paix en celle prétendue Soit disante jurisdiction au mépris 
de notre cour, Et le nomme Benjamain Roger aussi habitant 
dud^ lieu du grand Ruisseau pour avoir méprise par termes des- 
placés la personne du S*" Wath que son devoir obligeoit de Soute- 
nir nos interest et les droits de notre Cour, et avoir voulu avili ir 
nos ordres. Le tout examiné Et considéré la Cour deffend très 
expressément aud^ piquet de Sassembler doresnavant a la belle- 
fontaine p>our y tenir aucunne Seance ny former aucunne justice 
ny milice indépendante de la Cour des Cahos a peine d'Etre 
Chassé de ce district et Ses Biens Confisqués a qui il apartiendra. 
Et pour avoir accepté dans ladite assemblée tenue entreux Sans 
permission ny authorité la place de magistra Et juge de paix, la 
cour la condamné a Etre mis aux fers En ce village pendant 
lespace de vingt quatre heures Et condamne a pareille peine led^ 
Benjamain Roger pour son manque de respect tant Enver notre 
Cour, que enver led^ S' Wath Lesquels Seront a la garde de 
notre huissier a leurs frais Et fera led^ Benjamain Roger excuses 
Convenables la Cour présente aud^ S*" Wath ce qui sera exécuté 
donne En Cour le dix sept Septembre mil sept Cent quatre vingt 
Sept. Signé - pierre Laperche - B**' Saucier - Philipe Engel - 
ducharme - fs Saucier présidant. 

Labuxiere grefier. 

La présente Sentence a Eté Exécuté le même jour 

Cotte L Invre soixante quinzième 
1 Menard Col^ Tardiveau Papers, original manuscript. Transcripdan by the editor. 



THE COURT'S JUDGMENT, SEPTEMBER, 1787 605 

The Sentence against Piggott and Rogers, Sept. 17, 1787.* 
The Court of the District of Cahokia assembled, on the 
fourteenth of this month, to hear the representations made to it by 
M. Robert Watts, commandant established by the said Court at 
Grand Ruisseau, in which he makes accusation in informing us 
of the outrage and insubordination, which tend to a popular con- 
spiracy on the part of the inhabitants of Grand Ruisseau and 
Bellefontaine, in order to escape from the jurisdiction of this 
Court and to annihilate it finally, by arrogating to themselves a 
right of independence on our lands and by encroaching on our 
authority and privileges ; and he has accused especially the named 
James Piggott inhabitant of Grand Ruisseau, in the dependency 
of this district, of having thrust himself into the oflSce of magis- 
trate and justice of the peace in this pretended and would-be 
jurisdiction to the defiance of our Court; and the named Benjamin 
Rogers, also inhabitant of Grand Ruisseau, of having scorned by 
offensive terms the person of M. Watts, whom his duty compelled 
to support our interests and the rights of our Court, and of having 
wished to dishonor our orders : after all was examined and con- 
sidered, the Court forbids very expressively the said Piggott to 
call assemblies henceforth at Bellefontaine for the purpose of 
holding any session there or of devising any justice or militia 
independent of the Court of Cahokia, on pain of being driven from 
this district and of the confiscation of his property, for whom it 
shall concern ; and for having accepted the position of magistrate 
and justice of the peace in the said assembly, held by the people 
without permission or authority, the Court has condemned him 
to be placed in irons in this village for the space of twenty-four 
hours; and it condemns to a like punishment the said Benjamin 
Rogers for his lack of respect both towards our Court and towards 
the said M. Watts; and they shall be in the custody of our huissier 
at their own expense ; and the said Benjamin Rogers shall make 
in the presence of the Court suitable apologies to the said M. 
Watts; for which there will be execution. Given in Court the 
seventeenth of September, 1787. Signed, Pierre Laperche, Bte. 
Saucier, Philippe Engel, DuCharme, Fr. Saucier, president. 

Labuxiere, Clerk. 

The present sentence has been executed the same day. 

Page L, inventory seventy-five. 



6o6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Ordinance of the Court of Cahokia, July 5, 1789. 
De la part de la Cour du district des Cahos. 

La Cour ayant examiné que les circonstances ou se trouve ce 
village par les mauvaises intentions ou Sont les Sauvages contre 
nous qui Se manifestent depuis longtems, tant par l 'assassin de 
plusieurs personnes aux Environs de ce village que par 1 'Enleve- 
ment continuel de nos chevaux et autres insultes commises par 
ces Barbares aux quelles il nous est presque impossible de nous 
oposer par le manque de force; nous trouvant continuement ex- 
posés a la fureur des partis qui viennent journellement Sur nos 
terres et Sur les chemains, pour y tuer et enlever les chevaux 
ce qui expose les habitans a être massacrez en faisant leurs 
travaux Et nous met hors d 'état de pouvoir Sortir Sans courir les 
Risques de la vie. 

Cest pour prévenir les dangers ou nous sommes exposez par 
les sauvages qui viennent en ce village Sous le voile de L 'union 
/et de L'amitié et qui en S'en retournant, tuent, pillent, et En- 
lèvent les chevaux que la cour cherche les moyens de Remédier 
aux malheurs qui nous Environnent. 

a cette fin par deliberation de laditte cour elle fait expressé- 
ment deffences a toutes personnes de telles qualité et condi- 
tions et profession quelles soient et Sous tel prétexte que ce 
puisse être Sans pouvoir aleguer aucunes raisons; de vendre 
traiter ni débiter aucunes Boissons Enivrantes aux Sauvages qui 
viendront au poste des Cahos Soit tafia ou autres liqueurs que ce 
puisse être, faisons aussi deffences de leur traitter de la poudre. 
Balles, munitions et armes non pas même en present a peine 
de cent piastres demande payable contant Sans moderation, de 
confiscation des Boissons, poudre, munitions et armes qui Se 
trouveront ches eux pour vendre Et d 'être chassez de ce district 
â perpétuité Sans espérance de pouvoir y revenir Enjoint ladite 
Cour a tous ceux qui auront connoissance des contrevenants de 
nous en avertir ou de les declarer au greffe a peine de se rendre 
complice Et ceux qui réserveront des Sauvages ches eux seront 
tenus don avertir le commandant a peine de prison aussi tost leur 
arrivée ce qui sera execute et la présente sera lue publiée Et 



ORDINANCE, JULY, 1789 607 

Ordinance of the Court of Cahokia, July 5, 1789.^ 
On the part of the Court of the District of Cahokia. 

The Court having considered that the circumstances in which 
this village finds itself on account of the evil purposes which the 
savages have against us,* which are shown, since a long time, both 
by the assassination of several persons in the neighborhood of 
this village and by the continual stealing of our horses and by 
other insults committed by these barbarians, to whom it is almost 
impossible to make opposition on account of the lack of military 
force; and finding ourselves continually exposed to the fury of 
the parties, which come daily on our lands and roads for the 
purpose of killing persons there and of stealing the horses, which 
exposes the inhabitants to being massacred while at work and 
makes it impossible for us to go out without risking our lives: 

It is to prevent the dangers to which we are exposed from the 
savages who come to this village under the veil of union and 
friendship and who, on returning, kill, pillage and steal the horses, 
that the Court seeks means to remedy the evils which surround us. 

To this end, by resolution of the said Court, it is expressly 
forbidden all persons of what quality, condition and profession 
soever and under any pretext whatsoever, without the possibility 
of excuse, to sell, trade or sell at retail to the savages any intoxicat- 
ing liquors of any sort; we forbid also trading with them in pow- 
der, buUets, ammunition and arms or giving them even as pres- 
ents, on pain of one hundred piastres fine payable in cash with- 
out mitigation and of confiscation of the liquors, powder, ammuni- 
tion and arms, which shall be found at their houses for sale, and 
of being driven from this district forever without hope of being 
able to return. The said Court enjoins all those who shall have 
knowledge of offenders to inform us thereof or to denounce them 
at the oflSce, on pain of rendering themselves accomplices; and 
those who receive savages at their house shall be held to notify 
the commandant thereof as soon as they arrive, on pain of 
prison, for which there will be execution; and the present shall 

1 Chi. Hist. Soc., Cah. Rec., original manuscript. Transcription by the editor. 
^ At the dose of this period there was ahnost continuous Indian war. 



! 



6o8 



ILLINOIS raSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



affichée demain dimanche a la porte de leglise aux Cahos le 5 
juillet, 1789. 

Sa hBi fr Trottier 

Louis + Chatel Philipe Engel At Girardin. 

marque Pierre Laperche 

DuCharme 



ORDINANCE, JULY, 1789 609 

be read, published and posted to-morrow, Sunday, on the door 
of the church of Cahokia, July 5, 1789. 
[Signed] 
his 
Louis + Chatel hBi F. Trottier. 

mark Philippe Engel. Ant. Girardin. 

DuCharme. Pierre Laperche. 



CAHOKIA DOCUMENTS. 

ENGLISH 

Joseph Bowman to G. R. Clark* 

Kahous May 28*** 1779 
Dear Sir 

I Received you letter by M*^ Charleville Which affords me 
the Greatest satisfaction to hear of The Arivel of Coll** Mon- 
gomery & his success that I now can Rest Contentedly with 
Reguard to haveing success on our Intended Expedition. Oiu* 
old saying was Everything Happens for the best, had Col° Mon- 
gomery arived soon*" perhaps he wood have been Expencive 
with Reguar to provisons I Expect we shall be furnish*^ with 
Every Necessary Requir*^ from this Post without makeing use of 
the Last Argiunent which affords me the greatist Pleasvure to find 
that the Inhabitans seame desireous of furnishing what Lies in 
their Power, which I hope will Recommend them much to your 
Honour, M*" Shannon will Write to you more fulley upon that 
Head. 

M*" Langtoe' is Just Arived with all the good news We could 
Expect from above and will be with you in A few days. Peace , 
& Quietness seams to be Establish^ Amongst the Indians in 
General, I have Just now Dismist a party of the Pottewottemies 
with Content &c. be Assure^ of a Company of VoUenteers from 
here & Expect the Same with you : I am D^ S*" with Respect your 
&c. 

Jo" B'^wman 

[Addressed] 
Coll® Go. R Clark Esq*" Commander 

in Cheif of the western Department 
Pr M*" Pappae Kaskaskia 

^Dr. MSS., 49J4S, original manuscript. 

^Linctot. 

610 



BOWMAN'S LETTERS 6ii 

Bowman to G. R. Clark* 

Kahous May 28*^ 1779 
D^ Sir, 

It gives me Pleasure to Inform you of the bravery of the Volen- 
teers at this Place that after aplication was made to them for their 
Assistance, in less than twenty four Hours turnd out A Company 
larger than the other who hath Chosen Mr Langto for their Capf* 
they with a few others that are Ingag^ for Bullock Driveing &c 
amounts to forty odd men notwithstanding twenty odd of the Last 
Companey of Volenteers are Away, that had not that been the case 
I wood have asure^ You 60 men at Least. It was with great 
dificulty I Could Restrain maney of the old Married people from 
turning out With us as I New the Circumstance of their families 
would Not Permitt them to be absent. I think you may depend on 
fifty at aney Rate; At first I was afraid Cap*** Langtoes Appoint- 
ment would Interfair with his other buisness. but — As he seams 
desireous to take his Rout by way of the Islinois River and to meet 
us at Ouiaws on the wabash in order to Recruit more men I think 
it wood answr Every purpose we could Requir, which Rout I hope 
youl grant him unless you should think it Quite Inconsistant. 
He farder purposes to purchace about forty Horses on his way for 
the state which will be wanting in case the waters Should be low, 
the Horses mought be purchased to a — Considerable Advantage, 
if so he will Require some goods And Taiïee for his Voyage; he has 
furnish^ us with some pelteries which is Appl>'*^ for the use of pur- 
chaceing provisions &c. he will wait upon you to Receive Your 
Orders. In order to Direct himself Accordingly he brought down 
five or Six Horses wich he has Delivered to Cap^° Shannon but 
None that would answer you so well as your Own, As to a state of 
Provisions &c; you^ be inform^ by Cap*'^ Shannon ; If nothing 
Particular should Call for me I shall wait your farder orders, as 
my Presence here will be much require^ with Regaurd to forward- 
ing Every thing from this Place — If aneything Else should be 
Requir^ you^ be Please^ to Acquaint me, the measure I am 
Oblig*^ to, At Present does not altogether agree with my Constitu- 

* Dr. AfSS., 49J46, original manuscript. Preparations were hcin-? made for the proposed 
expedition against Detroit. 



6i2 ILLINOIS mSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

tion for you may depend upon it that I have Not been Idle, I have 
Inclos^ you a Coppy of the Inventory of Ever)' article that I have 
taken out of the Contine tie [A/5, imperject] Store at S* Louis 
which I drew from my Rec ts [MS. imperject] & afterwards 
Presenting of it to M»" Bosalee he Refused to take it, for what 
Reason I know not. 

My Compliments to CoP Mongomery and the Gentlemen 
Officers Likewise to the Volenteers and am In hopes to find them 
all in Readiness for a march. 

I am D»" S*" your most Obd* friend & Humb^ Se^ 

Jo* Bowman 
[Addressed] 
Coll° G. R. Clark Esqr. 

Commander in Cheif of the western Department 

Kaskaskias 
Received 31st of May 1779 

Bowman to G. R. Clark * 

Kahous June 3*^. 1779 
Dear Sir 

By the bearer M»" I have Just received the follow- 
ing Inteligence from Micha^ M'^anoy* who Informs me that he 
left that the 8** of April Last with permition to go as far as Labai 
with orders to Longloid & Gouchey from Maj*" Depoister forbiding 
them from Raising aney more Indians against the americans that 
Maj*" Depoister has but forty men and 100 at Detroit by Report, 
the Indians Informes them of our armey beeing near Detroit that 
in two days they Can fetch in a scalp from our People, he on his 
way here Receiv*^ the kindest treatment from the Indians who seam 
Intirely dispos^ in our favor he has brought with him a large 
Quantity of goods that was Conceald to him by M*" Bentley who 
was to start in ten days after him in case he could obtain A permitt 
otherways he wood make his Escape the best way he could 

I begin to be Impatiant to start and am In hopes by Next mon- 
day to make a move with Everything from here with hoops of 

* Dr. SfSS., 40J4Q. original manuacript. 
' Michillimackinac. 



BOWMAN'S LETTERS 613 

finding you all in Readiness for a start which I make not the least 
doubt of; if in case your purchacers has been as buis [MS. torn] 
Imploy^ as we where. I expect Mr Shannon back Every hour. 
The weather begins to grow warm & the waters Low so that no 
time Ought to be lost with regaurd to preparing Every Necessary 
required for our Expedition, pray make Every officer Exert himself 
as I have been obliged to do, as much depends on Industry, their 
is maney Thanks to be paid to the Inhabitants here, as they have 
Spaird their Cattle & Horses past Expectation they have furnish^ 
Every fifth head of Cattle instead of the tenth, which amounts to 
80 odd 40 odd Horses & 150000 ^^ of Flower with [MS. torn] ing 
to press one thing. 

The reason of not getting more Flower from this Place is owing 
to the scarceity, as their has been sold out of this town since your 
Departure from here between twenty and thirty Thousand weight 
I am afraid that Unless you send up a boat for the flower I shall 
be disappointed I have had the offer of severl Bark boats but none 
of them in order, or strong Enough to trust A Load in. 

My respects to the Gentlemen officers whilst I remain D^ S' 
your most Obd* friend & Hum^« Se^ 

Jo' Bowman 

N B in my letter instead of orders forbiding the Indians to be 
rais^ against the Americans they are cauld for to Micha^ M^anoy 
to a counsel. 

[Addressed] CoP George Rogers Clark 

Command'* in cheif of wes*™ Depr* 
pr M^ pravoe Kaskasias 

Received 5*** June 79 

Bowman to G. R. Clark.* 

Kahous June 6*** 1779 
Dear Sir 

I Expected to start from here tomorrow but finding that the 
man who was appointed by Mr. Lacroix to Brand all the Cattle 
as they were Purchased had done it in such a manner that out of 
Eighty head their does not appear the Brands of above twenty so 

.^j 1 Dr. MSS^t 49j5it originml manmrript 



6i4 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

that we shall now have near as much trouble Collecting of them 
from the (liferent Inhabitants as in Purchasing of them at first; 
Also M^ Shannons not Returning according to Promise, as well as 
the want of a boat or Boats to transport the flower from here, has 
disappointed me Intireley ; I should be glad you would let me know 
what day you Intend to start so that I may be able to direct Every 
thing Accordingly; I should at Least want to be at Kaskaskias 
three Days before hand in order to settle my accounts & Con- 
seams of my Companey. 

M^ Parault addresses himself to me to go with us on the Ex- 
pedition Observing that he beeing A Cripple & the Imployment 
he is now in does not AfiFord him sufficient Livelyhood, on account 
of his Imployer not haveing Merchendise Sufficient for traid as to 
afford him better wages. 

But at the same time his Imployer beeing Willing to advance to 
the said Perault a Quantity of Liquors &c provided You would 
grant him permition to act as a setler to the Ridgements as well as 
your pertection otherways. I have therefore Reconmiended him 
to you to know whether you will Grant him that Permition or not. 

I have fumish*^ him with one of the state Horses which you will 
be Pleas^ to keep and let him have another to Return with if you 
should think proper, I have also sent annother state Horse by 
Battist Allerey which is to be Delivered to the Packhorsmaster, 
if aney. 

I am D^ S»" your most Obd* friend & Humb^ Se'. 

Jo" Bowman 

McCarty to Todd, September i8, 1779.^ 
Sir 

I am under the Necessity of informing you of what Party of 
the Inhabitants of this Village hath been Guilty of in Destroying 
a Part of my Stock the Quantity I cannot Ascertain; having been 
called out on the Service of my Country in January last and always 
Since been Obliged to attend the Service, to the prejudice of my 
own; I could not lay in a Sufficiency of Provisions &c. for the 
Subsistence thereof unless let run in the woods about my Settie- 

^ Dr. MSS^ 49j7ai origmal manuBcript. 



MCCARTY'S LETTERS 615 

ment Six Milles Distant from this town, the People of this Village 
have Sowen Grain out in the open fields & meadows without Any 
fence or inclosure to preserve it as I am at Such a Distance from 
this Village it cannot be Supposed that I have any Connections 
with them in the Town Laws Concerning their Commons, as I am 
Quite on the other Side of them It would be very Rediculous to 
Suppose that If any Person Should take it in their heads to Sow 
Grain in any Part of the Lands between this and Post Vincent 
without any inclosure and have a Right to Shoot any mans Cattle 
hogs &c. should they find out such a field and Enter it. 

I dont see yet through the Désigne of a few Dispicable Inhabit- 
ants who say they are authorized by you, to parade themselves 
in the fields Destroying My property when there is Numbers of 
other hogs in the Same place that are as fauctious as Mine 
Whither it is because I command a party of of the State Troops 
hear or not, perhaps they want us away. Indeed unless there is 
Soon a Change made for the Better me nor my Soldiers will have 
no Buissiness hear. Neither can we Stay half Naked, what we are 
paid with CalPd down by the Civil power; with what can we get 
our Neccessaries of Life; as long as I had any thing in my hands 
I furnished it for the Service, but at this rate it will not be long in 
my power to Subsist, when my Stock is Shot down in the Open 
fields and no redress to be had in this Country; Neither do I kno' 
the Laws you have Established. I am Sir with Respect Your 
most obed* & very Hum^ Serv* 

Cahos 18 7^ 1779 Richard M^Carty 

To 

CoP. Todd 

McCarty to Montgomery, Sept. 19, 1779.* 
Sir 

Since you left us my men Desert dayly. they are Continually 
with me to Cloath them or give them there Discharge, that they 
may Cloath themselves I have trouble enough with them and 
have thought could we Contrive a Method by the intermission 
of M^ Bourgard to Satisfie them for the present for If Something 

> Dr. i/55., 49J7Z1 originml nunuacript. 



6i6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

is not done, they will all leave me Exœpt my English who are 
the least Clamourous, yet they Complaine, and Colo. Todds 
Residence here will Spoil the people intirely for the Inhabi- 
tants no more Regard us then a Parcel of Slaves. Neither 
do I chuse to do any thing yet Soldiers & people Disatisûed, 
you may think what a poor life your humble Serv^ hath. My 
Schem is to purchase as much Strouds as will make a short jacket, 
and a pair of long Trowsers to each man, the jacket to have a 
red Cuff turned up by which they will be uniform it will take 2J 
Ells to each man and there is no Hats we can make them caps, 
for Shoes we must Shift with Mogasins. M^ Ceres has linnen 
two Suppos we furnish each man with one Shirt imtill Better 
turns out — M^ Ceres asks 15^^ in Peletries p" Ells, 15^^ d° P^ 
Shirt &c. It will be A Terrible Price to the State but yet it will 
be perhaps better to pay that then have in a few days no Soldiers 
which I think will Shortly be the Case If Some Such Method is 
not taken. 

M^ Perault will tell you our Situation and what the Result 
would be in case of an attack. 

I think it would be a happy thing could we get Colo^ Todd 
out of the Country for he will possitively Sett the Inhabitants 
and us by the Ears. I have wrote him a pretty Sharp Letter on 
his Signing a Death Warrant against My poor hogs for Runing 
in the Oppen fields. I hear inclose a Copy of it — on Some Com- 
plaints by the Inhabitants the other day he wished that there 
was not a Soldier in the Country I wish so two provided we were 
any where else to do Something for we are but poor fellow's now. 
If you approve of this I beg you will give me an Answer as Soon 
possible for perhaps If two days Retarding may even put it out 
of our power to even procure this I have never Seen the people 
of this place So Mutinous as they are by the Encouragement of 
Colo^ Todd, for they even begin to threaten to turn my men out 
of Doors and god knows what I shall do If they do for we are not 
Above 20 Strong and them Sick that I could depend on So they 
may Starve us if they like I am Sir with Compliments to the 
Gent^ Your Most Obed* and very Hum Serv^ 

Richard Mc. Ca [MS, torn] 



TODD TO GRATIOT, DECEMBEEl, 17V9 617 

Ca 19*** Sep'. 1779 

[MS, torn.] 
My People just are come in and give me an acco^ of fourteen 
Hogs killed & wounded, four of which they have brought to 
town and Sold amongst them there are Several Sowes Just ready 
to Pig. at least my loss is Estimated at 1400^^ in Peletries. 
[Addressed] on the Service 

To 

Colo^ Jn**. Montgomery Command.g 
the Illinois &c &c &c at 
By favour of Fort Clark 

Lt Perault 

Todd to Gratiot.* 

Falls of Ohio, Deer 19th, 1779. 
Sir: 

I am safely arrived here without Occurrence of moment. 

Wishing you Health & Appetite for your Girl & Glass I pro- 
ceed to explain the Business of this Letter. 

I expect to return again to the post in Feb. or March & pcjrhaps 
to Cohos & request you to purchase upon the best terms you can 
any Quantity of Lead not exceeding 5000 lb & send it to Capt. 
Winston to be lodged with him one half) & the other sent to me at 
the commanding officer at the Falls by the first Oppy. I will 
satisfy you for your Trouble & repay you — pray do not be scru- 
pulous concerning the payment of debts contracted in behalf of the 
State. Rest assured that rewards are in store for the spirited pa- 
triot who will act nobly in her cause — I hope your future conduct 
will tally with your past & you need not the Favor of Government. 

I sincerely wish you Happiness & am your Mo. Obedt Servt 
Compliments to the officers, Jno. Todd Jr. 

military & Civil, & all friends, 
J.T. 

[Addressed] Charles Gratiot, Esq., of Kohokia. 



^ la pofisesnoQ of Mrs. Annand Peuipiet of St. Louis, Mo.» a desoencUnt of CHurlei 
Gratiot. Original manuscript. Transcription by Miss Mary Louise Daltoo of Mo. EQst. 
Soc, St. Louis. 



6i8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

McCarty to Clark.* 

Cascakia 14*** Octo^ 1780 
Sir 

I have so many things to Inform you of I dont kno' Rightly 
where to begin; being an Intire Stranger to the Intentions and 
désignes of Government, for this Country; however as I imagine, 
what has and is goeing on hear Regards you in Part I think it 
my Duty to Inform you thereof as far as comes to my knowledge; 
and this by way of Journal — 

Extract from M^Carty's Journal. Cascakia. 

"The 27**" July M*". Bentley arrived from Au Post,* and Say's 
there is a french Officer arrived there call'd Colo^ Delà Balme * 
and that he Said the french intends ûghting Both the English 
& Big knife, he Said to the Inhabitants why dont you drive 
these Vagabonds away, Speaking of our Troops; that the Best 
way to get Quit of *em was not to furnish them any Provisions 
&c. in a a Council with the Indians had told them he Re- 
commended there Sending immedeat advice to the Shawnese 
that Colo^ Clark was going against them, and that If he was a 
Little Bird, we would flye and tell them; CoW Montgomery being 
at Cahôs and only Capt. Rogers and myself hear, we waited on 
Mr. Bentley and beged of him a Circumstantial acco^ of this man 
in writing that Colo^ Montgomery might be assured of what was 
goeing on, which M^ Bentley said he could not give having it 
only from hearseay But that Mr Dalton had wrote to Colo^ Mont- 
gomery an acco* thereof. 

Cap" Roger's & Self went up to Caho's arrived the 29^*" and 
Informed Colo^ of it & Delivered Dal tons Letter; The Inhabi- 
tants presented a petition to Colo. Montgomery to be eased of 
a part of the Troops, and to have them equally devided in the 
Other Village, Colo^ M. Refused to dévide the Troops and will 
Evacuate the Country intirely I with Several Other Officers de- 
sire a Council thereon before done but were Not barkened to. 

1 Dr. MSS., 50J66, original manuacripC. 

' Vincennes. 

* For an account of De la Balme, aee ItUrodmaion^ pp. Iscdx. d sêq. 



MCCARTY'S JOURNAL 619 

Colo^ went off to Cascakia 30*** Gave orders to march in 8 day's 
Our men are very near all Sick, Some dies &c. 

Sunday 3^ Lt. Giranlt arrived from Cascakia with News that 
Camp Jefferson was besiged and with Orders for All the Troops 
to March for to give it Succour, we have only one Boat of the State 
hear and that impossible, for it to Swim up Unless Mended, no Pitch 
nor Oak'iun, Major Williams gave orders Munday the 4*** for 
me to go with all the Men able, to its Succour. I got Boat mended 
with old rags as well as could be, but was obliged to have it Sunk 
to try to make it tight, the 5th had the Boat loaded but was obliged 
to unload her, it Sinking and was obliged to Press all the Little 
Boats to the N° of five to Carry Men & Provisions and Sett of 
about 2 O'clock camped at Marramack to wait for the rear; 
all came up at Sundown No Ma [MS. torn.] Night boats Small 
& Mississippi low. the 6*^ passed Missere* M^ Valley gave 
my people 22 loaves of Bread, obliged to Leave Seven Sick Men 
not being able to help themselves, and Sent word to Kennedy at 
Cascakia to have them taken care of, the State having a Store 
there; 23 Indians from Missere followed me without being asked, 
& we were 33 men & officers Cap** Keller very Sick the 8*** met 
M*^ Sarpys Boat at the Ohio, all well-Indians Gone Si^. Got 
into the Mouth of Chanel of fort Jefferson at 3 O 'Clock afternoon 
M^ Dalton arrived about 2 hours after me from auposte having 
Evacuated it. The whole people here are Sick a General Mur- 
mur Children Dieing fast, Niunbers of the Inhabitants goeing 
off, the Enemy having Distroyed their Com piunkins. Cattle 
horses &c. Colo^ Montgomery and Simdry of the Officers de- 
sired me to draw up a writing Setting forth the Situation of the 
place &c. 

the II*** held a Council where it was Generally desided to 
Change the Situation of the place or to export all State Stores &c. 
up to the Illenois Untill things Should be Better prepared for the 
Establishing Said Place 

The 13*^; Sett of to Return to Islenois, and I endeavoured to 
Bring up What Boats I could of those pressed at Cahos but was 

* Ste. Genevieve. 



620 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

hinderd, we have nothing to eat but Com without Grèce or Salt 
Much Murmuring Amongst the Troops, arrived at Cascakia the 
20*** Myself very Sick, CoW Mont* & Dodge &c arrived a day 
before by Land Cdo^ Delà Balme is Arrived hear from auposte 
with an Escorte of 30 men french and Indians and is now at 
Cahos & S^ Louis he arrived from Cahos did not wait on Colo^ 
Montgomery nor Colo^ Montgomery on him the People in Gen- 
eral Seem to be Changed towards us and Many things Said Un- 
ûtting. M'' Dodge hath discoverd that he has dined (he says) 
with this Colo^ at Philadelphia at the french Ambassadors and 
in Consequence from having him put in Irons, pay's Great Court 
to him, the two Colo*" has not at Yet Met. My Men have been 
three days without Provisions, and can not procure Any for 
them they have killed hogs in the Commons this Creats Bad 
Blood &c. and Some of My Men as well as Cap° Kellars 
have deserted I am informed, the 27^^ in the Evening had 
a dispute with G^ Dodge on acco^ of his not getting Provi- 
sions &c. tho' he has orders therefor from Cdo^ Montgomery to 
purchase; and that Some of our poor Soldiers Died purely for 
want of Subsistance. Next day he complained to Colo^ Mont- 
gomery who arrested me, thos jarret Williams whorswhiped 
Dodge & Complained yet Colo^ Montgomery Never arrested 
Williams. 

got a Permision in writing from Col^ Montgomery to go to 
Cahos & St Louis on my Private Buissiness the 30*** Sett off for 
Cahos arrived Sunday i"* Octo' 2^ went to St Louis to See My 
Uncle came back the 4*^; when I found Colo^ delà Balme Raising 
a Party for Detroit of Voluntiers with those from Cascakia Captn. 
Plassy at their Head, Our Little Doctor Ray with them the 5*^ 
Sett of, My Serj* Villiers is goeing with them & Many Others 
of my Men but I only Saw him, I informed Serj* Meryweathers 
of the Light horse that he was a Soldier of My C* and had State 
arms and that he was a Deserter, myself being under an Arrest 
had no orders to give, Serj* merwether took Said Villiers & Con- 
fined him, Capt Plassy Gave orders and the Littie Doctor at the 
Head of a Rabble went and Rescued him from the Guard and 



PENTECOSTE'S CLAIM 621 

have taken him along with them, they Amount to About 40 men, 
with their arms &c. each man foumishes every Necessary — 40 
days Provisions two pounds powder & Led. I Suppose they 
have 30 horses or near that n® with them they are to be joined at 
Ouias by the poste People, I am also informed by one of the In- 
habitants of Cahos that the people, (that is a Sett of them) of 
Auposte, Cascakia & Cahos have Sent by this Colo^ delà Balme 
to Congress or the french Envoy, a Circumstantial acc^ of all 
their Supposed Grievances and Enormitties Committed in this 
Coimtry by our Troops much Exagirated; but I must Confess 
Many things has been done which Should not; a Sort of Com- 
bined Trade Between Dodge & Bentley for the purchasing the 
Certificates from the people have raised their hatred of us to 
Such a Pitch that they will not suffer no Troops hear, and Desire 
we all March of Either by fair means or otherwise &c this Colo' 
delà Balme the Morning he left Cahos told the Indians by Tom 
Brady wife Interpreter that they should be & Remain Quiet 
for in the Spring they would See french Troops hear. — the Span- 
ish Commander hath given him no Countenance whatever and is 
Surprised he is Suffered on our Side he being Authorized by no 
State or Power in America to do what he does in Short as things 
are now the people in General are allinated and Changed from 
us there must be a Reason for it, had Colo' Clark been hear or 
an officer to Second him this would not have been. M*^Carty 

Copy of Colo' Montgomerys Answer to My Letter viz 
Sir 

you are Permitted to Go and do Your Bisniss & be a Shured 
I was Much a Ganst the Arest But his Complaint Compeled me 
to it and I am Sir as Before your Humble Serv* 

(Signed) Jn** Montgomery 

To Magor M^ Cartey (Draper MSS. 50 J 68.) 

Pentecoste to Lacroix, NovEiiBER 16, 1785.* 
On my return Home from your part of the Country I Pur- 
chased from Generall Clark the Grant made to sir Stephen Trigg 
adjoining the lands I bought of Mr Gerardine, and by Sir Stephen 

1 Pa^s of Old Congress, zlTiii., 55, from copy. This copy was enclosed in the memorial 
printed on p. 581. 



622 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Conveyed to the Said Genl. Clark Including the Caskaid and the 
feilds [sic] Adjoining between the Abbee Springs and Caskaid and 
the Mills, this grant is ten Arpents extending out from the line of 
Common. Easterly one half Arpent North of the Caskaid and 
thence down the Missisipi with the said Line of Common 21 
arpents in Depth and as those Expressions in the Original Lan- 
guage means Different from yours of the Kanadian Customs I am 
appprehensive some of the people will be dissatisfied, but it cannot 
be helped, for for [sic] it includes upwards of Twelve Thousand 
Acres our measure, which will Extend down the River Near Four 
Miles, therefore it is not my Intent to disturb any person either 
setled within the bounds or that tend feilds [sic]^ Captn, Peterson 
will give them Leases for ten years without rent subject to the tak- 
ing Care not to make waste and to keep up the fences, and any 
person that may have built in the bounds shall have their buildings 
and a Suitable piece of Land adjoining thereto without paying me 
any thing for which this shall Serve as an Obligation, and I Expect 
you will Assist Captn Peterson in Negociateing this business. I 
enquired at Congress Relating to grants of your Country made by 
your Preists [sic] or Vicar Generals under his Lordship the Bishop 
of Quebeck, and the United States Agree they are Valid and Can- 
not be Controverted, which is one of the Titles I hold by, and it 
may be pleaseing to your Setlers to know their property is secure to 
them — the Post Vintsent People seems to be on a Diferent footing, 
but it seems the Kaskaskias and your people have a Quite different 
authority to grant Lands.* I saw the Generall Clark in Philla- 
delphia Last sumer who told me as soon as the Late Indian Treaty 
was Completed that he would Come down to your town and Lay 
out my lands agreeable to Pattent but if he should not be down 
this summer please to assist Captn Peterson in doing it as he has a 
Coppy of the deed with him with the Engles and Calculations 
agreeable to which it must be done, the Original deed is recorded 
in the Office for Recording Deeds in the Village of Elaskaskias in 
book or Folio No 172 Pages 122: 123 and 124 to which refference 
may be had.* 

> With few exceptions, the courts of Ksikiikia and C^abokia ooofined their grants of land 
within what they claimed was their commons. 

This volume is in Chester, U. 



PENTECOSTE'S CLAIM 623 

Coppy of Part of A Leter Wrote by CoUohell Penticost to John 
Baetiest [sic] Lacroix Dated Washington County November i6th 
1785 No. I. 

July i8th. 1786 Done by me Nathl Wells 

je Souissigne procureur des Etats imis de lamerique aux 
ilinois résidant aux Cahos Certiffie a tous quil apartiendra que 
lextrait cy dessus a Eteé tiré de la veritable lettre du S' pentecoste 
que foy doit y être ajoutée comme a loriginal qui a resté en mains 
du S^ La Croix Magistra du d^ district en foy de quoy j*ay signé 
le present et a iceluy aposé mon Cachet ord^** aux Cahos le dix 
huit juillet mil sept cent quatre vingt six. 

Labuxiere pt des Etat 

[Translation of the certificate]. I, the undersigned state's 
attorney at Cahokia of the Illinois of the United States of America, 
certify to all whom it may concern that the above extract has been 
copied from the very letter of M. Pentecoste and that faith should 
be given thereto as to the original which remains in the hands of 
M. LaCroix, magistrate of the said district. In faith of which I 
have signed the present and set thereon my seal, at Cahokia the 
eighteenth of July, 1786. 

Labuxiere, State Attorney. 



634 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Census of Cahokia, Adcdst aj, 1787.' 
1787, aoust 37. Recensement des habitants et de leurs enfans 

males de la paroisse des Cahokias aux Ilmoîs. Savoir 

[Translation: 1787, August 37, census of the inhabitants and 

their male children of the parish of Cahokia in the Illinois, To wit:] 

Mr. françois Trottier pere * "^ Etienne nicole * , 

ses enfans Deshaye* 

francois Trottier I I<agrave 

Qement [5 Philipe Le Boeuf • 

Joseph I Joseph Lachanse' 

auguste J Gabriel Langlois* 



Raphael Langlob . 



Charle Lefevre pere ' .... 1 Alexis Brisson» ( 

Charle Lefevre Alexissonfils i' 



a"g*»8te V5 Chartes Cadron pere" 

is.:;:::::::::::::; I ES,;:;f-- i' 



>/'sf(rj*/l*<OUC^>tfrui,ttrill^iBo,i>niiiulnun<iacrip(. Ttiii onsui wu mwk itlci 
IUnkii>i*WtloIUliKiii,udwuD«id br fiulMkmJ TinUocui ia bii pcUlku u Qbckm 
(airutiaf UdJ. Tbtn an dnilu lût* of (he bdwbinati of ViiwaaBH. iil ».»t.«n., lad 
of lb AnKiicu HOkn. The kM tint Aa diit at tbg uiifd ol cmdi In IlUaob. 

Fat the foUowi^ DOtei I unirati]FtiiikbttiltaMi.Bca]>mia SulwolOtUwi, Cuid*, 
-■-- ■■»• tnc^ for EM the lamllis from France lo Cuud», tnd. «rlieo potrible. from C«ud4 




tti\r due. In I7s8 Fnafaa Tinnier m 

found CBly turn niatotx lo 



iPitmtr Hiiltry. 1]) ■•>> thu then wu > Jmcak Trottier la CahokU ia 

" ■ .. IS.» - ■ ■ 



the nliin udwu elected joBlce both iJ .Clwk'i omit mi in ino et thei oI the dinlct tt 

• LcfebTn or LefeTre aDed CiMtlet. The luully li > Lufe oae in CuimiU. but I hiit 

in the lUincJi under the French in 1765. Il U poMlble thai Chuie* li ilmiiiiliil riiiiii him. 
Chuln nvcrlBi FruicdB NlcoUe Sipumha 1», iTfii. It li inbeble thu the other Couika 
of the recnrdft wen kI» I^em*. 

< Ccneci f pellinc NlcoUe. Prnbehly » «on of the Edeane NkcUe «bo wu polaoBed br Ûa 

> Dohim called SI, Crr. The fimilT lettled near Thn Rlnri, Caaada. In 1671. 
' Three families of thii name leRled eai^r in Lover Canada. 

' Caillot called Lachasae. PmbablT the aca of Nicnlaa Ladiai 



kaaUauKdaiav 
IhcK two -aa 1 [ 

*B»ii at Si. Pierre-lea-Bctqueti near Thtae Riien. Canada, UarchO. i}4fi, be nuirled 
at Cahokia Julienne Ixat. widow of Plene Rar, 00 September 95. r787. Ai the precedini 
ptta ibow. be wai of a la^em character and fan Ihe aulhorillet awch Itoibk. 



CENSUS, AUGUST, 1787 



625 



Joseph Bellecour*' 



Joseph Cecire pere" 
Joseph son fils 



\ 



Joseph Labuxiere pere *• 

Loub 

Antoine }• ses fils 

francoîs 



1 



J 



Joseph Lapensée *• 



jean Lapensée " i 

Jean Bte. Lalande i 

francois Lapensée *' i 



antoine Lepage . 
Joseph Lepage ** 
simon Lepage . . . 
Louis Lepage. . . 



antoine Boyer 



andré Becquet . . 
Charle Becquet . . 
Philipe Gervais *• 
Louis 
PhUipe 
Ignace 



ses fils 



augustin dubuque ** 



I Pierre Lajeunesse*® i 



Il His sigiuiture reads Bekour. This wts a very common second name among the 
French. I have noted it as given among the Cahokians to a Sauder and a Lebrun. 

^ Cesire in Canada and Cadrre accocxiing to the signature of his father. The family was 
at Tiarhinr, Canada, in 1670. Antoine, the father of this Joseph, was in Cahokia as early as 
September, 1753. at which time he married. He was the most important citizen of Cahokia 
in X778* He died in 1779. His son, Joseph, married on Februarv q. 1777, Marie Alarie. He 
was one of the justices in 1781. On August 6, 1783, he married Mane Louise Levy, widow of 
Michel Monet. 

** The name as given here was probably the correct spelling, but since this member of the 
family was the onl^ one who could write and hejoreferred to ipdl the name Lapanoé. I have 
followed that nellu^ throughout the volume. The name was the second name of tne Roy 
family. Jean Roy, ms father, emigrated from Tjirhine, Canada, to Cahokia before 1752, for 
he was married thne in that year to Marie Pancraase. Joseph Roy called Lapancé was evi- 
dently an important dtixen, since he was twice elected to the omoe of justice, in 1783 and 1786. 
He married 00 F^ruary 8, 1781, Catherine Ceairre, daug^r of Antoine Casirre. 

^* The Lepages of Cahokia probably came from Canada, where several families of that 
name settled between 1665 and 1750. A Joseph Lepage was elected ju^oe in 2780, but 
whether he was this one or the father of thôe four I do not know. 

IS The Dubuques came from St. Pierre-les-Becquetsin the district of Three Rivera, Cana- 
da. The most important of the family was Julien Dubuque, after whom Dubuque, Iowa, was 
named. It has beim said that he was at Cahokia for a time, but I hitve found no evidence of his 
presence there. — Tassé. Les CanadieHs de Pouesi, 339 et seq. What is known about Augustin 
Dubuque will be found in this volume. See Index. 

^ Not Labussiere or Labusdere, as it is sometimes written. Billon, Ama^ •/ St. Louis^ 
37, sa^ he came from Canada, but no trace of him has been found there. He became notanr- 
clierk m the Illinois in 1757 and served the Frendi government till 1765, when he went to St. 
Louis, where he reoeivea the first grant of land in ue new settlement. Here he continued to 
ezerdse his functions under the government of the interregnum. After the Spaniards took 
poasenioa he served as notary till about the year 1781, whrâ he went to Kiiksskia and was 
appointed state's attorney and notary. See mfn p. 487. On account of the disorders of the 
village, he moved to Cahokia, and, as the preceding pages show, gave the community able ser- 
vice. He died April 29, 1791. — Missomi Reports^ it, 343. 

17 See supra^ note 13. This b ntibably J. Pierre Roy called Lapanoé. He was elected a 
justice in 1784. In 1785 he married Marguerite Lef^vre, daughter of J. Marie Lef^Tre and 
widow of J. B. Lalande. 

>* Francois Xavier Roy called L a p ancé married Thérèse, daughter of Pierre Godin, 
January 38, 1786. 

10 The family was from Canada. 

* This second name belongs to 36 different ^■"*"**« in f^w*^* 



626 



ILLINOIS fflSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



nicolas turgeon" 
Bte. Mercier" . 
julien Mercier . . . 
hubert Mercier. . 
pierre troge " . . 
Louis pilet ** ... 

Charle pilet 

michel pilet 



Michel Charly» | ^ 

Michel son fils ) 

Jean Bte. charley aussi son 
fils I 



francois Dion " i 

martel i 



Jean Bte. Cadien " i 

Joseph Buteau " i 

antoine Lamarche ^ 

antoine son fils 

pierre courville •• i 

Jean dorion •* i 

Jean Bte dumay " i 

pierre sicart " i 

charle Butard i 

Pierre Lecompte •* i 

Bte. Saucier père" 

Jean Bte son fils }• 3 

mathieu son fils 



*> The family emigrated to Caaada in 1645 and has spread to all regions. 

» The family came to Montreal in 1658. 

^ This as it is written is not a Canadian name, but it may be Troche called Lafleur, a 
name found in Montreal in 1748. The name of lafleur was common in Cahokia, as in Canada. 
Pierre had moved acro« the river to St. Charles by 1791 .-^-Ctiuus of St. Louis in Mo. His. Soc. 
library of St. Louis. 

M Family at Boucbenrille, Canada, in 1680. Some of the family were early settlen in 
Detroit, and it is probable that these PiUets came from there. Louis Pillet was a justice in 
1784. » 

** Charly called St. Ange. Family from Montreal, where the first Charly in this country 
settled in i6s3* 

** Transformed from Guyon. From Canada. 

^ Perhaps Cadieu, as it is written in Canada, but the Cahokia dexk q>ells it very carefully 
Cadien. In Amer. Slate Paport, Public Lands^ iL, 164, Cadien is given as a second name to 
Pierre Roy. It is possible that one brandi of the Roy family was called Lapancé and another 
Cadien. See supnt note 13. 

*Frora Canada. 

^ Second name of nineteen families in Canada. He was the son of Antoine Lamarche 
of the Montreal district, and married April 17, 1781, Magdekine Buyat. He was a justice in 
1783. On October xq, 1785, he married Marie, daughter of J. B. Becqnet. 

io I find this as a second name of the Cadioi family, but see supra note 17. He was bom 

about 176a. 

"^ Family in Lower Canada since 1684. J. Biarie Dorion was son of T. Marie Dorian of 
Quebec, and married Marie Magdeleine Buteau, widow of Alexis Bissiette of Cahokia, Novem- 
ber 19, 1773. 

*> Also Dumest, Dumets, Dumais, Dumers. Family in Canada as eariy as 1640. J. 
Bte. Dumay's father, Jacques Dumay, was killed by an Indian at Detroit in 1760, the year the 
son was born. 

*> Better Sicard. Family from Canada. 

** Second name belonging to many families. 

M Saussier in France. The family is descended from a line of mendiants iriio lived in 
Orieans, France. J. Bte. Saucier, the founder of the Illinois branch, became a ndlitary engineer 
and was sent to the Illinois. Here he planned Fort de Chartres in X75a. When the country 
was surrendered to the British he retired to Cahokia. Snyder, Cttpt4s$n Jmn Bepti^ 
Saucier The story of the lives of his sons, J. Bte., François, and Siatthieu, is found id 
these records. They were important men in the community and were frequently elected to 
office. Françob was the first deric of the Court of the Dbtrict cA Cahokia and Baptiste wu 
one of the first judges. Like many other Frenchmen, François and Matthieu vdthdxew to the 
Spanish banks on account of the immigration of the Amerkans. The former was i4>pointed 



CENSUS, AUGUST, 1787 



627 



pierre martin '• 

pierre martin ^3 

hyacinthe 



Paul Poupar. 
Paul son fils. 



\ 



francois Noizé" 



Mathieu Saucier" 
mathieu son fils. . . 



Louis Lebrun •• 
Louis I -, 
Batiste \ ^^ ^^• 



Thomas Bredy *» 
Baptiste son fils. 



\ 

] 

) 



I 



Joseph Bissonet " 
Joseph Giroux*' 

Louis Roy 

francois Rov 



\ 



jean Bte. melot** i 



francois saucier pere 
Charle son fils 



44 



• • • • r 



Louis Lamarche 



j. Bte. Gonneville *' i 

jean chauvin *• i 

jean Beaulieu *^ i 

Michel Beaulieu i 



commandant at Portage des Sieux and was given a large tract of land by the Spanish govern- 
ment in 1799. His brother, Matthieu, received a irrant the next year. — 34 Cong^ ist Sess.^ H 
of Rep^ Doc. 59, pp. 75 and x8x. François was living in 18x7 and was about eighty years old. 

* Old and large C4>nadian family. Pien« was a jusdoe in 1779. 

^ Noiset called Labbé. His father was Nicolas, who married at Cahokia January x6, 
1758. BCarie St. Yves. The river Labbé, in Cahokia, was evidently named after the family, 
wmoi had a mill on the stream. 

" See supra^ note 35. 

*> Fifteen families of this name in Canada. His father's name was Joseph Lebrun. He 
himself married Marie Louise, daughter of François Trottier, February 13, 1776. He was a 
justice in 1 782-1 784. 

^ From his marriage contract with Marie Lacheinfique. widow of Charles Le Boeuf called 
Laflamme, of Tune 8, 1779. it is learned he was a "native of New England of the ville of Mary- 
land," whidi doesn't agree with Reynolds' statement {Pionter History^ 68) that he was a native 
of Pennsylvania. He was a member of the I>e la Balme expedition against St. Joseph, and was 
captured. He afterwards escaped and returned to the Ulmois. See ItUrodmmon^ p. zdi. and 
Mason, Chapters from Illinois History ^ aSs. His connection with this expedition proves that 
his interests were with the French party in the Illinois rather than with the American. He 
was for a time Indian agent at Cahokia.^CoJk. Rec. In 1785 he was one of the jusdoes and 
for several years acted as kmssier. 

^ He was the son of Jean Bissoonette, a native of Canada, and married the widow of 
Michel Girardin, Jime xs, 1776. In 1784 he was one of the justices. 

^ From a large and old Canadian family. 

« Probably Milot. A family from Montreal. 

** See supra, note 35. 

^ Second name of the Desjardins. There was a Charies Desjardins at Detroit in 1761. 

M The Illinois Chauvins were probably members of a Detroit family of that name. There 
was an important brandi of the family at Ksslrnslri». I have found nothing of this Jean 
Chauvin. 

^ The full name is Pahnitt called Beaulieu. The father of these, Midid BeauUeu, was 
one of the justices of Clark's csourt aikd was elected justice of the Court of the District in i770« 



69d JLLDiOJS HISTOMCAL COLLECTiaXS 



p^^Vn I Oaiaic QesoBcr pere •* ^ 



Loqa Beamiien i 



Nicfllas BoÉanenû** i 



Loos deaionrhantp " ♦^ 

hicxirT Bcrvm^ I Loos ujaSs • 

Oiarieaoïiûfa..-.^ f 



I 
I 



S7 



LooaRcie* ^ 

Ï* K»e|>^ r^esttls 



auguste lecompce. i 



jean Bee 



I 



ûktoçbae I fomcoe snuDoot » i 

Joseph Pooptitrpere* \ 

y»«P^ I r^. r3 pierre Laâear pere * *^ 



filâ Ç 



FaoL V 7 DÎerre soo fiis. ) 



tat iK «fcrf Aecdy afttrmii. Oa «Me, jmI ife audbBr 4< 
4f âe Oua'viK fbimtf. BucrfaâcrlMBaf aaiMtaeimadkcr jtSc 
Onefetfi: and «a« "Dvecaor Gcaenii b taeak md meAck 
fi0mttr Hut0ry, ^M- 91k 2wi to aa Mimmu t A ^ md Ad 



trJmmemi fÂ \LamtffeaL He amrntd Margaat Paimrr caBad'acanfaiu daqyhfcr qf IBd hrl 
Beasiiea, en January 3ê, r:;d6. He «an a aaibcr 4< dhe £)e la Bakne czpcœiaB acaÎBC St. 
Jcnepà. 



* TTk êubAt «aa fasm Canada. Henry BÉns «an oae of dhe 

tai «790. 

* Two fnnflirt la LoNner Ciirfu cf tkii aaaK. 



A Laperchr caScd Sc Jeaa. The fiiii wm ia Bonckervile, Canada, as caiiy as i6^ 
He VM ehe am 4f Pferre Lapcrthe. aad oaamed Tkexaae Cfcarrtra. Fcfaraary >5- '7^- Be 
via one <vl the joadcn ia xt^. and aened t9 sTpo. 



» Ala» Refle, Real, aad SicL The aaas « «B fonvi ia the pronnoe <tf Qoebcc 
» The fanâty waa ia BoodKrvik; CaMda, ia i6So. 
MAJaoCh<»er. The faanly waa ia Qncbcc 

* Deikwcchampa, tibe aecoad aaaK a< the Baboot : 
aa earfy aa 164$. 

** The aaone ii fooad il 

aanala throoiEh the dnda ol - .,...j.., 

a hahertfl» onicaourB n aeaber eâ tbt Uadtf- He «aa oae of the moat pCDoncat inhabittaa of 
the ^iUace, and sencd mice 

«^ TUa aaaae ia probably not ^<->*'^— He attzxied Chafktte Lonval Septonbcr 6. 
X775. 

* Gnadracnt ia the proper apdBnK. Seooad aaaae o< tibe Hoaré% «ho Eved near Three 
Rfwen, Canada, aa early aai&To. He«aathe«onolPfcneG nnwhnnBf , andaaarried Calhiiinr , 
daacbcer of Joaeph OenBoat. Febr«ary 16, 1784. 

UtfaekleatificatioDianoae33abo^iaoorxcct.lheaaaBeiftThxhecniledLaiev. The 




d Paol Laflear, and nurxicd Marie Amable, iti^hii 1 <tf Fr. Lonval. Fcfanury S. 17*4- 



CENSUS, AUGUST, 1787 



629 



Bte. Baron •• i 

Louis Clemont " i 

pierre Qemont i 

pierre Butau i 

alexis tabeau *' i 

jean Bte Kaire i 



jean Bte dubuque " i 

hyacinthe Cecire i 

Loub compte •• i 

Louis . . ) 

jean Bte > ses fils 3 

Bazile . . ) 



Louis harmand ** .. 
francois harmand. . . 
jean Bte. harmand. . 



frères 3 



Louis Leboeuf * 
Bazile Leboeuf. . 



:::} 



freres 2 



antoine Lacource •* ) 

antoine son fils j 

Pierre durbois •• i 



francob courier •• ..1^^^ 
pacsal Conner ) 



francois Lonval 

francois ) ^, 

paul Î ses fils 



■ 



2 [3] 



Louis trotier père ^* 

andré merleau ^* I 

francob merleau | 

jean Bte merleau ) 

fraucob merleau ) 

george Blain " i 

Gabriel merleau i 



^ UncerUin whether from Canada or not. His wife was Docnitilde Rolet. He was one 
of the justices in X 782. He died some time before 1789. ., . 

^ Correct spelling, Clennont. The name is commMi both as surname and second 
name in Canada. Louis was hilled on the Cumbeiland RiTer in 1793. 

u Family from Lachine, Canada. Ahsds died before 1789. 

«Full name Harmand called Sansfs^oo. The family is from Canada. These axe 
probably the sons of Antoine, who plays such an important part in the court record. 

^ Second name of tibree Canadian families. 

** Durbois, or Dubois. The family is from Canada. He was the son of J. Bte. Dur- 
bois, and married Catherine, daughter of Fr. Lef^vre caUed Courier. 

* Probably Lef^vie called Courier. See supra, note 3, but there were two families 
of Couriers in Canada from the end of the 17th century. François was twice elected juMice, 
in Z780 and 1783.. . t .,i , 

^ See supra, note 15. Jean Bte. was the son of Andre Dubuque, a native of Montreal, 
and married Suzanne, danghtrr of Antoine Cesirre. His influence in C^ahokia was equal 
to that of François Trottier or of Antoine Girardin. He was a justice in 1781, again in 1785 
and in 1788, when he served till 1790. He was acting as commandant in 1787. «o «(bKUl 

^ See supra, note 34. Native of Tene Bonne of the province of Montreal. He ^•rrimA 
Marie T^imarche, widow of Joseph Langdoc, January 37, 1775. ,\ 4 ; '• J 

** There were three f a milifs ofthisns m f sr rt ledinLowerCanada be t w e e n 1665 and 1759. 

^ See supra, note 2. Probably a nephew or cousin of François Trottier. 

" Called both Petit and Laramie. The family came from LacUne, and was in Cahokia 
as early as 1761. 

"AlsoBlin. From parish of St. Piene-du-Moot-de-St. Michel, Normandy. He married 
Suzanne Alarie, widow of Louis Bisso n net t e, October 25, 1775. His Auher was a justice in 
1781 and died about 1784. 



630 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



francois oubreman i 



Jean Bte milot '* 
Jacques son fUs . 



\ 



Joseph Poirier '* i 



ignace grondine'' . ) 

francois grondîne . . . > frères 3 

Joseph grondine ) 

Charles la Croix i 



f 



Joseph Laplante " i 



Louis chatel père ^ 

Louis son fils f ' Paul de St. pierre ^* i 

hameau de la prairie du pont paroisse des cahos. 

[TranskUion: Hamlet of Prairie du Pont, Parish of Cahokia. 

Laurant amelin père ^* ) gabriel telier " } 

Louis ) )-3 amant telier f 

Joseph ) ^ ) Joseph Lambert " i 

Charles germain « } 

Charles son fils ) 



francois hamelin i 

Etienne ardouin "^ i 



^ He was born at Pointe Claire, near Montréal, and married Françoise Pillet atSt. Louis. 
January 15, 1781. 

^* Poirier called Dealoges. The family settled at Lacfaine, Canada, in 170s. 

'* The familT settled near Quebec in z68o. and has sfvead in all directions. Although 
illiterate, Louis Chatel was an influential man m the community, and was a justice in 1784, 
1786, and in 1788, serring the last time till 1790. 

^ The name of a fief forty miles below Three Riven, Canada. The Hamelins were 



seigniors of it, and since Hamdinsdwdt in C^ahokia these men probably were of the same stock. 
There were Hamelins at Mirhillimafkinac as early as 1738. It was a J. Bte. Hamelin who 
led the detadmient of the De la Balme force against St. Joseph in 1780, where he was killed. 



He was probably the father of these brothers. 

^ Second name of fourteen different families in Canada. 

^ Father Paul de St. Pierre was a native of Germany or Holland. He became a Car- 
melite, served as priest in France, and came to America as chaplain in Rochambeau's army. 
He was sent by Prefect- Apostolic Carroll as missionary to the West. In February, 1785, 
he was in Louisville, Kentucky, and then went to Cahokia, where he resided as parish priest 
till 1780. He was very popular with the people^ and they built for him a new parochial resi- 
dence and a new church. The latter is still standing. His relations with Father Gibault, 
who was priest at ^noennes till 1789, were very pleasant; but the ecclesiastical peace of the 
Illinois was disturbed by the appearance of Father de La Valhiiere as vicar funeral of the 
prefect-aoostolic. The latter made many complaints against Father de St. Pierre, but the 
people of Cahokia upheld their priest. Like the other priests of the Illinois, Father de St. 
Pierre was persuaded oy Uie Spaniards to cross the river, snd he was put in charge of the parish 
of Ste. Genevieve, where he omdated till 1797. Where ne went then I do not luiow, but from 
1804 till his death on October 15, i8a6, he was parish priest at Pointe Coupée, where he was 
regarded as '*oDe of the moat remarkable priests that ever administered St. Gabriel's church." 
— Shay, Life and Times of ArdUnskop CarroU^ Indtx (add reference, p. 474); Amer. CaPt. 
Hist. Researches, New Ser., ii. No. 3; Roôer, Early SeUlemeni of the Miss. Valley, X17; 
Introduciion, p. 



^ See supra note 76. 

^ Probably he came from France to Detroit, where he married Marie Joaephte Lapointe, 

January 6, 1771. He may, however, be descended from the Hardouin family of Canada. 

** Also Letellier. The family settled in Canada about 1655. There were members of 
the family in Michillimarkinac in 1747. 

*> Three different families in Canada of this name. 

*> Six families of this name in Canada in the X7th century. He was son of Charles Ger- 
main, and married Catherine, daughter of Ignace Grondine, October za, ijSs, 



CENSUS, AUGUST, 1787 



631 



pierre cabassier** 
Joseph cabassier 
Baptiste cabassier 
Xavier cabassier 
Charles cabassier 
antoine cabassier 



•• frères 6 



jean Godin** 

f rancois Godin } f rere 3 

pierre Godin 



Joseph Lacouture 



ai 



francois Bracanda'* 

andre Bracanda 

Joseph vaudry •' . . . 
Bte vaudry 



amable Chartran •• i 



Baptiste chartren 
Toussaint chartren 
Thomas chartran 
Michel chartran 



Baptiste la Bécasse ** . . . 

Baptiste son fUs ^3 

alexis labecasse 



^ ^ Joseph desloges •* 
Joseph son fUs . . . 



] 



Joseph Biguier '^ ) 

Louis son fils f ^ 



Izidore Savoy" i 



Michel Rocq 
Michel gau. 



I 

I 

Louis gau " I 



PhUipe Engel •" 

antoine angel J- 3 

michel angel 



I 



francois alexandre. •' i 



Baptiste alary pere ■• 
Baptiste f ^ 
Joseph J ^ ^^ 



Louis perian. . . 
Baptiste perian 



( 



*^ The family was in Tiarhiiir, Canada, about z668. There was a family of this name 
in Detroit in 1752. 

** Joseph Chadgny called Lacouture. The family is from Caxuuia. 

M Family in Montreal befon z668. 

" Bkniier called Groslé. He came to Cahokia from Prairie du Rocher. The family 
came to Canada in 1755. 

** Gaud. See supra, note 57. 

^ Also Alaiie, whidi is the way the members ot the Illinois famQy wrote it. The family 
was in Canada in 1678. He was the son of Bte. Alarie, and manied Catherine Lavidette, 
widowof Pierre Godin, April z6, 1781. He was a judge in 178a. 

^ Godin called Turanieau; also spelled Gaudin. The famU:^ was in Canada in 1651. 
The father of these three^ Pierre Godin, was one of the prominent mhabitants of Cahokia in 
1778. He served as justice in Claik's court, but he diea shortly after being elected as oat of 
the justices of the Court of the District oi Cahokia in 1779. 

^ Possibly Spanish settlers. 

« The family was at Three Rivers, Canada, in 1658. 

* Labecasse. Possibly not from Canada. 

•• See supra, note 74. 

** Also Savoy and Savoie. Many families of this name settled in Canada between 1747 
and 1779. In 1791 IsidcMe Savoy was in Spanish St. Charles. — Cmsus of 1791* in Missouri 
Hist. Soc. Library of St. Louis. 

^ Native of the Dudiy of Darmstadt, Germany. He married Marie Joaephte Rodielot 
on August 13, 1783. He was elected a justice in 1785, 1787, and 1788, when he served tQl 
1790. 

^ This may be either a surname or a second name, both of iriiich are found in Canada 



63 a 



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



francois gerome" i 

Louis giroux i 

pierre Gassien i 



jean Bte. La Croix pere *^* 
Baptiste la Croix 
francois la Croix y ses ûls 
Louis La Croix 



>4 



Michel Peltier' 



antoine girardin*** 

Louis girardin 

Michel girardin 

antoine girardin ûls 
auguste girardin 



\ 



Gabriel Baron "» i 

Michel Clermont i 

pierre Qermont i 

auguste Clermont i 

Francois Renoux *<>• i 



je soussigné commandant aux cahokias aux Ilinois Certiffie le 
present rescensement viritaUe montans a deux trente neuf per- 
sonnes males résidant Et habitants dans les deux villages tous 
français tant honmies que enfant maies aux Cahos le neuf sep- 
tempre 1787. 

[Translation: I, the undersigned Commandant at Cahokîa in 
the minois, certify the present census to be correct, amounting 
to two hundred and thirty-nine [40?] male persons residents and 
inhabitants in the two villages, all French, both men and male 
children. At Cahokia the ninth of September, 1787.] 

** Alflo Gcrome. Probably a teoood name. He was the too of Jean Gerosme, aod 
married Marie Louiae Lemire, widow of Louis Giroux and also of François Siguier called 
Groslé. 

*> Pelletier called Antaya. The family was among the early arrivals in Canada. About 
166^ one of the familjr married an Indian woman, from whom came the name Antaya. The 
family was in Cahokia as early as 1751. 

^^ A family of this name settled near Quebec as earW as 1664, but this Cahdda family 
may have come directly from France. Antoine was one ot the most prominent citizens of the 
community. He bought in 1764 the plantation and mill belonging to the mission of St. 
Sulptce at Prairie du Pont. — Reynolds, Piottser HisUny, ka. He was justice in Clark's 
court and was elected a justice of the Court of the District of Cahokia in 1779, 1785. and 1787, 
serving till 1790. During the last years he was president of the Court, ne was commandant 



of the village of Prairie du Pont. After the establishment of the county of St. Clair he was 
appointed judge of the Court of Common Pleas as well as of Quarter Sessions, and he hdd 
other hnportant positions. He died about i8oa.— Smith, Si. CUur Papers, ii, 165. 

*°* The name is a most common one in Canada. His full name was J. Bte. Hubert 
LaCroix. He was son of Pierre Hubert LaCroix of Quebec, and married Catherine Au- 
buchon, widowof Joseph Clermont. He is probably the LaCroix referred to in Clark's letter to 
Mason. — English, Conqmsi 0/ Uu NertkmeU, i, 443. He was one of the justice* in 1780, 
X784, 1785, and 1786. 

><" See supra, note 60. He was a son oil. Bte. Baron, and was bom at Cahokia December 
17, 175a. He married, first. Marie Louise Buteau, and, on June 15, 1789 Marie Harmand, 
widow of Alexis Tabeau. He was a justice in 1772. 

^^ From an old Canadian family. 

