June 18th. Eight Mingoes arrived from Logstown, who on their arrival told me [George Washington], without delay, of a commission they had and that a council must be held. 

Mingos: When we had assembled, they told us briefly that they had often desired to see their brethren in the field with forces, and begged us not to take it amiss, since they were amongst the French, that they com plied with some of their customs, notwithstanding which they were naturally inclined to attack them, and other words to that purport. After which they said they had brought a speech with them, which they must deliver with speed. 

Washington: These, together with some other things, made us suspect that their intentions towards us were evil; wherefore I delayed giving them audience until the arrival of Half-King, and desired also the Delawares to have patience till then, as I was only awaiting their arrival, which I expected would be the same day, to hold a council. After the eight Mingoes had conferred a while together, they sent me some strings of wampum, desiring me to excuse their insisting on the delivery of their speech so speedily, that they now perceived that it was proper to await the arrival of the Half-King. When the Half-King arrived I consented to give them audience. A council was held in the camp for that purpose, at which the HalfKing and several of the Six Nations, Loups and Shawanese to the number of forty were present. 

The spokesman of the Six Nations addressed the following speech to the Governor of Virginia:
	Brethren : We your brothers of the Six-Nations are now come to acquaint you, that we have been informed you threaten to destroy entirely all your brethren the Indians, who will not join you on the road ; therefore we who keep in our own towns, expect every day to be cut in pieces by you. We would desire to know from your mouth, if there be any truth in that information, and that you would not look upon it as preposterous, that we are come to enquire into it, since you very well know that bad news commonly makes a deeper impression upon us than good; that we maybe fully satisfied by your answers of the truth thereof, we give you this Belt of Wampum. We know the French will ask us at our return, of what number our brethren are, whom we went to see? Therefore we desire you, by this Belt, to let us know it, as also the number of those whom you expect, and at what time you expect them, and when you reckon to attack the French, that we may give notice thereof to our town and know also, what we shall have to tell the French.

[Washington's] Answer:
	Brethren — We are very glad to see you, and sorry that such reports disquiet you. The English do not intend to hurt you, or any of your allies ; this news, we know, must have been forged by the French, who are constantly treacherous, asserting the greatest falsehoods whenever they think they will turn out to their advantage ; they speak well, promise fine things, but all from the lips outward ; whilst their heart is corrupted and full of venomous poison. You have been their children, and they would have done every thing for you, but they no sooner thought themselves strong enough, than they returned to their natural pride, and drove you off from your lands, declaring you had no right on the Ohio. The English your real friends, are too generous, to think of using the Six Nations, their faithful allies, in like manner ; when you made your address to the Governors of Virginia and Pennsylvania ; they, at your repeated request, sent an army to maintain your rights ;t to put you in the possession of your lands, and to take care of your wives and children, to dispossess the French, to support your prerogatives, and to make that whole country sure to you ; for those very ends are the English arms actually employed ; it is for the safety of your wives and your children, that we fight, and as this is the only motive of our conduct, we cannot reasonably doubt of being joined by the remaining part of your forces, to oppose the common enemy. Those that will not join us, shall be answerable for whatever may be the consequence ; we only desire your brethren to choose that side which shall be most agreeable to them.

	The Indians of the Six Nations are those, who have the most interest in this war; for them it is that we fight ; and it would greatly trouble me to do them the least hurt ; we have engaged in this war in order to assist and protect you ; our arms are open to receive you, and our hands ready to nourish your families during the course of this war. The Governor of Virginia has often desired they might be sent to him, that he might see them in person, nourish and clothe them according to their own desire ; but as you could not be determined to send them to him, we are ready to share in a friendly manner, all our provisions with you, and shall take such measures, and give such orders, that enough shall be brought to maintain your wives and children. Such a conduct will evidently prove how much more the English love and esteem their allies the Six Nations than the French do. As we have drawn the sword in your cause, and in your defense, delay not one moment, be no more in suspense, but put your wives and children under our protection ; and they shall find plenty of provisions ; in the mean while, set your young men and your warrior to sharpen their hatchets, in order to join and unite with us vigorously in our battles.

	The presents, my brethren, which I offer you, is not so considerable as I could wish, but I expect in a short time a quantity of goods, which are to be at my disposal, in order to reward those who shall have shown themselves brave and active on this occasion ; however, I shall recompense them most generously.

	Be of good courage, my brethren, deliver your country, and make it sure to your children ; let me know the thoughts of your hearts on this affair, that I may give an account of your sentiments to your great friend and brother, the Governor of Virginia. In order to assure yea of my sincerity and esteem, I present you this belt.

The 20th. The council still continued. 

When the Delawares knew that they were suspected of being in the French interest, they demanded the reason why they had been sent for, and what they should tell the French at their return.

[Washington]: 
	I answered them it was to let them know, that we were come at their reiterated requests to assist them with sword in hand that we intended to put them in the possession of those lands which the French had taken from them. And as they had often demanded our assistance, in quality of our ancient and faithful allies, I invited them to come and place themselves under our protection, together with the women and children. 

Delaware Speaker: 
	Whereupon the Indian speaker stretched out his blanket upon the floor, and laid several belts and strings of wampum thereon in the same order he had received them from the French. This done, he repeated the speeches of M. de Contrecceur ; after which, the Delaware speaker directed to me the following speech :

	Brethren, the Governor of Virginia and Pennsylvania: — We your brethren, the Delawares, remember perfectly well the treaty of Logston, where you and your uncles the Six Nations, considering the bad situation we were in, for want of a man to be our leader, you then gave us a king, and told us, he should transact all our public affairs between you and us ; you gave us a charge, not to listen to every vain report that might be spread, but to consult ourselves, and to do, what would seem to us to be right. We assure you that we have given no credit to any of these reports, nor ever shall ; but will be guided by you our brethren, and by our uncles the Six Nations, and will do on all occasions, what is just and right, taking advice from you alone. To assure you of the desire we have to fullfill our engagements with you, we present you this belt.

After which the Delaware made the following discourse, to the Six Nations. 

	Uncles, Thirteen days are now past, since we have received the belt from the Onondago Council ; I do not doubt your knowing it. They exhorted us to remember old times, when they clothed us with a robe reaching down to our heels ; afterwards told us, to raise it up to our knees, and there to make it very fast, and come to them at the headwaters of the Susquehanna, where they had provided a place for us to live ; that they had also sent a speech to those of our nation who live near the Minnesinks, inviting them to go to the place by them appointed, that they might live with us. They also sent us a speech, to give us notice that the English and French were upon the point of coming to an engagement on the Ohio River, and exhorted us to do nothing in that juncture, but what was reasonable, and what they would tell us themselves ; lastly, they recommended to us, to keep fast hold of the chain of friendship, which has so long subsisted between us and them, and our brethren the English. A belt of Wampum.

Then the Delawares spoke to the Shawanese as follows : 

	Grandsons, by this belt, we take you between our arms, and fetch you away from the Ohio, where you now are, to carry you amongst us, that you may live where we live, and there live in peace and quiet.

The council after this was adjourned till the next morning. 

The 21st. Met very early, and I spoke first to the Delawares in the following manner. 

Washington: 
	Brethren, by your open and generous conduct on this occasion, you have made yourself dearer to us than ever ; we return you our thanks that you did not go to Venango, when the French first invited you there; their treating you in such a childish manner, as we perceive they do, raises in us a just and strong resentment. They call you their children, and speak to you, as if you in reality were children, and had no more understanding than such.

	Consider well my brethren, and compare all their discourse, and you will find that all it tends to, is to tell you, I am going to open your eyes, to unstop your ears, and such like words to no purpose, only proper to amuse children. You also observe brethren, that if they deliver a speech, or make a promise, and confirm it by a belt, they imagine it binds them no longer than they think it consistent with their interest to stand to it. They have given one example of it, and I will make you observe it, in the jump which they say they have made over the boundaries, which you had set them; which ought to stir you up my brethren, to a just anger, and cause you to embrace the favorable opportunity that we offer you, as we are come, at your request, to assist you, and by means of which, you may make them jump back again, with more speed than they advanced. A string of wampum. 

	The French are continually telling you, not to give heed to the ill reports that are told you concerning them who are your fathers. If they did not know in their very souls, now richly they deserve it on your account, why should they suspect being accused ? Why should they forewarn you of it, in order to hinder you from believing what is told you concerning them? With regard to what they tell you of us, our conduct alone will answer in our behalf; examine the truth yourselves ; you know the roads leading to our habitations, you have lived amongst us, you can speak our language; but in order to justify ourselves from whatever might be said against us, and assure you of our brotherly love ; we once more invite your old men, your wives and your children, to take sanctuary under our protection, and between our arms, in order to be plentifully fed, whilst your warriors, and young men join with ours, and expose together the common cause. A string of wampum.

	Brethren, we thank you with all our hearts, for having declared onto us, your resolution of accomplishing the engagements which you bad entered into, at the treaty of Logstown, and we can do no otherwise than praise your generous conduct with regard to your grand sons, the Shawanese ; it gives us infinite pleasure.

	We are greatly obliged to the counsel given you by Onondago, charging you to hold fast the chain of friendship by which we are bound ; I dare say, that had he known, how nearly you are interested in this war, or that it is for the love of you, and at your request, we have taken up arms, he would have ordered you to declare, and to act immediately against the common enemy of the Six Nations. In order to assure you of my affection, and to confirm the truth of what I have said, I present you these two great strings. Two long strings of wampum.