SPEECH IN INDIAN COUNCIL AT DETROIT. 

MIAMIS 18th August 1773 
The answer of the Miamis Indians to Sir William Johnson's Speech, 

addressed to them by the Hurons: 

Our Elder Brethren, We are well pleased with the message you bring us from, our Governor General Johnson. Lo, this is the first time, that we have the pleasure to know, that our General speaks to us, we see that he takes pity on us by sending us this good speech, and we receive it with both our hands, we will do every thing agreeable to his will when we find the speech comes from himself, and we see now, that it is real, and that it is for good, seeing that the Hurons interfere we have listened to them in all times as we have learned from our ancestors, and we will pay no regard to what we hear from any others, we have always had bad birds fluttering about our heads, who vexed our hearts, so that we could hear nothing right. We'll name you these birds; they are the Shawanese: who at the same time they talked of peace, told us to keep our axes, always sharp, and ready so soon as the Tawny Ekins (meaning the Indians) were assembled together, that they should be all of one people, and strike again all men who wear hats, (meaning the white people) and these talks came from General Johnson's favorites, the Six Nations, whom he esteems so much, and who are always stirring up mischief, For which reason, our Elder Brethren; we would not listen to them, but always make War against the Flat Heads. Now you are come to tell us that we are all as one people, wherefore we receive Governor Johnson's Belt, with both our hands, notwithstanding that we are worthy of compassion, having ever since the English are in possession of the country, been looked upon as Bastards; yet our chiefs of the Villages and War Chiefs, will go and use their utmost endeavours that all may be peaceable, and undisturbed agreeable to General Johnson's desire. You Hurons, our Elder Brethren, you reproach us, that you, having come to pass, in the road of our former Brethren, have found it stained with the Blood of our present Brethren, the White People. Tis true it is stained, but we have not stained it. The road was made by our Ancestors, it now turned aside; we are not the cause of it. Tis true we have imbrued our hands in the Blood of our Brethren, the White People; but it was not on the road of our ancestors, it was off from it, in the Enemy's country our Tomahawk fell. You reproach us with the blow against Major Cochran, and our little Brethren the Shawanese, and our having killed them all together. If he had known the former road that was made, this matter would not have happened. He was found in the path of the Enemy. It was unlucky for, him, and us, when he came in the road that was traced out by our ancestors. He got to his home, with the greatest facility, and we believe he has no reason to complain of our Miamis. This old road is now opened again and we are going altogether to sweep it, and make it clean. That agreeable to your demand every one may pass without molestation. Though our chiefs be not here, we imagine he will not be dissatisfied with what we do now, and we give some branches of Wampum, and a pipe of peace to confirm what we say. The Queen of the Village has given us some branches of Wampum, thanking us that we have taken pity on the women, and children; Wherefore they join altogether in this speech and are so well satisfied that they will use their utmost endeavours to prevent the Chiefs, their children, from doing contrary to the desire of Governor Johnson. We kindly thank the Governor of all Nations, that he has taken pity on us, and we pray the Master of Life to give success to his embassy. We thank our Elder Brethren, the Hurons, for coming personally to bring us the Governors Speech. We observe they are old men and that it is an affair of consequence, and we thank you all for taking pity on us.

CHAPOLONTIA 

PAKANE JUNR. 

[Signed] NAQUAKOUANDE 

LE GRIS 

The proceeding Speech was delivered by Baby and several Huron chiefs in council at Detroit 28th 

August 1778 to 

Major Henry Basset 

Commander 

and translated from the French by James Stirling. 