October 14th, 1774

COUNCIL BETWEEN LORD DUNMORE AND THE INDIANS. 

At a Council held with the Indians : Present, his Excellency the Right 
Honorable the Earl of Dunmore, Lieutenant and Governor of Virginia, 
Alexander McKee, Esquire, Deputy Agent, &c. : Indians, Delawares, 
King Custaloga, Captain White Eyes, and Pluggy, a Six Nation Chief, 
and sundry others. 

Captain White Eyes spoke: 

First Brother: I wipe the sweat and dust from your eyes by this string, and remove the fatigue that you have had during your journey ; and also, I clear and open your ears, that you may readily comprehend and hear what your brothers have now to say to you ; I also remove every concern from your heart, owing to any bad impressions which have been made upon you during your journey to this place, that you may believe the sincerity of us towards you, and all our brethren the English. (A string.)

Second. Brother: I will now inform you of what I know concerning the Shawanese. Our uncles, the Mohawks, have been sent by the Shawanese here, in order to know in what manner they should act, so as to be admitted to a conference with their brethren, the English of Virginia. Our uncles, the Mohawks, desire to inform you that the principal men of that Nation continue to hold fast by the ancient chain of friendship ; but that some foolish young men had loosened their hands therefrom, and that it was not in their power to prevent them heretofore. Brother, I have now told you of what our uncles, the Mohawks, have told us, of what the Chiefs of the Shawanese say, and hope you will be strong, and consider upon what you may have to say to them, that whenever you choose to speak, we may be ready to join you in so doing.

Third. Brother: I desire you to listen to your brethren, the Five Nations and Mohawks, the Wyandots, and also your brethren the Delawares. These are the people who have taken pains to keep everything quiet since these unhappy troubles. All the Western Nations are quiet, but keep their eyes fixed on this quarter. Brother, I am rejoiced to see you, as I was troubled and afraid before, but now my apprehensions are dispersed on seeing you, which is the cause of my pleasure. Brother, I now esteem our women and children restored to life upon your arrival, and that even the foolish young people will have reason to be thankful on the conclusion of the present prospect. (A string.)

Fourth. Brother: I desire you to listen to us few of the numerous Chiefs who formerly were of our Nations ; as the few now remaining have a due remembrance of the friendship subsisting between our forefathers. Brother, during the trouble which happened, owing to foolish people, I was apprehensive it might be the cause of universal trouble, so as to have shook our amity, and weakened the ancient friendship between us. Brother, I tell you that I am extremely rejoiced at your arrival here, as you are esteemed our elder brother ; and I hope that, as you have it amply in your power, you will restore our ancient friendship, and establish it upon the former good footing ; to promote which, we will contribute our weak endeavors, by affording all our assistance. (A belt.)

This is what your brethren have to say to you who are here present 

His Lordship said: 

I am much obliged to you for this mark of your friendship, and I will consider of what you have said, and shall return you an answer hereafter.

His Excellency's Answer to the Delaware and Six Nation Chiefs:  

Brethren: I now wipe the tears from your eyes, which you may have shed for the loss of any of your people. I remove the grief from your hearts which it may have occasioned. I also clear your ears from any bad reports, that you may now look upon your brethren, the Virginians, with friendship, and that you may believe what I am about to say to you in your hearts, and receive it with pleasure. (A string.)

Brethren : With these trifling goods I cover the graves of your deceased friends, that the remembrance of your grief upon that occasion, may be buried in total oblivion. (Condolence present.)

Brethren : Your desire is gratified ; I do see clearly, and the sweat and fatigue I have experienced on my journey here, will be no cause of complaint to me, when I find an opportunity to convince my brethren, the Delawares and Six Nations, of my good intentions towards them. You may be assured, brethren, that as I am now here present, I shall be able to hear plainly, and to distinguish clearly what is just and unjust between me and my brethren, the Indians. (A string.)

Brethren : I am much obliged to you for the pains you have taken to heal the sores made by the Shawanese, and would have been very glad to have now given you a more favorable answer as to them ; but you yourselves must be well acquainted how little the Shawanese deserve the treatment or appellation of brethren from me, when, in the first place, they have not complied with the terms prescribed to them by Colonel Bouquet (and to which they assented) of giving up the white prisoners; nor have they ever truly buried the hatchet; for the next summer after that treaty, they killed a man upon the frontiers of my Government; the next year they killed eight of my people upon Cumberland river, and brought their horses to their towns, where they disposed of them (together with a considerable quantity of peltry) to the trader from Pennsylvania. Some time after, one Martin, a trader from my Government, was killed with two men, on Hockhocking, by the Shawanese, only because they were Virginians ; at the same time permitting one Ellis to pass, only as he was a Pennsylvanian. In the year 1771, twenty of my people were robbed by them, when they carried away nineteen horses, and as many owned by Indians, with their guns, clothes, &c., which they delivered up to one Callender and Spears, and other Pennsylvania traders in their towns. In the same year, on the Great Kenhawa, in my Government, they killed one of my people and his brother and the year following, Adam Stroud, another of my people, his wife and seven children, were most cruelly murdered on Elk waters. In the next year, they killed Richards, another of my people, on the Kanhawa. A few moons after, they killed Eussel, one of my people, and five white men and two negroes, near Cumberland Gap ; and also carried their horses and artifacts into their towns, where they were purchased by the Pennsylvania traders. All these, with many other murders, they have committed upon my people, before a drop of Shawanese blood was spilt by them ; and have continually perpetrated robberies upon my defenseless frontier inhabitants, which at length irritated them so far that they began to retaliate. I have now stated the dispute between them and us, and leave it to you to judge what they merit. (A belt.)

Brethren: You desire me to listen to my brethren, the Five Nations, the Mohawks, the Wyandots, and to my brethren the Delawares. I do so with the utmost attention, and am well pleased to return you my thanks for the pains you have taken, and am extremely happy, and exceedingly desirous that the eyes of the Western Nations, and all others, may be continually fixed upon me ; for then they will plainly see that my real intention and sincere desire, is only to do justice to all parties. Brethren, I hope our pleasure at meeting is mutual; and you may be assured, from my late proceedings, that my good will towards you is most sincere, and I rejoice equally with you at the new life, your women and children have acquired by my arrival ; and I most sincerely wish that they may long continue in a full enjoyment of peace and happiness, to which I will most cheerfully contribute my utmost assistance. (A string.)

Brethren: I am very glad to find that the Chiefs of the different Nations have a due and friendly regard to the friendship formerly subsisting between our forefathers, which I shall be happy at all times to continue. I am glad to observe that few, if any, of the foolish people who have been the authors of the late troubles, were in any wise particularly connected with you ; and I hope that our ancient friendship is too strongly linked to be broke by a few banditti of a distant Nation. I own I am very much rejoiced at my arrival here, as I hope it will be the means of adding fresh strength to the ancient chain of friendship subsisting between us; and particularly BO, as I see your inclinations are to facilitate this good work. I acknowledge myself your elder brother, and shall, on every occasion, manifest my regard as such towards you ; and I do expect that you will continually look up to me as your elder brother, from whom you may be assured of the strongest marks of brotherly kindness, either in peace or war. And as you may now be certain of protection from your elder brother, I flatter myself you will continue to tread the ancient path towards him here, when he will be answerable that the most ample justice shall be done you. (A belt.)

At a conference held with several of the Delaware and Mohawk Chiefs. 

Intelligence received from Captain Pipe : 

At my arrival at the Lower Shawanese Towns, I was told by the Cornstalk that he was much rejoiced to hear from bis brethren, the white people, in the Spring, upon the first disturbances; that he had, in consequence thereof, ordered all his young people to remain quiet, and not to molest the traders, but to convey them safe to their grandfathers, the Delawares, where they would be safe. The Shawanese Chiefs declared they were well pleased to hear from their brethren, the English, and that they had spoke to all their young people to remain quiet. Upon his arrival at the Standing Stone, he sent word to the Shawanese to assemble their Counsellors; but, as they were out a hunting, it could not be immediately effected. The principal warriors always listened to the Chiefs, and had no hostile intentions. The mischiefs which had been done, were perpetrated by the foolish young people; but that now, as soon as they were assembled, they would be able to prevent any thing of that nature for the future. The Shawanese told me that a party of one of Tawas, and a party of Wyandots, were as far advanced on their way to war against the white people, as their town ; but that they had advised them to return ; that they expected the war which threatened them would be extinguished, as they now endeavored at peace.

Pluggy, a Mohawk, who was questioned whether he knew of these parties, said that some hunters who wore of the Wyandots and Tawas, came to the Shawanese Towns, to hear news, but were sent back.

Speech of the Mohegans-to the Shawanese. 

Brethren: Formerly you came to us on the other side of the Mountains, and told us we were your elder brothers, desiring us to come over and show ourselves to your grandfathers, the Delawares, that they might know our relationship. We did so, and as one people held fast the same chain of friendship; but now we see you only holding with one hand, whilst you keep a tomahawk in the other. We desire you, therefore, to sit down and not be so haughty, but pity your women and children. We therefore take the tomahawk out of your hands, and put it into the hands of your grandfathers, the Delawares, who are good judges, and know how to dispose of it.

Answer of the Shawanese : 

Brethren: We are glad to hear what you have said, and that you have taken the tomahawk out of our hands and given it to our grandfathers, the Delawares ; but, for our parts, we are not sensible that we have had the tomahawk in our hands. It is true some foolish young people may have found one out of our sight, hid in the grass, and may have made use of it; but that tomahawk which we formerly held, has been long since buried, and we have not since raised it.

There was a great deal of consultation amongst the different Nations, while I was at their towns, but nothing particularly relative to what is now in question.

Colonel Stephen demanded of Captain Pipe how he was received by the Shawanese, who says that he arrived there about noon, and after having cleared their eyes and opened their ears in the common form, that they had a great dance, and afterwards came to him ; and, upon hearing what he had to say, expressed their satisfaction by saying they hoped their friendship was now renewed. Though he heard some of the young people expressing a threatening at the Delawares so much interfering in their quarrel with the white people ; that if they had any thing to say, they wondered why the white people did not come themselves to speak.

The Delawares said, that as the sentiments of the Shawanese were now known, that if the Governor had an inclination, they would join him in anything he had to offer them for the promotion of peace, and the restoration of harmony to the country.

Reply of the Mohawks and Delaware Chiefs, to his Lordship's answer : 

Present: Captain White Byes, Captain Pipe, Captain Winganum, Delawares ; Captain Pluggy and Big Apple Tree, Mohawks.
 
Captain White Eyes spoke in behalf of the Delawares : Brother: Your brethren here present, are very happy to have heard your good speeches, and are glad to find you acknowledge yourself their elder brother. We acquainted you that our sincere desire was that the peace between us and our brethren the English, should be upon a lasting footing. We now are convinced that it will be upon a sure and permanent foundation, as our children may have an opportunity of being instructed in the Christian religion. We shall acquaint all the tribes of Indians of what has here passed between us, and we are satisfied that it will be very satisfactory to them to hear the good talk from our elder brother. For my part, I can assure you, brother, that for my tribe I can answer, even for the foolish young people thereof, that they will not be the cause of any disturbance in any manner whatever hereafter, either by theft or otherwise, or give cause of any trouble to your people. The Chiefs of the other tribes of our Nation will confirm what I have now said, as soon as they have an opportunity. (A string.)

Brother : As your brethren, the Shawanese, are desirous to speak to you by themselves, I hope you will listen to them. I will desire them to speak to you, and that you may there have an opportunity of speaking together, I would be glad to acquaint them when they could see you to enter into conference. I am much obliged to you for the promise you have given me, that justice shall be done us in the trade here, and that proper persons shall be appointed to see that we are fairly dealt with. I shall acquaint the young men with it, that they may come to trade in their usual manner.'

The Big Apple Tree, Mohawk, spoke. Brother: This day it hath pleased God that we should meet together, we who are sent on behalf of another Nation. The Shawanese told me that they heard there was something yet good in the heart of the Big Knife. They desired me to take their hearts into our hands, and speak strongly oh their behalf to the Big Knife. I am glad the Shawanese, my younger brethren, have desired me to undertake this business, if I can serve them ; and I am equally rejoiced at the appearance thereof, from your good speeches. You may be assured that, as they have delivered themselves into our care, we shall do our endeavor to induce them to pursue proper measures to restore peace. You may be also assured that your brother, the Chief of the Wyandots, will also assist me in taking care that our younger brothers, the Shawanese, act a prudent part. Wheresoevor, brother, you build your Council Fire, to speak to the Shawanese, you may be assured, that we, the Mohawk, with our brethren, the Wyandots, will come with them to speak also and that we hope peace then will be restored and established on a permanent footing. (A string.)

His Lordship's answer. Brethren : I shall consider of what you have said, and will give you an answer this afternoon. His Lordship's answer to their reply: Brethren : I am glad to find that what I have said in our late conference has been satisfactory to you ; and you may be assured that whatever I have promised shall be confirmed, so that my actions shall convince you of the sincerity of my heart. I am glad to find you have a desire of instructing your children in the Christian religion, which will be the cause of peace remaining between us on a lasting footing, and of adding happiness to your own nation. (A string.) Brethren : I have already informed you of the evil disposition of the Shawanese towards us ; but to convince you how ready the Big Knife is to do justice, at all times, even to their greatest enemies, at the request of my good brethren, the Six Nations, and you the Delawares, I will be ready and willing to hear any good speeches which the Shawanese may have to deliver to me, either at Wheeling, where I soon purpose to be, or, if they should not meet me there, at the little Kenhawa, or somewhere lower down the river. (A string.) Brethren : (The Mohawks,) You will hear by my speech to my younger brethren, the Delawares, that I am prevailed upon to listen to the Shawanese, notwithstanding their bad behaviour towards my people, and as I am prevailed upon merely by the confidence I repose in the friendship of my brethren, the Wyandots and Five Nations, I expect this will be looked upon as a strong proof of my regard for them ; and as it is your wish, I will meet the Shawanese at one of the places mentioned in my answer to my younger brethren, the Delawares, provided they are led to the Council Fire by my brethren, the Mohawks, the Wyandots and the Delawares, as I shall be satisfied that whatever they may then promise you my brethren will see them strictly adhered to.' (A string.)

The Delawares reply : Brother : We are much rejoiced to hear what you have now said, and believe it to be sincere ; and you may be satisfied that I, in behalf of my people, will endeavor to convince you that we are so. When the Delawares, the Six Nations, the Shawanese and you, our elder brother, meet together, you will then see who are sincere in their friendship. In a short time it will be seen, for those who are determined on good, will not fail to meet you. I shall speak to the Shawanese, and, if their intentions are equal to their professions, they will see you ; but, on behalf of my people, I promise to meet you. This is all I have to say at this time ; but you may be certain that myself, Captain Pipe and Captain Winganum will wait on you.