Council held at Detroit June 14th 1778 with the Ottowas, Chippewa, Hurons, Potawotamies, Delawares, Shawanese, Miamis, Mingoes, Mohawks & the Tribes of Ouashtanon, Saguinan, &c. Delawares, Senecas. PRESENTLiutenantGovr Hamilton Superintendent, LiutenantGovr Abbott, Mr Hay Department Agent, Mr. McKee late Department Agent, Several officers of the Indian Department: Captain Lernoult, Liutenant Caldwell, Kings Regt. Interpreters: William Tucker, Joseph Drouillard, Simon Girty, Isidore Chesne, Duperron Baby, Charles Beaubin, Kissinguaa, Piaiyash. Nations with them, War Chiefs & Village Chiefs: Ottawa War Chiefs Equashawey Ne'ekigg Ot-ta-waa-kee. 	Village Chiefs: Chamintawaa, Pow-di-gee-ka-waa, Way-wish-quoin, Maanigo. Chippewa from Saguinan 	War Chiefs Wy-mee-gong. 	Village Chiefs Hes-he-waa-bimey Sha-waa-ni-ssey A-pa-quaash Wy-shi-na-dey-too Kee-jee-kainee. Chippewa: 	War Chiefs: A-ni-mi-kai-nee Apach-aince Wabangay Capo-mike' Ki-ow-ki-ma Wy-wee-na-cam Mucintte' Wa-bi-gouey Tac-quaa-gan-cy. 	Village Chiefs: Mettu-saa-gay Massi-gay-ash Sec-ca-ha Tee-ka-mi-ga-zee Mi-ssou-bi-ni-shy Wa-by-nossee Nov-chi-ca-bocy.  Dy-en-tete, the elder. Sou-dos quaa-ha Dy-en-tete, the younger. Quan-da-rong Sayaa-ta Sca-tou rainee Sha-a-ris.  Koo-quan-da-rong Ari-ouanda-tong Da-wat-tong Seon-ca-re'sse. Chippewas from Ouashtanon [Washtanaw] Mec-kis-sin-ance Sha-ou-an-a-qua-am Mesh-kee-ma Shaq-qua-ba-no. Hurons from Sanduskey 	Snip, Ko-nio-ute-rie, Ki-ouquaan, Tohougetton Mohawks and Senecas 	Chiefs: Acssa-yen. 	Village Chiefs: Cou-na-son-a, brother to the late Silver-Heels. Potawatomi: 	Wyn-deego Bay-ma-nia-ki-tunk Ossa-wa-no-qu-aa Kec-ou-te-nan Kays-hay Scheequoi Wa-wi-aghten Okia Sagoney-bee Esh-kee-bee Shee-bai-nee Pinask. [Piankeshaw?] Delawares 	Peck-an-dogh-a-lind or the black father Village Chief, Ma-mal-tee-at or the Spotted Fawn, and Captain James. Potawatomi of St. Joseph 	Capto-quaa-niss-ey, Kee-ar-vee-weet Ma-con-see Quoi-kee-pee-nan Okia Shabinee. 1683 Indians of both Sexes. The Liutenant Governor addressed them as follows: 	Children! Ottawa, Chippewa, Hurons, Potawatomis, Shawanese, Delawares, &c. let us before all things return thanks to the great Spirit above, who has permitted us to meet together this day,- and to assemble round this council fire. 		Children! I bid you all welcome, War Chiefs, Village Chiefs, Warriors, old men, women & children with these strings of wampum, I open your eyes that you may see clear & your ears that you may listen to my words, since I speak by order of the great King my master, who is the Father of us all, whether of white or brown skins. Having returned thanks to the Great Spirit, I must thank you all for having attended to my call, in coming to this Council fire, which I hope shall burn clear and bright, round which we shall renew that union and brighten that chain of friendship form'd last year, which shall last while the Sun and moon give Light to the World. Six Strings of Wampum to each Nation. 	Children! listen! with these Belts which I present to each Nation, I efface from your memories every disagreeable thought, I cleanse your hearts, and wipe the tears from your Eyes which are brought into them by the deaths of your friends and relations, with these I also cover the bones of your dead, that they may not appear any more and that no rain or bad weather may affect them. When you look upon these Belts and show them to your children, you will think on the alliance formed here and will not suffer any rust to appear on the chain of friendships. For myself, I shall never forget the manner in which you have acted, since I have resided among you, nor the good will with which you took up your Father's axe, striking as one man his Enemies and yours, the Rebels; and I shall do my utmost to strengthen our alliance, that all Nations may know us for the children of the same father. I thank you for not having listened to those birds that fly by night, and endeavour to inspire distrust and jealousy. As I have always found you faithful to your father the King, I have no doubt but that you will continue to obey his will, and attend to what I have to say at all times. A Belt to each Nation. 	Children ! I return you thanks for the tranquility you have observed since you have been here, the good advice of the old men deserves the attention the young people have paid to it which gives me so great satisfaction. As this is the first day of our meeting, I will not fatigue you by keeping you too long, therefore shall order some fresh Provisions and meet you again tomorrow. June 15th, 11 o'clock.Liutenant Governor addressed the several nations present: 	Children! let us return thanks to the Master of life for having preserved us and given us so clear a sky this day for continuing our business. I thank you all for the attention you paid while I spoke yesterday and desire you will listen to what I shall say to you on this belt, which was sent here this spring from the six Nations, addressed to their brethren the Hurons. Simon Girty was then brought forward and declared an Interpreter, as having escaped from the Virginians and put himself under the protection of His Majesty, after giving satisfactory assurances of his fidelity. A large belt with 15 white squares thro' the middle, marked at one end, W. I., at the other 1774 was delivered to the Hurons and the Message accompanying it repeated. Liutenant Governor : 	Children ! I beg your attention. You may remember when you received a large belt of alliance here last year, the number of nations who took hold of it, you know the consequences have been good, as you have succeeded in almost all your enterprises, having taken a number of prisoners and a far greater number of scalps. You have driven the Rebels to a great distance from your hunting grounds & far from suffering them to take possession of your lands, you have forced them from the Frontiers to the Coast where they have fallen into the hands of the King's Troops, as I had foretold you would be the case, for which good service I thank you in the name of the King my master. 	Children ! I have the pleasure to inform you some of your younger brothers are desirous of having an axe delivered to them, to use against your enemies who have rebelled against the King it is here ready for them. A War Belt to Bourbounois Chief of the Miamis : A number of chiefs of different nations sung the War song and danced with the Miamis Belt.Liutenant Governor then spoke as follows : 	Children, I am much rejoiced to see the same unanimity subsist among us that reigned last year. I thank you for your present behaviour, & as you must be fatigued with so long sitting will soon dismiss you for this day & give you tomorrow to rest yourselves. The day after, what is prepared for you, will be ready and that you may see what you get, no Rum will be delivered. This evening only a small quantity will be given to make merry with Some good news arrived by the last vessels shall be communicated to you in proper time, 'tis now too late. June 17th, 11 o'clock.This morning having proved very rainy, the delivering the present was put off for one day, but as several of the nations particularly the Wyandotts were impatient to have the Council closed that they might go to war, the Liutenant Governor assembled the chiefs of the several nations in the Fort. He then addressed them as follows;	Children! I have good news to communicate to you, brought by Captain McKee, who has escaped from Fort Pitt, to join his hand to ours, the accounts he brings are confirmed by papers from Quebec. You are assembled here for to hear this good news, to be made acquainted with my sentiments and to deliver your own. 		Children! I have to inform you that His Excellency the Commander in Chief has written to me, signifying that he is about to cross Illinois great Lake to see the King his master, that he is to be succeeded by a great man whose name is Haldimand, but whose Indian name is not yet known. He is however well known thro' this country, having been Chief Warrior at New York, he is a brave officer, a wise man, and esteemed by all who know him. The Commander in Chief acquainted me in his letter that this Chief would write his mind to me, whenever he does, I shall communicate to you whatever relates to your interests whether for war or peace. I shall rise up, or sit down, as he orders me. The King has ordered me to give you an ax, he has not as yet told me to bring it. Whenever he does, my children shall know it immediately. My design is to satisfy all my children if possible, I have always told them the truth, some of you have long been pressing me to allow you to go to war directly, however the most impatient have waited at my Request, perhaps some wish to know what orders I shall receive from my superiors, I am well pleased it should be thus, since I think my children are sufficiently numerous to go to assist their Brothers, the Hurons and Shawanese, & also to leave some in their villages, till orders come from the great chief at Quebec. The Great Spirit has given us but one mind, I hope he will continue his goodness to us. I still look to Quebec, for the King's orders have not as yet reached this remote place this year. Some Delawares are this day arrived who are desirous of showing their intention of joining their brethren have presented me two pieces of dried meat scalps, one of which I have given the Chippewa, another to the Miamis, that they may show in their villages the disposition of the Delawares.A chief of the Senecas then rose and said: Father! we have listened with pleasure to what you have said, and tomorrow you shall hear our thoughts. JUNE the 18th 11 o'clock.The LiutenantGovernor addressed all the nations present: 	Children! you may remember that when you first received your Father's War axe, I told you, he would have attention to your necessities, while you acted the part of dutiful children. I have often told you that what you receive does not come from me but from the King who has thought of you, tho' at a great distance, & has sent you ammunition, clothing other matters necessary for you. 		Children! I have always endeavored to assist you in your necessities, this day you will receive what is allotted for you, in such a manner that each person will have a share. The King has also sent me some marks of his approbation to be given to those, who have listen'd to him & gained the esteem of their nation. The number which has merited this distinction is too great to admit of all receiving at this time, but I have my eyes fixed on those who shall receive them in course of time. I have to request of you Chiefs, that you will keep up the same good order I have hitherto observed among you, and which deserves my hearty thanks, but you have the approbation of my master the King for your good behavior in War, as well as peace which I take great pleasure in acquainting you with.	I shall finish this day's business by delivering what is prepared for each nation according to its numbers & I return thanks to the Great Spirit for giving us clear skies and good weather at this general meeting. The union and good understanding which appears among us all proceeds from his goodness to us.JUNE the 19th 1778. The different Nations were occupied in distributing to each family their part of the present delivered the preceding day. JUNE the 20th. Liutenant Governor Hamilton opened the Council this day with the accounts brought by the last vessels from Fort Erie and having related the most material told them he was ready to hear what they had to say. Chaminitawaa a Village Chief of the Ottawas then rose up and said : 	Father! I am chosen to speak the sentiments of the Outawas, Chippewa and Potwatomies. 	Father! I beg you will listen to the words of your children and I beg they will be attentive. 	Father! since I am appointed to speak for your children, I hope you will excuse any impropriety, in my speech, I am but a poor ignorant man. You see by this string, the color of our hearts, we have no other thought than that of making one with you, and obeying your will. 5 long strings white Wampum.	Father! where should we learn sense, but from you, 'tis from you we expect everything that is good.	Father! we all thank you from the eldest to the youngest for what you have said during this meeting and at all other times. 8 white strings & 8 strings of white & black mixed.	Father! These are the sentiments of all your children. When you first came here, you told us children, I am sent here by your Father the King for the good of you all, which we find is true, and you have always told us the truth, for which reason we all, men, women & children return you our thanks. A Belt of 8 Rows of Wampum. 	Father! What shall I say, I can only repeat the thanks of your children for the good things you always say to them.	Father! You see your children who are gathered together from different parts of the Country and will act as you desire them. You told us you was obliged to keep us in the dark a little, till you should hear from our Father at Quebec, but that you would soon open our eyes for which we thank you. A Belt of 7 Rows.	Father ! it is from you we expect every assistance, you are our support and notwithstanding bad birds come about us and whisper in our ears, that we should not listen to you, we shall always be attentive to what you say. 	Father! Your children who are assembled from all parts to see you, listen to you, you told those who were impatient to go to War this Spring to Remain quiet, until you spoke to them, which they did, we thank you father for that good advice. A White Belt of 8 Rows with 4 black crosses.Chamintawaa continued : 	Listen Brethren ! I am going to say a few words to our Grandfathers the Delawares in the name of all the Nations here present, I speak in the name of their War Chiefs. I speak in the name of our War Chiefs, because in their path they have sometimes found Branches or Stumps laid across, which they desire to know the reason of. 	Brethren! we see you, though you be far distant, and we observe you breaking down the branches from the trees to lay across our road, at the same hanging down your heads and with tears in your eyes. Six strings black and white Wampum. 	Brethren ! we speak to you now in presence of our father, we are not like you, we speak from the bottom of our hearts and want to know why the Path of the Warriors going against the Rebels has been blocked up. We believe you to be the authors of it. This is the opinion of all the War Chiefs, you now see round our father. We speak to you, because when our Warriors went your way, they were obliged to go out of the road and thereby have suffered and returned with tears in their eyes. We speak once more to you who came here in fear & trembling. We address you as well in the name of the village as the War Chiefs, and desire if you have anything bad in your hearts, that you will leave it here & not carry it away with you. We know you sometimes take your hearts to the Virginians, but we beg you will now leave them here, where ours are all assembled. We beg you to have sense and listen to our father as we all do & obey his will. These are the sentiments of all here present & this is the last time we intend speaking to you. A Belt of 8 rows black, 3 white bars.Cuquandarong (or old Baby) then rose up and spoke as follows : 	Father! we can have but little to say besides returning you thanks in the name of Sastakaritze, what I shall deliver is in the name of the Wyandotts & Miamis.	Father! we thank our brothers, the Ottawas, Chippewa and Potawatomis for what they have said. It touched our hearts. We are of the very same way of thinking with them What can we say different from them? Now, we and our brothers, the Miamis are of one mind with them, they have  not missed a single thought we could have had on the same subject. 		Father! we are very happy to find all your children continue to be as unanimous as formerly, & if there had been one dissenting voice it would not have been pleasing to us.		Father! we will remember when you tied all our arms together last year, with one chain, & we beg you will be strong & unite us yet more closely. These are the sentiments of Sastakaritze and the Miamis. 	He then addressed the Delawares, 		Nephews! now that we are face to face, I shall refresh your memories, with some things that are past.		Nephews! listen to us, we are sick at heart that you do not keep your word. Our Father Touraighwaghti (Mr. Hay the Agent) was present at your promises, and yet you turn your heads towards the Rebels. 		Nephews, we hope you will be sensible & remember that all the Nations in this country are united, & that you seem to keep aloof, but we beg you will bear in mind what you have just heard and take care of yourselves. This is what I had to refresh your memories, and I now salute you.Liutenant Governor: 	Children! If any of you have anything to say further, let me hear it, this is the place and time for seeing your hearts. Charles, a Seneca then spoke. 	Father! I have listened to what you have said & to what your children have said, I who am one of the Six Nations am well pleased with what is past, it is gone to my heart & makes me very happy, I thank you for it. 4 strings white Wampum.	He then addressed the Delawares : 		You have heard what your father & his children have said & you see they are agreed in opinion, I pity you, & look at you with tears in my Eyes, it is to be hoped then you shut the ear you have kept open to the Virginians & listen to none but your father.		He then address'd the Liutenant Governor:		Father! I spoke to you with empty hands, you know my business at this place was to bring you some Prisoners & Scalps. I had no thought of a Council or should have had the precaution to bring Wampums. Snip a Wyandot War Chief from Scioto then spoke : 	Father! I hope you will listen to your children that come from the town situated between the two Creeks. We are of the same mind with our brethren who have Just spoken. We beg you will have pity on us in our distress, we who inhabit the little Sciota. We are in want of many things, chiefly, Blanketts, Spirits, powder, Ball & knives. 4 Strings black Wampum. Liutenant Govr Hamilton then spoke: 	Children ! I shall say a few words to you all, and desire you to be attentive. I have heard the good advice you have given the Delawares, accept this Belt as a proof of my approbation, you have said nothing but what is true & what I shall support. 	My Children the Delawares ! I have a few words for you. Listen to the War & Village Chiefs who have spoken very properly to you & who shall never resent what the King shall be pleased to order for their supply observe that some ill advised people among you have said that the Hurons were the only people who complain'd of the road towards the Rebels being blocked up by you, & that they alone sent you Belts, I must remark to you that all the nations here present agree in opinion with the Hurons & that I am entirely of their way of thinking also, I therefore give you this Belt to carry to your Village & to be sent round to all the Delawares that they may grow wise. I have not forgot the conduct of White Eyes who came with speeches to this council last year, nor do I forget how I treated him and the speeches he brought. I hope my children the Delawares will be wise that when they come to my council fire, they may see clear & that I may give them my hand which I refused to White Eyes. You, Captain James, took hold of your Father's Axe yesterday. Hold it fast, be wise & remember that the Belt I present you with repeats all the words of the War and Village Chiefs whom you have heard speak this day. A Belt. 	My Children! Ottawas, Chippewa, Hurons &c. I have always wished to promote friendship among the Indian Nations but such as do not take hold of the chain of friendship I gave you last year or attempt to break shall know and feel its strength.	Children! War Chiefs, Village Chiefs, Warriors &c. it has pleased God I should meet you all here a second time in general council, the fire I first lighted for you burnt clear, & I hope this one will blaze yet clearer & its smoke ascend to the clouds. The great Spirit is good to all his creatures, he has given you sense & courage & one heart to think as well as one hand to act for the King your Father, if I have any sense, 'tis from him, who gives you understanding, I am happy to meet my children & I feel that I am their friend and Father. I will always tell you the truth & never deceive you. When you first took up your Father's axe, you asked me how you should act, I consulted with your wise men & experienced War Chiefs. God has been favorable to our Councils. I tell you the same this year, before you go to War, I shall consult with your Chiefs. I have already told you my thoughts that you are sufficiently numerous to drive the Rebels from the Rivers that water your hunting grounds, & at the same time to leave Warriours in your Villages to act under their experienced War Chiefs, when the King's orders arrive, which are not come over the Great Lake.	I thank you Outawas, Hurons &c. for your sensible speeches, which I shall lay up in my heart.		Senecas! You have pleased me in speaking as you have, and I shall acquaint the Six Nations with your good sense in joining hands with us all present, & you will tell them what you have been Witnesses to.	Snip! You have spoken the Sentiments of the Mingoes & I thank you & all those who show good sense before this assembly, I shall not forget your words nor that you helped Captain McKee to find the road to this place.	Children! When I gave you the axe of your Father the King last year; You turned your Medals behind you, that you might see more easily the Rebels his Enemies. You may perceive he takes care of all his children, I give you these Medals that you may think on him who threw down the French King who was once your Father but is no longer so You have but one, for which reason I take from your necks the old French Medals & replace them with those of your true and only father. Perhaps others among you merit such a distinguishing mark, I shall be glad to have the sense of the several nations on the subject, which shall be treated on some future day. English Medals were then given & French ones taken off.Captain James of the Delawares then spoke: 	Father! I am well pleased with what you & your children have said this day, you have cleansed my heart, and the hearts of those who live at my village, there are sixty of us for whom I will be answerable, though I cannot say anything for the rest of the nation. To convince you of my sincerity, I desire to sing the War Song, on that Belt you have given me. We intend to hold fast the axe. This was repeated to all the nations, after which he sung the War song, & danced the War dance. The Liutenantnant Governor then cover'd up the Council fire in the usual form & dismissed the assembly. (Signed) HENRY HAMILTON