Extract of a Council held by Lt. Govr. Hamilton, with the Ottawas, Chippewas, Potawatomis, and Fifty of their Warriors. DETROIT 24th September 1778. Mettusaugay Chief of the Chippewas, spoke: Father, We listened to what you said the day before yesterday and were well pleased at it. We told you in the spring that we should be rejoiced to see you and your officers, together with some red coats marching towards the enemy. You now tell us your hands are untied by order of our Father General Haldimand and that you are now rising up to strike the Rebels, which gives us great pleasure.	Father! I am too old and infirm to go where my Heart would lead me, but Father here is my Son and the Son of my Comrade Chief and the young men present will follow you. Father, You know you can dispose of us as you please, being of one mind to obey you upon all occasions. These are the sentiments of your children, the Ottawas, Chippewas & Potawatomis.Egoushawry Chief of the Ottawas then spoke: Father, I beg you will listen to me, as also you my brethern, the Chippewas, & Potawatomis. Father, What my brethren the Chippewas have said, is what I should have said, if I had spoke first. I however observe there are some who keep back, that I should have thought would have been among the first (meaning the Hurons who did not attend the meeting) as for myself and my friend Cha-min-ta-wa (another Ottawa Chief) we shall follow you, with some of our young men, and not abandon you. The Potawatomis then spoke in the same terms.Lieut. Govr. Hamilton: Children! What you have said is very pleasing to me and nothing more that what I expected from you. Your behavior has been so uniform for these three years, since I have been among you that I have not had the least reason to reproach you, and am very happy to find upon this occasion, that you are still of the same mind you have always been of; have only to recommend a continuance of your behavior & to always remember your Father who has authorized me to listen to your demands and assist you. As to your Brethren, the Hurons, I cannot yet say they are backward, this rainy weather (which is a lucky circumstance for us, as it will raise the water) has probably prevented their coming in, for they have never shown the least disobedience & I believe they are of the same mind with you. Children! Your Father Captn Lernoult here present will take care of your wives and children in my absence. His words and mine are the same; you see we are all united and of one mind.The above is the substance of what passed between Governor Hamilton & the above mentioned nations as interpreted by Isidore Chesne, Sworn Interpreter. JEHU HAY, Deputy Agent, Indian Department Endorsed: Extract of a Council 24th Sepr., 1778. Come enclosed in Lieut. Govr. Hamilton's letter of the 22nd September to the 3rd October. Read. 29th, marked Detroit, No. 17.