MIAMIS 25th February, 1781. 

Speech brought from the French of Post Vincennes & the Piankeshaws by the Ouiatenons addressed to Lacane by 4 bunches of white wampum: We flatter ourselves that you have always a French heart we invite you to come before us, for there you will preserve your village. We are risen to go to you, although the English regard us as ants, we regard them as the same. If they are conquerors, keep them for your fathers; but we although inferiors, we shall always be your proper fathers. On the part of the Piankeshaws, we Join in the word of the French, my elder brothers, you often remind yourselves of the old alliance which we have made, we would make only one body, we extend the hand and pray you to neglect nothing, time presses, we are certain that he will raise a strong party to go to Detroit and that you will suffer from them. By four strings of white wampum in the name of thirty villages of different nations not named, addressed to the Miamis, Hurons, Sauteaux, Ottawas, Potawatomis, Chairenous, Loups and all those who are on the King of England's side. We have risen to cut down all that we shall find before us, we would warn you to take good care of yourselves, to keep yourselves quiet not to alarm yourselves at our passage, we are so powerful that we look upon the men of the Lakes as nothing, not more than your father the English. You are all fools who listen to the English, who amuse us with the porcelain axes. As for ours it is so heavy that nothing can resist it, you will feel it then (throwing the strings to the earth) there is how I would treat those who will not be guided by the present speech, as for you, Miamis we know that you will do nothing till after the others. End.

Answer of the Miamis Chief to the Ouiatenons by a Belt of union 
which the Commandant had given to them: My brothers, we repeat to you the same words which you have already spoken; you come to ask us our way of thinking, it is a long time as you know since our father did his best to reunite all his children and make only one body, the belt which he gives you today is the way that he has described for a long time; I invite you to follow, you will not find any difficulty; you know the recent misfortunes which have happened to you, you have dirtied this road with the blood of the Potawatomis and of our own chief. If you would listen to the words of our father and that of our friends as we do, you would find no trouble. See the kindness he shows his children, he would like to hide the blood which these fools have spilled although these things cannot be done except by a council of the French who are with you; you know that they are his enemies & yours, still you would not agree; if you continue to listen to them you will be miserable. You see that your wives & your children are in want, you are forced to cover yourselves with animals skins, we, on the contrary, we are glorious to see, our wives, our children, our young men, covered with jewelry. You have neither powder nor shot nor arms, what will you do? What do you think? You see that our father is always inclined to help you. This is the last time we will talk to you. If you will not accept the words they are gone to the Potawatomis to make a solid peace with the Piankeshaws. I ask you to profit by this occasion, we speak to you, to all the men of the Wabash, you see the road which passes through our village, we are anxious to be of use and the doors are always open. You have not done the same you men of the Wabash, but to prove our friendship we offer you a pass through our village to escape from the misery where you are. By four strings of black wampum given to the Potawatomis present at the council. My brothers, You come to hear the words which we come to say to the Ouiatenons, we invite you to encourage your men to make peace with the Piankeshaw. We are not in the humor to make war between us, this is not the intention of our father nor of our friends the brown skins.

Answer of Pacanne [of the Miami] to the French of Post Vincennes and to the Piankeshaw. By four strings of black wampum attached to a Tomahawk and Pipe painted red. You fools who say that the porcelain axes are good for nothing, you do not know the consequence nor the force, since you have none to use, since you believe that they are not strong, good Ouiatenons, take this tomahawk go and try it on the head of the Virginians or the French who are of their party. if it makes a breach, our father will take care to heal it or to give it to you to heal. As for me I look upon the threats of the Indians against us as nothing, they tell us that their axes are dull because they are of wood; but that of our father is of iron and well sharpened.
	By a large knife and a painted red. My brothers, this is the way in which our young warriors live today after having used the axe, they serve them as knives to make their marks as warriors, is it not shameful for you that the children show you the knives stained with the blood of the French, which you have brought here to destroy us, pillage and rob us, these are your friends and our enemies.

	By a carrot of tobacco painted red. Good war Chiefs, there is a pipe of tobacco which I give you to smoke, if the colour is not repugnant: on the contrary it should encourage you and make you wrath against those who are the authors of all your miseries and all your misfortunes, that would make you open your eyes and ears; any time that you have been with your fathers the French, Spaniards, Virginians have you ever had a bit of powder or shot ? since you have joined them to come to rob us.

	By a red cloth blanket. You see our village stained with blood, you can think that we are not going to extend the hand to your friends who are our enemies, you can understand that if we find you with them that we will not make any distinction. You say that I am wanted to go to Post Vincennes that I shall be well received. I should be entirely lost, if I go. this is the way in which I shall present myself (he rose and sung the war song and many other Miamis have followed his example.