INDIAN COUNCIL. In Council Detroit February 25th 1782 PRESENT. Major At S. DePeyster Commandant Captain Henry Bird Lieutenants Saumarey Brooks Mercer Ensigns Macdougal Pollard Sheehan Frey Lieut. England 47th Regiment Captain Caldwell  Lieuts. Butler & Clinch } 0or P 3 of Ran 8 ers Duperon Baby  Isidore Chesne Sworn Interpreters Charles Beaubien Schoch, pi, my Chin, Chack, quan, Le Grew [Mascouten Chiefs] Pe, pa kick, coy, ya Pick, co, nishi me Kickapoo Chiefs Major DePeyster addressing himself to the Chiefs and warriors of the Masconten and Kickapoos Nations: Children! Since it is my desire that I should call you my Children, it is this day I call you so as it gives you pleasure. Two days are now elapsed since you told me you were in want of every thing and delivered over to me two of my people who deserted from the Enemy, you also informed me that the Rebels have deserted Post Vincennes, and were in the greatest want of every necessary of life. You asked me for many things and asserted that you were entitled to a Supply of necessaries as some of your people were now at war against the Rebels towards the Falls of the Ohio. It is well that you commence following the example of your brethren by acting against the King's Enemies; You should have done so long since and I would have taken care to prevent your wants by maintaining the Miami Town. In order to render yourselves happy in future, you must on your return to your Villages, send Deputies to your several nations that border Wabash and inform them that since the Rebels have deserted the Post you are determined not to let them return amongst you and send Deputies to this place to acquaint me with their sentiments. If not, I withhold Traders from amongst your people. It is to avoid injuring you by putting an axe into the hands of the Enemy to strike at me and my Children, what I have recommended to you is not difficult on your part to perform which is to keep back the Enemy should they attempt to come up the Wabash or by land once more, the situation of your country admits of it, you see that the Delaware keep their Ground clear. For should the Enemy return hereafter and I get information thereof; I shall then naturally think that my Children in that quarter are asleep, or wish to be so and it will then be out of my power to send them traders to supply them with their necessaries, you plainly see that the Enemy is too far distant that I should have anything to apprehend from them and that it is for your good only I give this advice and hope you'll advantage therefrom that your People may not be ignorant of your English father being strongly united with the brownskins in general you see here. Deputies from the Six Nations, Ottawas from Michilimackinac, and others too tedious to mention who are always here to testify that the English and the Indian Nations are but one and why should not you the Mascoutens and Kickapoos with those who border the Wabash follow their example as you are come in to see me I shall order such things as is proper for you, but with respect to ammunition and necessaries for those who are absent I cannot allow of any unless I see them here, as it is seldom properly divided therefore whenever I hear you are sincerely engaged in the war and you shew yourselves in number I shall then take the opportunity to give such ammunition and clothing as is necessary for you. Children! On your return I request of you to tell the Ouiatenons (that killed McCarty and made two prisoners last year) that I do not approve of their manner of making war as I am informed that they had taken a french man in the same action and allowed him to return home again, this is not acting according to my orders, it is our duty to make all prisoners you can who appear in arms against the King your father.(delivers several strings of warnpum to each nation) 