At a Council held at Lower Sandusky the 6h September 1783 by Alex McKee Esq. Deputy Agent for Indian Affairs,, with Hurons of Sandusky, Delawares, Shawanese, Mingoes, Creeks and Cherokees. Present. Alex McKee Esq r Depy. Agent Capt. Chesne, Ottawa & Chippawa Int r Capt. M. Elliott Lieut W. Johnson Simon Girty Interpreter Capt. Joseph Brant with a Deputation from the Six Nations T'Sindatton with a Deputation of the Lake Indians from Detroit. Mr. McKee addressed them 	Children ! After saluting the several Nations now assembled at this Council Fire. I am to acquaint you that in consequence of Instructions sent to me by Brigadier General Sir John Johnson Superintendent General of all Indian Affairs in Canada, I am come here to meet you having found it expedient to call you together at this place in order to avoid delay in apprising of the Councils lately lirld by him with the Six Nations at Niagara especially as your immediate conformity thereto appears absolutely necessary for your future welfare and happiness as well as suitable to the good of your Father the King of Great Britain's Service. Therefore I desire you may listen with attention, that which is now delivered to you may make a proper impression upon your minds, and that you may be enabled thereby to reap the benefits of good advice.	Delivers a Belt. 	Children ! The kind concern expressed by your Fathers the English upon all occasions for the Losses sustained by you during the War, & which at the late meeting held with you at Detroit, has been already covered over by your Father Lieut Col. De Peyster, makes it unnecessary for me to add more upon the subject, than that I hope it has been sufficient to ease your minds & prepare your hearts to receive with satisfaction the tidings of Peace, which is now communicated to us by Brig. General Sir John Johnson whom His Majesty has been graciously pleased to appoint to preside over all your affairs. His speech to the Six Nations is as follows, that "although the King your Father has found It necessary for the happiness & ease of his more Domestic Subjects, to conclude a long, bloody, expensive and unnatural war by a Peace which seems to give you great uneasiness on account of the boundary Line agreed upon between His Majesty's Commissioners and those of the United States: yet you are not to believe, or even think that by the Line which has been described, it was meant to  deprive you of an extent of country, of which the right of Soil belongs to, and is in yourselves as Sole Proprietors, as far as the boundary Line agreed upon and Established in the most Solemn and public manner in the presence and with the consent of the Governors and Commissioners deputed by the different Colonies for that purpose : by your late worthy Friend Sir Wm. Johnson in the year 1768, at Fort Stanwix. Neither can I harbour an idea that the United States will act so unjustly or impolitically as to endeavour to deprive you of any part of your country under the pretext of having conquered it. The King still considers you his faithful allies as his children, & will continue to promote your happiness by his protection and encouragement of your usual intercourse with Trade, & all other benefits in his power to afford you. Therefore I do in the most earnest manner recommend to you for your own advantage, to bear your Losses with manly fortitude, forgiving & forgetting what is past, looking forward in full hopes and expectation that on the return of the Blessings of Peace, and cool and just reflection, all animosity and enmity will cease, conciliation succeed, and Friendship be renewed, and as a proof of your Inclination to promote that desirable end, let me once more recommend to you to collect and give up without exception all Prisoners that may be yet among you, and as an inducement to comply with what I recommend, and as a proof of His Majesty's Bounty and attention: I have brought up a large assortment of every thing necessary to supply your wants &c. &c. &c."	A Belt of eleven Rows. 	Children! This speech is so fully expressive of everything that at present concerns your Interests, I have only to add that I earnestly enjoin the several Nations present to a strict adherence and compliance thereto, & I am happy to have it in my power at this time to deliver you a part of the Cloathing mentioned, which I natter myself will fulfill the Engagements heretofore made to you, and convince you that your Fathers attention is extended to all his children and having finished what I have to say on our Part, I desire your attention to the Deputies of the Six Nations, who will lay before you the late Councils held at Niagara.	Delivers a Large Belt. In Council Sept. 7h., Present as at the 6h. Mr. McKee finished his speech of the 6h which he was obliged to defer on account of bad weather, after which the deputation from the Six Nations addressed them the several Nations present as follows.Capt. Brant saluted the Nations present in the usual manner & then said 	Brothers & Nephews! We the chief warriors of the Six Nations with this belt clear your Ears, that you may listen with attention and without any interruption to what we have to say.	Delivers a Belt. 	Brothers & Nephews! We now conform to the ancient custom of our Fore Fathers, to condole with you for the Losses you have sustained in the war, and we hope your minds will now be eased from all trouble, since we have gathered the bones of all your dear departed Friends and covered them over, so that all is smooth and even.	Delivers a Large Belt. 		Brothers & Nephews! We shall now acquaint you with our motives for taking an early and active part in the war; at first it was hard for us to determine which side to join with, as they were the same People fighting against each other, but upon mature and deliberate consideration, we thought it incumbent upon us to join the King our Father, for had we pretended to be neutral, we should have been divided amongst ourselves, for our young men would have acted on some side or other, by which we might have fought against each other, and ruin ourselves. Actuated as we were by our feelings and reasonings we could not but adhere to our former engagements of Fidelity to the King of Great Britain, we therefore resolved to take that side, and urged you also to do so, although the force of the Americans appeared to be more powerful than that of the King, yet it did ;not deter us from following the dictates of our Principles, nor were we at the time Peace was announced to us, either tired of the war, or even afraid, for our Preparations for war were as much in readiness last winter as ever.	Several Strings 	Brothers & Nephews! We shall now inform you of the Transactions of Councils held at Niagara by Brigadier General Sir John Johnson, this Summer with us. He informed us that the Peace was brought about, and desired us for to remain quiet and cease Hostilities. We accordingly agreed to lay our Hatchets aside & looked with a watchful eye towards our Lands, for the boundary Line which was agreed to fifteen years ago. And Sir John Johnson assured us that the boundary Line lately agreed to, did not deprive us of our Lands. The war not being of our own making, we readily agreed to what Sir John had recommended to us, altho' we the Six Nations are never hasty in our resolves when matters of war are concerned, and altho' we have laid the Hatchet aside, should they give us just cause to use it, we shall nevertheless be able to take it up in defence of our Bights. We mean to take care that we give no cause of rupture on our parts Brothers & Nephews, we desire you to pay attention to this, and do the same thing that we have resolved to, and do nothing in a hasty manner, let everything go through its proper channel that we may be of one mind and act alike.	Delivers a Belt. 	Brothers and Nephews attend. That as it was the custom of the English as well as ours, at .the conclusion of a Peace to set the Prisoners at Liberty, he hoped that we would follow the same rule, to which we immediately complied, for as we declared before, we would give no cause of offence on our parts, and if we take up the Hatchet it would be the cause of the White People and not ours: We therefore earnestly recommend to you to do the same as we have done, that the Prisoners be set at Liberty.	Delivers a Belt 	Brothers and Nephews. You the Hurons, Delawares, Shawanese, Mingoes, Ottowas, Chippeweys, Poutawattamies, Creeks & Cherokees. We the Six Nations with this belt bind your Hearts and minds with ours, that there may be never hereafter a separation between us, let there be Peace or War, it shall never disunite us, for our Interests are alike, nor should anything ever be done but by the voice of the whole as we make but one with you,	Delivers a large Belt. T' Sindatton then speaks on several mixed strings. 	Father! We return you and the Six Nations our hearty thanks for the good speeches you have given us.	Father! At the time you assembled us at Detroit and took us by the hand to accompany you to this place, we did not understand that it would be any part of your business to collect our prisoners. We are deceived in that for we understood when the Hatchet was put in our hands that whatever was taken from the Enemy should remain with us in order to strengthen our Nation, therefore I will not assist you in that part. 	Several Strings.Mr. McKee then said: 	I am rather surprised that you pretend ignorance of the business we came upon, when I had a meeting with you before I left Detroit on the arrival of the Deputies from the Six Nations. I told you they came to promote the general good, and that I thought it necessary for some chiefs to accompany me and their Elder Bretheren to this side of the Lake, in order to inform the several nations who are situated near the Americans of the particulars we have received of the Peace, that they may take care not to put themselves in the way of bringing mischief, upon themselves. What has now passed this day before this Assembly, is meant for your good, only, if you duly attend thereto, and as to the giving up of Prisoners, it has ever been a custom both with you and the white People, at the conclusion of a Peace to give them up. Therefore as that is now the case you can no longer consider yourselves deceived.	Delivers several strings. T' Sindatton then said 	Father and Brethren of the Six Nations listen to me. 	You know very well when, you arrived at Detroit where our Council Fire is, I then desired to know the business you came upon, that you did not tell me, then my Father took me by the hand to assist him on his business. Now that I have heard your several speeches with that of my Father, I am pleased, as they are all good, and I am convinced that what you have said will give general satisfaction. I beg of you the Six Nations to adhere to all you have said, and never deviate therefrom, but continue in the same mind.	Delivers a Belt. T' Sindatton then addressed the several Nations present in 2 White Belts, in behalf of the Lake Indians. 	Younger Brothers, Listen to me, now I assist my Father and our Elder Brethren the Six Nations. Our Tomahawks are now laid close to our sides, but there are yet many of our young men who have their eyes fixed upon it, and they might steal it from our sides to make use of it unknown to us, Therefore I throw rubbish over it that they may not find it, and I desire you to attend well to what was said this day.		Delivers two belts. Ryneck in behalf of the Shawanese. 	We have listened with attention and we agree to what has been said. As soon as we get home we shall endeavour to comply with what our Elder Brethren the Six Nations have recommended to us.Deyonquat the Half King, speaks on all the speeches. 	Father! I hold in my hand your speeches with that of our Elder Brethren the Six Nations, as they require the serious consideration of all the Nations who reside in this Country, we shall hold a meeting among ourselves and let you know our answer thereon tomorrow.In Council September 8th 1783. Present as at the 7th Deyonquat the Half King speaks on a belt in behalf of the Delawares. 	Father! This day the Great Spirit has permitted us to speak to you in the presence of our Elder Brethren the Six Nations. It has pleased you to kindle the Council Fire at this place, at which you have desired me to deliver up all the Flesh & Blood we had taken from the Virginians during the war. Our Nephews the Delawares spoke first and agreed with what you desired, and delivered up five Prisoners, which they brought with them at this time. They leave all that are yet among them, at liberty to go when they please, or to remain with them, as they consider them as their flesh & blood.	A White Belt. He then speaks on Strings for himself and the several Nations in this Country. 	Father! We request of you to listen also to our Elder Brethren the Six Nations. At this Council Fire you desired us to give up the Virginian Flesh & Blood. We have accordingly been among those of our people and after enquiring we find that they are contented to return home, but wish to go the way they came from. You the Six Nations told us that you had permitted all your Prisoners to be at liberty, and recommended to us to do so also, which we agree to. They are all at liberty, and may return home as soon as matters are properly settled, that they may get there in safety.	Delivers several strings. He then speaks in behalf of the Indians in general. 	Father! Listen! As also our Brethren the Six Nations, you have told us there is Peace. You know the Bights of our Indians in this Country, and you also know that the Tomahawk is now laid down. Brethren the Six Nations you know where the Boundary Line was fixed, since you were the people who fixed it. We now inform you that the Virginians are already encroaching upon our Lands, and we desire you and our Father to be strong, and desire them to desist from encroaching upon us, otherwise they will destroy the good work of Peace which we are endeavouring to promote. This is all that we have to say.	Delivers Strings. Mr. McKee then said. 	Children! I return you my hearty thanks for your readiness, in complying with the requisition made by your Father and I am rejoiced to see you so unanimous in doing right. It fulfills the good end of my meeting you at this place, which is to promote your happiness and welfare, and I am well pleased to find you all so strong in this good work, and that a single breath which rashly blows, can have no effect in turning you aside from the strait path laid before you by your Father and Elder Brethren the Six Nations, who in the most solemn manner yesterday renewed the union of your Hearts & Interests, to enable you to speak and act like one man whilst you continue to do this, there can be no doubt but you will prosper in your endeavours to live happy.Captain Brant then spoke in behalf of the Six Nations. 	Brothers & Nephews! I return you our thanks for your speedy compliance to what has been required of you in this Council. As you desire us to be strong who are acquainted with the Boundary Line of the Virginians. Brethren & Nephews, we are determined to be so, and to represent the encroachment of the Virginians into our Country as soon as we return home, and as we are now to act like one man, we take a few of your Chiefs, and lead you to our Council Fire, where you may be able to assist us in what you are so desirous should be done.	Delivers a Belt Copy from the Minutes [signed] J. SCHIEFFELING Secretary Endorsed: No. 2. Transactions with the Indians at Sandusky from 26 August to 8h Septembr 1783 Copy enclosed in Lord North's Letter (No. 16) 