Date: December 1st, 1783

INDIAN COUNCIL.   In Council Detroit 1st December   

PRESENT.   
Major At S. De Peyster Commandant,  
Captn. W. Potts, Kings Regt  
Captn. W. Caldwell, Corps of Engineers  
Lieut. D. Saumarez, King's Regt  
Messrs. D. Baby & W. Tucker, Interpreters 

  a band of Senecas from the Shawanese Country  

Ay, ou, wi, ainsh, Seneca Chief   speaks on three strings.   
	Father! I must remind you of your promises, at the time you first engaged  us to espouse the King's cause you told us that not only the wants of the  Warriours but those of our families should be supplied in great profusion.   Delivers three Strings   Father! We have received a message last summer, through you, from,  the Commander in Chief, forbidding us to treat our Prisoners with cruelty,  assuring us that it was contrary to the laws of God and custom of  nations which speech I have accepted and shall preserve. You will however  recollect that we have injuries to revenge and altho' you protect the Enemy  from the stake, you shall not from their Death, for the Warriours are determined not to spare them in battle, therefore Father, be not surprised at see  ing in future more Scalps than Prisoners.  

	Father! After having reminded you of your promises and done your will I  must inform you, that we and the other nations were much surprized to see  people return from you to our Village unprovided, owing to the want of where  with to supply them, as you told them you had not the things which they  wanted. I beg of you Father not to use the same discourse to us, that you  want certain things, but that you will provide not only for those who have  accompanied me hither, but for those also who we have left behind to guard  our village.   

	Father! I, and my people expect that you will give us necessaries in abundance, as also, such ornaments which is acceptable and pleasing to young  men, if otherwise we shall imagine, you do not speak from the Heart.   

	Father! You cannot be ignorant that we are always engaged with an  Enemy, or, on the watch at our Villages.   

he then speaks on two Strings  
	Father! You may recollect that the last time I was here, I lost a Prisoner,  which you promised to see returned as he was adopted among us, I am there  fore surprised that you have not yet satisfied me on that subject, as it does  not correspond with your promise, I find by experience from my knowledge  of mankind that from the late alteration you only speak from the mouth.     

	  Father! I pray of you to consider that my loss is great with respect to the  prisoner. If ever you have been in my situation judge from your feelings if I  have not reason to regret his loss.   Father! Before I finish my discourse I must repeat to you again to us  our Warriours well, in supplying them with such things as they require. If  not, what effect will my advice have upon them to enforce what you may  direct?  Father! You ordered two Barrels of Powder to be given out to us at St.  Dooskey of which we have received but a small part. we therefore hope that  you will order it to be delivered to us at present exclusive of our proportion  which we are to have.   
Major De Peyster then answered: 
	Children of the Six Nations who Inhabit the Shawanese Country.   Listen to the answer which I shall make to your speech When the Governor of this Place first engaged you to take the part of your English Father.  He looked upon it as best for your mutual interest, on my arrival here I saw  the necessity of your continuing to act on the side you were engaged, with  out which you must have been overpowered before now you cannot deny  but that I have ever fulfilled his promises as far as circumstances would  admit. You that have so great a knowledge of humankind must also be  capable to make allowances for accidents the ship which was loaded with  the Goods for Indian presents was taken at sea and as often retaken by us,  she at length arrived at Quebec but it was so late in the year, that the goods  could not get up the country in time they are arrived at Niagara and I look  for them every day. As soon as I get them you may expect to receive a proportion of such articles as the Commander in Chief has thought proper to  send for his Indian Children but should you grow impatient before the things  reach me and wish to go home, you must be content with such things only  as I have to give you with respect to the two Barrels of Gun Powder which  you desire to have over and above. I must observe to you that I do not mean  the Powder as a reward for your services but to enable you to defend your  selves against the Enemy and to hunt. The time which that Powder should  have been expended is past, since which I have repeatedly sent powder in  great quantities and make no doubt but that you have received your share  thereof.  

	Children ! Consider that we are to act for our mutual interest, if you push  me beyond my abilities we shall both fall. if you find yourselves disappointed  in not receiving your necessaries immediately depend upon it I am more so,  particularly so, from the recommendation Captain Caldwell has given me of  your conduct in the last Campaigne.   
 
	Children! With regard to the message which I forwarded to you, desiring  you to treat all Prisoners with humanity, you must recollect that it's a language I have upon all occasions held out to you, and let me repeat that it is  greatly your Interest to do so. If Captain Pipe had not put that Colonel to  death after he had made him Prisoner, the Enemy would not have made an  attack upon the Indian Country this year, for from every Intelligence which  I receive they intimate it was only to revenge his Death.   

	Children! I have another Message from the Commander in Chief to you  which is that you will not push the War into the Enemies Country but  defend your own, in which he is ready to give you every assistance in his  power.   

	(Delivers several Strings)   

	Children! You tell me that I only speak from my mouth and not from the  heart as I did not return the adopted Prisoner agreeable to promise believe  me Children that I speak so much from the heart that I remember well what I  said to you, which was if I could find the Prisoner that I should return him  to you. I repeat the same to you still and I have so much feeling that I shall  provide for the person to whom he was related.   I have nothing more to say, but to desire Mr. Baby to treat you as well as  he can at present with such things as is in store   

(Copied from the Minutes)   

J. SCHIEFFELIN   Secretary.   Endorsed: Substance of a Council held by Majr At. S. De Peyster, Commanding Detroit   with a Band of Senecces from the Shawanese Country Detroit December 1st 1783 No 27 Substance of an Indian Council held at Detroit the December 1st 1782 with some of the Senecas Reed inclosed in Major.  DePeysters Letter the 7th March 83.