INDIAN COUNCIL. 

In Council Jany. 13th 1783. 

PRESENT. 

Major At. S. DePeyster, Commandant. 
Major W. Potts. 

Captn. W. CaldwelL 
Lieut. T. Bennett. 
Lieut. D. Saumarez. 
Lieut. D. Mercer. 
Lieut. C. Meyers, Royal Artillery. 
Messrs. D. Baby, P. Druillard and Simon Girty. Interpreters. 

Shawanese, Delawares & the Six Nation Indians which came Express from Niagara.

The Snake for the Shawanese. 
Captain Champion for the Delawares. 

A Seneca addressing himself to the Shawanese with Strings 
	Brethren! I thank the Great Spirit for permitting us to meet here to-day, that we may deliver you the Speech which we have from our People at Niagara

	Brethren ! We the Six Nations are much alarmed to hear that the Enemy have cut off two of your Villages and we take the earliest opportunity to convey to you the Strings of Condolence. We hope that you will not be discouraged at your loss, but be strong and keep close to your Brethren the Delawares and Wyandotts. Our father has always advised us to unite our- selves as one, for by dividing ourselves we weaken our strength and the Enemy advantage thereby. Delivers several Strings.

	Brethren ! You have heard the Substance of the Speech which I had to deliver and as I find since my arrival here that the report is not true, I expect that you will give me an account of your loss that I may inform my people on my return.

The Snake acquaints the Seneca he cannot make him any answer to his Speech as he has not heard the resolution of the Shawanese but he will inform him of what had passed after which he made no doubt but the Chiefs would make their answer and forward it to them when convenient.

Major De Peyster then says, 
	Children ! the Shawanese and Delawares: You have heard what your Brethren the Six Nations have had to say to you, as they came here with the Express from Niagara and must return immediately, I shall say a few words to you in their presence by them I have received letters from the Commander in Chief, and the officer who commands at Niagara, the latter is much surprised to hear that you would allow an Enemy to surprise you in your own Country without you knowing of their approach, he tells me he is ready to give us assistance whenever I should require any, and wishes us to be strong, not to be discouraged but keep a good look out that you be no more taken by surprise he says that the Six Nations have had all their Villages taken by the Enemy, yet they are strong, but now that we are all in arms it is impossible that the Enemy cut off any of our Villages while we are on our guard

	Children! Upon the reports sent to me before this last, I wrote to the Commander in Chief who has sent the 34th Regiment, part of which was to come here with the Indian Goods last Fall, but The season would not admit their crossing Lake Erie, this I tell you in the hearing of the Six Nation Indians as they have seen them

	Children! I repeat to you again that the only way of maintaining our Villages is to do as the Great man advises us, which is to keep close to each other and be strong, for by dividing ourselves we lessen our strength this is all I shall say to you until I see your people in greater numbers at which time I shall speak more fully

Copy from the Minutes 
J. Schieffelin Secry. 

Endorsed: Substance of a Council held at Detroit 13th Jany. 1783 by Major A. S. De Peyster Commandant & with Shawanese & Delawares. 

No 38 1783 Substance of a Council held at Detroit by Major De Peyster with the Shawanese and 
Delawares, January 13th. 