INDIAN COUNCIL. 

In Council Detroit June 28th 1783 

PRESENT. 

Major De Peyster Commandant 

Messrs. Baby, Drouillard & Baubin Interpreters 

A Band of Weas and Kickapoo 

A Wea Indian speaks 
	Father! I address you in behalf of our chief (the Crooked Legs) and others, here is a proof that we have done your will (presents a prisoner) and that we are always ready to act as you may direct, altho' that our services should be no longer wanted, we yet hope that you'll supply our wants our women and children who are almost naked. (Delivers the prisoner)

he then says on Wampum Strings 
	Father! These strings you may know, we met them on the road. 

	Father! The ax you gave us last year has not sufficiently had its effect, we still should be glad to use it to some purpose.

	Father! We are informed that instead of prosecuting the War, we are to give up our lands to the Enemy, which gives us great uneasiness in endeavouring to assist you it seems we have wrought our own ruin.

Joseph le Kenerd, a Kickapoo speaks 
	Father! What should I say, you certainly understood the Message I sent to you yesterday

	Father! I am the person that was employed to keep the Enemy from entering the Wabash, for I went at the head of fifty Warriours as far as the Ohio, to watch the motions of the Enemy. We past the whole winter on the banks of the Ohio, we met with only two of Enemy whom we killed. Our friends the Weas have taken a prisoner which they have given up to you.

	Father! I have now to recommend to your care the warriours, in short our whole Village who did what I told them, which was no more than your order, they therefore expect to receive your bounty, as they were prevented from hunting and have not wherewith to procure for themselves necessaries.

Major De Peyster then said 
	Children! I salute you all, the son of the Crooked Legs in particular as he is the first Chief amongst you. I return you thanks for the prisoners you brought me, which I accept with pleasure. It's not long since you accepted the ax, but for the time, you have had it you have done your duty. You have always acted with humanity towards your prisoners, in so doing, you did as I directed, I told you that the time would come, that it would be of service to you the time is now come, for all Powers at War have given each other the hand and are at Peace.

	You tell me Children, that by assisting your English Father you are in danger of losing your lands, I do not tell you that it is so. I tell you the World is now at Peace and you have saved your Lands, but had you not defended them agreeable to my desire, the Americans would have taken them from you I only give you this answer to what you have said to me for as yet I have not received the particulars of the Peace You say that you are almost naked, I am therefore sorry you have not brought wherewith to provide your wants, the reason why I am sorry is because at this time I have not wherewithal to supply you, but ere long I hope to have it in my power to do so If I receive anything for my Children, from below, depend upon it I shall distribute them, if not, they cannot expect anything, as to the Son of the Crooked Legs I here repeat my thanks for the Prisoner and I shall give orders that he be rewarded

He then speaks to the Kickapoo:
	Children ! I inform you that the Peace is concluded, the particulars I shall communicate to you as soon as they come to hand and if any Goods arrive, I shall deliver them among my children in general.

Copy from the Book of Minutes 

J. SCHIEFFELIN, Secretary 