INDIAN COUNCIL. 

At a Grand Council held at Lower Sandusky the 19th April 1783. 

PRESENT 

The Chiefs of the Wayndotts on sixteen strings of wampum. To their Father at Detroit 
	Father ! You in the name of our Great Father the King requested our assistance against your and our enemies. Gave us a Hatchet, which we have to your Knowledge made the best use of we could, in giving you all the help in our power against them, lately you were pleased to advise us to sit still, which we have and do hearken to, it being always our intentions, not only in this, but in whatever you'r pleased to tell us.

	True there is a party gone out some time ago but we hope for the time being they will be brought to a right way of thinking. There was a Prisoner sent you lately, by whom (and others brought in to the Shawnee and Delaware Towns we are credibly informed that the Virginians are preparing to come against us, and that we may expect them soon.

	Now Father we don't know how to act 'till we hear from you, and as we have gone on hand in hand together, we hope to continue so, and that you'll not allow your poor children to be crushed under the weight of their enemies, but we expect you will be so good as call the rest of your children about you, letting them know how its like to be with us, and that we want their assistance as soon as possible.

	We are likewise in hopes to see you here on this ground with as many of your own People as can be spared and we are in hopes the present times and the reasons mentioned will admit of your straining a point, for Father depend upon it we have great reason to expect them shortly

	Father! Should a Treaty of Peace be going on we hope your children will be remembered in the Treaty

	Now Father, you have heard what your children has to say, we hope you'll take us into your serious consideration, and not let our hearts fail us at this time, but let us have assistance, and as our ammunition is out, be so good as send us some, in the mean time we expect an answer to this immediately. (On His Majesty's Service)

To Major De Peyster, Commanding at Detroit  

Endorsed: 19th April 1783 Copy of a Speech sent in to Major De Peyster Commands Detroit &c from the Wyandotts of Sandusky No 29 1783 Copy of a Speech sent to Major De Peyster, Commanding at Detroit from the Wyandots of Sandusky April 19th