Date: September 20th, 1785

INDIAN COUNCIL.   DETROIT 20th September 1785   

At a meeting held by the several nations of Lake Indians, Hurons, Ottowa, Chippewas, and Potawatomi at which were present messengers from the Nations on the South Side of the Lake to deliberate on Messages  received by them; from the American Commissioners to attend a Treaty to  be held on the 1st October.   

Brethren (Americans),   We acknowledge the receipt of your messages calling us to the mouth of  the big Miamis River on the Ohio to a Treaty to be held there in ten days  from this date, when we consider that the important business that has been  already transacted with you at Forts Stanwix and McIntosh have not yet had  time to be made known and determined upon by the nations concerned in it  through this great Country, we cannot help expressing that you have been  too precipitate in calling upon us, before the affairs which we are now engaged in and have to settle amongst ourselves are finally settled, and which  are essentially necessary to accomplish the desirable End of Peace, and make  it permanent.   We are equally surprised to find that you seem to take no notice of the  ancient Council Fires kindled by our Forefathers, where the good Works of  Peace can be only accommodated to mutual satisfaction and the Sincerity of  your Hearts be made appear. Your messengers a few days ago arrived within  sight of the Smoke of this Fire and suddenly turned off to avoid it.   When our business is fully settled and we are ready to meet you, which we  hope will be early next Spring, it will be at such a place as our ancestors  formerly met to settle matters tending to their Welfare and Happiness.   

A String of Wampum.   

A Message to the Half King   
	The Chiefs of the Council having received your message accompanying an  Invitation from the Americans to attend a Treaty to be held by them are of  opinion that you have not well considered the purport of it, otherwise you  would not have delivered yourself so hastily or rashly, therefore they return  it to you, desiring you may consider it wisely; recollecting at the same time  that your directions from this Council when detached to that side of the  Lake, were to receive Speeches or Messages, and not to determine upon them,  but to rise up and lay them before this Council yourself to be settled here,  and that they now expect your conduct upon this occasion will be such as to  meet the approbation of all Parties.   

	A String of Wampum. 

 Message to the several Nations South Side of the Lake.   
	Brethren, as we could not be prepared to meet the Americans agreeable to  their Invitation to us, we have sent them our answer, which will be communicated to you, in the meantime we are sorry to observe the pernicious  conduct of some foolish men amongst you, who contrary to our advice, and  that of our father, continue to carry on depredations tending to destroy the  Quiet of the Country, as well as the good works the General Councils of our  Confederacy are labouring to accomplish. We earnestly therefore desire the  wise men amongst you, may exert themselves to restrain such headstrong men  as persist in following their own Inclinations, as their bad behaviour must in  the end operate as much against themselves as those they are endeavouring  to injure. We fill your pipes with tobacco, wishing you to consider well in  your present situation, and trust that you will be able to keep all your people  quiet, till the result of our General Councils is known.   

	A Belt of Wampum with a piece of Tobacco.
