Date: May 18th, 1785

INDIAN COUNCIL HELD AT WAKITUNIKEE.   At a Council held at Wakitunikee, May 18th 1785. 

By the Chiefs  of the Shawnee, Mingo, Delawares, and Cherokees.  

Present   James Shirlock & four other Americans.   

Capt Wolf, a Mingoe spoke, said:
	some time ago he and several  others had gone a hunting found the white people settling in many  parts of their Country. That he thought from what he had heard  from Mr. Shirlock, that they had no right, nor were encouraged by  their Great men to settle upon this side the Ohio, as the line  between them was on the other side the Ohio settled by their Forefathers; and that the Speeches delivered to him by the said Mr.  Shirlock, as well as by General Clark were that if the People who  were encroaching upon us got hurt, there would be no notice taken  of it; as they would bring it upon themselves. That now whilst  he was out he met some of those people (Virginians) and took one  of them Prisoner to answer to his Chiefs, and now delivers him to  them, to examine and hear what he bad to say.   

	Delivered John Crawford to the Chiefs.   

Capt. Jonny, a Shawnee chief, spoke on behalf of the three first mentioned nations in that Country. 
	Brethren! Virginians! you  know the other day we were fighting, you desired us to be quiet.  we are so. you requested us to observe the councils of our Forefathers and act according to their customs. We people of one  Colour are United, so that we make but one man, that has but  one Heart and one Mind,   You know Brethren, Virginians you kindled a Council Fire at  Fort Stanwix. the Six Nations led us by the hand to it, but we  heard nothing there but was good from you. Afterwards you kindled another at Beaver Creek, there two men spoke we could hear  nothing but good from you. You told us that all the Country was  yours. you have kindled two Council Fires. at the first you know  how you have treated our Brethren. the Six Nations Seized and  detained them Prisoners. You have now behaved in the same manner at Fort McIntosh. presently you will kindle another Council  Fire, but if you do it any place near us, we will not go to it  nor listen to you, but if you kindle it at Detroit, where our Forefathers did, then we will think you are for some good there. our  Brethren who stand at our backs will hear you. But we see your  Intention. you are drawing close to us and so near our bedsides  that we can almost hear the noise of your axes felling our Trees  and settling our Country. According to the Lines settled by our  Forefathers, the Boundary is the Ohio River, but you are coming  upon the ground given to us by the Great Spirit. we wish you  to be strong and keep your people on that side of the River. We  have no objections to carry on Trade with your Traders, provided  they do not attempt to settle in our Country, but it is too clear  to us your design is to take our Country from us. we remind you  that you will find all the people of our Colour in this Island strong  unanimous, and determined to act as one man in Defense of it,  therefore be strong and keep your people within Bounds, or we  shall take up a Rod and whip them back to your side of the Ohio.   It is now incumbent on you to restrain your People and listen  to us, otherwise the Consequence of what may happen hereafter will  be your fault.   You are always calling to us for your Flesh and Blood no doubt  you are fond of them We have them by the hand to deliver ta  you, if you listen to us, on the contrary if you do not, you will never see them at any other time What we three nations say to  you, are the sentiments of the Six Nations, and that of those to  the setting of the Sun.   What we have said we are determined to do, without the Council  or advice of our Fathers who formerly assisted us when requisite.   We have called in Simon Girty, that our words should be fully  explained to you, before him.   This foolish young man who was taken in our country, encroaching  upon us, we deliver to you, that he may return home and prevent  others doing what he has done his companions were sent back when  taken.   

(Signed) Charles McCormick,   Comm. & Clerk Ind. Dept.  

DETROIT, 31st May 1785.   Endorsed: Council at Wakitimikee, held by the Indians 18 May 1785.   

Present, James Shirlock and four other Americans.  

Copy of this was transmitted to My Lord Sydney 28th July 1785, per the Notingham, Capt. Hoare. No. 4 .
