Copy of a Speech delivered the 8th Novr 1785 at the Council House at Wukitiwinikie by Peteasuva a speaker of the Shawnee. 

To American Messengers.
	Brethren (of the thirteen fires) 
	
	The Wyandot Sc Delawares met us in the Council House three days ago, and delivered us the Sentiments of Ten Great Nations who speak different languages, and live along the Great Lakes vizt. The Wyandot, Ottawa, Chippewa, Potawatomi & their Confederates.

	Brethren, You sent speeches amongst us last year to Invite us who are of one colour to the Council Fire you kindled at Fort Stanwix to the Peace and other good things you said you had to offer us. Soon afterwards you kindled another Council fire at Beaver Creek to which you also Invited us, but you ought to know this is not the way to make a good or lasting Peace to take our Chiefs Prisoners and come with Soldiers at your Backs can never tend to general good between us.

	You now again Invite us to another Council Fire at the mouth of the Great Miamis, Your Messengers have gone through several nations but we are aware of your design to divide our councils, we are unanimous, and it is not right that you kindle fires among Brush or Nettles, Therefore we inform you that at Detroit is the Ancient Council Fire of our forefathers, there is the proper place, and when we see you there we will take you by the Hand, which cannot be sooner than next Spring, as we must have time to hear from the other Nations to the Westward, nothing can be done by us, but by General consent, we act and speak like one man.

	A String of Wampum with a Pipe of Peace 

Endorsed: Copy of a Speech delivered at Wakitumekie to Amn Messengers Novr 8th 1785. 

INDIAN MESSAGE. 

May 12th 1786. 

Message received from the Shawnee dated 29th April. 
	Father, 

	Last Fall our Brethren the Americans call'd us to the Big Miamis: when we arrived there they said they had something to communicate of importance to our future welfare, and the happiness of our children after us. But alas we heard nothing good from them, they told us that our father had given us to them with our Lands. Their Commissioners assured us that every thing in the articles we now send to you, was agreeable to our best wishes and more generous than we had a right to expect from them, this induced us to sign their proposals, but we find that we have been ignorant of the real purport of them till our return here, our Hostages however that were detained by them are come home safe, we inform you how they have deceived us, by telling us the King of Great Britain had ceded the whole country to them, and we were not sensible of the error we have committed till our friend Elliot explained it to us.

	Father, we request you to be strong and give us the best advice you are capable of in our present situation, you see we have never been in more need of your friendship and good offices, we have been cheated by the Americans who are striving to work our destruction and without your assistance may be able to accomplish their ends, you have too much wisdom not to be convinced of this truth as well as us, we earnestly beg you will consider and send us a speedy answer. In the mean time we salute you & remain your steady friends

Maloontha ) Shade > Principal Chiefs of the Shawnee 
Painted Pole ) 
