The Shawanese and Miamis by two of their people, presented the end of a Calumet, to each person of the Seneca Nation, which they smoked; afterwards to the Seven Nations of Canada, then to the Wyandotts, and so on thorough all the Chiefs of the Confederacy, when that ceremony was over Messquakince a Shawanese Chief rose and said Brothers, Uncles and Nephews, This is the day which the Great Spirit has appointed for us all to meet together to consult on our General Interests and the good of all nations of our color. And since we have all smoked the Pipe of Friendship, listen attentively, to what I shall have to say to you bye and bye. 

A Chief of the Seven Nations of Canada then rose, 
Brother, We have come a long journey to see you and talk to you, we have lost several of our people since we began our journey, some of them died on the Road, and our principal Chief died at the Foot of the Rapids; He then repeated the Condolence of the Ottowas on that occasion, and delivered to the Shawanese Messquakence a String of White Wampum with a pipe and strings of black & white Wampum, tied to it. 

Brothers, This is the Pipe we sent to the distant Nations, the Poutawattamies, Sawkies, Reynards and the other Nations west of the Mississippi, and inhabiting the Lakes, and these are the Speeches they sent in answer to our Message to them, which I will soon tell you. Elder Brothers of the 6 Nations & 7 Nations of Canada I am one of those, appointed by the unanimous choice of the Delawares, Shawanese, Miamis, Chippawas, Outawas, Hurons, Munseys, Connoys, Nantikokes, Poutawattamies, Cherokees, Creeks, Sawkies, Rey nards, and all the Western Confederacy, to speak to you in their name: To clear Your Eyes that you may see clearly after your long to the South and to the West. You see there the Creeks and Cherokees sitting by us, who have come here in consequence of our Speeches, to assure us that their nation will unite with us, — All these Speeches in my hand, are from the different Nations assuring us of their friendship and support. Here is a Petayo sitting here, whom we sent to you some years ago, "to Niagara to acquaint you with all our affairs in this Country; and the Speeches you returned by him were to be strong and united and to defend our Country. We took that advice, and we are resolved to defend it. Our Messengers are now ready to go to the Southern and Western Nations, to acquaint them that the principal Chiefs of the Six Nations have at length come to our General Council Fire, to confirm here, the advice they gave us to be strong and united. (Taking up a Pipe) 

Brothers, This pipe was brought to us by Wawpessenhwa, whom we sent with speeches to the distant Western Nations, they desired it might be left at this Council Fire for all nations to come and take hold of it, and desired us to be strong and hold fast our country. They also desired us to acquaint our Elder Brethren the Six Nations of it — We now do both - Ye were slow in coming, or it would have been, sent back long ago. 

(Laying down the pipe and taking up 6 strings of White & 6 strings of Black Wampum). 

Brothers of the Six Nations, You know when we last met at the foot of the Rapids 4 years ago it was unanimously agreed on by all Nations, to be strong, and to defend our Country; But we have never seen you since that time. We suppose you have been constantly trying to do us some good, and that was the reason of your not coming sooner to join us. We shall now send these speeches to all the distant nations to acquaint them with this Council and of your being present. 

Buckaugehaliss a Chief of the Delawares Uncles 6 Nations, Don't think, because the Shawanese only have spoke to you, that it is their sentiments alone, they have spoke the sentiments of all the Nations. I remember when we last met 4 years ago, you told us, and all nations agreed to it, that if any one of us were struck, we should con sider it as a blow given to all, and that the whole should join in revenging it. Think well of this Uncles of the 6 Nations. All of us are animated by one mind, one Heart and one Head, and we are resolved to stick close by each another and defend ourselves to the last. Messquakence a Shawanese Chief. Brothers of the 6 Nations, This is all we have at present to say to you; you see sitting by us here, the Creeks and Cherokees who are immediately to sett off with these Speeches, to their own Nations. Cow Killer a Seneca Chief, Black & White Strings of Wampum Brothers, We return you thanks for the kindness with which we have been treated, since we came among you, and for what you have told us. Our meetings are too late in the day to get through much business. Let us all encamp on this ground and rise at Day light, and in the morning we will tell you every thing we have to say. 

The Council then broke up. Oct 3d. 

Oct 4th. Messquakence, — Elder Brothers of the Six Nations, We are now ready to hear what you have to say to us. Cow Killer a Seneca Chief, With a string of White Wampum. We thank you all Shawanese, Delawares & (repeating all the different Nation?)for wiping away our Tears and setting our Hearts. right, for the loss of our Friends, our Women & Children since we last met, and I beg you will now listen to what your elder Brethren the 6 Nations are now going to say to you. Taking a black & white string. Brothers, We have now come to Council with you, as you sent for us, and I beg you will listen attentively, as you desired us to tell you what we had in our minds. We are now following the steps of our Forefathers, and renewing our ancient Friendship. Listen therefore to what we have now to say to you. Then taking the Bundle of Speeches and Belts, that were given to them the last Council day, thus proceeded. Brothers, We are very glad you have strengthened the Chain of Friendship with all the distant Nations from whom you received these Belts & Speeches. It was always our advice to you to do so, and we are glad you have followed it, and we return you our thanks for the pains you have taken to accomplish it. Brothers, You told us also of the Creek and Cherokee Nations being now present, we return you thanks for that also, as it will brighten the chain of friendship with all Nations. A Pipe. Brothers, We thank you for shewing us this Pipe of Peace & Friendship, which was sent, to be left here for all nations of our Colour, to take hold of. We now join our hands to it, and leave it to be lodged with you, for the purpose you have mentioned. Black and White Strings. Brothers, I now speak to the Counsellors & Warriors and I desire you will take notice what I shall say to you. The white people are looking at us, & know what we are about, — They are always the Instigators of our Quarrels; let us now unite and consider what will be the best for us, our women and children, to lengthen our days and be in peace. Several Strings of White Wampum. Brothers, I address myself to all the Nations. You know that 4 years ago we met in Council at the Foot of the Rapids, you will remember all that passed there. You invited us now to come here, as we had not seen you for four years and you suppose we were doing something all that time for your good. I now tell you we have been endeavouring to do something for your good, the last two years in our Council. 

Brothers, When the White People on the Island were as one man, They asked us at Fort Stanwix for Land; we granted it. A few years afterwards, they fell out among themselves. The King our Father, told us he was going to chastise his son and no body else, and it would be over in a short time — soon after we were desired by the People of this Island to sit still and not mind the Quarrels of Father & Son, But shortly after that, Our Father the King, desired us to take part with him, which we complied with. Our Father was defeated by the Americans and then made a peace and left us alone — Our Father then desired us to speak to the Americans for as good a peace as we could get for ourselves. We have been trying to do so in the best manner we could, and we now desire you to do the same and to join with us in our best endeavours for that purpose. The Country you live in is a very good one and I like it very much. 

Brothers, You were fortunate that the Great Spirit above was so kind as to assist you to throw the Americans twice on their backs when they came against your Villages, Women and Children. Now Brothers, we know that the Americans have held out their hands to offer you peace. Don't be too proud spirited and reject it, lest the Great Spirit should be angry with you, but let us go on in the best manner we can to make peace with them. A Black & White String. Now Counsellors and Warriors, You have heard what I had to say, I hope you will attend to it. Your warriors were lately in the front, but L hope to see the Counsellors there, & they consulting together which is the best means of making peace for the advantage of ourselves, our Women & Children. A Black & White Belt. Brothers, You have heard what the 6 Nations have said to you. You will remember the Americans have come when we have been in Council and kicked out our Fire. We now kindle it once more that we may settle what is good and proper for peace, for our Women Children and Warriors. A Chief of the Seven Nations of Canada, With a White String. 

Brothers, You sent for the 7 Nations to come to this Council Fire; I now clear your eyes, that you may see clearly and your Hearts, that you may understand, and attend with due consideration to what I am going to say. A large Black & White Belt. 

Brothers, I desire that the warriors would take notice and remember what their Sachems shall fix upon for the good of their women, their Children and their Country. A large white Belt. 

Brothers, Listen to what I am going to say to your Counsellors. When you desired us to come to this Council Fire, you sent us word to come at our warriors backs. If any thing goes wrong it will be the fault of the Counsellors & not of the Warriors. The Sachems and Chiefs of the 7 Nations, desire that all the nations of our Colour in this Island should be of one mind and strong. Our Father the King, has always desired us to be of one mind, to have but one Heart and to unite ourselves firmly together for our general interests and safety. The Americans want to take our Country from us. The 7 nations have never once spoken to them since our Father made peace. Now Brothers, as the Americans are now wanting to speak to us, let us put our Heads together and join as one nation, and if they do not agree to what we shall determine on: Let us all strike them at once. These are the sentiments of the 7 Nations. He then delivered separate Belts from each of the 7 Nations, with a short speech to each expressing the nation to whom the Belt belonged. He then spoke thus on a very large white Belt. 

Brothers, Creeks & Cherokees, It gives us great pleasure to see you here and of the same mind with the Shawanese, Delawares, Miamis, Hurons &o. &o. &o. &o. &o. and I speak on this large Belt to confirm our union, to take care of our Country, our women & children and to listen to our Father, the King who always gives us good advice. 

We now kindle it once more that we may settle what is good and proper for peace, for our Women Children and Warriors. A Chief of the Seven Nations of Canada, With a White String. 

Brothers, You sent for the 7 Nations to come to this Council Fire; I now clear your eyes, that you may see clearly and your Hearts, that you may understand, and attend with due consideration to what I am going to say. A large Black & White Belt. Brothers, I desire that the warriors would take notice and remember what their Sachems shall fix upon for the good of their women, their Children and their Country. A large white Belt. Brothers, Listen to what I am going to say to your Counsellors. When you desired us to come to this Council Fire, you sent us word to come at our warriors backs. If any thing goes wrong it will be the fault of the Counsellors & not of the Warriors. The Sachems and Chiefs of the 7 Nations, desire that all the nations of our Colour in this Island should be of one mind and strong. Our Father the King, has always desired us to be of one mind, to have but one Heart and to unite ourselves firmly together for our general interests and safety. The Americans want to take our Country from us. The 7 nations have never once spoken to them since our Father made peace. Now Brothers, as the Americans are now wanting to speak to us, let us put our Heads together and join as one nation, and if they do not agree to what we shall determine on: Let us all strike them at once. These are the sentiments of the 7 Nations. He then delivered separate Belts from each of the 7 Nations, with a short speech to each expressing the nation to whom the Belt belonged. He then spoke thus on a very large white Belt. Brothers, Creeks & Cherokees, It gives us great pleasure to see you here and of the same mind with the Shawanese, Delawares, Miamis, Hurons &o. &o. &o. &o. &o. and I speak on this large Belt to confirm our union, to take care of our Country, our women & children and to listen to our Father, the King who always gives us good advice. 

The Council then broke up it being late. 5th of Ooto. Messquakence. (Holding the Belt and Speeches of 7 Nations of Canada). Brothers of the 7 Nations, We will immediate; send this Belt to acquaint all the distant Nations, with what you have said, and we will acquaint the Chiefs of these nations that we will follow the advice you have given us, which we consider to be good for all people of our colour. Then laying down the Belt & taking up the Strings & Belts of the 6 Nations he said. Brothers, These are the Speeches & Belts of the 6 Nations which they spoke on yesterday. — If what they have said is the truth it is all very well. But listen to what I shall say to them (laying down the Strings & Belts). Black & White Strings. Elder Brethren of the 6 Nations, You spoke to us yesterday, and what you said, we liked very well, But you did not speak to the real purpose you come upon to this Council Fire. You know very well you desired us to brighten the chain of Friendship with all the Southern and Western Nations. We have done it, and thought it was proper to acquaint our Elder Brethren the 6 nations therewith, which we did last year together with the Delaware?, Wyandotts and other Nations at your villages.

We consulted with you also as our Elder Brethren what was best to be done for the safety of our Country and the good of our women and children. But you told us you could not tell us any thing; that our Chiefs and Warriors were invited to an American Treaty. We then told you were on our way to Quebec, to see our Father. When we had finished our business with our Father we returned and stayed six days at the six Nation Village, and you said nothing to us. Now Brothers, of the 6 Nations what you said to us yesterday, was nothing to the purpose for which you were sent to this Council Fire. The Road which our Fore Fathers made to your Country, is plain and wide. I can see very well what you are about from this place. Brothers of the 6 Nations, You are still talking to the Americans, Your head is still towards them and you are now talking to them. When you left your Villages to come here, You had a bundle of American Speeches under your Arm. I now desire you Brothers to lay that Bundle down here and explain what you have been talking with them these last two years. When we hear all you have to say, or if it is right and good we will lay all our heads together, for the welfare of our Country, our Women and our Warriors. Brothers of the 6 Nations, All the different nations here, now desire you to speak from your Heart, and not from your mouth, and tell them what that Bundle was which you had under your arm when you came here, — We know what you are about, we see you plainly. He then threw down at the Seneca's feet the strings on which he had spoke. Cow Killer, a Seneca Chief of the 6 Nations. Brothers, We desire you will sit still, we shall move to a little distance, to consult on what answer, to give you — You have talked to us a little too roughly — You have thrown us on our backs. The Farmer's Brother, another Seneca Chief, then put the strings which had been thrown down over his head & all the Senecas & those who sat with them, moved away and remained an hour. Cow Killer, with Strings of Black & White Wampum. Brothers, Listen to what the 6 Nations are going now to say to all the Nations of our Colour. You very well know when you returned from Canada last year, you passed by our Villages & went by Tiendenagce's. Brothers, You tell us that we are always running to the Americans and telling them everything. We have been talking to them, tis true; They sent for us and led us by the hand to Philadelphia where we met the 13 States and Washington. He told us he had had several meetings with the Indians on 4his Island at Beaver Creek and several other places. You all know & the Wyandotts whom I see sitting there know. — What was said there — it cannot be strange to any of you. Brothers, Washington asked us what was the cause of the uneasiness of the Western Nations. We told him it was in regard to their Lands. He then told us he would satisfy the owners of the Land, if it had been sold by people who were not the real owners thereof; But he wishes for a Council with all the Nations, for that purpose.

Brothers, He did not say he would give up the Lauds, but that be would satisfy the Indians for them. That he wanted nothing so much as the friendship of all his Brothers the Indians throughout this Island. He then desired us to come to you with his Speeches, & tell you all he said, & he added that if the Forts he had made in the Country gave uneasiness he would remove them. Brothers, He also told us, that after we had finished our business, it might be dangerous for us to return through the Country; But that you had many prisoners of his and that you could easily send some of them to tell him what had been determined on. Brothers, These are the papers and speeches, (taking up a Tin base) which we received "B" & we now give them to you. This is all we have to say, take them to your Father and he will explain them to you. The Council then broke up till next day. 

October 6th. The confederate Chiefs assembled and remained for 4 hours on the ground, at length the Seneca's of Buffalce Creek sent to them to desire a private Council with their Village Chiefs at their camp. Fetayo, Buokaugehaliss, Messquakence and several others went & they relate the following as the substance of what passed. 

Private Council. Farmer's Brother, a Seneca Chief. Brothers, We have desired this private meeting to explain more fully what was said yesterday. Brothers, We have already mentioned to you, that we have been two years in Council with Washington and during that time, we have heard nothing fall from him, but what breathed the strongest desire of cultivating peace & friendship, with all nations of our Colour on this Island, on the ground of justice & humanity. For which pur pose he has desired us to speak to you our Western Brethren to know your sentiments, it behooves you therefore to consider well what answer is to be returned to him. Brothers, You remember- when our Father and the Americans quarreled, the Amerioans desired us Red People to sit still, as we had no business in their dispute. But our Father put the Hatchet into our Hands, to strike the Amerioans and we were both unsuccessful — from that moment our Lands were torn to pieces, and the Amer icans triumphed as the greatest people in this great Island. Brothers, These are matters for you to consider well before you give u& your sentiments fully; We have now delivered ours from our Hearts, and whatever you may determine on, with regard to a Boundary Line, as we have now united ourselves with you, we shall join you heartily in representing to the United States. End of the Private Council. Ooto 7th. The Confederate Indian Nations came this day into- Council in a procession as warriors. Messquakince. Black & White Strings. Brothers of the 6 Nations, I desire you will listen attentively to what I am now going to say to you. Yesterday you asked for a private Council as you told us we did not understand some things which you had said to us. We now very well understand all you have said and return you our thanks. You desired us to consider well what we should deter mine on for the good of our women, our children and our warriors. I now tell you Brothers we have considered well and now I am going to tell you, the minds of all your Brethren in this Country.

Brothers of the 6 Nations, You have told us you have been listening these last two years to the United States and that during that time, you heard nothing, but what tended to the welfare of the people of our Colour. How can this be? For whilst you were considering for the good of your Western Brethren, two powerful armies were sent by the Amerioans to destroy us. Has their sweet speeches so much intoxioated you and blinded you, that your sight oould not reach so far, as where we are now sitting? Brothers of the 6 Nations, Had the Great Spirit been favorable to them instead of us, you would have found here, their strong forts, and only a small remnant or perhaps none of your Western' Brethren to deliver their sweet speeches to. But Brothers, they took the same step with your nephews the Delawares and your Brothers the Hurons, whom you see here, which they did with you, to induce them to sit quiet whilst they were destroying us, but they did not succeed so well with these Nations as with our elder Brethren, for you now see them strong in defending their just right to this Country, they put their speeches behind them, and united themselves to us as one man. Now Brothers of the 6 Nations, This is the way they served you, and you have listened to them. • We know they want to break you off from the Nations here. But the great Spirit has now put it in your hearts, not to be broken off by them from the general Indian Confederacy. Since therefore you have now told us you have spoken from your Hearts, and that nothing remains further for you to say on the subject of your busi ness. We hope it is the truth and that nothing will now come from you, but what may tend to our general welfare and happiness. Brothers of the 6 Nations, (4 Black & White Strings). You desired us to listen to you candidly and consider well what we were going to do. We have now considered what is best for us to do, I therefore desire you, to listen to me and I will tell you the resolution of all the nations, to the Southward and as far as the setting of the Sun, deputies of whose nations are now present.

Brothers, We know very well what the Americans are about, and what are their designs. Last Fall, when the great Spirit was good enough to assist us, to throw them on their backs, we got their great Chiefs Papers and Instructions, B, at that Point of Land there which you now see, all the chiefs here present heard them interpreted to us. If the Americans had been successful, they were to build a strong Fort at the Miamis Towns, they were then to come here and build another, and then if they succeeded, they were to proceed to the mouth of this River and build another strong Fort there. They were afterwards to have set about building Boats and to drive all the Indians entirely out of the Country, to clear the Lake of them, and drive them far back into the Country. But if any of the Nations came and offered their hands, the American Chief was to put them at his back and give them Hce's in their Hands to plant Corn for him and his people, and make them labour, like beasts, their Oxen and their Pack Horses. Brothers of the 6 Nations, We now tell you, we know very well the Intentions of the Americans. You have desired us to consider well what you have said to us, and not to be too proud spirited.

We are not proud spirited, nor do we attribute our great good fortune these last few years, to our own strength alone, but to the great Spirit who governs all things on this earth and who looks down on us with as much, or perhaps more, compassion than those of a fairer complexion. 

Brother, You know very well the boundary that was made between us, and the English and Americans when they were as one people. It was the River Ohio. — Now Brothers of the 6 Nations, as you were sent here by the Americans to tell us what they say. We now tell you Brothers to go the same road you came and inform them, that the boundary line then fixed on is what we want and that is the determination of all the nations present yours as well as ours. Brothers, You have told us that Washington says he will make us a compensation, if the Lands were not purchased of the right owners. We do not want compensation; We want a restitution of our Lands which He holds under false pretenses. Brothers you want to go the Roads towards the American Forts. That Road Brothers is all bloody by the Americans forgoing themselves into our Country; We therefore desire you to go the Road you came, the road which our Forefathers came.

Brothers, The cause of the American Messengers falling to the ground was owing to their following this bloody path, where numerous Bands of distant Tribes are constantly watching any movements into our Country: Had they however arrived safe, they should have been returned safe from this Council Fire. You tell us Brothers, that Washington also says he can easily remove these Forts, if they give us uneasiness. Now Brothers, If the Americans want to make peace with us, Let them destroy these Forts and we will meet them next spring at Lower Sandusky, where all the parties who formerly settled the Boundary Line, must be present. Four Strings Black & White Wampum. Brothers of the 6 Nations, This is what we desire you to tell the Americans and I tell it to you as the Sentiments of all the Indian Nations in this Country.

Cow Killer, Brothers, The 6 Nations return you thanks for what you have said to us. You have considered well before you spoke? We now join with you & will put our heads together, and endeavour to get all our Lands back, where the Americans have encroached upon us, and we will meet you in the Spring at Lower Sandusky as you have mentioned. It being almost dark the Council broke up. 8th October. Messquakence spoke thus. Elder Brethren of the 6 Nations, We have now only to explain to you every thing fully with regard to the proposed Council at Lower Sandusky early in the Spring, & I desire you to listen attentively to what I am going to say to you. Brothers, When the Boundary Line was made at Fort Stanwix, our Father the King of England and the Americans were as one. Our Father must have that Treaty, and we will ask him to produce it, to vindicate our claims. He must be present also at the Council, for we know nothing of writing, and his assistance will be indispensably necessary for us, as well as all the parties who were formerly at the settling of the Boundary Line. We have a reliance on our father seeing Justice done to us; He never deceives us, and we have always found we may confidently depend upon him. 

Brothers, On the present occasion it is fortunate for us, that the Great King our Father has sent a person vested with his authority to take care of all his children in this Country. It is him we mean to take by the Hand and lead to the intended Council at Sandusky, should Washington accept our proposals, and manifest that Justice and humanity he talks so much about and pretends towards us. And we hope our Father will assist us also with provisions to enable us to meet at the place appointed. Brothers, Our Father Wapemassawa, has come to visit our new settlement here and to distribute the clothing for our old people & children usually sent them at this season of the year by order of the King our Great Father; We will therefore take this opportunity to explain to him the determination of this Council for the information of our Father the Governor at Niagara, and to request his presence and assistance at the intended Council at Lower Sandusky. The Council then adjourned. 9th October. This morning a deputation from the General Council, consisting of Messquakence, Petaza, Kekinathucka and others, with the Interpreter waited on A. McKee Esq. the Agent for Indian Affairs, and after repeating, on strings of Wampum, the proceedings of the General Council since they first met on the 30th day of September last. They spoke as follows on a large Belt, addressed to their Father the Governor of the King's Dominions & people in this Country at Niagara. •Father, We were happy to hear that The King our Father, had sent you to this Country, to take care of all his children. " Father, A general Council of all nations of - our Colour, has just been held here, and we are desired by the whole of them to acquaint you with all our transactions. You will observe the terms on which we have proposed to make a peace with the Americans, and the reliance the Indian Nations place in your assistance and friendship to promote it on just and equitable terms. Father, At this Council Fire, which is in the Center of our Country, is placed the Heart of the Indian Confederacy, to which we have always considered our Fathers to be joined, therefore we hope on this great occasion that he will exert himself to see Justice done to us, as it must be through his power and mediation that we can expect an end to our troubles. And not being in a situation to keep or procure any writings that may be necessary to assert our just claims, we rely on your friendship to produce those made at the settlement of the boundary between us and the King our Father and his People at that time. For how otherwise can a Just accommodation be accomplished. Father, We gave you this early Information of our determinations, that you may consider it well, and be ready in the Spring (should the Americans agree to meet us) to Join us at Lower Sandusky, with the assistance you know your children will stand in need of, particularly that of provisions, which their unsettled situation does not allow them to procure in this troubled Country.

Father, In confidence of your ready compliance, We take you by the hand with this Belt of Wampum, to lead you to the Council Fire, as soon as it shall be kindled at Sandusky the ensuing Spring.
