COUNCIL AT BUFFALO CREEK. 

Proceedings of a Council held at Buffalo Creek 11th December 1794 

Present 

Lt Col. Butler Dy. Agent 

Chescaqa (Billy) a principal Seneca Chief with the Chief of the Onondagas, Cayugas and a Delaware Chief.

After the usual compliments Col. Butler addressed them as follows.
	Brothers, Many reports have been received at Niagara respecting the late Treaty at Kanandaique. Some of them stated that you had sold all your Country and others the Greatest part as I have never paid attention to flying reports, I did not think proper to transmit them


To Lord Dorchester, but having now an opportunity of hearing the Truth request you will inform me of the particulars of that Treaty.

Chescaqa (Billy) a principal Seneca Chief answered as follows. 
	Brother, We return you thanks for not paying attention to the reports that have been spread at Niagara and for preventing these from being sent to Lord Dorchester.

	Brother, All our proceedings at that Council were committed to writing and those writings are in possession of some of our Chiefs who are not yet arrived. We shall immediately send for them that you may have the whole before you. O'Bale a principal chief was present, at that meeting and is daily expected. We decline answering further untill the papers arrive.

Col. Butler replyed 
	Brothers, I am sorry to have received from you such an evasive answer. It was not a matter of curiosity but for your interest that I applyed for a true account of that Treaty and to prevent any thing to your prejudice from being transmitted to your Great Father, I have nothing further to add, but that your answer is very improper on this occasion.

The Seneca Chief then replyed as follows. 
	Brother, We had agreed that no part of the Council was to be divulged until the papers were arrived then we were to inform our Father of what had passed. this was to prevent misrepresentations, but as you say reports of the treaty have been spread abroad. I will now inform you of the heads of what passed between the Six Nations and United States.

	Brother, When we met in Council at Kanandaiqui we informed Mr. Pickering that we must abide by the Line agreed upon by the Six Nations and Lake Indians last year at the General Council of the Confederate Indians, held at the rapids of the Miamis, this line runs between the Heads of the waters that fall into Lake Erie and the Ohio, and is marked on a map delivered to the Lake Indians,

Col Pickering answered. 
	Brothers, As to the Land claimed by the State of Pennsylvania you can have no pretension that land has been purchased and paid for at three different times, it was first bought from the Delawares, then from the Hurons and lastly from the Six Nations at the Treaty of Muskingum. All those Nations gave deeds for that Land and received separate payments, exclusive of what they received of Individuals, therefore you cannot claim any part of that tract within the Territory of Pennsylvania.

	Brothers, You well know that at the Treaty of Fort Stanwix, O'Bale with other Chiefs of the Six Nations gave up to the United States four miles deep from Johnson's landing along the water between the two Lakes and extending along Lake Erie to the Pennsylvania line, this tract I now in the name of the United States restore to you in order to make your minds easy — and to show that they mean to do you justice.

	Brothers, In former times you gave to the King a tract of land four Miles deep from Johixson's Landing to the first Creek above Stedman's, this land the King gave the United States when they threw him upon his back and from which he is not yet recovered therefore Brothers, you can have no claim to this Land.

	Brothers, We now want a Road from Johnson's Landing to the Creek above Stedman's also one from thence along the River to Buffalo Creek, for your convenience as well as our own, we also want an open road from the Genesee Creek to Buffalo Creek. To this the Six Nations answered Mr. Pickering as follows.

	Brother, Since the lands claimed by the State of Pennsylvania have been sold by our Chiefs, the Six Nations relinquishes that part of the Country provided a free communication between them and their western Brethren is allowed, thro' that part, they agree to give the United States leave to make a road from the Upper end of Stedman's Carrying Place to the Black rock but that road to remain the property of the Six Nations as to the Lands we gave in former times to the King it depends upon him to allow you a passage through that.

