October 25th, 1794

In a Council at Konondaigua Saturday October 25th 1794.  

Present   Col. Pickering Commissr. of the United States, Four gentlemen  of the Society of Quakers, who had come from Philadelphia to  attend this Treaty at the request of the Chiefs at Buffaloe Creek,  other Citizens of the United States, and the Chiefs and others of  the Six Nations.   

Captain O'beal or the Corn Planter rose, and spoke. the following  are extracts from the Corn Planter's speech.   
	I wonder what is the reason, that ever since the peace the  British, and Americans, people of one colour, cannot sit side by  side with the Indians, when we concluded to attend this Treaty, we  the Sachems and Warriors requested, that the person who had the  care of us, (meaning William Johnstone the British interpreter)  should be present to see what passed and we are well, pleased to  see him here, then the Corn Planter repeated the Speeches which  Mr. Johnston had brought from Captn Brant who had just returned  from a Council with the Western hostile Indians.      

  After this Colonel Pickering rose, and addressed the Six Nations  in substance as follows,   
	BROTHERS,   By the remarks you have made, I find that you suppose me to be displeased, with the appearance of Mr. Johnston, a British  Interpreter at the Council fire kindled by the U. States, you must  have seen that displeasure in my countenance, for it is not easy  for me to conceal my feelings, what I feel in my heart, appears  on my face, but while you have discovered my dissatisfaction, you  have wondered what can be the cause, you wonder why, the British and Americans, people of one colour, cannot sit side by side  at a Treaty with the Indians.   

	BROTHERS,   I will tell you the reason, and then you will cease to wonder,  I expected to have done this yesterday but the deaths of the  Oneida Chiefs, obliged us to postpone the business till today, and  I do not now regret the delay, for it would then have been more  difficult: to have restrained my indignation at the intrusion of a  British Spy ; to excuse Mr. Johnston's appearance, at this Council,  you have told me that he came by your invitation, and you speak  of him as having the care of you. Why then Brothers did he not  come along with you? Will he pretend he was not ready? if he  has the care of you, he ought to be ready at your call, or if an  unforseen accident prevented his starting with you, why did he not  come forward with Mr. Street who has been here many days.   

	BROTHERS,   I will tell you why he did not come before, notwithstanding your  invitation, he would have staid at home, for he saw the impropriety of intruding himself into the Councils of the U. States he had  not assurance, he had not impudence enough, to come without orders  from his employers, he therefore waited untill Governor Simcoe arrived  from the Westward, and as soon after as he received his orders, and  instructions, then he came forward, I am warranted therefore in  calling him a British Spy.   

	BROTHERS,   When it was proposed that a treaty should be held, between you  and the United States you requested that I might be appointed to  kindle the Council fire, hence I supposed that you had a confidence in me, grounded on your experience of my attention to your  interests, when you desired some Gentlemen of the Society of  Quakers might be present, I supposed it arose from the confidence  you placed in them founded on the remembrance of their kindness  to you, and to your forefathers, and a belief that they would be  unwilling to countenance any attempts to wrong you, now Brothers,  when they and I have come forward under these circumstances,  upon your special invitation what do you think must be our sentiments on seeing a British Agent introduced to be a Spy on our  Conduct.   

	BROTHERS,   You have often intimated to me that it was pride, which pre-  vented the Americans from sitting side by side with the English  in Treaties with the Indians.   

	BROTHERS,   For myself, I confess that I am proud, but mine is not the  pride of rank, for mine is not much elevated, and in every station  I have considered, and treated the poorest, and lowest of mankind  as my Brothers, 'tis not the pride of wealth, for I am not rich,  'tis not the pride of knowledge, for I have but little, 'tis not the  pride of understanding for mine is moderate, 'tis not the pride of  eloquence for I am an indifferent speaker; what then makes me  proud? conscious integrity and truth: proud in truth, I will not  deceive you, proud in integrity, I will never do you wrong.   

	BROTHERS,   You have invited Mr. Johnston to attend this Council but did  you ever invite an American agent to attend your Councils, with  the British or suppose you had given such an invitation suppose  the President had sent one of our Interpreters here (pointing to  Mr. Parish & Mr. Jones) to a Council you were holding with  Governor Simcoe in Canada, how do you think our interpreter  would be received, not feeling myself the height of British pride,  I cannot truly describe to you his reception, if he were only ordered  instantly to quit the Council, and the Province, and escape a kicking, or being put in Irons, he might think himself happy, Brother,  this alone is a sufficient reason for excluding a British Agent from  the Council fires kindled by the U. States, but there are many  other reasons, some of which I will mention.   

	BROTHERS,   We are a free, and independent Nation, treating with the Six  Nations, who also profess to be free, and independent, and whatever  difficulties arise between us, we can meet and confer on the means  of removing them without the interference of any other Nation  whatever, but especially brothers the U. States have never asked the  mediation of the British and we never shall ask it, until they' give  some proofs of their sincerity, Brothers, since we have been at war  with the Western Indians, the United States have requested your  assistance to bring about a peace between us and the people of  your own colour, we asked your aid because we believed you to be  our friends, and that you would act with sincerity, You complied  with our request, and for more than two years you have been  striving to restore peace, we thank you for your exertions although  they have been unsuccessful, and why were they unsuccessful?  What has prevented a peace between us and the Western Nations?  I answer without hesitation, the British prevented it.   

	BROTHERS,   In the Speech from the Western Indians sent you by Capt  Brant, and which you have just repeated to me they say That  when you and they met last summer, the business did not go on  according to the desire of the meeting and they subjoin the reason  of it. They were led astray. Now I ask who led them astray?  Not the Six Nations, for they exerted themselves to keep them in  the straight path that would have led to peace, who then led them  astray? Not the U. States for you know we were not suffered to  speak to them, who then I again ask, did lead them astray? I  answer the British.  

	BROTHERS,   When you returned last year from the Westward, you remember  that you assembled at your Council fire at Buffaloe Creek, and that  General Chapin was present, at that time Capt Brant, Col. Butler,  Captn. Bunbury, Major Powel Mr. Sheehan & Mr. Johnston, being  together one day at Winneys. Capt Brant asked Genl. Chapin what  prevented the Treatys taking place between the Commissrs. of the  U. States and the Western Indians. General Chapin answered he  did not know but probably he Capt Brant could tell upon which  Capt Brant replied, I will tell your what prevented it the British  prevented it, and I say it here to their faces, the British were  silent.   

	BROTHERS,   I will not attempt to recount all the instances of British injustice, and British pride, that have produced the antipathy between  them, and the Americans, which you have noticed, but I will tell  you some of them.   

	BROTHERS,   By the treaty of peace, the King engaged to give up to us all  the Forts on the American side of the Boundary line then agreed  on, yet he has kept possession of them to this day. I have heretofore told you what was Lord Dorchester's explanation of that  Treaty as it respected the boundary line that beyond it the King  would not extend his interference, yet he has not only kept possession of the old posts, but lately erected a new one over the  Boundary line agreed on. You know that Governor Simcoe last  Spring built a Fort at the foot of the rapids of the Miamis, and  placed in it a garrison of British Troops. I must now tell you of  a fresh piece of British Insolence. You all know that the Country  where we are setting, is within the U. States, You Seneca's know  that you sold this Country to Mr. Phelps, and that it extended  along these lines (shewing them on the map) to Lake Ontario, here  (shewing the place) the Eastern line came to Great Sodus Bay,  this land was sold by Mr. Phelps, and now belongs to Capt Williamson who this Summer began a settlement at that Bay, as soon  as this came to Governor Simcoe's Ears, he sent some of his officers with an order to Captain Williamson, to desist from his  attempt and quit the Country, for he considered, that the Settlement as an encroachment on the King's rights.   BROTHERS,   We had long patiently endured the insolence of the British, but  we shall endure it no longer, this gross insult was not to be borne,  accordingly when Captain Williamson had reported Simooe's orders  to the President of the U. States, and the Governor of New York.  Orders were sent him to stand his ground, and oppose force to  force, and the Governor of New York sent orders to me of his  Chief Warriors, to get his Warriors ready, and if the British  attempted to disturb the Settlement at Sodus Bay, to attack and  kill them or drive them into the Lake.  

	BROTHERS,   You recollect the violent inflammatory speech of Lord Dorchester's,  which the British interpreted to you, last Spring at Buffaloe Creek,  his talk was like that of Governor Simcoe, he said that a war  would probably take place, between the British and Americans, and  then the Settlements in all this Country here would be considered  as encroachments on the right of the King. Brothers, that Speech  of Lord Dorchester's was so carefully interpreted to you in order to prepare your minds for war, and to take up the hatchet once more, against the United States.   

	BROTHERS,   Beyond no doubt it was the intention of the King, and his  Counsellors, to make war on the U. States and for what? We had  done them no injury.   

	BROTHERS,   Since we refused to subscribe to their tyranny, since we threw  the King on his back & established our independance, they have  borne us no good will, they would gladly make another attempt to  enslave us, and they thought a fair opportunity presented.   I must tell you something about the affairs on the other side  the Great Water, the French whom you knew, were governed by a  King, his warriors assisted the Americans in the late war with the  British, in America the French saw how we managed our affairs,  that they were not directed by one man at his pleasure, but by  wise counsellors whom we ourselves chose for the purpose, the  French being an intelligent people, soon learnt how we conducted  our business, and were pleased with it when they went home they  wished to have their business managed in like manner by wise  counsellors of their own choosing, and would no longer submit to  the tyranny of a King, they accordingly threw him down, and out  off his head, this Brothers enraged all the neighbouring tyrants  called Kings, and they combined together and raised great Armies  of regular Soldiers to oblige the French again to submit to be governed by a King, at that time the Tyrants expected easily to subdue the French, and prevent their becoming a free people, and as  the French were the only Allies of the U. States, the British King,  and his Counsellors, thought that would be a good time to attack  us, and once more subject us to their tyranny, in pursuit of this  object, Lord Dorchester made his inflammatory Speech to the Indians, to prepare them for a general war, and Simcoe, built his  Fort, at the Rapids of the Miamis, and tried to break up the Settlement at Great Sodus, with the same view, the armed vessels of  the King, stole our property on the great water, having taken hundreds of our vessels, laden with goods, to the value of many hundred thousand dollars, and not content with robbing us of our  property, they put our Seamen on board of our Armed Vessells,  and compelled them to fight against our Friends the French, these  injuries were now too great to be borne any longer, so according  to the custom of the white nations, our great chief sent one of  his wise Counsellors, to demand satisfaction, and it is probable he  will succeed in obtaining satisfaction, and prevent a war between  the British and the U. States, for the minds of the King, and  his Counsellors appear to be changed, they seem to have dropped  the unjust design of making war upon us. They have seen that  all the Tyrants combined against the French cannot subdue them,  they have seen that the French will remain a free people, and that  now it will be in vain to attempt to deprive us Americans of our  liberty, the French Brothers, instead of being subdued, are now  over running the Countries of the Tyrants, who attacked them.  The French are a very great people, and on this occasion they  have adopted the customs of the Indians, all their young men have  become Warriors, and marched against their enemies, and beat them  on all sides. Brothers, I shall pass by many instances of British  pride, and deceit, but I must mention a few, you remember that  last year Captain Brant and a large deputation of western Indians  came to Niagara, and desired to speak to the American Commissrs.  in presence of the Governor they spoke, and we returned an  answer, in our answer we told them plainly, that in order to make  peace, something must be yielded on both sides, that tho we were  willing to run a new line, yet that it was impossible to make the  Ohio the Boundary, that the U. States relying on the strength of  former treaties had disposed of large quantities of Land over the  Ohio, and that these could not be given up.   

	BROTHERS,   Our answer appeared satisfactory to the deputation, and they then  took us by the hand to lead us to Sandusky, at this Time Brothers, the people present at the Conference, even the British said the  great difficulty was removed and that the Commissrs. and the Indians would doubtless agree in making peace, this it is well known was  then the common conversation at Niagara the Deputation then  returned, and the Commissrs. sailed to Detroit river to be at hand  to proceed to Sandusky as soon as the great Indian Council should  give us notice that they were ready, we had now a right to expect  to be called without delay, to begin the treaty but after waiting  some time at Detroit River another Deputation came to us there,  and stated fresh difficulties, telling us that their first and great Deputation made a mistake, But Brothers, this was a mere pretense  suggested by the British to prevent a Treaty, however we returned  an answer, but great delays attending this mode of proceeding, the  commissrs. concluded to sail to the mouth of the Miamis river so  as to communicate easily with the Indn. Council, and as we had  been made to believe at Niagara, that the vessel assigned for our  use was to be under our direction, we desired the Capt. to get  ready to sail the next day, but to our surprise, we were told he  was directed to obey the orders of Captn Bunbury, we then spoke  to Captn. Bunbury, and he told us he had the Governor's order  in writing, not to suffer the Commissrs. to go to Miami River,  but at the same time he said the Vessel should carry us to Sandusky if we desired it, in this manner brothers, we were deceived  and insulted when we desired 'to go nearer the Indian Council, by  the Governor's order we were prevented, at the same time we were  told that if we pleased the vessel should carry us to Sandusky, that  is much farther from the Indn. Council, than we then were, besides  you know that the Western Indians had finally determined not to  go to Sandusky at all, but being of themselves inclined to peace,  in order to prevent the loss of time they concluded to meet the  Commissrs, on the Miami River a few miles below the place where  they then were sitting in Council, and you the Six Nations, as we  were informed, actually moved down to the proposed place of meeting, you know whether or not this circumstance is true; (the  farmer's Brother spoke and said it was true) now then I once more  ask who prevented our succeeding in making peace with the Western  Indians? I ans'd: the British, the very man who had repeatedly  wished us success. Yes Brothers Governor Simcoe twice took me  by the hand when I was leaving Niagara to go to the Treaty with  the Western Indians and twice wished me success, although he had  taken secret measures to prevent it Brothers I will mention one  fact, last winter the western Indians sent Runners to the head  Warrior of one Army with offers of peace, the head warrior  answered that the United States were still willing to make peace but  that if the hostile Indians were now sincere in their proposals,  they must give evidence of it by collect. and bringing to his quarters, all the American prisoners, the runners then returned and the  Indians were so satisfied with the answer, that they actually began  to collect the prisoners in order to deliver them to our head warrior, but as soon as the British Agents heard this, they interfered  and told the Indians they were fools, and that if they proceeded  they would be deceived and cut off, Now Brothers I know the U.  States were sincere in consenting at that time to make peace, for  I had been myself desired to go to the Westward a Commr. to   join our head Warrior in negotiating the terms of the Treaty, and  I had consented to go, thus you see Brothers that whenever there  was a prospect of making peace with the Western Indians the  British have not failed to interfere and prevent it.  

	BROTHERS,   These are my reasons for refusing to admit a British agt. at a  Council fire kindled by the U. States, I could mention more but  I am wearied of speaking as you must be in hearing, and surely  .you must think the reasons I have offered to be sufficient, the  facts I have mentioned I believe to be true, and the observations  just, if there be any errors in my statement, they have arisen from  mistake or misinformation, and not from design, I have but one  thing more to mention, I am instructed by the President not to  suffer a British Agent to attend this Council-fire.  

	BROTHERS,   You now have my reasons, and my orders, if indeed I wished  that the differences between the United States, and you should  continue.   If I wished that the important business for which this Council  fire was kindled should be defeated. If I wished our chain of  friendship should grow more rusty, if I wished it to become rotten, and break off, then I would advise to retain this British spy.  

	BROTHERS,   It now remains with you to determine whether the great business  for which we have met, shall go on or whether the Council fire  shall be extinguished. You are a free, and independent people, and   as such you will determine this question.   

	J. G. S.   Endorsed   In Lt. Govr. Simcoe's No. 28 to His Grace the Duke of Portland.   
