
INDIAN COUNCIL AT AMHERSTBURG   

At a meeting with the Sawkies, Fox's, Northern Ottowas and Poutawattamies held at Amherstburg on the 8th June 1805.

 Present: 
  Major Bleamire Commanding the Garrison   
Captain McKee Superintendant of Ind. affairs.   
George Ironside Storekeeper & Clerk   
Thomas Alert Clark, Interpreter 
 Charles Reaume  , Interpreter

The principal chief of the Sawkies holding a war pipe in his hand  addressed the meeting thus:
	  Father:   We have received this Pipe from the Nadoussies, which has perplexed our Nation so much, that we determined to consult our Father before we return an answer to the speech which accompanied it. and which I will now repeat to you.    Speech of the nadoussies to the Sawkies   

	Brother — Relations — Listen to your Brethren; For a long time  past we have been looking down upon the ground, but now in lifting  up our Heads, we see the Sky and we now stand up to take our  women and children into consideration and to secure their future  preservation and happiness.   
	
	Brothers — The War Chiefs of the Nadoussies Nation now address  you — We desire you to desist from prosecuting the War with our  common enemy the Osages and to sit down immediately. The new  white Nation now encroaching on our Lands and wishing to be considered as our Father holds forth Language which in part we dislike.   

	Brothers — The reason we now send you this pipe is that we have  heard some thing that is likely to prove injurious to our genera l  welfare. The Nations to the Northward have lived happy for many  years under the protection of the British Government, and we request  of you to listen to that Government.   Brothers — It is a long time since our common Dish & Spoon  were made by our forefathers, and now we Nadoussies renew the  friendship that subsisted between our ancestors.   Father, This Pipe is now brought to ask your real sentiments and  to desire you will not conceal them, as that Long Knife threatens us  with the Whip. Your answer will govern the conduct of the young  warriors who are anxiously waiting for it. This Pipe Father, if no  immediate answer is given, will remain with you, but as soon as you  are pleased to give an answer, Let the Pipe accompany it.   Delivers the War Pipe.   

He then spoke on a Pipe of Peace sent by the Village Chief of the  Sioux to the British Government.   
	Father —   We are happy to inform you at last we have been able to effect a  union between the different Nations, we have long heard that you have  had a very strong Confederacy of your Indian Children to the Eastward and Southward: our Confederacy to the Northward now consists  of ten Nations, and you may be assured that peace and unanimity  prevail among all your children in this Quarter.   

	Father — Ever Since we first heard your voice, the sound of it still  remains in our Ears and we continue to hold you fast by the hand.   Father — I speak for the Sioux & Sawkies: as long as the War Pipe  is in your possession and you should have occasion to call on your Indian Children, take it up and make them smoke it: tell them your  wishes and they shall be accomplished.   Delivered the Peace Pipe   Wawiaikasa, Pottawatamy Chief of Chicago  

	Father —   On the arrival of the Sawkies at our Village, all our War Chiefs  assembled to hear the reason of their Journey to this Country, and  after hearing their Message, our War Chiefs rose on their Legs and  heartily agreed on joining the Sioux and Sawkies, as the Poutawattamy  Nation had experienced ill treatment from the Americans.   The War Chiefs gave me these strings of Wampum to be delivered  to our English Father along with the speeches of the Sioux and  Sawkies.   Delivered four strings Black and White Wampum.   

	Father — We can say little more now as the Warriors have taken  charge of the Affairs of our Nation and we must abide by the determination of the War Chiefs; We hope they will be steady in their  attachment to our Father and attentive to the advice he may give them.  My Father who is now dead and who was in the place you now fill  (pointing to Captain McKee) took the Hatchet out of my hand some  years ago and I have remained quiet ever since; but as I see the  White Devil with his mouth wide open ready to take possession of our  Lands by any means whatever, I have determined to join my Brother  Nations, well remembering the words of my deceased friend during  the troubles between our great Father and the Americans, that unless  we stood up with him to defend the Country, some time or other we  might be deprived of it altogether.   Delivers four Strings of white Wampum.   

The Blackbird, an Ottowa Chief of Chicago —  
	Father —   Listen to me, I shall not take up much of your time as I have but  a few words to say. Having been bred and born as my Father was  before me, in that Country, I think it is our duty to get our Legs  with our Brethren. For my own part I am no warrior, but here is my  warrior whom I have brought with me (pointing to a War Chief). I  succeeded my Father as Village Chief and as it is always our duty to  prevent bloodshed and mischief, since I have grown up to manhood, I  have constantly made it a point to prevent and stop young men straggling from L'arbre Croche, from spilling Blood, my Village lying In  their War path. Delivered eight strings of white wampum.

The following answer was delivered by the Superintendent in the presence of the Commanding officers and others before named on Monday the 10 th June 1805:
	My Children the Nadoucssies, Saakies, Fox’s, Potawatamies and Ottawa’s. The importance of your speeches on Saturday last has occupied my thoughts ever since. War is so great a scourge to the human Race that it ought by every possible means to be avoided and I am sure that many of your respect- ive nations who have had experience of its desolation will agree with me in endeavouring by every means to avoid it. And altho’ I cannot take upon me to give any decisive answer to your Speeches, yet I can assure you that your Father the General Comg. in this Country for the King your Great Father has strenuously recommended peace and good neighbourhood between the Indians of this Country & the people of the United States.
