October 28th, 1814

Extract of the Minutes of a Council held at Michilimaokinac the  28th October 1814, between Waindawgay & Mishpawkissh Potewatemys on behalf of their chiefs & warriors & Lieut Col. McDonall  Commanding Mich.   

Present   
Pierre Morin   Lasallier, Interpreters  
Win. Solomon 
Alex McKenzie Esq.   
Jno Askin Jr.   
Lieut Col. McDonall President  
Lieut J. Radenhurst  

Waindawgay rose & said:
	  Father, I salute you and all these assembled here, I thank the  Master of Life for affording me an opportunity of seeing you my  English Father which enables me to represent the situation of your  children the Potewatemys who have deputed me and my friend  Mishpawkissh to represent them.   

	Father, I salute you and our Great Father beyond the Great  Lakes in the name of your children , the Potewatemys.   Father. I am instructed by your children to acquaint you that  they were the first of all your Indian children who took up the  Tomahawk against the Big Knives. They were amongst the first at  Chicago, Detroit. River au Raisin, Defiance and Fort Meigs, even so  far back as the Tepikono Battle, where several of them fell fighting  under the Shawenese Prophet's Banner is well known to all the  World. At the River au Raisin the Potewatemys composed the Right  Wing of the Army under the command of General Procter and when of the Enemy under Genl. Winchester made an attempt to out  flank our English Father. The Potewatemys rushed upon them and  cut those 300 into pieces in consequence of which our English  Father gained a signal victory for the remainder of the Enemy’s  Army surrendered. It is true that some of the Potewatemys have taken the Big Knives by the hand, but those people who have  done so are men of no influence with the Warriors of our nation, those who have acted so improperly are the Five Medals  followers, men of no principles nor bravery, to the Contrary, a set of cowardly fellows who have suffered themselves to be bought  over to the Enemy's Interest for a little whiskey.  

	Father. Your children the Potewatemys of St. Josephs were compelled to take refuge at or about St. Josephs River when it was abandoned by Genl Procter, since that time they have suffered great  distress especially last winter and tho they were repeatedly invited  by the 5 Medals to go with him to the Big Knives for ammunition, they preferred to suffer rather than treat with those bad people the Big Knives who are the authors of their misery.   Father. This last Spring your children sent you paroles requesting you would extend your bounty to them, You was good enough  to listen to them & sent Ammunition and some articles of clothing  which your children received but Father your children are very numerous, consequently each man's proportion was small.   

	Father, Misawgawwe Shawanese and Mishpawkissh War  Chiefs thank you in the name of all your children of our nation  that remain true and faithful for the supplies you sent to them last  Spring and they trust you will continue to relieve them conformable  to the promise made them by our Great Father's representative at  Detroit at the time your children showed their fidelity & attachment  with their Brethren the Chippawas & Ottowas in taking up the  Hatchet.   

	Father, Our Nation looks to this place for security, you are our  Great Father's representative at this Great Fire, and you have been  made acquainted with the deplorable situation of your children.  They would have followed General Procter when he abandoned  Detroit, but they were prevented by the Enemy who cut off their  communication. Our powerful men & warriors implore your charitable hand & hope you will assist them with ammunition & clothing — Our women are almost naked and no Traders in that quarter for any article of clothing. St. Josephs & its dependencies will furnish 400 men who are true to you.   

Speech delivered by the same Person on behalf of Neshkagenaymain or Bad Sturgeon a Potewatemy.   

	Father, You sent Paroles to the Kickapoos, and Potewatemys of the plains, to assemble at St. Josephs or near that place, but it cannot be done at present my Father.  It is necessary that they should remain at my village near the bottom of the Tiakikee to attack the Big Knives, who understand mean to lay our Country waste and I want  your children, the Kickapoos, to remain with us, in order  to fight and maintain our independence, and let those evil spirits  the Big Knives know that we hold our Lands sacred. Had you  wanted your children the Kickapoos to assist you at Mackina I  would have accompanied them at the risk of losing all that is dear  to us, but as it is only an invitation for them to settle themselves  at St. Joseph’s, It is my opinion they are better here, out of the Enemy's Emissaries. After this explanation I hope Father that you will not be displeased at my conduct.   

	Father, I request that you will send me and my warriors some  ammunition & clothing.   

Speech delivered by Mishpawkissh in behalf of Chebainse a Potewatemy Chief who fought the Enemy.  
	Father I sent Paroles to the Miamis, Kickapoos, and Delawares to  remove to St. Joseph's agreeable to your desire, and I am now happy  to have it in my power to inform you that those nations before  mentioned have sent me by a special messenger word that they  would remove to this place that the Big Knives were a perfidious  nation, that they had repeatedly deceived them, and lately had  invited them to a Council at Fort Grenville, holding forth that  those who could attend the Treaty would all be clothed, in consequence of which several attended but finding that the Big Knives  not inclined to comply with the promises held out In their Emissaries, The Miamis, Kickapoos, & Delawares went away from Greenville. Ruhardville the Pakan, Chief of the Miamis & all his family is on his way to this place the rest are to follow. 

	Now Father I request you provide something for these people that arc reclaimed,  they will require Ammunition & Clothing. The Kickapoos will be  detained by the Bad Sturgeon on the Teakikee.  

Present at the Council:   Mishenahnahquit J Chiefs of   Taytaypendebay l Saguma   Naytokeman accompanied   Manitoukequk I by 30 of their   Queen of Sheba & her sister Warriors

