I. John Adams, Diary. 1 [August 29-September 3, 1774.] 
29. Monday A number of carriages and gentlemen came out of Philadelphia to meet us — Mr. Thomas Mifflin, Mr. McKean, of the lower counties, one of their delegates, Mr. Rutledge of Carolina, and a number of gentlemen from Philadelphia, Mr. Folsom and Mr. Sullivan, the New Hampshire delegates. 
We were introduced to all these gentlemen, and most cordially welcomed to Philadelphia. 
We then rode into town, and dirty, dusty, and fatigued as we were, we could not resist the importunity to go to the tavern, the most genteel one in America. 
There we were introduced to a number of other gentlemen of the city : Dr. Shippen, Dr. Knox, Mr. Smith, and a multitude of others, and to Mr. Lynch and Mr. Gadsden of South Carolina. 
Here we had a fresh welcome to the city of Philadelphia, and after some time spent in conversation, a curtain was drawn, and in the other half of the chamber a supper appeared as elegant as ever was laid upon a table. 
About eleven o'clock we retired. 
By a computation made this evening by Mr. McKean, there will be at the Congress about fifty-six members, twenty-two of them lawyers jo. Tuesday. 
Walked a little about town ; visited the market, the State House, the Carpenters' Hall, where the Congress is to sit, etc. ; then called at Mr. Mifflin's ; a grand, spacious, and elegant house. 
Here we had much conversation with Mr. Charles Thomson, who is, it seems, about marrying a lady, a relation of Mr. Dickinson's, with five thousand pounds sterling. 
This Charles Thomson is the Sam Adams of Philadelphia, the life of the cause of liberty, they say. 
A Friend, Collins, came to see us, and invited us to dine on Thursday. 
We returned to our lodgings, and Mr. Lynch, Mr. Gadsden, Mr. Middleton, and young Mr. Rutledge came to visit us. Mr. Lynch introduced Mr. Middleton to us; Mr. Middleton was silent and reserved ; young Rutledge was high enough. 
A promise of the King w r as mentioned. 
He started ! " I should have no regard to his word ; his promises are not worth any thing ", etc. 
This is a young, smart, spirited body 
51. Wednesday. 
Breakfasted at Mr. Bayard's, of Philadelphia, with Mr. Sprout, a Presbyterian minister. 
Made a visit to Governor Ward, of Rhode Island, at his lodgings. 
There we were introduced to several gentlemen. 
Mr. Dickinson, the farmer of Pennsylvania, came in his coach with four beautiful horses to Mr. Ward's lodgings, to see us. He was introduced to us, and very politely said he* was exceeding glad to have the pleasure of seeing these gentlemen We dined with Mr. Lynch, his lady and daughter, at their lodgings, Mrs. McKenzie's ; and a very agreeable dinner and afternoon we had, notwithstanding the violent heat. 
We were all vastly pleased with Mr. Lynch. 
He is a solid, firm, judicious man. 
He told us that 
[i] 1 Works (ed. C. F. Adams), II. 3
57. 1 2 Continental Congress Colonel Washington made the most eloquent speech at the Virginia Convention that ever was made. 
Says he, " I will raise one thousand men, subsist them at my own expense, and march myself at their head for the relief of Boston "September I. Thursday. 
This day we breakfasted at Mr. Mifflin's. Mr. C. Thomson came in, and soon after, Dr. Smith, the famous Dr. Smith, the provost of the college. 2 He appears a plain man, tall and rather awkward ; there is an appearance of art. 
We then went to return visits to the gentlemen who had visited us. We visited a Mr. Cadwallader, a gentleman of large fortune, a grand and elegant house and furniture. 
We then visited Mr. Powell, another splendid seat. 
We then visited the gentlemen from South Carolina, and, about twelve, were introduced to Mr. Galloway, the Speaker of the House in Pennsylvania. 
We dined at Friend Collins's, Stephen Collins's, with Governor Hopkins, Governor Ward, Mr. Galloway, Mr. Rhoades, etc. 
In the evening, all the gentlemen of the Congress who were arrived in town, met at Smith's, the new city tavern, and spent the evening together. 
Twenty-five members were come. 
Virginia, North Carolina, Maryland, and the city of New York, were not arrived. 
Mr. William Livingston, from the Jerseys, lately of New York, was there. 
He is a plain man, tall, black, wears his hair ; nothing elegant or genteel about him. 
They say he is no public speaker, but very sensible and learned, and a ready writer. 
Mr. Rutledge, the elder, was there, but his appearance is not very promising. 
There is no keenness in his eye, no depth in his countenance ; nothing of the profound, sagacious, brilliant, or sparkling, in his first appearance 2. Friday. 
Dined at Mr. Thomas Mifflin's, with Mr. Lynch, Mr. Middleton, and the two Rutledges with their ladies. 
The two Rutledges are good lawyers. 
Governor Hopkins and Governor Ward were in company. 
Mr. Lynch gave us a sentiment : " The brave Dantzickers, who declare they will be free in the face of the greatest monarch in Europe." 3 We were very sociable and happy. 
After coffee, we went to the tavern, where we were introduced to Peyton Randolph, Esquire, Speaker of Virginia, Colonel Harrison, Richard Henry Lee, Esquire, and Colonel Bland. 
Randolph is a large, well looking man ; Lee is a tall, spare man ; Bland is a learned, bookish man. 
These gentlemen from Virginia appear to be the most spirited and consistent of any. 
Harrison said he would have come on foot rather than not come. 
Bland said he would have gone, upon this occasion, if it had been to Jericho. 3. Saturday. 
Breakfasted at Dr. Shippen's ; Dr. Witherspoon was there. 
Col. R. H. Lee lodges there ; he is a masterly man. 
This Mr. Lee is a brother of the sheriff of London, and of Dr. Arthur Lee, and of Mrs. Shippen; they are all sensible and deep thinkers. 
Lee is for making the repeal of every revenue law — the Boston Port Bill, the bill for altering the Massachusetts constitution, and the Quebec Bill, and the removal of
The allusion is to resistance offered against further aggression from Frederick the Great. 
September, 1774 3 all the troops, the end of the Congress, and an abstinence from all dutied articles, the means — rum, molasses, sugar, tea, wine, fruits, etc. 
He is absolutely certain that the same ship which carries home the resolution will bring back the redress. 
If we were to suppose that any time would intervene, he should be for exceptions. 
He thinks we should inform his Majesty that we never can be happy, while the Lords Bute, Mansfield, and North, are his confidants and counsellors. 
He took his pen and attempted a calculation of the numbers of people represented by the Congress, which he made about two millions two hundred thousand ; and of the revenue, now actually raised, which he made eighty thousand pounds sterling. 
He would not allow Lord North to have great abilities ; he had seen no symptoms of them ; his whole administration had been blunder. 
He said the opposition had been so feeble and incompetent hitherto, that it was time to make vigorous exertions Mr. Lee thinks that to strike at the Navigation Acts would unite every man in Britain against us, because the kingdom could not exist without them, and the advantages they derive from these regulations and restrictions of our trade are an ample compensation for all the protection they have afforded us, or will afford us. Dr. Witherspoon enters with great spirit into the American cause. 
He seems as hearty a friend as any of the natives, an animated Son of Liberty. 
This forenoon, Mr. Caesar Rodney of the lower counties on Delaware River, two Mr. Tilghmans from Maryland, were introduced to us. We went with Mr. William Barrell to his store, and drank punch, and eat dried smoked sprats with him; read the papers and our letters from Boston; dined with Mr. Joseph Reed, the lawyer, with Mrs. Deberdt and Mrs. Reed, Mr. Willing, Mr. Thomas Smith, Mr. Dehart, etc. ; spent the evening at Mr. Mifflin's, with Lee and Harrison from Virginia, the two Rutledges, Dr. Witherspoon, Dr. Shippen, Dr. Steptoe, and another gentleman ; an elegant supper, and we drank sentiments till eleven o'clock. 
Lee and Harrison were very high. 
Lee had dined with Mr. Dickinson, and drank Burgundy the whole afternoon. 
Harrison gave us for a sentiment, " A constitutional death to the Lords Bute, Mansfield, and North." Paine gave us, " May the collision of British flint and American steel produce that spark of liberty which shall illumine the latest posterity." " Wisdom to Britain, and firmness to the Colonies; may Britain be wise, and America free." "The friends of America throughout the world." " Union of the Colonies." " Unanimity to the Congress." " May the result of the Congress answer the expectations of the people." " Union of Britain and the Colonies on a constitutional foundation ", and many other such toasts. 
Young Rutledge told me he studied three years at the Temple. 
He thinks this a great distinction ; says he took a volume of notes which J. Quincy transcribed; says that young gentlemen ought to travel early, because that freedom and ease of behavior which is so necessary cannot be acquired but in early life. 
This Rutledge is young, sprightly, but not deep; he has the most indistinct, inarticulate way of speaking ; speaks through his nose ; a wretched speaker in conversation. 
How he will shine in public, I don't yet know. 
He seems good-natured, though conceited. 
His lady is with him, in bad health. 
His
Caesar Rodney is the oddest looking man in the world ; he is tall, thin and slender as a reed, pale ; his face is not bigger than a large apple, yet there is sense and fire, spirit, wit, and humor in his countenance. 
He made himself very merry with Ruggles and his pretended scruples and timidities at the last Congress. 
Mr. Reed told us, at dinner, that he never saw greater joy than he saw in London when the news arrived that the non-importation agreement was broke. 
They were universally shaking hands and congratulating each other. 
He says that George Hayley is the worst enemy to America that he knew there. 
Swore to him that he would stand by government in all its measures, and was always censuring and cursing America 2. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deake. 1 [September 1-3, I/74-] 2 Thursday. 
Col. Floyd and my brother arrived; The city is full of people from abroad and all the lodgings in town full, or engaged The Delegates from Virginia, Maryland, the Lower Counties, and New York are not arrived. 
We spent this day in visiting those that are in town, and find them in high spirits, particularly the gentlemen from the Jerseys, and South Carolina. 
In the evening we met to the number of about thirty, drank a dish of coffee together, talked over a few preliminaries, and agreed to wait for the gentlemen not arrived, until Monday next, before we proceeded to business. 
This day, therefore, Friday, I mean to ramble over the city and make my observations It is now Saturday morning. 
Yesterday arrived Capt. 
Jera. 
Wadsworth, in good health. 
In the afternoon came in the Virginia and Maryland delegates, and part of those from New York, so that we are almost complete. 
The Virginia and indeed all the Southern delegates appear like men of importance. 
We waited on, and were introduced to them in the evening. 
They are sociable, sensible, and spirited men, and the short opport y I had of attending to their conversation gives me the highest idea of their principles and character Inform my friends that we are in high spirits, if it is possible to be really so when the eyes of millions are upon us, and who consider themselves and their posterity interested in our conduct. 
But the prospect of unanimity among ourselves, and of support from our countrymen, greatly serves to animate us in the arduous task before us, which is as arduous, and of as great consequence, as ever men undertook and engaged in. This City and province I have hopes will be firm and resolute, though there are not wanting enemies to the general Cause, and who, aided by party, are restless in their endeavors to defeat or retard our proceedings. 
The City have offered us the Carpenters Hall, so called, to meet in, and Mr. Galloway offers the State House and insists on our meeting there, which he says he has a right to offer as Speaker of that House. 
The last is evidently 
IO^ September, 1774 5 the best place, but as he offers, the other party oppose. 
This will be determined on Monday, when I shall add the intermediate occurrences and forward my letter. 
I spend the remainder of the day out of town 3. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [August 30-September 4, 1774.] Arrived in Philadelphia 30th August, 1774, in the evening. 
August 31st. In the forenoon the Delegates from South Carolina and some gentlemen of the City came to see me, soon after the Delegates from Boston, New Hampshire and of the City (save those of the town), and the Farmer (Mr. John Dickinson), in the afternoon several gentlemen of the City; Mr. Hopkins and Lady and the Delegates from Connecticut arrived. 
September 1st. The Delegates from New Jersies, and two from the Province of New York arrived ; conversed with many Delegates, and at evening had a meeting" at the New Tavern, and took a list of those present, in all twenty-five. 2d. Four of the Delegates from Virginia, and one from the lower Counties (Delaware) arrived ; met in the evening. 
Bells rang. 3d. The Delegates from Maryland arrived. (Frequent conversations.) 4th. More Delegates from Virginia. 2 4. Joseph Galloway to the Governor of New Jersey (William Franklin). 1 [September 3, 1774.] I am just returned from Philadelphia, where I have been to wait on, and endeavour to find out the Temper of the Delegates. 
Near two Thirds of them are arrived, and I conclude all will be ready to proceed on Business on Monday. 
I have not had any great Opportunity of sounding them. 
But so far as I have, I think they will behave with Temper and Moderation. 
The Boston Commissioners are warm, and I believe wish for a Non-importation Agreement, and hope that the Colonies will advise and justify them in a Refusal to pay for the Tea until their Aggrievances are redressed. 
They are in their Behaviour and Conversation very modest, and yet they are not so much so as not to throw out Hints, which, like Straws and Feathers, tell us from which Point of the Compass the Wind comes. 
I dined with them on Thursday. I have had two Opportunities, one with the elder Rutlidge of Carolina, whose Sentiments and mine differ in no one Particular so far as I explained myself — and I was reserved in no Point save that of a Representation in Parliament. 
He is a Gentleman of an amiable Character, has look'd into 
the Arguments on both Sides more fully than any I have met with, and seems to be aware of all the Consequences which may attend rash and imprudent Measures. 
His younger Brother is rather warm. 
My other Opportunity was with the two New-Hampshire Gentlemen. 
I found Col. Folsom very cool and moderate, Major Sullivan rather more warm, but very candid and has thought solidly on the Subject. 
I think neither of them intends to attach himself more to the particular Cause of Boston than will be for the general Good. 
They requested Opportunities of exchanging Sentiments with me often on the Occasion, and all my Observations seemed to have full Weight with them. 
The Marylanders are not arrived, and but Three of the Virginians, Peyton [Randolph] , Bland, and Lee are arrived. 
I have intimated to several of the Delegates the Necessity of sending Commissioners over, fully authorized, to the British Court, as a Mode pursued by the Roman, Grecian and Macedonian Colonies on every Occasion of the like Nature, That thro' them we may be enabled, in case our first Plan for accommodating our unhappy Differences should not be acceptable, to know the better what to propose next, that having these Gentlemen at the Scene of Action we shall be no longer misled by News paper Accounts and private Letters, but shall proceed on solid Information and Principles of Safety, That without this, any Petitions or Plans, not having any Persons to explain and Support them, will have very little Effect, That in all Probability the Measures of the present Congress will be deemed illegal and unconstitutional, and that upon this Point only the Necessity of Sending Persons Home to insist upon the Right in the Colonies of being heard, and to prove that the Illegality of the Congress arises from the Measures of Power in not suffering the Assemblies to meet ; and if, after all, those Reasons should not procure due Attention to the Propositions of the Congress, to pray that the Governors may have Orders to permit such Meetings, and to give Assurances that their Conduct will be decent respectful and dutiful to the Mother State. 
That a conduct of this kind cannot fail to give Strength to our Cause, and, if not immediately, in the End bring the Government to attend to Reason and redress our Aggrievances. 
These Intimations seemed to have their Weight, and, as far as I could observe, met with Approbation. 
You may depend on my communicating to you from Time to Time the Transactions, etc. of the Congress. 5. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 5, 1774.] 5. Monday. 
At ten the delegates all met at the City Tavern, and walked to the Carpenters' Hall, where they took a view of the room, and of the chamber where is an excellent library; there is also a long entry where gentlemen may walk, and a convenient chamber opposite to the library. 
The general cry was, that this was a good room, and the question was put, whether we were satisfied with this room? and it passed in the affirmative. 
A very few were for the negative, and they were chiefly from [Sp Works, IL 36s September, 1774 7 Pennsylvania and New York. 2 Then Mr. Lynch arose, and said there was a gentleman present who had presided with great dignity over a very respectable society, greatly to the advantage of America, and he therefore proposed that the Honorable Peyton Randolph, Esquire, one of the delegates from Virginia, and the late Speaker of their House of Burgesses, should be appointed Chairman, and he doubted not it would be unanimous. 
The question was put, and he was unanimously chosen. 
Mr. Randolph then took the chair, and the commissions of the delegates were all produced and read. 
Then Mr. Lynch proposed that Mr. Charles Thomson, a gentleman of family, fortune, and character in this city, should be appointed Secretary, which was accordingly done without opposition, though Mr. Duane and Mr. Jay discovered at first an inclination to seek further. 3 Mr. Duane then moved that a committee should be appointed to prepare regulations for this Congress. 
Several gentlemen objected. 4 I then arose and asked leave of the President to request of the gentleman from New York an explanation, and that he would point out some particular regulations which he had in his mind. 
He mentioned particularly the method of voting, whether it should be by Colonies, or by the poll, or by interests. 5 Mr. Henry then arose, and said this was the first General Congress which had ever happened ; that no former Congress could be a precedent ; that we should have occasion for more general congresses, and therefore that a precedent ought to be established now; that it would be great injustice if a little Colony should have the same weight in the councils of America as a great one, and therefore he was for a committee. 6 Major Sullivan observed that a little Colony had its all at stake as well as a great one. 
This is a question of great importance. 
If we vote by Colonies, this method will be liable to great inequality and injustice; for five small Colonies, with one hundred thousand people in each, may outvote four large ones, each of which has five hundred thousand inhabitants. 
If we vote by the poll, some Colonies have more than their proportion of members, and others have less. 
If we vote by interests, it will be attended with insuperable difficulties to ascertain the true importance of each Colony. 
Is the weight of a Colony to be ascertained by the number of inhabitants merely, or by the amount of their trade, the quantity of their exports and imports, or by any compound ratio of both ? This will lead us into such a field of controversy as will greatly perplex us. Besides, I question
In the Diary entry for Aug. 30 Adams speaks as if Carpenters' Hall had already been determined upon : " 30, Tuesday. 
Walked a little about town ; visited the market, the State House, the Carpenters' Hall, where the Congress is to sit, etc." &'whether it is possible to ascertain, at this time, the numbers of our people or the value of our trade. 
It will not do in such a case to take each other's word; it ought to be ascertained by authentic evidence from records. James Duane, Notes of Proceedings. 1 Philadelphia Monday 5th September 1774. The Members of the Congress met at Smith's Tavern. 2 The Speaker of the Pensylvania Assembly having offered the Congress the use of the State house; and the Carpenters the use of their Hall. 
It was agreed to take a View of each. 
We proceeded to the Carpenter's Hall. 
Mr. Lynch proposed the Question whether as that was in all respects suitable it ought not to be fixed upon without further Enquiry. 
I observed that if the State house was equally convenient it ought to be preferred being a provincial and the Carpenter's Hall a private House. 
And besides, as it was tendered by the Speaker it seemed to be a piece of respect which was due to him, at least to enquire whether the State House was not equally convenient. 
The Question was however called for ; and a great Majority fixed upon the Carpenters hall. 3 The names of the Members were then called over; after which Mr. Lynch proposed that we shoud elect a President or Chairman, and named Mr. Payton Randolph, Speaker of the Assembly of Virginia, who was unanimously approved and placed in the Chair. 
A Question was then put, what Title the Convention should assume, and it was agreed that it should be called the Congress. 
Another Question was put, what shoud be the stile of Mr. Randolph, and it was agreed that he should be called the President. 
The next point was to fix on a Clerk or Secretary. 
Mr. Thompson was proposed by Air. Lynch. 
Mr. Jay observed that he had Authority to say that one of the members of the Congress was willing to accept the office, and he conceived the preference was due to him. 4 To which it was answered, that such an appointment woud deprive the Congress of a Member, as he woud be too much incumbered by the Duties of a Clerk, to attend to the Trust for which he was chosen. 
The objection being thought Reasonable, Mr. Thompson was appointed by the Stile of Secretary of the Congress."'7 This paragraph is understood as an expression of the diarist, not of Sullivan. 
See, for instance, the remarks of Patrick Henry and Richard Bland, in Adams's Notes of Debates, Sept. 6. See also Duane's Notes, Sept. 6, and the Journals. [6]' X. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Duane Papers, IV. 185; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Papers, II. 49 (copy) ; Jones, Memoir of James Duane, app. 
I. - Ward calls it the " New tavern ", Adams the " City tavern ". See nos. 3, 5, ante. 3 Cf. no. 5, ante, nos. 7. B, post. 4 Silas Deane seems to have thought that the choice would have fallen upon him. 
See no. 10, (>ost. 5 Cf. no. 5, ante, and nos. 7, 8 (note 2), io, post. 
September, 1774 9 The Credentials of the several Members were then read, and after those of New York were produced, I observed that we did not assume the Character of Provincial Delegates, being only appointed for particular Counties, That we were ourselves in doubt how far we were entitled to a Seat at a Congress of provincial Delegates, and therefore moved that this Point might be determined by the Congress, upon which it was unanimously resolved in the affirmative ; and that such other Members as shoud come from the different Counties of New York shoud also be admitted to their Seats. 6 I then moved that a Committee shoud be appointed to consider of Rules for the Conduct of the Congress and report them. 7 This was opposed by Mr. Lutredge [Rutledge] the Elder, who observed that doubtless the usage of the House of Commons woud be adopted in our Debates, and that as every Gent, was acquainted with that usage, it woud be a Waste of Time to appoint a Committee on this Subject. 
It was answered that the Assemblies on the Continent had different Usages and Rules, That it was the Practice of Parliament that no member shoud speak more than once on the same point, which woud be very inconvenient on the present Occasion, That there was the highest necessity for fixing a Rule on the present Occasion with respect to the mode of Voting (to wit) whether the Sense of the Congress shoud be taken by the Majority of Voices of the Members, or whether each Colony shoud have a Vote and the Majority be determined in that way? 8 Upon motion, these Points were deferred for further consideration, 9 and the Congress adjourned until 10 0CI0 to-morrow morning. 7. Joseph Galloway to the Governor of New Jersey ( William Franklin). 1 [September 5, 1774.] The Congress this Day met at Carpenter's Hall, notwithstanding the Offer of the Assembly Room a much more proper Place. 
They next proceeded to chuse a Secretary, and, to my Surprize, Charles Thomson was unanimously elected. 
The New Yorkers and myself and a few others, rinding a great Majority, did not think it prudent to oppose it. Both of these Measures, it seems, were privately settled by an Interest made out of Doors. 2 I cannot say but from this Day's Appearance and Proceedings, I have altered very much my last Sentiments. 
The Virginians and Carolinians, Rutlidge excepted, seem much among the Bostonians, and have at their Instance adopted the two above Measures. 
The Gentlemen from New
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, fourth ser., X. 708; Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XXVI. 289. 2 Cf. nos. 5, 6, ante, nos. 8 (note 2), 10, post. 10 Continental Congress &'York have as little Expectations of much Satisfaction from the Event of Things as myself. 
To-morrow we are to determine whether we are to vote by Colonies, each having a single Vote, or otherwise. 8. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 5, 1774.] 5///. Met at the New Tavern ; went to Carpenter's Hall, and, liking the place, agreed to hold the Congress there ; took a list of the Delegates, chose the Honorable Peyton Randolph Esq. President, and Mr. Charles Thompson Secretary ; 2 read the appointments of the Delegates ; considered of the manner of each Colony's voting and rules for regulating the business; but adjourned until ten o'clock to-morrow. 3 9. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 6, 1774.] 6. Tuesday. 
Went to Congress again; received by an express an intimation of the bombardment of Boston, a confused account, but an alarming one indeed ; God grant it may not be found true. 2 [8] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 440. 2 The following account of his election is ascribed to Thomson by an anonymous writer in the American Quarterly Review (I. 30). Although the account is given as in Thomson's own words it is probable that it was drawn up from the writers recollection : " I was married to my second wife on a Thursday ; on the next Monday, I came to town to pay my respects to my wife's aunt and the family. 
Just as I alighted in Chestnut street, the door-keeper of Congress (then first met) accosted me with a message from them, requesting my presence. 
Surprised at this, and not able to divine why I was wanted, I however bade my servant put up the horses, and followed the messenger myself to the Carpenter's Hall and entered Congress. 
Here was indeed an august assembly ! and deep thought and solemn anxiety were observable on their countenances ! I walked up the aisle, and standing opposite to the President, I bowed, and told him I awaited his pleasure. 
He replied, ' Congress desire the favor of you, Sir, to take their minutes.' I bowed in acquiescence, and took my seat at the desk. 
After a short silence, Patrick Henry arose to speak. 
I did not then know him ; he was dressed in a suit of parson's gray, and from his appearance I took him for a Presbyterian clergyman, used to haranguing the people ; he observed, that we were here met in a time and on an occasion of great difficulty and distress ; that our public circumstances were like those of a man in deep embarrassment and trouble, who had called his friends together to devise what was best to be done for his relief ; one would propose one thing, and another a different one, whilst perhaps a third would think of something better suited to his unhappy circumstances, which he would embrace, and think no more of the rejected schemes with which he would have nothing to do. I thought", continued the venerable narrator, " that this was very good instruction to me, with respect to the taking the Minutes. 
What Congress adopted, I committed to writing; with what they rejected, I had nothing farther to do ; and even this method led to some squabbles with the members who were desirous of having their speeches and resolutions, however put to rest by the majority, still preserved upon the Minutes." The statement is quoted in John Adams's Works, III. 29; Henry, Patrick Henry, 1. 219; and in part in Harley, Life of Thomson, p. 87. See also Herbert Friedenwald, "Journals and Papers of the Continental Congress", in Am. Hist. 
Assoc, Report, 1896, p. no. 8 Cf. nos. 5, 6, 7, ante. [9] 1 Works, II.368. 2 Cf. nos. 11, 12, 14, 18, 19, 21, 48, 53, post; also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 942. September, 1774 11 10. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 [September 5-6, 1774.] Monday, Septem r $th. The Congress formed, by choosing the Honl P. Randolph, Esqr, of Virginia, President, and Charles Thompson Esqr, of this city, Secretary, and fix'd on Carpenters Hall for the place to meet in. This proceeding is highly agreeable to the mechanics and citizens in general, but mortifying to the last degree to Mr. Galloway and his party, Thompson being his sworn opposite, as you may say, and by his means prevented being one of the Congress for this Province. 
It was a matter of dispute whether we should choose a Secretary out of the Members, and I doubted in my own mind the propriety, but did not oppose it, as by opposing I most probably should have had the task myself, which is too burdensome to one who wants all spare hours for relaxation. 
The day, until three, was spent in reading our Certificates and adjusting some formalities ; after which, adjourned until ten next morning. 2 .... I designed this afternoon to have rode out, but was prevented by company, and spent the evening with members of the Congress from different Colonies. 
Our President seems designed by nature for the business. 
Of an affable, open, and majestic deportment, large in size, though not out of proportion, he commands respect and esteem by his very aspect, independent of the high character he sustains. 
I must begin another sheet tomorrow. 
Adieu. [Sept. <5.] I told you I should begin another sheet, but had no conception of doing it on so disagreeable an occasion as that of the intelligence rec d of the situation of Boston. 
Of this I can say nothing more than that this City is in the utmost confusion, all the bells toll muffled, and the most unfeigned marks of sorrow appear in every countenance. 
The Congress sat until after three, and then adj'd but untill five; but our proceedings for various reasons will be kept secret, so on that head shall say nothing, untill we break up ; for though we may publish to the world the whole, it is improper to do it prematurely. 
You may tell our friends that I never met, nor scarcely had an idea of meeting, with men of such firmness, sensibility, spirit, and thorough knowledge of the interests of America, as the Gentlemen from the Southern Provinces appear to be. In this I do not speak from prejudice, but from the knowledge I have of them in their public as well as their private conversation, both of which I attend to with a pleasure that balances many, if not more than all the anxieties and troubles of such a journey. 
May New England go hand in hand with them, and we need not fear a want of spirit. 
I intended to have entertained you with a brief sketch of their character and appearance, but this is the nineteenth page of my letter ; must therefore conclude, and reserve the rest for a future opportunity ; but of the transactions of the Congress you will have no intelligence to be relied on, untill we publish [iopConn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 172; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 18. 2 Cf. nos. 6, 7, ante. 12 Continental Congress N. B. The Congress are not hereafter to disclose their proceedings but by agreement. 
There is good reason for it. I make no excuse to Jos. Webb for not writing to him particularly, as this is designed for his perusal, and as I before said is a family letter, and a summary of proceedings and sentiments to this Tuesday, 6th of Septr, 1774, nine at night. 11. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 6, 1774.] 6th. Met at ten o'clock, each Colony to have one vote. 
No person to speak twice without leave of the Congress. 2 .... (About two o'clock an account arrived of the troops and fleets cannonading the town of Boston, 3 etc., which occasioned an adjournment to five oClock, P. M.) 4 . . . . 12. James Duane, Notes of Proceedings. 1 Tuesday the 6th September [1774]. The Congress met, And the first Question debated was whether the Congress should Vote by Colonies and what weight each Colony should have in the determination ? - Air. Henry from Virginia insisted that by the oppression of Parliament all Government was dissolved, and that we were reduced to a State of Nature. 
That there were no longer any such distinction as colonies, that he conceived himself not a Virginian but an American. 
That one of the greatest Mischiefs to Society was an Unequal Representation. 
That there might and probably woud be further Occasions for a Congress and that it was time to form such a System as woud give each Colony a Just Weight in our deliberations in proportion to its opulence and number of inhabitants its Exports and Imports. 3 He was answered by Mr. [Ward? 4 ] of Rhode Island, who insisted that every Colony shoud have an equal Vote. 
That we come if necessary to [n] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 440. - So also Duane's Notes, Sept. 6, post. 
The resolve in the Journals reads: " more than twice ", probably an inadvertence on the part of the secretarial scribe. z Cf. no. 9, note 2, ante. 4 In the Library of Congress edition of the Journals the following entry in the manuscript journals, immediately succeeding the resolve desiring Rev. Mr. Duche to open Congress with prayers, has been accidentally omitted : " Adjourned to
The omission was first discovered in an examination of that copy, where the entry stands out more prominently than is the case in the official journals in the Library of Congress. [12PN. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Duane Papers, IV. 189; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Papers, II. (copy) ; S. W. Jones, Memoir of James Duane, app. 
I. /'. no. 11, ante, no. 13, post. 3 Cf. Adams's notes of Henry's remarks on Sept. 5 and Sept. 6. 4 " I have inserted the name of Mr. Ward in one blank because Mr. Ward was a distinguished public speaker, and bis colleague, Mr. Hopkins, not much of one."S. W. Jones, in Memoir of Duane, p. 38. Cf. the remarks of Ward, no. 13, post. 
September, 1774 13 make a Sacrifice of our all and that the weakest Colony by such a Sacrifice woud suffer as much as the greatest. 
Col. Harrison from Virginia insisted strongly on the injustice that Virginia should have no greater Weight in the determination than one of the smallest Colonies. 
That he should be censured by his constituents and unable to excuse his want of attention to their Interest. 
And that he was very apprehensive that if such a disrespect should be put upon his Countrymen we shoud never see them at another Convention. 
The debate then took a different Turn. 
It was observed that if an equal Representation was ever so Just, the Delegates from the several Colonies were unprepared with Materials to settle that equitably. 
This was an objection that coud not be answered. 5 The Question was then put
Mr. Duche for this Service. 
Debates arose on this Subject, Those who were for the Motion insisting on the propriety of a Reverence and Submission to the Supreme Being and supplicating his Blessing on every undertaking, on the practice of the Romans, the British Parliament and some of the Assemblies on the Continent. 
The difference of the religious Tenets of the. 
Members ; That it woud be considered as Enthusiasm and Cant ; and the Efficacy of private Devotion ; The want of a Suitable form in the book of common prayer ; and the Hazard of submitting such a Task to the Judgement of any Clergy — were the Topics urged by those who were of opinion against the Motion. 
It was however Resolved, that the Congress shall be opened to morrow morning with the Service of the Church of England and a suitable prayer, and that Mr. Duche be requested by the president to perform this office. 8 The Congress then adjourned till
N B. During the meeting of the Congress, an Express arrived to the Jersey Members giving Intelligence that the soldiers had seized the powder in one of the Towns near Boston, That a party was sent to take this, and that six of the Inhabitants had been killd in the skirmish, That all the Country was in arms down to [blank'] in Connecticut, That the cannon fired upon the Town the whole Night. 9 5 John Adams and Richard Henry Lee both emphasize this point, as did also Richard Bland. 
See Adams's Diary, Sept. 5, Notes, Sept. 6. See also no. 93. post. 6 Note the prior division of the question recorded in the Journals. 
The printed Journals (ed. Ford), p. 25, lines 10 and n, read: "after a good deal of debate the motion was diverted to facts ". This is an erroneous reading. 
The last three words should be : " divided and put ". In the copy of the Journals in the Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc. (see no. 11, note 2, ante) this reading is clear. 7 See no. 11, note 2, ante. 
Resolves 3, 4, 5, and 6, as recorded by Duane, are found, with verbal variations, in the Journals. 8 Cf. nos. 14-17, 22, 21, 43, post; also Clark to Caldwell, Aug. 2, 1776, in vol. 
II. of these Letters. 9 See nos. 9, 11, ante, nos. 14, 18, 19, 21, 48, 53, post. 14 Continental Congress N B. Mr. Henry affirmed that at a former Congress one of the Members had dispatched Intelligence of an important matter to a great person in America while it was under Debate; which was one of his Reasons for Secresy in our proceedings. 13. John Adams, Notes of Debates. 1 [September 6, 1774.] 2 Mr. Henry. 
Government is dissolved. 
Fleets and armies and the present state of things show that government is dissolved. 
Where are your landmarks, your boundaries of Colonies ? We are in a state of nature, sir. 
I did propose that a scale should be laid down ; that part of North America which was once Massachusetts Bay, and that part which was once Virginia, ought to be considered as having a weight. 
Will not people complain? Ten thousand Virginians have not outweighed one thousand others. 
I will submit, however ; I am determined to submit, if I am overruled. 
A worthy gentleman (ego) near me seemed to admit the necessity of obtaining a more adequate representation. 3 I hope future ages will quote our proceedings with applause. 
It is one of the great duties of the democratical part of the constitution to keep itself pure. 
It is known in my Province that some other Colonies are not so numerous or rich as they are. 
I am for giving all the satisfaction in my power. 
The distinctions between Virginians, Pennsylvanians, New Yorkers, and New Englanders, are no more. 
I am not a Virginian, but an American. 
Slaves are to be thrown out of the question, and if the freemen can be represented according to their numbers, I am satisfied. 
Mr. Lynch. 
I differ in one point from the gentleman from Virginia, that is, in thinking that numbers only ought to determine the weight of Colonies. 
I think that property ought to be considered, and that it ought to be a compound of numbers and property that should determine the weight of the Colonies. 
I think it cannot be now settled. 
Mr. Rutledge. 
We have no legal authority ; and obedience to our determinations will only follow the reasonableness, the apparent utility and necessity of the measures we adopt. 
We have no coercive or legislative authority. 
Our constituents are bound only in honor to observe our determinations. [i3]M^of^, II. 365. 2 These notes of debates are placed by the editor of John Adams's Works under the date Sept. 5, in connection with the diary entry for that date, with the following explanatory note: "The following brief notes of the discussion this day, upon the method of voting, arc found in a separate sheet." It is evident, however, from a comparison with Duane's Notes that these notes of Adams belong to Sept. 6. Moreover Richard Henry Lee did not take his seat until Sept. 6. 3 See nos. 5, 12 (note 5), ante. 
September, 1JJ4 15 Governor Ward. 
There are a great number of counties, in Virginia, very unequal in point of wealth and numbers, yet each has a right to send two members. 4 Mr. Lee. But one reason, which prevails with me, and that is, that we are not at this time provided with proper materials. 
I am afraid we are not. 
Mr. Gadsden. 
I can't see any way of voting, but by Colonies. 
Colonel Bland. 
I agree with the gentleman (ego) who spoke near me, that we are not at present provided with materials to ascertain the importance of each Colony. 
The question is, whether the rights and liberties of America shall be contended for, or given up to arbitrary power. 5 Mr. Pendleton. 
If the committee should find themselves unable to ascertain the weight of the Colonies, by their numbers and property, they will report this, and this will lay the foundation for the Congress to take some other steps to procure evidence of numbers and property at some future time. 
Mr. Henry. 
I agree that authentic accounts cannot be had, if by authenticity is meant attestations of officers of the Crown. 
I go upon the supposition that government is at an end. 
All distinctions are thrown down. 
All America is thrown into one mass. 
We must aim at the minutiae of rectitude. 
Mr. Jay. Could I suppose that we came to frame an American constitution, instead of endeavoring to correct the faults in an old one — I can't yet think that all government is at an end. 
The measure of arbitrary power is not full, and I think it must run over, before we undertake to frame a new constitution. 
To the virtue, spirit, and abilities of Virginia, we owe much. 
I should always, therefore, from inclination as well as justice, be for giving Virginia its full weight. 
I am not clear that we ought not to be bound by a majority, though ever so small, but I only mentioned it as a matter of danger, worthy of consideration. 14. James Duane, Notes of Proceedings. 1 Wednesday Morning
He was much admired both for his Eloquence and Composition, and Mr Ward of Rhode Island moved that the thanks of the Congress be given him for his Services, which was unanimously agreed to; and Mr. Cushing and Mr. Ward were appointed a Committee for the purpose. 4 Cf. Duane's note of Ward's remarks, no. 12, ante. 5 See no. 12, note 5, ante. [i^N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Duane Papers, IV. 193; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Papers, II. (copy) ; S. W. Jones, Memoir of James Duane, app. 
I. 6 16 Continental Congress It was then moved that he should be requested to print the prayer : But it being objected that this might possibly expose him to some disadvantages, it was out of Respect to him waived. 2 The Appointment of a Committee to state the Rights of the Colonies and the several Instances in which they have been violated and infringed, and the means most proper to obtain Redress, was then taken into Consideration. 
Mr. Lynch of Virginia
This occasioned much debate — the difficulty of knowing who possessed this Qualification in the highest degree — The different Rights of the several Charter Governments and their Infringements, which must be best known to their respective Representatives, were insurmountable objections ; and it was accordingly — i. Resolved, that this Committee shall be composed of two members from each Colony, 4 to be recommended by their associates. 5 .... 2. Resolved that one Member from each Colony form the Committee to state and report the several statutes respecting the Trade and Manufactures of the Colonies. 
And the following Gentlemen were appointed vizt 5a N B. An Express arrived from New York (Th. Ives) with a Duplicate
Part of the Credentials of the New York Credentials [sic] were produced at our first meeting, 8 the remainder this day, vizt. i. The Returns of the Magistrates of the City and County of New York on Polls taken in their respective wards, by which James Duane, Philip Livingston, Isaac Low, John Jay and John Alsop were unanimously elected. 9 2 See no. 12, ante; cf. no. 17, post. 3 Error for South Carolina. 4 Subsequently Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and Virginia were allowed an additional member each. 
See the Journals, Sept. 19, and cf. no. 33 (note 2), post. 5 The Journals do not record the method of appointing the committee. 
Duane records here its composition. 5a Here follows a list of the colonies, but with the names of the New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania members only supplied. 
The resolve relative to the President's power +0 adjourn and convene Congress is recorded by Duane in a condensed form. 6 " Duplicated " substituted for " confirmation " erased. 7 See Adams's Diary, no. 9 (note 2), ante. 8 See Duane's Notes, no. 6, ante. 
See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 305-325, passim. 
September, 1774 17 2. The Vote of a general Meeting of the County of Westchester, Col. Philips in the Chair, by which they are unanimously elected for that County. 10 3. a Vote of the Northern precincts of the County of Ulster, by which they are unanimously chosen for those precincts ; and a Like Vote from the Southern Precincts by which they and the other Delegates for the Cities and Counties are chosen for those precincts. 11 4. a Vote of the Inhabitants of the precincts of Pokeepsisch, by which they are unanimously chosen for that Precinct. 12 5. a Vote of the Several Committees for the County of Suffolk, by which Col. Floyd is unanimously elected for that County. 13 The Credentials produced this day are 1. a Vote of the Inhabitants of the City and County of Albany, by which the New York Delegates are unanimously elected to represent that City and County. 14 2. a Vote of the Inhabitants of the precincts of [] in Dutchess County, by which the same Delegates are appointed for those precincts. 15 The Congress adjourned till 10 o Clo[ck] to morrow morning. 
The two committees agreed to meet immediately to elect a Chairman and Clerk. 
The Committee to State the Rights, etc. of the Colonies met in Carpenters hall. 
Present All the Members. 
I proposed Mr Lynch as Chairman and was seconded : But he declined and proposed Mr. Hopkins of Rhode Island, who was unanimously approved, and Mr. Charles Thompson appointed Clerk of the Committee. 
The Committee adjourned till
See note 15, below. 13 See ibid., p. 324; cf. ibid., pp. 407, 420, 453, 669. 14 Cf. ibid., p. 322. 15 See the credentials of the New York delegates recorded in the Journals, Sept. 5. Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 324. The Palatine district of Tryon County, by resolutions, Aug. 27, " entirely approve of the five gentlemen chosen delegates of this Colony, by our brethren of New York, hereby adopting and choosing the same persons to represent this Colony in the Congress ". Ibid., I. 740. Henry Wisner appeared in Congress Sept. 14 as a deputy from Orange County, and John Haring from the same county on Sept. 26 (see ibid., I. 322, note; cf. ibid., I. 506). Simon Boerum attended as a delegate from Kings County on Oct. 1. Concerning the election of Simon Boerum, Joseph Galloway declared : " One of the delegates from the province of New York * (with whom I sat in Congress in 1774) representing a considerable district in that province, was chosen by himself and his clerk only, and that clerk certified to the Congress that he was unanimously appointed ! "* " The people of Kings County so much disapproved of the sending any Members to the Congress, that although due notice was given of the time and place of election, only two of them met: Mr. Simon Boerum appointed his friend Clerk, and the Clerk appointed Mr. Boerum a Delegate in Congress, who was the only Representative for that large county." Examination before the House of Commons (ed. 1780), p. 11. This last paragraph is a foot-note in the volume cited. 18 Continental Congress 15. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 [September 7, 1774.] • Wednesday morning. 
An express arrived from N. York, confirming the acct of a rupture at Boston. 
All is in confusion. 
I cannot say that all faces gather paleness, but they all gather indignation, and every tongue pronounces revenge. 
The bells toll muffled, and the people run as in a case of extremity, they know not where nor why. 
The Congress met, and opened with a Prayer made by the Revd Mr. Deshay [Duche] which it was worth riding one hundred miles to hear. 
He read the Lessons of the day, which were accidentally extremely applicable, and then prayed without book about ten minutes so pertinently, with such fervency, purity and sublimity of style and sentiment, and with such an apparent sensibility of the scenes and business before us, that even Quakers shed tears. 
The thanks of the Congress were most unanimously returned him by a select honorable committee. 2 We are just now formed into Committees, and our business is laid out, which, as we mean to go to the bottom, nothing but Genl Gage and a greater force than he has at Boston will prevent our sitting some time I will now give you the character of the Delegates, beginning at South Carolina, as they are the Southernmost. 
Mr. Lynch is a gentleman about sixty, and could you see him, I need say nothing more. 
He has much the appearance of Mr. Ja. Mumford, deceased; dresses as plain, or plainer; is of immense fortune, and has his family with him. 
He wears the manufacture of this country, is plain, sensible, above ceremony, and carries with him more force in his very appearance than most powdered folks in their conversation. 
He wears his hair strait, his clothes in the plainest order, and is highly esteemed. 
With him are two brothers, Mr. Rutledge, Sen r and Jun r , of independent fortune, ingenious, but impetuous in the Cause they are engaged in; the eldest, I judge, of my age; his lady, and a son of Jesse's age, is with him. 
They lodge at the next door. 
The younger brother is a tolerable speaker, equally zealous. 
He married Mr. Gadsden's daughter, who as I told you lodges with us. Mr. Gadsden leaves all New England Sons of Liberty far behind, for he is for taking up his firelock and marching direct to Boston ; nay, he affirmed this morning, that were his wife and all his children in Boston, and they were there to perish by the sword, it would not alter his sentiment or proceeding for American Liberty; by which you may judge of the man, when I add that he is one of the most regularly religious men I ever met with. 
Col. Middleton is the only remaining member for that Province whom I have not characterized. 
He appears very modest; has said but little hitherto; is, I judge, fifty years of age, and of a very slender thin habit, but is in high esteem by his acquaintance. 
Virginia comes next, but that must be the business of a future hour [i5] x Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 174; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 21. - See the Journals, Sept. 6, 7. Cf. nos. 12, 14, ante, nos. 16, 25, 43, post. 
September, 1774 19 16. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 Sept. yth. 
Mr. Duche read prayers and lessons, and concluded with one of the most sublime, catholic, well-adapted prayers I ever heard. 
Thanks for it, and presented by Mr. Cushing and Mr. Ward. 2 A Committee of two from each Colony appointed to prepare a statement of those rights of the Colonists, the infringements of those rights and the means of redress. 
A committee to report what Acts of Parliament affect the trade of the Colonies. (45 members present.) Door keepers appointed. 17. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 7, 1774.] 7. Wednesday. 
Went to Congress again, heard Mr. Duche read prayers; the collect for the day, the 7th of the month was most admirably adapted, though this was accidental, or rather providential. 2 A prayer which he gave us of his own composition was as pertinent, as affectionate, as sublime, as devout, as I ever heard offered up to Heaven. 
He filled every bosom present. 3 18. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 8 September, 1774. When or where this letter will find you I know not. 
In what scenes of distress and terror I cannot foresee. 
We have received a confused account from Boston of a dreadful catastrophe. 
The particulars we have not heard. 
We are waiting with the utmost anxiety and impatience for further intelligence. 
The effect of the news we have, both upon the Congress and the inhabitants of this city, was very great. 
Great indeed ! Every gentleman seems to consider the bombardment of Boston as the bombardment of the capital of his own province. 
Our deliberations are grave and serious indeed. 2 It is a great affliction to me that I cannot write to you oftener than I do. But there are so many hindrances, that I cannot. 
It would fill volumes, to give you an idea of the scenes I behold, and the characters I converse with. 
We have so much business, so much ceremony, so much company, so many [16] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 440. 2 Cf. Adams's Diary, no. 17, post. 
The motion to thank Duche was made by Ward. 
See Duane's Notes, no. 14, ante. [17]* Works, II. 368. 2 Adams was not familiar with the Anglican liturgy. 
What was deemed so appropriate was not the collect (which contained nothing that could be so considered), but a portion of the psalter for the seventh day of the month, morning prayer, namely, the thirty-fifth Psalm. 
See Deane's postscript, no. 23, post. 3 See no. 12, and note 8, ante. 
Cf. nos. 10, 14, 15, 16, ante, nos. 23, 25, 29, 43, post. [18] 1 Familiar Letters (ed. C. F. Adams), p. 31. 2 See Adams's Diary, Sept. 6, ante; cf. nos. 19, 48, 49, post. 
Adams's letter must have been written before the contradiction of the report concerning the bombardment of Boston had been received. 20 Continental Congress &'visits to receive and return, that I have not time to write. 
And the times are such as to make it imprudent to write freely. "We cannot depart from this place until the business of the Congress is completed, and it is the general disposition to proceed slowly There is in the Congress a collection of the greatest men upon this continent in point of abilities, virtues, and fortunes. 
The magnanimity and public spirit which I see here make me blush for the sordid, venal herd which I have seen in my own Province. 
The Addressers, and the new Councillors, are held in universal contempt and abhorrence from one end of the continent to the other. 
Be not under any concern for me. There is little danger from any thing we shall do at the Congress. 
There is such a spirit through the colonies, and the members of the Congress are such characters, that no danger can happen to us, which will not involve the whole continent in universal desolation; and in that case, who would wish to live? Adieu. 
John Adams. 19. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 8, 1774.] 8. Thursday. 
Attended my duty on the committee all day, and a most ingenious, entertaining debate we had. 2 The happy news were brought us from Boston, that no blood had been spilled, but that General Gage had taken away the provincial powder from the magazine at Cambridge. 
This last was a disagreeable circumstance. 3 .... i & j 20. John Adams, Notes of Debates. 1 [September 8, 1774.] September 8. In the Committee for stating rights, grievances, and means of redress. 2 Colonel Lee. The rights are built on a fourfold foundation ; on nature, on the British constitution, on charters, and on immemorial usage. 
The Navigation Act, a capital violation. 
Mr. Jay. It is necessary to recur to the law of nature, and the British constitution, to ascertain our rights. 
The constitution of Great Britain will not apply to some of the charter rights. 
A mother country surcharged with inhabitants, they have a right to emigrate. 
It may be said, if we leave our country, we cannot leave our allegiance. 
But there is no allegiance without protection, and emigrants have a right to erect what government they please. 
Mr. J. Rut I edge. 
Emigrants would not have a right to set up what constitution they please. 
A subject could not alienate his allegiance. [19] 1 IVorks, II. 370. 2 See Adams's Notes of Debates, and Duane's speech before the committee, nos. 20, 22, post. 3 See no. 9, and note 2, ante; cf. nos. 48, 49, 53, post. [20] * Works, II. 370. 2 Cf. these notes with the general summary given by Adams in his Autobiography, no. 62 (note 2), post. 
September, 1774 21 Lee. Can't see why we should not lay our rights upon the broadest bottom, the ground of nature. 
Our ancestors found here no government. 
Mr. Pendleton. 
Consider how far we have a right to interfere with regard to the Canada constitution. 
If the majority of the people there should be pleased with the new constitution, would not the people of America and of England have a right to oppose it, and prevent such a constitution being established in our neighborhood? Lee. It is contended that the Crown had no right to grant such charters as it has to the Colonies, and therefore, we shall rest our rights on a feeble foundation, if we rest them only on charters; nor will it weaken our objections to the Canada bill. 
Mr. Rutledge. 
Our claims, I think, are well founded on the British constitution, and not on the law of nature. 
Colonel Dyer. 
Part of the country within the Canada bill is a conquered country, and part not. 
It is said to be a rule that the King can give a conquered country what law he pleases. 
Mr. Jay. I can't think the British constitution inseparably attached to the person of every subject. 
Whence did the constitution derive its authority? from compact; might not that authority be given up by compact ? Mr. William Livingston. 
A corporation cannot make a corporation; charter governments have done it. King can't appoint a person to make a justice of peace; all governors do it. Therefore it will not do for America to rest wholly on the laws of England. 
Mr. Sherman. 
The ministry contend that the Colonies are only like corporations in England, and therefore subordinate to the legislature of the kingdom. 
The Colonies not bound to the King or Crown by the act of settlement, but by their consent to it. There is no other legislative over the Colonies but their respective assemblies. 
The Colonies adopt the common law, not as the common law, but as the highest reason. 
Mr. Ditane. 
Upon the whole, for grounding our rights on the laws and constitution of the country from whence we sprung, and charters, without recurring to the law of nature ; because this will be a feeble support. 
Charters are compacts between the Crown and the people, and I think on this foundation the charter governments stand firm. 
England is governed by a limited monarchy and free constitution. 
Privileges of Englishmen were inherent, their birthright and inheritance, and cannot be deprived of them without their consent. 
Objection; that all the rights of Englishmen will make us independent. 
I hope a line may be drawn to obviate this objection. 
James was against Parliament interfering with the Colonies. 
In the reign of Charles II. the sentiments of the Crown seem to have been changed. 
The Navigation Act was made; Massachusetts denied the authority, but made a law to enforce it in the Colony. 3 Lee. Life, and liberty which js necessary for the security of life, cannot be given up when we enter into society. 3 See Duane's speech before the committee, no. 22, post, also his propositions, no. 58, post. 
Cf. nos. 26, 69, 97, 98, 100, 101, post. 22 Continental Congress &'Mr. Rutlcdge. 
The first emigrants could not be considered as in a state of nature ; they had no right to elect a new king. 
Mr. Jay. I have always withheld my assent from the position that every subject discovering land (does it) for the state to which he belongs. 
Mr. Galloway. 
I never could find the rights of Americans in the distinction between taxation and legislation, nor in the distinction between laws for revenue and for the regulation of trade. 
I have looked for our rights in the law of nature, but could not find them in a state of nature, but always in a state of political society. 
I have looked for them in the constitution of the English government, and there found them. 
We may draw them from this source securely. 
Power results from the real property of the society. 
The states of Greece, Macedon, Rome were founded on this plan. 
None but landholders could vote in the comitia or stand for offices. 
English constitution founded on the same principle. 
Among the Saxons, the landholders were obliged to attend, and shared among them the power. 
In the Norman period, the same. 
When the landholders could not all attend, the representatives of the freeholders came in. Before the reign of Henry IV. an attempt was made to give the tenants in capite a right to vote. 
Magna Charta — archbishops, bishops, abbots, earls, and barons, and tenants in capite held all the lands in England. 
It is of the essence of the English constitution that no laws shall be binding, but such as are made by the consent of the proprietors in England. 
How then, did it stand with our ancestors when they came over here? They could not be bound by any laws made by the British Parliament, excepting those made before. 
I never could see any reason to allow that we are bound to any law made since, nor could I ever make any distinction between the sorts of law. 
I have ever thought we might reduce our rights to one — an exemption from all laws made by British Parliament since the emigration of our ancestors. 
It follows, therefore, that all the acts of Parliament made since, are violations of our rights. 
These claims are all defensible upon the principles even of our enemies — Lord North himself, when he shall inform himself of the true principles of the constitution, etc. 
I am well aware that my arguments tend to an independency of the Colonies, and militate against the maxims that there must be some absolute power to draw together all the wills and strength of the empire. 4 21. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 8, 1774.] 8th. The Committees met, entered into the subject, and adjourned. 2 Accounts arrived that the news from Boston was not true. 3 4 See Galloway's speech in Congress, in the Journals (ed. Ford), I. 46; cf. Adams's Notes, no. 69, post. [21 J 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 440. 2 The committee for stating the rights, etc., of which Ward was a member, met and organized on the 7th. See Duane's Notes, no. 14, ante. •"• See Adams's and Ward's Diaries, nos. 9, 11, ante. 
September, 1774 23 22. James Duane, Address before the Committee to State the Rights of the Colonies. 1 [September 8, 1774.] 2 The task assigned to this Committee is no less important than it is difficult. 
It may be reduced to these heads — 1. To State the Rights of the Colonies. 2. Their Grievances. 3. The Means of Redress. 
It is necessary that the first point, our Rights, should be fully discussed and established upon solid Principles : because it is only from hence that our Grievances can be disclosed ; and from a clear View of both, that proper Remedies can be suggested and applied. 
To ascertain the Constitution of the Colonies has employed the Thoughts and the Pens of our ablest Politicians. 
But no System which has hitherto been publishd
During the Disputes, which arose from the Stamp Act, an Exemption from Internal Taxes seemed to give general Content. 4 The Regulation of Commerce was submitted to Parliament. 
Their Authority to alter the police
Upon the Repeal therefore of the Stamp Act, we had Reason to Conclude that the Blessings of Security in our Liberties and Harmony with the Parent State woud be placed on a permanent Basis. 
But short was our Repose and fleeting our Expectations. 
A despotic Minister soon discovered that under the Idea of a commercial Regulation our Property might still be invaded, and that by a guileful Change of a name we might still be oppressed at his Pleasure. 
Hence arose Mr. Townsend's project of loading british Commodities (which we are restrained from importing from any other nation) with American duties — As if this poor evasion coud blind the colonists, and conceal the Evil which was cloaked under so thin a disguise. 
The Resentment and Vigorous opposition of this Country, and the immense Loss to which it exposed the british Manufacturers compeled the Repeal of this detested Law, Excepting the article of Tea, which has been the fatal Cause of our present Misfortunes. 
It is now, Sir, essential to place our Rights on a broader and firmer Basis, to advance and adhere to some solid and Constitutional Principle which will preserve us from future Violations — a principle clear and [22PN. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Duane Papers, IV. 201; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Papers, II. (copy) ; Jones, Memoir of Duane, p. 43. 2 The date of the address is pretty clearly fixed by John Adams's Diary, Sept. 8. Duane's ideas are put into more definite form in the Propositions which he presently offered in the committee. 
See no. 58, post. 
Cf. Galloway's speech, quoted in the Journals (ed. Ford), Sept. 28, and nos. 69, 82, post. 3 Substituted for " devised " erased. 4 The words " seemed to be the ultimate of the general Voice Wish " are here erased. 5 Originally written: "Their Interposition in the police and administration". 24 Continental Congress £>'explicite and which is above the Reach of Cunning and the arts of oppression. 
I hope if we have the happiness to rest upon such a principle, we shall have the Fortitude and the Strength to maintain it. Let it be founded upon Reason and Justice, and satisfy the Consciences of our countrymen, Let it be such as we dare refer to the Virtuous and Impartial Part of mankind, and we shall and must in the issue of the Conflict be happy and triumphant. 6 I conceive it to be the Duty of every Member to offer his Sentiments on this great Occasion without Reserve or Scruple. 
It will be examined with candour, and have all the weight it merits, and if mine is defective it will be excused from the uprightness of the Intention
I shall not forget that we are Colonies, That we are indebted to her for the Blessings of Protection, and that she ought to derive from us every commercial Advantage which is the Result of our Connection and Dependance. 
Nor shall I anticipate either our own past Merits or the cruel Oppressions under which we now labour, because these will more properly be the Subject of our next Head of Enquiry. 
To the Rights of the Colonies I mean at present to be confined. 
They may be derived from two sources : 8 ist. 
From the common Law and such ancient Statutes as are coeval with our Colonization. 2. As they are granted and secured by Charter. 
Upon this last head I shall reserve myself for further information from
England is governed by a limited Monarchy and a free Constitution. 
But if the Subject is bound by a Law to which he does not assent, either personally or by his Representative, he is no longer free, but under an arbitrary power, which may oppress or ruin him at pleasure. 
It is admitted by the English judicatories and has been solemnly resolved by the King in privy Council, that the Common Law of England and such Statutes as existed prior to our Emigration are fundamentals in our Colony Constitution. 
Upon this grand Basis the prerogatives of the Crown and the Rights of the Subjects are as fully ascertained in the Plantations as in the parent State. c The clause " If this principle can call to its support " is here erased. 7 A pencilled alteration from '' upright intention ". 8 First written : " They may be divided into two heads. 1st. As they are derived from ", etc. 
In the first head " As they are derived " is erased, and a similar change in form was probably intended for the second head. 
The corrections are in pencil and have become very dim. 9 Originally: "This last head I shall refer to Gentlemen whose", etc. 10 This sentence is a pencilled insertion on the margin. 
Most of it is now too indistinct to be legible, and it is here printed as found in Jones's Memoir. 
September, 1774 25 By the same Constitution the King has the Executive Power, and is the Fountain of Title [s] , offices and Honors. 
Hence arises his royal Prerogative X1 in the formation of Colonies to establish a System of Governt, legislative, judicial and executive, suitable to the Circumstances of a People who are blessed with the Priviledges which they never meant, nor were supposed, nor coud forfeit 12 by altering their local situation within the same Empire. 
The priviledges of Englishmen were inherent, They were their Birth right, and of which they coud only be deprived by their free Consent. 
Every Institution, legislative and Judicial, essential to the Exercise and Enjoyment of these Rigiits and priviledges in constitutional security were equally their Birth right and inalienable Inheritance. 
They coud not be withheld but by lawless oppression, and by lawless oppression only can they be violated. 
It is objected that upon this principle the Colonies are independent and exempt from the Authority of the British Parliament and free from all Obligations to render to the Parent State those advantages which ought to be the Recompence of Protection, to result from the very nature of Colonization, and to be Justified from the Usage of every commercial Nation. 
To which it may be answered that the Sovereignty and Prerogatives of the Crown, our own Security, the Ties of Friendship and common interest, the similarity of our government, laws and manners will be sufficient to prevent an Independance, which nothing but Oppression can ever reconcile to an American Ear. 13 But we need not depend on this observation. 
Had Great Britain till this late day taken no measures to secure the Commerce of the Colonies, but left them free to pursue their own Interest and Inclinations, I shoud not hesitate to pronounce that all Restraints by authority of Parliament would now be " unauthoritative and oppressive. 
This however is not the Case. 
Every just and reasonable Advantage the Parent Country has long since effectually secured and uniformly enjoyed. 15 [The manuscript ends here, except that on the following page are these two propositions :] 11 " Prerogative " is written above "Authority" (underscored), which is not, however, erased. 12 At this point in the manuscript occurs the following clause, but with a pencil line drawn through it : " by removing to a more remote part of the English Empire ". 13 This sentence was originally written as follows : " To which it may be answered that the Sovereignty and Prerogatives of the Crown must effectually prevent the Independance of the Colonies ; and the Ties of Religion Common Interest Friendship and Similarity in Government Laws and Manners will be sufficient to prevent a Separation which nothing but Oppression coud reconcile to an American Ear."At this point in the manuscript occurs the following paragraph, which, after minor emendations, appears to have been crossed out : " With respect to Commerce it is certain that if we were under no Obligation the principal advantages woud center in the parent Country where Manufactures are as cheap and better in Quality." Before the word " Commerce " the words " the advantages arising from our ", and after the word " Obligation " the words " from its " are erased. 14 First written : " pronounce any restrictive Act of this late day to be ". 15 Cf. Duane's propositions, no. 58, post, and his remarks as recorded in Adams's Notes, no. 69, post. 
See no. 82, post, and Galloway's speech. 26 Continental Congress &'1. That political Liberty is the great Object of the English Constitution. 2. That it is essential to Liberty that the Subject be bound by no Laws to which he does not assent by himself or his Representative, a priviledge which forms the distinction between Freemen and Slaves per se that is bound to submit to the arbitrary will of another. 16 23. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 Thursday morning. 
We are all in the greatest anxiety; that of a most cruel suspense as to the certainty of the Boston rupture, as no fresh intelligence has as yet arrived
You will read this in full circle, and the bearer must explain it. My love to all, Sally, Hannah, Hetty, Jesse, etc. 
Philadelphia, Septr 8th, 1774. Turn to the Morning Service in the prayer book, for the 7th day of the month, Psalm 35th, I think it is. 2 As Doctr Turner goes in the morning, I cease my letter with adding, that the bells of the city are now ringing a peal of joy on acct of the news of Boston's having been destroyed, being contradicted. 24. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 Friday morning, Sept. 9th [1774]. .... Two Committees are now out, and when they report I shall be able to judge better of our business. 
The one is to ascertain our Rights, enumerate the violations of them, and recommend a proper mode of Redress. 
The other, to take a view of all those Acts of the British Parliament which affect our Trade and Manufactures. 
I am in the latter Committee, which I must attend directly. 25. Samuel Adams to Joseph Warren. 1 [September 9, 1774.] After settling the mode of voting, which is by giving each Colony an equal voice, it was agreed to open the business with prayer. 
As many of in One page of this manuscript contains pencilled notes on the same subject, but they are now for the most part illegible. [ 23] x Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 175; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 22. 2 It is not in the " morning service ", but in the psalter. 
See no. 15. ante. [24l J N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 24; Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 179. [25]' Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 802; Frothingham, Life of Warren, p. 380. Only this extract of Samuel Adams's letter to Joseph Warren has been found. 
It is embodied in a letter of Warren to the Boston Gazette, Sept. 24, 1774. September, 1774 27 our warmest friends are members of the Church of England, I thought it prudent, as well on that as some other accounts, to move that the service should be performed by a clergyman of that denomination. 
Accordingly, the lessons of the day and prayer were read by the Reverend Doctor Duche, who afterwards made a most excellent extemporary prayer, by which he discovered himself to be a gentleman of sense and piety, and a warm advocate for the religious and civil rights of America. 2 26. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 9, 1774.] pth. 
The Committee met, agreed to found our rights upon the laws of Nature, the principles of the English Constitution, and charters and compacts ; 2 ordered a Sub-Committee to draw up a Statement of Rights. 3 27. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney. 1 Phila. 
Sept. the 9th 1774. Sir, On Thursday the 1st of this month, after a very warm, disagreeable ride, I arrived in Town together with some of the Virginia gentn. 
By Sunday eveg. last, the delegates from all the different Colonies except North-Carolina and Georgia came to town and on Monday they met at Carpenter's Hall, when the Hon. Peyton Randolph was unanimously elected to the chair by the name of President. 
Charles Thompson was chose secretary and
The Congress then proceeded to business and have set every day since. 
I doubt their rising before some time in Oct. Perhaps the middle. 
All the
In short, it is the greatest assembly (in proportion to the members) that ever was collected in America and the Bostonians who (we know) have been condemned by many for their violence are moderate men when compared to Virginia, South Carolina and Rhode-Island. 
In short, all the Colonies seem to be hearty in the cause and have the greatest respect paid them by all the first people there
See however the Journals, p. 30, note. 
From a statement in John Adams's Autobiography (no. 62, note 2, post) it is evident that he and John Rutledge were members of the subcommittee. 
Ward's Diary (no. 28, post) indicates that he also was on the subcommittee. " 9. Friday. 
Attended my duty upon committees ; dined at home." John Adams, Diary, Sept. 9, 1775. See no. 29, post. [27] 1 Library of Congress, Force Transcripts, Rodney. 2S Continental Congress &'28. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 10, 1774.] iotli. 
Met. added two to the Sub-Committee; 2 which sat, and considered the subject, and adjourned to nine o'clock on Monday. 29. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 10, 1774.] 10. Saturday. 
Attended my duty upon the sub-committee Mr. Reed returned with Mr. Adams and me to our lodgings, and a very sociable, agreeable, and communicative evening we had. 
He says we never were more guilty of a more masterly stroke of policy, than in moving that Mr. Duche might read prayers ; it has had a very good effect, etc. 2 He says the sentiments of people here are growing more and more favorable every day. 30. Silas Deaxe to Mrs. Deaxe. 1 [September 10, 1774.] My Dear, .... I gave you the character of the South Carolina delegates, or rather a sketch. 
I will now pursue the plan I designed. 
Mr. Randolph, our worthy President, may be rising of sixty, of noble appearance, and presides with dignity. 
Col. Harrison may be fifty ; an uncommonly large man, and appears rather rough in his address and speech. 
Col. Washington is nearly as tall a man as Col. Fitch, and almost as hard a countenance ; yet with a very young look, and an easy, soldier like air and gesture. 
He does not appear above forty-five, yet was in the first actions in 1753 and 1754, on the Ohio, and in 1755 was with Braddock, and was the means of saving the remains of that unfortunate army. 
It is said that in the house of Burgesses in Virginia, on hearing of the Boston Port Bill, he offered to raise and arm and lead one thousand men himself at his own expense, for the defence of the country, were there need of it. His fortune is said to be equal to such an undertaking. 
Col. Bland is a plain, sensible man, deeply studied into and acquainted with the antiquities of Virginia and of this Continent in general; has wrote several very sensible pieces on the subject; and is a tolerable speaker in public, as is Col. Washington, who speaks very modestly and in cool but determined style and accent. 
Mr. Pendleton is a lawyer of eminence, of easy and cheerful countenance, polite in address, and elegant if not eloquent in style and elocution. 
Mr. Henry is also a lawyer, and the completest speaker I ever heard. 
If his future speeches are equal to the small samples he has hitherto given us, [28] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 440. 2 See no. 26, note 3, ante. [29P Works, II. 377. 2 Cf. nos. 10, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 23, 25, ante, no. 43, post. [30] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 179; X. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 25. September, i/?4 29 they will be worth preserving ; but in a letter I can give you no idea of the music of his voice, or the highwrought yet natural elegance of his style and manner. 
Col. Lee is said to be his rival in eloquence, and in Virginia and to the southward they are styled the Demosthenes and Cicero of America. 2 God grant they may not, like them, plead in vain for the Liberties of their Country ! These last gentlemen are now in full life, perhaps near fifty, and have made the Constitution and history of G. Britain and America their capital study ever since the late troubles between them have arisen 31. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 12, 1774.] 12. The Sub-Committee met, made some progress in stating the Rights and adjourned. (Some North Carolina Delegates arrived.) 2 32. John Adams, Diary. [September 12, 1774. J 12. Monday. 
Attended my duty on the committee until one o'clock. 2 .... Mr. Dickinson is a very modest man, and very ingenious as well as agreeable ; he has an excellent heart, and the cause of his country lies near it. 3 He is full and clear for allowing to Parliament the regulation of trade, upon principles of necessity, and the mutual interest of both countries. 4 33. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney. 1 Phila. 
Monday. 
Sept. the 12th. 1774. Sir, .... The Congress does not now set in form, having appointed
I am one of
See the Journals, Sept. 14. Cf. no. 33, note 2, post. [32] 1 Works, II. 379. 2 " Monday. 
This day as usual was spent on Committees." Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane, Sept. 12, N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 28; Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 182. 3 Cf. later expressions of Adams concerning Dickinson, e. g., in his autobiographical note, under June 3, 1775, post. 
Dickinson was not yet a member of Congress. 
He took his seat Oct. 17. 4 Cf. the attitude of Gadsden, Adams's Diary, no. 36, post. 
See also no. 62, note 2, post. [33] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Rodney. - Until the arrival of the North Carolina members these committees consisted of twenty-two and eleven members respectively. 
See the Journals, Sept. 7. According to the Journals the North Carolina delegates appeared in Congress and were added to the committees on Sept. 14. See however no. 31, ante. 
See also no. 62, note 2, post. 30 Continental Congress &'the 24, who are to report the rights of the colonies, the infringements of those rights and the means of relief. 
What shall be done after this appointment of the Commee., the Congress has enjoined every member to keep a secret till the whole business is done when the whole of their proceedings will be published to avoid needless disputations out of doors. 
This is much to the disappointment of the curious. 
We do not expect to rise till some time in Octr 34. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 13, 1774.] 13. Tuesday. 
Attended my duty all day on the sub-committee. 
Agreed on a report. 2 35. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 13, 1774.] 13th. The Sub-Committee met and went on with the business, and adjourned. 36. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 14, 1774.] 14. Wednesday. 
Visited Mr. Gadsden, Mr. Deane, Colonel Dyer, etc. at their lodgings. 
Gadsden is violent against allowing to Parliament any power of regulating trade, or allowing that they have any thing to do with us. " Power of regulating trade ", he says, " is power of ruining us; as bad as acknowledging them a supreme legislative in all cases whatsoever; a right of regulating trade is a right of legislation, and a right of legislation in one case is a right in all ; this I deny." 2 Attended the Congress and committee all the forenoon; .... 37. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 14, 1774.] 14th. The Sub-Committee met, and reported to the great Committee, 2 who appointed next morning for the consideration of the report. 
A Sub- Committee appointed to state the infringements of our rights. 3 [34] x Works, II. 379. 2 Cf. no. 37, post. [35 1 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 440. [36] J Works, II. 379. 2 Cf. nos. 22, 32, ante, nos. 58, 62 (note 2), post. [37] x Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 440. 2 Cf. no. 34, ante. 
The great committee reported to Congress Sept. 22. See the Journals. 3 See the Journals, Sept. 24; also Duane's memoranda of grievances, no. 101, post. 
September, 1774 31 38. Samuel Adams to the Committee of Correspondence, Boston. 1 Philade. 
Sept. 14, 1774. Gentlemen I have been waitingwith great Impatience for a Letter from the Committee of Correspondence for the Town of Boston upon whose Wisdom and Judgment I very much rely. 2 The Congress is resolved into Committees and Sub-Committees and all seem fully sensible of the intollerable Grievances which the Colonies are struggling under, and determined to procure effectual redress. 
The Subject Matter of their Debates I am restraind upon Honor from disclosing at present; but I may assure you that the Sentiments of the Congress hitherto discoverd and the Business assignd to the several Committees are such as perfectly coincide with your Expectations. 
The Spirit of our Countrymen does them great Honor. 
Our Brethren of the County of Middlesex have resolvd nobly, and their resolutions
It is generally agreed that an opposition to the new Mode of Government ought to be maintaind. 4 .... 39. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 14 September, 1774. .... My time is totally filled from the moment I get out of bed until I return to it. Visits, ceremonies, company, business, newspapers, pamphlets, etc., etc., etc. 2 The Congress will, to all present appearance, be well united, and in such measures as, I hope, will give satisfaction to the friends of our country. 
A Tory here is the most despicable animal in the creation. 
Spiders, toads, snakes are their only proper emblems. 
The Massachusetts Councillors and Addressers are held in curious esteem here, as you will see. 
The spirit, the firmness, the prudence of our province are vastly applauded, and we are universally acknowledged, the saviours and defenders of American liberty. 3 The designs and plans of the Congress must not be communicated until completed, and we shall move with great deliberation 40. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 15, 1774.] 13th. The large Committee met, went on with the report, and adjourned. [38] X N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 154. 2 See no. 54, post. 3 The Middlesex resolutions are in the Journals of each Provincial Congress of Massachusetts, p. 609, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 750. 4 See further statements in the letter, and cf. the Journals, Sept. 17 and "18"(see no. 49, note 2, post), Oct. 6-11 ; and nos. 44, 45, 46, 49, 53, 54, 63, 66, 70, 74, post. [39] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 32. 2 Cf. nos. 47, 49, 74 (note 4), post; also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 900 n. 3 Cf. no. 49, post. [40] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 440. 32 Continental Congress 41. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 [September 12-16, 1774.] Monday. 
This day as usual was spent on Committees ; Tuesday we dined with Mr. Smith, a merchant of this City; and on Wednesday and Thursday attended our business. 
Friday we had a grand entertainment at the State House. 
Sammy Webb must describe it. About five hundred gentlemen sat down at once, and I will only say there was plenty of every thing eatable and drinkable, and no scarcity of good humor and diversion. 
We had, besides the delegates, gentlemen from every province on the Continent present. 2 42. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 16, 1774.] 16th. The large Committee met, resumed the business and adjourned. 2 43. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 16 September, 1774. Having a leisure moment, while the Congress is assembling, I gladly embrace it to write you a line. 
When the Congress first met, Mr. Cushing made a motion that it should be opened with prayer. 
It was opposed by Mr. Jay, of New York, and Mr. Rutledge, of South Carolina, because we were so divided in religious sentiments, some Episcopalians, some Quakers, some Anabaptists, some Presbyterians, and some Congregationalists, that we could not join in the same act of worship. 
Mr. Samuel Adams arose and said, he was no bigot, and could hear a prayer from a gentleman of piety and virtue, who was at the same time a friend to his country. 
He was a stranger in Philadelphia, but had heard that Mr. Duche (Dushay they pronounce it) deserved that character, and therefore he moved that Mr. Duche, an Episcopal clergyman, might be desired to read prayers to the Congress to-morrow morning. 
The motion was seconded and passed in the affirmative. 
Mr. Randolph, our president, waited on Mr. Duche, and received for answer that if his health would permit he certainly would. 
Accordingly, next morning he appeared with his clerk and in his pontificals, and read several prayers in the established form ; and then read the collect
You must remember, this was the next morning after we heard the horrible rumor of the cannonade of Boston. 
I never saw a greater effect upon an audience. 
It seemed as if Heaven had ordained that Psalm to be read on that morning. '&• [4i] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 182; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 28. 2 See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 900. [42] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 440. 2 Sept. 16 the members of Congress attended a banquet given by the city of Philadelphia. 
See no. 41, ante. [43] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 37. 2 See no. 17, note 2, ante. 
September, 1774 33 After this, Mr. Duche, unexpectedly to every body, struck out into an extemporary prayer, which filled the bosom of every man present. 
I must confess I never heard a better prayer, or one so well pronounced. 
Episcopalian as he is, Dr. Cooper
It has had an excellent effect upon every body here. 
I must beg you to read that Psalm. 
If there was any faith in the sortes Virgilianae, or sortes Homericae, or especially the
It will amuse your friends to read this letter and the thirty-fifth Psalm to them. 
Read it to your father and Mr. Wibird. 5 I wonder what our Braintree Churchmen would think of this ! Mr. Duche is one of the most ingenious men, and best characters, and greatest orators in the Episcopal order, upon this continent ; yet a zealous friend of liberty and his country. 6 44. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 17, 1774.] Ijih. 
The Congress met, considered the situation and conduct of the County of Suffolk, approved their conduct, and recommended to them to persevere according to their Resolutions, as formed at a late County meeting ; 2 and recommended to the several Colonies to continue donations as long as necessary. 3 (Mr. Hopkins sick.) 45. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney. 1 Philadelphia, Saturday, September 17, 1774. Sir: By express which arrived here yesterday from the Committee of the town of Boston to the Continental Congress, we are informed the County
An account of him is in the American Historical Review, VI. 301-303 (diary and letters, ibid., VI. 303-341, VIII. 301-330). 4 The words " sortes Virgilianae or sortes Homericae or especially the " do not appear in the text given in the Familiar Letters (Boston, 1876), but are in the earlier publication, Letters of John Adams addressed to his Wife (1841). 5 Rev. Anthony Wibird was from 1755 to 1800 the Congregational minister of Braintree; Mrs. Adams's father, Rev. William Smith, was the (Congregational) minister of the neighboring town of Weymouth. 
In Braintree there was an Episcopal church. 
G See the Journals, Sept. 6, and nos. 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 23, 25, 29, ante. [44] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 440. 2 See the Journals, Sept. 17, including the entry under " Saturday, September 18 "(see no. 49, note 2, post) ; cf. no. 38, and note 4, ante. 
In Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 776-782, besides the Suffolk resolves (Sept. 6 to 9) and the address to Gage (Sept. 10), which are recorded in the Journals, may be found Gage's answer (Sept. 12) and a subsequent address from the committee of the delegates, together with a memorandum to the effect that it was delivered to Gage's secretary, who replied that the governor declined to receive it in form. 3 Cf. no. 120, post. [45] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 792; Niles, Principles of the Revolution, p. 246. 34 Continental Congress of Suffolk, of which the town of Boston is the capital, had entered into certain resolutions, a copy of which was enclosed us
The Congress met on that business this day, and have resolved thereon, which you will see in the Packet of Monday, 3 being ordered immediately to be printed, as well that the General as the people might know what they thought of the matter. 46. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 17, 1774.] 77. Saturday. 
This was one of the happiest days of my life. 
In Congress we had generous, noble sentiments, and manly eloquence. 
This day convinced me that America will support the Massachusetts or perish with her. 2 .... 47. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 [September 17, 1774.] Saturday. 
I send the Resolves of this day, which are applauded to the skies by the inhabitants of this city, so will say nothing more about them. 2 When I shall return is as uncertain as it was on my first entering the city. 
I arm myself with patience, and determine not to desert the cause P. S Am engaged to dine out every day this week, once with Mr. Dickinson and once with a Quaker just married. 
You will begin to suspect we do nothing else, but I assure you it is hard work. 
We meet at nine and sit until three, by which time we are unable to do anything but eat and drink the rest of the day. 3 48. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 18 September, 1774. .... When the horrid news was brought here of the bombardment of Boston, which made us completely miserable for two days, we saw proofs both of the sympathy and the resolution of the continent. 
War! war! war! was the cry, and it was pronounced in a tone which would have done honor to the oratory of a Briton or a Roman. 
If it had proved true, you would have heard the thunder of an American Congress. 2 .... 2 See the Suffolk resolves in the Journals, Sept. 17 and "18". See no. 38 and note 4, ante; also no. 49, note 2. ■ ; Pennsylvania Packet, Sept. 19, 1774. [46] » Works, II. 380. 2 The reference is to the resolves of Congress in response to the Suffolk resolves. 
See no. 38, note 4, ante. (47] l Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 183; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 28. 2 Cf. no. 46, ante. 1 Cf. no. 39, ante, nos. 49, 74 (note 4), post. (48] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 38. 2 See nos. 9, II, 12, 19, 21, ante, no. 53, post. 
September, 1774 35 49. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 18 September, 1774. .... The proceedings of the Congress are all a profound secret as yet, except two votes which were passed yesterday, and ordered to be printed. 
You will see them from every quarter. 
These votes were passed in full Congress with perfect unanimity. 2 The esteem, the affection, the admiration for the people of Boston and the Massachusetts which were expressed yesterday, and the fixed determination that they should be supported, were enough to melt a heart of stone. 
I saw the tears gush into the eyes of the old grave pacific Quakers of Pennsylvania. 
You cannot conceive, my dear, the hurry of business, visits, ceremonies, which we are obliged to go through. 8 We have a delicate course to steer between too much activity and too much insensibility in our critical, interested situation. 
I flatter myself, however, that we shall conduct our embassy
It has taken us much time to get acquainted with the tempers, views, characters, and designs of persons, and to let them into the circumstances of our province. 
My dear, do intreat every friend I have to write me. Every line which comes from our friends is greedily inquired after, and our letters have done us vast service. 
Middlesex and Suffolk have acquired unbounded honor here. 
There is no idea of submission here in anybody's head 50. George Read to Mrs. Read. 1 [September 18, 1774.] .... I long to be with you, but dare not hint a time lest I could not keep it, but you may be assured, if I can discover a few days that I can with propriety be absent, I will seize the opportunity. 
If I had been able to have travelled through yesterday, I should have blamed myself for being absent, as two matters were debated which I would have chosen to appear in, — to wit, a resolve of approbation of the conduct of the people of [49] * Familiar Letters, p. 39. 2 Cf. no. 38, note 4, ante. 
The entry in the Journals (ed. Ford) is under " Saturday, September 18 ". The manuscript Journal actually reads " Saturday, Sept. 10th ", but the heading is evidently an error on the part of the clerk who recorded the minutes. 
The writing at this point is not that of Charles Thomson. 
September 18 was Sunday, but there is no evidence that there was a session of Congress on Sunday. 
But for this heading the paragraph appears to be a continuation of the proceedings of Saturday, September 17. 3 Cf. nos. 39, 47, ante, no. 74 (note 4), post. 4 The text in Familiar Letters has " ourselves ", but in the earlier publication of Adams's Letters (see no. 43, note 4, ante) the reading is " our embassy ", and this is, no doubt, what Adams wrote. 
There are many evidences, even at a much later period in the life of the Continental Congress, that delegates were inclined to regard Congress as a gathering of ambassadors of sovereign states. 
Moreover the result of this small alteration of the text is to give a misleading slant to the sentence. 
By " our embassy "Adams meant the Massachusetts delegation; and by "our country" he meant Massachusetts. 
Apparently a sentiment permissible to one's ancestor in 1841 required softening in 1876. [50] 1 Read, Life of George Read, p. 94. 36 Continental Congress Boston and county of Suffolk, which includes Boston, since the operation of the port-bill ; and another resolve for a further contribution from all the colonies for the support of the poor of Boston, both of which will be published tomorrow. 
These were suddenly done in consequence of an application from Boston to the Congress for their advice upon the late measures of General Gage, in fortifying the neck of land that leads into Boston. 2 .... 51. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 19, 1774.] ipth. 
The Congress met, and resumed the business, and adjourned. 2 The Committee met, resumed the consideration of Rights, and adjourned. (Mr. Hopkins sick.) 52. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 Monday evening, 11 o'clock, 19th Sept. 1774. I tell you on the other page that I shall not be so particular in my future letters. 
I shall not have time : for the business of the Congress having been at Committees, and the Committees I w r as upon having the least difficulty, has given me time to scribble ; but as both Committees are now ready to report, we shall attend night and day until we are through, or adjourn. 
I believe we shall adjourn until May next, but this is out of door talk 53. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney. 1 Philadelphia, Monday, September 19, 1774. Sir: Sometime ago I do not doubt but you were all much alarmed, on a report that the King's ships were firing on the town of Boston. 
When that news came to this city the bells were muffled, and kept ringing all that day ; however, in a few days after, that news was contradicted here, and hope by this time it is so with you. 
By some late very authentick accounts from Boston Government to the gentlemen of that place now at the Congress, we are informed that there was about three days between this report's passing through the Massachusetts and Connecticut Governments, and its being contradicted. 2 .... 2 Cf. nos. 44, 45, 46, ante. 
I51] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 441. 2 See the Journals, Sept. 19. [52] ' N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 29; Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 184. This is in fact a postscript to a letter written at intervals during more than a week preceding. 
I53] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 793; Niles, Principles of the Revolution, p. 246. 2 Cf. no. 48, and note 2, ante. 
An interesting investigation of the rumor is found in the Diary of Hera Stiles (ed. Dexter), I. 477-485. September, 1774 37 54. Samuel Adams to Charles Chauncy. 1 Philadelphia, September 19, 1774. Reverend Sir: .... Last Friday Mr. Revere brought us the spirited and patriotick Resolves of your County of Suffolk. 
We laid them before the Congress. 
They were read with great applause, and the Enclosed Resolutions were unanimously passed, which give you a faint idea of the spirit of the Congress. 
I think I may assure you that America will make a point of supporting Boston to the utmost. 2 I have not time to enlarge, and must therefore conclude with assuring you that I am, with great regard, your affectionate and humble servant, Samuel Adams. 55. Richard Henry Lee to William Lee. 1 Philadelphia 20th Septr 1774 Dear Brother, We have been here in full Congress of Deputies from 11 Principal Colonies
The proceedings are yet on honor to be kept secret, but we have great hopes that their vigor and unanimity will prove the ruin of our Ministerial Enemies and the salvation of American Liberty. 
About a fortnight more will produce a publication of our plan, after which, you shall have it by the first opportunity 56. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 20, 21, 1774.] 20th. The Committee met, resumed etc., and adjourned. (Mr. Hopkins sick.) 2 1st. The Committee met, resumed, and adjourned. (Mr. Hopkins sick.) Desired a Congress to be held. 2 57. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 21, 1774.] 21. Wednesday Attended Congress from nine to after three. [54] * Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 155; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 793. Dr. Charles Chauncy (1705-1787) was minister of the First Church in Boston. 2 See the Journals, Sept. 17 and " 18"; also no. 38, note 4, ante. [SSVN. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., Continental Congress, 1774, no. 414; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 123. 2 At this time all the colonies except Georgia were represented. 
The delegates from North Carolina had taken their seats Sept. 14. [56] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 441. 2 The great committee's report of the rights of the colonies was brought in and read on the 226. See the Journals, Sept. 22, 24, 26. Cf. no. 52, ante. [57V Works, II. 381. 2 Evidently the great committee rather than Congress. 
See no. 56, ante, and the Journals, Sept. 19. 38 Continental Congress &■ 58. James Duane, Propositions before Committee on Rights. 1 [September 7-22, 1774.] 2 A firm Union between the Parent State and her Colonies ought to be the great object of this Congress. 
It is this alone which can ensure the permanent Stability of the british empire and the mutual Happiness of it's respective Members. 
In the Resolves therefore to be adopted the Prerogatives of the Crown, the Interest of Great Britain and the Rights of the Colonies ought each to have their proper Influence, and our proceedings to be tempered not only with a Regard to Justice but a desire of Reconciliation. 
I. The Supremacy of the Crown will be secured upon the Principle that the King is entitled to the same allegiance and to the like royal Prerogatives in the respective Colonies as are due from his Subjects and appertains to his Sovereignty within the Realm of England. 
II. The Rights of the british Nation. 
These may be divided into two Branches : ( 1 ) The Advantages of Commerce. (2) Aids from the Colonists for the Defence of the Empire. (1) The Advantages of Commerce. 
These arise a. By furnishing the parent State in preference to every other Country with so much of the Produce of the Colonies as they can spare and she may require. b. By receiving from her exclusively every Commodity she may raise or Manufacture, and of which we stand in need. 3[c]. By admitting only her ships navigated with her Subjects, to a commercial Intercourse with the respective Colonies. 4[d]. By yielding up to her the Power of regulating the general Trade of the Empire to answer these purposes, and to preserve a uniform System in this respect among the several Colonies. 
The difficulty is to establish a Principle upon which we can submit this Authority to Parliament without the Danger of their pleading a Right to bind us in all Cases whatsoever. z I think a solid Distinction may be taken. 
It has hitherto been a received Maxim that we brought over as our Birth right the Common Law of England, and such Statutes, applicable to our local Circumstances, as existed at the Time of our Colonization; and that these, with our Charter Rights, and provincial Codes, form our Colony Constitutions. 
This principle seems indisputable : because every [sSpN. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Duane Papers, IV, 213; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Papers, II. (copy) ; Jones, Memoir of Duane, app. 
II. 2 The precise time when these Propositions were presented in the committee can not be determined with certainty. 
Duane himself endorsed upon the document: " Propositions offered by J. Duane, to the Committee for stating Rights, Grievances and the Means of Redress. 
In Congress at Philadelphia, between 7th and 226 September, 1774."The propositions were anticipated in Duane's address, Sept. 8 (no. 22, ante), but probably were not drawn up until after that date. 3 First written: "Danger of a hurtful precedent". September, 1774 39 Charter comprehends a prohibitory Clause against enacting any Laws repugnant to those of England ; which necessarily implies that the latter must originally have extended and been the Basis of our Constitution. 
Some of the Colonies have been planted since the navigation Act passed in the Reign of King Charles the Second, which explicitly asserts claims and reserves for the people of England the Commercial Advantages we have enumerated. 
In such Colonies therefore this Statute is a part of the Law of the Land. 
Others have adopted or extended it by positive Law. All have submitted to and acquiesced in its Authority for more than a Century. 
By all therefore the Regulation of Trade may be yielded to Parliament upon the Footing of a Compact, reasonable in itself, and essential to the well-being of the whole Empire as a Commercial People. 
The Principle from which our exclusive Colony Legislation with respect to Taxation and internal Polity is derived, will not be crossed by such a Concession, and this is the point to be guarded. (2). Aids from the Colonists for the Defence of the Empire. 
These are founded in Justice due for Protection, and necessary for common Preservation. 
The Difficulty of drawing together the Strength, and the Just Contributions, of so many separate Branches of the Empire, and the danger of leaving it to the discretion of each, is the great Basis on which the Reasonableness of parliamentary Interposition is built. 
Nothing coud be more conciliatory than to obviate this objection. 
For that purpose it is proper. 1. That each Colony shoud engage to provide a Competent and honourable Support for the administration of Government and Justice within its own Limits. 2. That considering the present perilous state of the National Funds, and the protection we constantly derive from it's Fleets, a present Supply be recommended in Lieu of the Money extorted from Us under the falacious Idea of regulating the Trade. 3. That a Plan be offered for ascertaining the Quotas and securing the aids of every Colony in case of future Emergency. 1st. The first we justly consider as a privilege instead of a Burthen. 2. To a present Supply is objected the Danger of its being employed as a Means of Corruption : but this might be prevented by a specific application : to the support, for Instance, of a certain Number of the royal Navy on an American Establishment, the Funds to be raised by the Authority and on the Inhabitants of each Colony in such proportion as might be agreed upon in general Congress. 3. The Plan for securing the Aids of the Colonies in future Emergencies, can only be established by the mutual Consent of the Crown and the respective Colony Assemblies. 
Woud it not be sufficient for this purpose if Deputies from each respective House of Assembly shoud be authorized by provincial Laws, when called upon by the Crown, to meet its Commissioners in a general Continental Council
I do not know that the Dutch States
Common Interest, which is the only Cement of such States, will prove a sufficient Obligation. 
III. The Rights of the Colonies. 
These as has been already intimated are derived i. From the Common Law of England and such antient Statutes applicable to our local Circumstances, as existed at the time of our Colonization which are fundamentals in our Constitution. 2. From our respective Charters confirming those Rights. 3. From our several Codes of provincial Laws. 
Nothing seems necessary for the preservation of those Rights but an exclusive provincial Legislation in each Colony, respecting Taxation and internal Polity, and comprehending the Dispensation of Justice both civil and criminal; subject only to the Negative of the Crown where that negative has not been ceded by royal Charter. 
If these Ideas are just, and properly arranged, then the Resolves of the Congress may be to the following Effect. 
I. That his Majesty is entitled to the same Allegiance and to the like royal Prerogatives in these his loyal Colonies as are due from his Subjects and constitute his Sovereignty within the Realm of England. [A] 6 II. That the Acts of Navigation, and for the Encouragement of Trade, passed in the reign of King Charles the second, tho' in some Respects extremely burthensome to the Colonies, do in their general Tendency establish
Inasmuch as there is no definite indication that any one of the three was discarded outright all of them are here given. 
In the document in which the propositions were first drawn up as a whole article II. was much expanded and largely rewritten in three successive marginal emendations. 
It is here given under [A]. Of the other two drafts, [B] and [C] (found in Duane Papers, IV. 221, 223), the internal evidences indicate that they were drawn up in the order here presented, although the first of the two in some respects suggests greater maturity of thought. 
The article has left its mark, in several places, upon the language of the series of resolutions adopted Oct. 14. See below, note 36. To what extent these drafts and their successive amendments are the result of discussion in the committee can not positively be determined. 
See no. 62, note 2, post. 7 The words "tho' .... establish" are a marginal emendation, "are" before " wise " being erased. 8 Originally, " adopted and extended ". 9 The word provincial is an insertion here and was dropped in subsequent drafts. 
September, 1774 41 Kingdom and these 10 Colonies, which has reserved " to the british 12 Parliament the supreme direction and superintendance 13 over the general Trade of all his Majesty's Dominions, and that this Authority interwoven with our Establishments from their first Rise ought not to be drawn into Question, 14 provided 15 that such Authority is bona fide restrained to the Regulation of our foreign 16 Trade for the purpose of securing the commercial advantages of the whole Empire to Great Britain and with a due Regard to the 1T commercial benefit of its respective Members and excluding any Idea of Taxation internal and external for raising a Revenue on the subjects of America without their consent. [The latter part of this article was again recast, although the passage replaced was not crossed out. 
Preceding the paragraph Duane inserted the words : " This was changed (?) by : — "] And this Authority, exercised bona fide for the purposes of securing the Commercial Advantages of the whole Empire to Great Britain, with a Just Regard to the Interests 1S of its respective Members, ought not to be Questioned, But in this Declaration we absolutely exclude every Idea of Taxation internal and external for raising a Revenue on the Subjects of America without their Consent. [B] II. That the Acts of Navigation and for the Encouragement of Trade passed in the Reign of King Charles the second, tho' in some Respects extremely burthensome to the Colonies, do in their general Tendency establish wise and salutary Regulations on which the Wealth, Strength and Safety of the whole british Empire greatly depend; and having become necessary by the policy of other Nations and 19 taken place before the Settlement of some of the Colonies, and been adopted in others in their Infancy by positive Law, and in all submitted to and recognized for more than a Century, ought to be considered in the Light of a Compact between the parent State 20 and these Colonies. 
That 21 from the Spirit of 10 First written "her". 11 First written " reserved and secured ". 12 " British " substituted for " English ". 13 The phrase first used was " an exclusive authority ". 14 This was originally written " cannot and ought not to be drawn into Question or disputed ". 15 As originally written the article ended with the preceding sentence, the passage, "provided .... consent", being added on the margin of the document. 
That part of the article from the word " Kingdom " to the word " Trade " was then rewritten, and finally the latter part of this was still further recast, as indicated in the text. i6 When this passage was rewritten in the margin the word " foreign " was dropped. 
Cf. the phrase " external commerce " in the resolutions of Oct. 14, article 4. 17 The words " and with a due Regard to the " were substituted for " in the first place and the equal ". 18 The words " Commercial benefit " were here erased. 
They are nevertheless found in the resolution (no. 4) as adopted Oct. 14. 19 The clause "become .... and" is inserted. 
Cf. [A]. 20 " State " here takes the place of " Kingdom " in [A]. Duane here wrote the first syllable of the word Kingdom, then erased it. 21 The passage " That .... superintend " is a marginal emendation substituted for " which has reserved to the Parliament of Great Britain the Supreme Direction and Superintendance over the general". Cf. [A]. 42 Continental Congress &'this Compact," and the Necessity of a Supreme controlling Power in this Respect, and for the Protection which we have enjoyed and still derive from Great Britain, we chearfully acknowledge that it belongs only to Parliament to direct and superintend the Trade of all his Majesty's Dominions, And that this Authority, exercised bona fide for the Purposes of securing the Commercial Advantages of the whole Empire to Great Britain, with a Just Regard to the Interests of its respective Members, ought not to be drawn into Question. 
But in this Declaration we absolutely exclude every Idea of Taxation internal and external for raising a Revenue on the Subjects of America without their Consent. [C] II. That the Acts of Navigation and for the Encouragement of Trade passed in the Reign of King Charles the second, tho' in some Respects extremely burthensome upon the Colonists, do in their general Tendency establish wise and Salutary Regulations on which the Wealth, Strength and Safety of the whole british Empire greatly depend ; and 23 having taken place before the Settlement of some of the Colonies, in others been adopted in their Infancy by positive Laws and in all submitted to and recognized for more than a Century, ought to be considered in the Light of an ancient 24 Compact between the parent State and the Colonies. 
From 25 the Spirit whereof, the expediency of a controuling Power over 26 the general Commerce of the Empire, as well as on Account of the Protection we have derived from the 2T parent Kingdom, we chearfully acknowledge that it belongs only to the british Parliament to direct and superintend the Trade of all his Majesty's Dominions, and that this Authority, while it is exercised bona fide for the Purposes of securing the Advantages of the Commerce of the whole Empire to Great Britain, with a Just Regard to the Interests of its respective Members, ought not to be questioned. 
In this Declaration we nevertheless absolutely exclude 28 every Idea of Taxation internal and external for raising a Revenue on the Subjects of America without their Consent. 22 The words " Protection we stand in need of and derive from Great Britain " are here erased and introduced in a modified form below. 23 The words "From [altered to "Justified by"] the Policy of other European Nations they become indispensable highly expedient and" were erased. 
Cf. [B]. - 4 The qualifying adjective "reasonable" was first used. 
This gave place to "ancient and beneficial", and this in turn to "ancient". Cf. [A] and [B]. 25 The passage " From .... Kingdom " is a marginal substitution. 
The erased passage, which is nearly the same as in [B], is as follows: "From the Spirit therefore of that Compact, the Necessity of a supreme controuling power in this respect, as well as for the Protection which we have enjoyed and still derive from Great Britain ". -° Substituted for " From the Spirit of these ancient Acts the Utility of one Supreme controuling Power for regulating". 27 The words " Naval Strength of the " are here erased. 28 " In ... . exclude" is substituted for "excluding", the first emendation being: " In this Declaration however we absolutely exclude ". As first written the phrase " ought not to be drawn into Question " was at the end of the paragraph, following " consent ". In article
September, 1774 43 III. That it is the Duty of the several Colonies not only to provide a Competent and honourable Support for the administration of his Majesty's Government and the Dispensation of Justice within their respective Limits : but also to grant a present and annual Supply towards defraying the Expence of the royal Navy from which we derive the great Blessing of Protection in Common with the rest of our Fellow Subjects throughout the Empire. 
IV. That it is the Duty of the several Colonies on every Emergency that may threaten the Security 29 of the Empire to contribute their aids of Men and money in the common Cause, according to their several abilities, and that this Congress is firmly persuaded that the respective Legislatures of the Colonies will agree to any reasonable Plan which shall be recommended by his Majesty for drawing forth the united Strength and Aids of these Branches of his royal Dominions, whenever it shall be found necessary. 
V. That the Colonies are 30 entitled to the benefits of the common Law of England and such of the Statutes of that Realm as existed at the time of our Colonization [and from experience have been found] applicable to [their respective] local circumstances. 31 We do not however admit but absolutely reject the Authority of the Statutes of 26th King Henry 8th ch. 13th, 32 and King Edward
That these His Majesty's Colonies are likewise [?] entitled to all the Immunities and Priviledges granted to them by the royal Charters and Confirmed and secured by their several Codes of provincial Laws ; And that these respective Rights cannot be altered or abridged by any other Authority than that of their respective Legislatures. 35 29 The words " of any part " are erased. 30 The word "respective" before "Colonies", and the words "bound by and"after " are " are erased. 31 The words in brackets in this sentence were inserted by another hand (William Paca ?). As written by Duane the passage read: " such of the Statutes of that Realm, applicable to our local Circumstances, as existed at the time of our Colonization ". Cf. article
VIII. c. 13. The same hand inserted " 26th ", above. 33 From this point the words in brackets in this article, excepting one clause, were inserted by Edmund Pendleton. 
The clause " which .... Colonists " is in an unidentified writing. 
Cf. the preamble to the resolutions of Oct. 14 (the Journals, I. 65.) 34 Duane wrote : " where Justice is duly administered " ; also " proper " before " Tribunals ", near the close of the sentence. 35 In the Duane papers (IV. 225) is a first rough draft of this article in Duane's cryptic writing, wherein the passage " We do not however admit .... legal Trial " is added in the margin, with considerable tentative phrasing. 
On the same sheet is a draft of the first part of article VI. of these propositions, but numbered "8". 44 Continental Congress &'VI. That the Colonists within their several Colonies are respectively entitled to a free and exclusive power of Legislation in all cases of Taxation and internal Polity, subject only to the negative of the Crown, when that Negative has not been ceded by royal Charter. 
And that the Representatives of the people in General Assembly constitute a fundamental indispensable Branch in such Legislation. 36 59. John Rutledge [?], Resolution proposed in Committee on Rights. 1 [September 7-22, 1774.] The Colonists in the several Colonies are bound by and entitled to the Benefit of those parts of the Common Law of England, of the Civil and Maritime Law used there ; and of the Statutes of that Kingdom of Force there at the Settlement of the Colonies which are applicable to them and from their local Circumstances are not impracticable here. 
And the like parts of the Statutes of Great Brittain made from that time for Securing the Rights and Liberties of the Subject. 
We do not however admit into this Collection but absolutely reject the Statutes of Henry
They are also entitled to the Ifmmunities] and priviledges which have been from ti [me] to time granted to them respectively by royal Charters ; and to a free and exclusive Power of Legislation in all Cases of Taxation and internal policy. 
Such parts of the Common Civil and Maritime Law and of the Statutes of Great Brittain the Acts of our several Assemblies and the Charters granted to the Colonies and these only constitute the Law of the Land and the Rights and priviledges of the people in the Colonies. 
These cannot be altered or abridged by any Authority but our respective Legislatures. 2 36 As first written this paragraph began : " That the Colonies are respectivelyentitled ". The last sentence is added in the margin. 
The first part of the article exists also in the form of a rough draft (see note 35). The extent to which Duane's proposed resolutions found place in the resolutions adopted Oct. 14 may be seen by a comparison with articles 4, 5, 6, and
Nothing comparable to Duane's articles I., III., and IV. is found in the resolutions. 
These ideas did however in some measure find place in the petition to the king. 
It has been maintained that article
Resolutions 5, 6, and
That part of Duane's article V. respecting treasons finds place for the most part in the preamble to the resolutions (see the Joui-nals, I. 65), and the last sentence in that article is incorporated, with slight change, in resolution 10. In regard to the right of Parliament to regulate the trade of the colonies, set forth by Duane in the first part of his second article, see nos. 97, 100, 101, post, where some of these ideas and phrases are repeated. 159] 1 N. Y. Hist. 
Soc., Duane Papers, IV. 227. 2 This document is found with Duane's Propositions printed in the preceding pages and is entirely in Duane's writing; but at the top of the sheet is the endorsement: " Mr. Rutledge's resolution offered in committee ". The endorsement, which is in pencil, is in a writing resembling that of John Rutledge ; it is not Duane's. While the language of the proposition is in large part the same as that of Duane's article V. it September, 1774 45 60. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 23, 1774.] 23d. The Committee met and considered grievances, and adjourned. 2 61. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 My Dear, .... I told you in my last, that I could not in future be so particular ; but as I gave you a sketch of the S. Carolina and Virginia delegates, and the North Carolina being now arrived, I will fill up the space by telling you there are three of them — Mr. Hooper, Mr. Caswell, and Mr. [Hewes]. The first is a Bostonian bred, and educated at Cambridge College, classmate with Jos. Trumbull ; a lawyer by profession ; ingenuous, polite, spirited, and tolerably eloquent. 
The other two are men of about forty, to appearance; of sedate and settled characters, well affected to the general Cause, but have not spoke as yet publicly Our business, you begin to think, proceeds slow, but it is not in consequence of any divisions or altercation in the Congress, but from the vast, extensive, and lasting importance of the questions before us Friday, 23 Sepr, 1774. 62. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 24, 1774.] 24th. Congress met, considered rights, grievances, and ways and means, and adjourned. 2 contains some features not found in that article. 
It is possibly a modification of that article drawn up by Rutledge, which Duane copied. 
That it is a copy is indicated by these facts : excepting one word the document is without erasure, which is not at all characteristic of Duane's papers. 
The one word erased is " there ", replaced immediately on the line by " their ". The spelling " Brittain " occurs where the word is used, whereas Duane was not accustomed so to spell the word. 
These things indicate that Duane was copying a manuscript other than his own. 
The best evidence that the language of the article as it appears in the propositions originated with Duane is the existence of his first tentative draft, as well as that presented to the committee, which shows by its successive modifications how the article took form under his hand. [60] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 441. 2 The committee's report on the infringements of rights was presented to Congress on the following day. 
The report was prepared by John Sullivan. 
See the Journals, Sept. 24, and Oct. 14. [61] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 184; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 30. [62] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 441. 2 A passage in John Adams's Autobiography {Works, V. 373) summarizes, although not with entire correctness, the work of the great committee and its subcommittees on rights, grievances, etc. : " The more we conversed with the gentlemen of the country, and with the members of Congress, the more we were encouraged to hope for a general union of the continent. 
As the proceedings of this Congress are in print, I shall have occasion to say little of them. 
A few observations may not be amiss. " After some days of general discussions, two committees were appointed of twelve members each, one from each state, Georgia not having yet come in. The first committee was instructed to prepare a bill of rights, as it was called, or a declaration of the rights of the Colonies; the second, a list of infringements or violations of those rights. 46 Continental Congress Congress was pleased to appoint me on the first committee, as the member for Massachusetts. " It would be endless to attempt even an abridgment of the discussions in this committee, which met regularly every morning for many days successively, till it became an object of jealousy to all the other members of Congress. 
It was, indeed, very much against my judgment that the committee was so soon appointed, as I wished to hear all the great topics handled in Congress at large in the first place. 
They were very deliberately considered and debated in the committee, however. 
The two points which labored the most were : I. Whether we should recur to the law of nature, as well as to the British constitution, and our American charters and grants. 
Mr. Galloway and Mr. Duane were for excluding the law of nature. 
I was very strenuous for retaining and insisting on it, as a resource to which we might be driven by Parliament much sooner than we were aware. 2. The other great question was, what authority we should concede to Parliament ; whether we should deny the authority of Parliament in all cases ; whether we should allow any authority to it in our internal affairs ; or whether we should allow it to regulate the trade of the empire with or without any restrictions. 
These discussions spun into great length, and nothing was decided. 
After many fruitless essays, the committee determined to appoint a sub-committee to make a draught of a set of articles that might be laid in writing before the grand committee, and become the foundation of a more regular debate and final decision. 
I was appointed on the sub-committee, in which, after going over the ground again, a set of articles were drawn and debated one by one. 
After several days deliberation, we agreed upon all the articles excepting one, and that was the authority of Parliament, which was indeed the essence of the whole controversy ; some were for a flat denial of all authority ; others for denying the power of taxation only, some for denying internal, but admitting external, taxation. 
After a multitude of motions had been made, discussed, negatived, it seemed as if we should never agree upon any thing. 
Mr. John Rutledge of South Carolina, one of the committee, addressing himself to me, was pleased to say, ' Adams, we must agree upon something; you appear to be as familiar with the subject as any of us, and I like your expressions, — " the necessity of the case ", and " excluding all ideas of taxation, external and internal"; I have a great opinion of that same idea of the necessity of the case, and I am determined against all taxation for revenue. 
Come, take the pen and see if you can't produce something that will unite us.' Some others of the committee seconding Mr. Rutledge, I took a sheet of paper and drew up an article. 
When it was read, I believe not one of the committee was fully satisfied with it; but they all soon acknowledged that there was no hope of hitting on any thing in which we could all agree with more satisfaction. 
All therefore agreed to this, and upon this depended the union of the Colonies. 
The sub-committee reported their draught to the grand committee, and another long debate ensued, especially on this article, and various changes and modifications of it were attempted, but none adopted. " The articles were then reported to Congress, and debated, paragraph by paragraph. 
The difficult article was again attacked and defended. 
Congress rejected all amendments to it, and the general sense of the members was, that the article demanded as little as could be demanded, and conceded as much as could be conceded with safety, and certainly as little as would be accepted by Great Britain; and that the country must take its fate, in consequence of it. When Congress had gone through the articles, I was appointed to put them into form and report a fair draught for their final acceptance. 
This was done, and they were finally accepted. " The committee of violations of rights reported a set of articles which were drawn by Mr. John Sullivan of New Hampshire; and these two declarations, the one of rights and the other of violations, which are printed in the journals of Congress for 1774, were two years afterwards recapitulated in the Declaration of Independence, on the Fourth of July, 1776."This statement of Adams, particularly the second paragraph, contains some errors, as a reference to the Journals will show. 
The first committee was appointed to state both the rights of the colonies and the instances of infringement, as well as to suggest the proper means of obtaining a restoration of them (see the Journals, Sept. 6). This great committee, however, appointed on Sept. 9 a subcommittee to draw up a statement of rights, and on Sept. 14 another subcommittee to state the infringements of rights (see nos. 26, 37, ante). As at first constituted this committee consisted of two members from each colony and therefore contained 22 members (see the Journals, Sept. 7). The Massachusetts members were Samuel and John Adams. 
On Sept. 14 the two North Carolina members, William Hooper and Joseph Hewes, who had just arrived, were added, and on Sept. 19, Thomas Cushing, Patrick Henry, and Thomas Mifflin were also added to this committee, thereby giving to Massachusetts, Virginia, and Pennsylvania three members each. 
The second committee, which was to report the statutes which affected the trade and manufactures of the colonies, consisted of one September, 1//4 47 63. Samuel Adams to Joseph Warren. 1 Philadelphia, September 25, 1774. My Dear Sir, .... The congress have, in their resolve of the 17th instant, given their sanction to the resolutions of the county of Suffolk, one of which is to act merely on the defensive, so long as such conduct may be justified by reason and the principles of self-preservation, but no longer. 
They have great dependence upon your tried patience and fortitude. 
They suppose you mean to defend your civil constitution. 
They strongly recommend perseverance in a firm and temperate conduct, and give you a full pledge of their united efforts in your behalf. 
They have not yet come to final resolutions. 
It becomes them to be deliberate. 2 I have been assured, in private conversation, with individuals, that, if you should be driven to the necessity of acting in the defence of your lives or liberty, you would be justified by their constituents, and openly supported by all the means in their power ; but whether they will ever be prevailed upon to think it necessary for you to set up another form of government, I very much question, for the reason I have before suggested. 
It is of the greatest importance, that the American opposition should be united, and that it should be conducted so as to concur with the opposition of our friends in England. 
Adieu. 64. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 25 September, 1774. I would not lose the opportunity of writing to you, though I must be short. 
Tedious indeed is our business — slow as snails. 
I have not been used to such ways. 
We sit only before dinner. 
We dine at four o'clock. 
We are crowded with a levee in the evening. 
Fifty gentlemen meeting together, all strangers, are not acquainted with each other's language, ideas, views, designs. 
They are therefore jealous of each other — fearful, timid, skittish. 2 member from each colony. 
William Hooper was also added to this committee (Sept. 14), which now consisted of twelve members. 
On Sept. 17 this committee brought in a report, which, on Sept. 19, was referred to the committee for stating the rights, etc. 
The committee's report on rights was brought in on Sept. 22, its report on the infringements of rights on Sept. 24. See the Journals, Sept. 17, 19, 22, 24; cf. nos. 12, 13, 14, 20, 26, 58, ante, and nos. 81, 82, 102, post. 
Sullivan's articles on the violations of rights, reported by the committee Sept. 24. are printed in the Journals, under Oct. 14, side by side with the resolutions as adopted on that day. _ Touching the phrases " the necessity of the case " and " excluding all ideas of taxation, external and internal ", Adams's claim to the authorship of the first may be good, although a similar phrase is found in some forms of Duane's proposition II., above {cf. Adams's Diary, Oct. 13, and Ward's remarks, in Duane's Notes of Debates, Oct. 12) ; but the phrase "excluding every idea of taxation, internal or external" (Adams does not quote the phraseology of the resolution correctly) seems unquestionably to have originated with Duane. 
See no. 58, ante ; also no. 98, post. [63] 1 Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 157; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 2 See no. 44, note 2, ante; cf. no. 38, and note 4, ante. 
See also the Journals, Oct. 6-11. [64] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 42. 2 Cf. nos. 74, 75, 89, 91, 112, post. 8 48 Continental Congress 65. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 26, 1774.] 26th. The Congress met, agreed upon non-importation, and adjourned. 2 66. John Adams to Joseph Palmer. 1 Philadelphia September 26, 1774. Dr. Sir. .... Before this reaches you the Sense of the Congress concerning your Wisdom, Fortitude and Temperance, in the Massachusetts in general to be Submitted to a Moment. 
But then, when you ask the Question what is to be done? they answer Stand Still, bear, with Patience, if you come to a Rupture with the Troops all is lost. 
Resuming the first Charter, Absolute Indepen'cy etc. are Ideas which Startle People here. 
It Seems to be the general opinion here that it is practicable for Us in the Massachusetts to live wholly without a Legislature and Courts of Justice as long as will be necessary to obtain Relief. 
If it is practicable, the general Opinion is, that We ought to bear it. 2 The Commencement of Hostilities is exceedingly dreaded here. 
It is thought that an Attack upon the Troops, even tho it should prove successfull and triumphant, would certainly involve the whole Continent in a War. It is generally thought here that the Ministry would rejoice at a Rupture in Boston, because that would furnish him with an Excuse to the People at home, and unite them with him in an opinion of the Necessity of pushing Hostilities, against Us To Joseph Palmer Esq. 3 67. John Adams, Notes of Debates. 1 [September 26, 27. 1774.] 2 Mr. Lee made a motion for a non-importation. 
Mr. Mifflin. 
The first of November ought to be fixed ; for no honest orders were sent after the first of June. 
Orders are generally sent in April and May. But the intention was known of a non-importation. 
Colonel Bland. 
I think the time ought to be fixed, when goods are shipped in Great Britain, because a ship may have a long voyage. [6s] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 441. 2 The resolve in favor of non-importation was passed on the following day. 
See the Journals. 166] ! N. E. Hist, and Geneal. 
Register, XXX. 306. 2 See the Journals, Sept. 17, and no. 44, note 2, ante; cf. nos. 63, ante, 74, post. 3 Joseph Palmer was a member of the Massachusetts Provincial Congress. 
An account of him is in the New Englander, Jan., 1845. Germantown, his residence, was near Braintree, the home of John Adams. [67] 1 Works, II. 382. 2 These debates must have taken place largely if not altogether on the 26th. See the Journals, Sept. 26, and no. 65, ante. 
Cf. nos. 69, 82, 93, post. 
September, 1774 49 Mr. Gadsden. 
For the first of November; we may be deceived and defrauded if we fix the time, when goods are shipped. 
Colonel Lee. Invoices have been antedated. 
Mr. John Rutledgc. 
I think all the ways and means should be proposed. 
Mr. Mifflin proposes stoppage of flax-seed and lumber to the West Indies, and non-importation of dutied articles; to commence
Force, I apprehend, is out of the question in our present inquiry. 
In 1770, the annual tax was thirteen millions; last year it was only ten millions. 
Land tax, malt tax, perpetual funds, amount to only ten millions. 
They are compelled to raise ten millions in time of peace. 
The emigrations from Great Britain prove that they are taxed as far as they can bear. 
A total non-importation and non-exportation to Great Britain and the West Indies must produce a national bankruptcy, in a very short space of time. 
The foreign trade of Great Britain is but four millions and a half ; as great a man as ever Britain produced calculated the trade with the Colonies at two millions. 
I believe the importation to the Colonies now represented, may be three millions. 
A non-exportation amounts to three millions more, and the debt due to four millions. 
Two thirds in the Colonies are clothed in British manufactures. 
Non-exportation of vastly more importance than a non-importation ; it affects the merchants as well as manufacturers, the trade as well as the revenue. 
Sixty thousand hogsheads of tobacco. 
Two hundred and twenty-five British ships employed. 
I am for a non-exportation of lumber to the West Indies immediately. 
The importance of the trade of the West Indies to Great Britain almost exceeds calculation. 
The sugar carries the greatest revenue; the rum a great deal. 
If you don't stop the lumber immediately, you can't stop it at all. 
If it takes place immediately, they can't send home their next year's crop. 
A non-exportation at a future day cannot avail us. What is the situation of Boston and the Massachusetts? A non-exportation at the Virginia day will not operate before the fall of 1776. I would not affect the trade of the Colonies to the Mediterranean or other parts of the world. 
I am for a more distant day than the first of November. 
Mr. Lynch. 
We want not only redress, but speedy redress. 
The mass can't live without government, I think, one year. 
Nothing less than what has been proposed by the gentleman last speaking, will put the Colonies in the state I wish to see them in. I believe the Parliament would grant us immediate relief. 
Bankruptcy would be the consequence if they did not. 
Mr. Gadsden. 
By saving our own liberties, we shall save those of the West Indies. 
I am for being ready, but I am not for the sword. 
The only way to prevent the sword from being used, is to have it ready. 
Though the Virginians are tied up, I would be for doing it without them. 3 Boston and New England can't hold out. 
The country will be
Don't let America look at this mountain and let it bring forth a mouse. 
Mr. Chase. 
We can't come into a non-exportation, immediately, without Virginia. 
Mr. Cashing for a non-importation, non-exportation, and non-consumption ; and immediately. 
Colonel Bland. 
It has been our glory — Mr. Hooper. 
We make some tobacco. 
I was instructed to protest against petitioning alone. 
Tar, pitch, and turpentine, we can ship nowhere but to Great Britain. 
The whole of the subsistence of the people in the southern ports is from naval stores. 
Great Britain cannot do without naval stores from North Carolina. 
Mr. Edward Rutledge. 
A gentleman from the other end of the room talked of generosity. 
True equality is the only public generosity. 
If Virginia raises wheat, instead of tobacco, they will not suffer. 
Our rice is an enumerated commodity. 
We shall, therefore, lose all our trade. 
I am both for non-importation and non-exportation, to take place immediately. 
Mr. Henry. 
We don't mean to hurt even our rascals, if we have any. 
I move that December may be inserted instead of November. 
Mr. Jay. Negotiation, suspension of commerce, and war, are the only three things. 
War is, by general consent, to be waved at present. 
I am for negotiation and suspension of commerce. 
Colonel Lee. All considerations of interest, and of equality of sacrifice, should be laid aside. 
Produce of the other Colonies is carried to market in the same year when it is raised, even rice. 
Tobacco is not until the next year. 
Mr. Sullivan. 
We export masts, boards, plank, fish, oil, and some potash. 
Ships we load with lumber for the West Indies, and thence carry sugar to England, and pay our debts that way. 
Every kind of lumber we export to the West Indies. 
Our lumber is made in the winter. 
Our ships sail in January or February for the West Indies. 
Colonel Dyer. 
They have now drawn the sword, in order to execute their plan of subduing America; and I imagine they will not sheathe it, but that next summer will decide the fate of America. 
To withdraw all commerce with Great Britain at once, would come upon them like a thunderclap. 
By what I heard yesterday, Great Britain is much more in our power than I expected ; — the masts from the northward, the naval stores from North Carolina. 
We are struggling for the liberties of the West Indies and of the people of Great Britain, as well as our own, and perhaps of Europe. 
Stopping the flax-seed to Ireland would greatly distress them. 
Mr. dishing. 
Whoever considers the present state of Great Britain and America, must see the necessity of spirited measures. 
Great Britain has drawn the sword against us, and nothing prevents her sheathing it in our bowels, but want of sufficient force. 
I think it absolutely necessary to agree to a non-importation and nonexportation immediately. 
September, 1774 51 68. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 28, 1774.] 28th. The Congress met. 
A plan of union between Great Britain and the Colonies presented by Mr. Galloway, considered, not committed, but ordered to lie on the table. 2 69. John Adams, Notes of Debates. 1 [September 28 ( ?), 1774.] ■ .... Mr. Gallozvay. 
The proposal I intended to make having been opposed, I have waited to hear a more effectual one. 
A general nonimportation from Great Britain and Ireland has been adopted, but I think this will be too gradual in its operation for the relief of Boston. 
A general non-exportation I have ever looked on as an undigested proposition. 
It is impossible America can exist under a total non-exportation. 
We, in this Province, should have tens of thousands of people thrown upon the cold hand of charity. 
Our ships would lie by the walls, our seamen would be thrown out of bread, our shipwrights, etc. out of employ, and it would affect the landed interest. 
It would weaken us in another struggle, which I fear is too near. [68] * Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 441. 2 Galloway's Plan of Union, together with his introductory resolution, is in the Journals (ed. Ford), I. 49. What is designated as Governor Franklin's version, a group of three resolutions, concerning which there is doubt whether they were proposed in Congress, is found at p. 48 (see Mr. Ford's note at p. 43). The resolution which Galloway says he submitted to Congress (see his statements, nos. 71, 72, post) differs from the Franklin version chiefly in the method by which the proposed union is to be approached. 
In large part the language of the two sets is identical. 
In the Duane Papers (vol. 
IV., folios 229-231) in the New York Historical Society is a copy of Galloway's Plan of Union, in an unidentified clerical hand, which bears this heading: "A Plan of a proposed Union between Great Britain and the Colonies of New Hampshire, The Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, the three lower counties on Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia." The text in the Journals is not preceded by such a heading, but that such an enumeration of the colonies had preceded the plan is indicated by the phrase " all the said colonies " in the first paragraph of the plan. 
The Duane copy otherwise varies from the text given in the Journals in only a few minor particulars. 
It is perhaps worth noting that in the first line the word " Legislature "is written above the word " Government ", the latter being left unerased. 
The document bears the following endorsement in the writing of James Duane : " Mr. Galloway's Motion and Plan of Union, proposed in Congress 28 Sepr 1774 Seconded and supported by the New York Delegates But finally rejected and ordered to be kept out of the minutes. 
Jas. Duane."In the same volume of the Duane Papers, at folio 234, is a copy of the Galloway resolution (found on page 49 of the Journals), in the same writing as that of the Plan. 
Below this resolution, but written transversely, is the following endorsement in the writing of Duane : " Resolves intended to be offered by Mr. Galloway and seconded by J. D. for promoting a Plan of Union between G. B. and A. But as the plan itself was rejected by the Congress; the resolves became fruitless and were not proposed." With this resolution (Duane Papers, vol. 
IV., folio 236), but in a different clerical hand, is a copy of the three resolutions given in the Journals as the Governor Franklin version. 
It is possible that Duane's statement was meant to apply to this set of resolves rather than the other ; his indication that they were not actually proposed in Congress seems otherwise to be out of harmony with Galloway's statement that his introductory resolve was proposed along with his plan. 
See, further, nos. 69, 71, 72, no, post. [69] 1 Works, II. 387- 52 Continental Congress To explain my plan, I must state a number of facts relative to Great Britain and relative to America. 
I hope no facts which I shall state will be disagreeable. 
In the last war, America was in the greatest danger of destruction. 
This was held up by the Massachusetts, and by the Congress in 1754. They said we are disunited among ourselves. 
There is no indifferent arbiter between us. Requisitions came over. 
A number of the Colonies gave most extensively and liberally ; others gave nothing or late. 
Pennsylvania gave late, not for want of zeal or loyalty, but owing to their disputes with proprietors, their disunited state. 
These delinquencies were handed up to the parent State, and these gave occasion to the Stamp Act. America, with the greatest reason and justice, complained of the Stamp Act. Had they proposed some plan of policy, some negotiation been set afoot, it would have terminated in the most happy harmony between the two countries. 
They repealed the Stamp Act, but they passed the Declaratory Act. Without some supreme legislature, some common arbiter, you are not, say they, part of the State. 
I am as much a friend of liberty as exists ; and no man shall go further in point of fortune, or in point of blood, than the man who now addresses you. 
Burlamaqui, Grotius, Puffendorf, Hooker. 
There must be a union of wills and strength ; distinction between a State and a multitude ; a State is animated by one soul. 
As we are not within the circle of the supreme jurisdiction of the Parliament, we are independent States. 
The law of Great Britain does not bind us in any case whatever. 
We want the aid and assistance and protection of the arm of our mother country. 
Protection and allegiance are reciprocal duties. 
Can we lay claim to the money and protection of Great Britain upon any principles of honor or conscience ? Can we wish to become aliens to the mother state ? We must come upon terms with Great Britain. 
Some gentlemen are not for negotiation. 
I wish I could hear some reason against it. The minister must be at twenty or thirty millions [expense] to enforce his measures. 
I propose this proposition. 
The plan — two classes of laws. 1. Laws of internal policy. 2. Laws in which more than one Colony are concerned — raising money for war. 
No one act can be done without the assent of Great Britain. 
No one without the assent of America. 
A British American Legislature. 2 - See the further remarks below, and Galloway's own account of his speech, quoted in the Journals (ed. Ford), I. 44. Concerning the resolution and plan, see no. 68 and note 2, ante, nos. 70, 71, 72, no, post. 
The following extract of a letter concerning his plan, written by Galloway to Thomas McKean, nineteen years later (London, March 7, 1793), is pertinent here: . ..." In the first Congress I delivered my opinion and proposed a plan of union between the two Countries which was founded in the liberty and safety of both. 
Its great principle was, that no law should bind America without her consent. 
I wished it might be made the basis of negotiation and peace, and declared, as many must recollect, September, 1774 53 Mr. Duane. 
As I mean to second this motion, I think myself bound to lay before the Congress my reasons. 
New York thought it necessary to have a Congress for the relief of Boston and Massachusetts, and to do more, to lay a plan for a lasting accommodation with Great Britain. 
Whatever may have been the motive for departing from the first plan of the Congress, I am unhappy that we have departed from it. The Postoffice Act was before the year 1763. Can we expect lasting tranquillity? I have given my full assent to a non-importation and non-exportation agreement. 
The right of regulating trade, from the local circumstances of the Colonies, and their disconnection with each other, cannot be exercised by the Colonies. 
Massachusetts disputed the Navigation Act, because not represented, but made a law of their own, to inforce that Act. Virginia did the same nearly. 
I think justice requires that we should expressly cede to Parliament the right of regulating trade. 
In the Congress of 1754, which consisted of the greatest and best men in the Colonies, this was considered as indispensable. 
A civil war with America would involve a national bankruptcy. 3 Colonel Lee. How did we go on for one hundred and sixty years before the year 1763? We flourished and grew. 
This plan would make such changes in the Legislature of the Colonies, that I could not agree to it without consulting my constituents. 
Mr. Jay. I am led to adopt this plan. 
It is objected that this plan will alter our constitutions, and therefore cannot be adopted without consulting constituents. 
Does this plan give up any one liberty, or interfere with any one right ? Mr. Henry. 
The original constitution of the Colonies was founded on the broadest and most generous base. 
The regulation of our trade was compensation enough for all the protection we ever experienced from her. 
We shall liberate our constituents from a corrupt House of Commons, but throw them into the arms of an American Legislature, that may be bribed by that nation which avows, in the face of the world, that bribery is a part of her system of government. 
Before we are obliged to pay taxes as they do, let us be as free as they ; let us have our trade open with all the world. 
We are not to consent by the representatives of representatives. 
I am inclined to think the present measures lead to war. that if the principle should not be granted by the British State, I would embark my life and fortune to obtain it. It was thought so reasonable and supported by so many Gentlemen of abilities that it was referred by Congress for further consideration. 
It was, however, never considered — military measures were immediately after adopted, and soon after independence declared. 
I had repeatedly taken the Qualification of allegiance to the King of Great Britain, and I could not prevail on myself to act contrary to them until the measure I then believed would be productive of peace had been essayed and rejected. 
Besides the dreadful consequences and uncertain events of a war I concluded would ultimately prove the ruin of America. 
Nor was I singular in that opinion " The letter is in the Hist. 
Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, II. 108. 3 Cf. no. 22, ante. 54 Continental Congress &'Mr. Edward Rutledge. 
I came with an idea of getting a bill of rights and a plan of permanent relief. 
I think the plan may be freed from almost every objection. 
I think it almost a perfect plan. 
Mr. Galloivay. 
In every government, patriarchal, monarchial, aristocratical, or democratical, there must be a supreme legislature. 
I know of no American constitution ; a Virginia constitution, a Pennsylvania constitution we have ; we are totally independent of each other. 
Every gentleman here thinks the Parliament ought to have the power over trade, because Britain protects it and us. Why then will we not declare it? Because Parliament and Ministry is wicked and corrupt, and will take advantage of such declaration to tax us, and will also reason from this acknowledgment to further power over us. Answer. 
We shall not be bound further than we acknowledge it. Is it not necessary that the trade of the empire should be regulated by some power or other? Can the empire hold together without it? No. Who shall regulate it ? Shall the Legislature of Nova Scotia or Georgia regulate it? Massachusetts, or Virginia? Pennsylvania or New York? It can't be pretended. 
Our legislative powers extend no further than the limits of our governments. 
Where then shall it be placed? There is a necessity that an American Legislature should be set up, or else that we should give the power to Parliament or King. 
Protection. 
Acquiescence. 
Massachusetts. 
Virginia. 
Advantages derived from our commerce. 4 70. Joseph Galloway, Statement. 1 [September 28, 1774.] Upon the meeting of Congress, two parties were immediately formed, with different views, and determined to act upon different principles. 
One intended candidly and clearly to define American rights, and explicitly and dutifully to petition for the remedy which would redress the grievances justly complained of — to form a more solid and constitutional union between the two countries, and to avoid every measure which tended to sedition, or acts of violent opposition. 
The other consisted of persons, whose design, from the beginning of their opposition to the Stamp Act, was to throw off all subordination and connexion with Great-Britain ; who meant by every fiction, falsehood and fraud, to delude the people from their due allegiance, to throw the subsisting Governments into anarchy, to incite the ignorant and vulgar to arms, and with those arms to establish American Independence. 
The one were men of loyal principles, and possessed the greatest fortunes in America ; the other were congregational
Robert Mackenzie, Oct. 9 (Writings, ed. Sparks, II. 399), Washington states that after consulting with the New England delegates (apparently alluding to this meeting) he is convinced that thoy are not aiming at independence. [70] l Galloway, Historical and Political Reflections on the Rise and Progress of the American Rebellion (London, 1780), p. 66. September, IJ'J4 55 and presbyterian republicans, or men of bankrupt fortunes, overwhelmed in debt to the British merchants. 
The first suspected the designs of the last, and were therefore cautious ; but as they meant to do nothing but what was reasonable and just, they were open and ingenuous. 
The second, fearing the opposition of the first, were secret and hypocritical, and left no art, no falsehood, no fraud unessayed to conceal their intentions. 
The loyalists rested, for the most part, on the defensive, and opposed, with success, every measure which tended to violent opposition. 
Motions were made, debated and rejected, and nothing was carried by either. 
While the two parties in Congress remained thus during three weeks on an equal balance, the republicans were calling to their assistance the aid of their factions without. 
Continual expresses were employed between Philadelphia and Boston. 
These were under the management of Samuel Adams — a man, who though by no means remarkable for brilliant abilities, yet is equal to most men in popular intrigue, and the management of a faction. 
He eats little, drinks little, sleeps little, thinks much, and is most decisive and indefatigable in the pursuit of his objects. 
It was this man, who by his superior application managed at once the faction in Congress at Philadelphia, and the factions in New England. 
Whatever these patriots in Congress wished to have done by their colleagues without, to induce General Gage, then at the head of his Majesty's army at Boston, to give them a pretext for violent opposition, or to promote their measures in Congress, Mr. Adams advised and directed to be done; and when done, it was dispatched by express to Congress. 
By one of these expresses came the inflammatory resolves of the county of Suffolk, which contained a complete declaration of war against Great-Britain. 
By these resolves it is declared, " that no obedience is due to acts of Parliament affecting Boston " : That " the justices of the superior courts of judicature, court of assize, etc. are unconstitutional officers, and that no regard ought to be paid to them by the people " : That " the county will support and bear harmless all sheriffs and their deputies, constables, jurors and other officers, who shall refuse to carry into execution the orders of the said courts " : That " the collectors of taxes, constables and other officers, retain in their hands all public monies, and not make any payment thereof to the provincial county treasurer " : And that " the persons w
Long and warm debates ensued between the parties. 
At this time the republican faction in Congress had provided 56 Continental Congress a mob, ready to execute their secret orders. 
The cruel practice of tarring and feathering had been long since introduced. 
This lessened the firmness of some of the loyalists ; the vote was put and carried. 
Two of the dissenting members presumed to offer their protest against it in writing, which was negatived. 
They next insisted that the tender of their protest and its negative should be entered on the minutes; this was also rejected. 2 By this treasonable vote the foundation of military resistance throughout America was effectually laid. 
The example was now set by the people of Suffolk, and the measure was approved of by those who called themselves the representatives of all America. 
The loyal party, although they knew a great majority of the colonists were averse to the measure, perceived the improbability of stemming the torrent. 
They had no authority, no means in their own power to resist it; they saw those who held the powers of Government inactive spectators, and either shrinking from their duty, or uniting in the measures of sedition ; they saw the flame of rebellion spreading with more rapidity in a province under the eye of his Majesty's army than in any other; and that no effectual measures were taking by Government in Britain to suppress it; and yet, as a petition to his Majesty had been ordered to be brought in, they resolved to continue their exertions. 
They hoped to prevail in stating the rights of America on just and constitutional principles ; in proposing a plan for uniting the two countries on those principles, and in a clear, definitive and decent prayer, to ask for what a majority of the colonies wished to obtain ; and as they had no reason to doubt the success of this measure in a British Parliament, they further hoped, that it would stop the effusion of blood and the ruin of their country. 
With this view, as well as to probe the ultimate design of the republicans, and to know with certainty whether any proposal, short of the absolute independence of the Colonies, would satisfy them, a plan of union was drawn by a member of the loyal party, 3 and approved by the rest. 
It was so formed as to leave no room for any reasonable objection on the part of the republicans, if they meant to be united to Great Britain on any grounds whatever. 
It included a restoration of all their rights, and a redress of all their grievances, on constitutional principles; and it accorded with all the instructions given to them as members of Congress. 71. Joseph Galloway, Statement relative to his Plan of Union. 1 [September 28, 1774.] In order to prevail on the Congress to desert their scheme of independence, and to pursue those measures for restoring the rights of America, which carried with them a prospect of success ; a member of the Congress, 2 2 See the Journals, Sept. 17, and no. 44 and note 2, ante. 3 That is, by Galloway himself. [71] 1 [Joseph Galloway], A Candid Examination of the Mutual Claims of Great- Britain, and the Colonics (London, 1780), p. 62. - That is, Galloway himself. 
See no. 70, ante. 
The book was published anonymously. 
September, 1774 57 as I mentioned before, proposed a plan of union between the two countries, which would have restored to the Colonists the full enjoyment of their rights. 
I have often conversed with him on the subject, and well understand his principles, and what passed on the occasion. 
He waited with patience to see whether any rational scheme of union would be adopted by the Congress, determined to unite with them in any measure which might tend to a reconciliation between the two countries ; but he waited in vain : and when he found them bewildered, perpetually changing their ground, taking up principles one day, and shifting them the next, he thought it his duty, however little the prospect of success, to speak his sentiments with firmness, and to endeavour to shew them the true line of their duty. 
After proving the necessity of a supreme authority over every member of the State, tracing the rights of the Colonies to their origin, and fixing them on the most solid principles ; and thence shewing the necessity of an union with the Mother State, for the recovery of them ; he introduced the Plan, with the Resolve which precedes it. But before he delivered it to be read, he declared, that he was sensible it was not perfect; that knowing the fundamental principles of every system must be first settled, he had, to avoid perplexity, contented himself with only laying clown the great outlines of the union ; and should they be approved of, that he had several propositions of lesser consequence to make, in order to render the system more complete. 
The Plan read, and warmly seconded by several gentlemen
The measures of independence and sedition were soon after preferred to those of harmony and liberty; and no arguments, however reasonable and just, could prevail on a majority of the Colonies to desert them. 
The Resolve and Plan, with the rule referring them to further consideration, were expunged from the Minutes : 5 and while the independent faction are abusing him for proposing it, they have copies of it in their pockets, industriously concealing it from the people. 
With what view can this be, but that their malevolent aspersions may take the greater effect, and that you may remain unacquainted with those measures which would lead to your safety and happiness ? In justice therefore to the character of this gentleman, and that America may judge for itself, they are here offered to its consideration. 6 .... I shall not affirm that this Plan is formed upon the most perfect principles of policy and government; but as it is an universally prevailing opinion, that the Colonies cannot be represented in Parliament, I know of
See the Journals, Sept. 28. 58 Continental Congress none other which comes so near to them ; and it is most evident, upon a due consideration of it, that the rights of America would have been fully restored, and her freedom effectually secured by it. For under it no law can be binding on America, to which the people, by their Representatives, have not previously given their consent : this is the essence of liberty, and what more would her people desire? The Author of this Plan seems to have formed it on a comprehensive view of the particular and general regulations necessary to the interest and safety of the Colonies. 
The first contain all such as the Colonial Legislatures have a right to make, under their several constitutions, and to which they are adequate : these, he proposed, should remain under their respective decisions ; it being declared in the Plan, that " each Colony shall retain its present constitution and powers of regulatingand governing its own internal police in all cases whatever ". The second, which relate to the general interests and security of the Colonies, are to be the subjects of the deliberations and decisions of the Grand Council ; such as laws for granting aids to the Crown, levying taxes in just and reasonable proportions on the Colonies — and for regulating a general paper currency, which ought, in all good policy, to be established on funds equally solid, and ascertained at the same value : and laws for settling disputes between the Colonies, respecting their boundaries — with a variety of other matters that must naturally arise from the jarring interests of the Colonies, which will continually increase with the increase of their wealth and commerce. 
Objections were indeed made to this Plan, which it may not be improper here to mention. 
It was said, " that the Delegates did not come with authority to consent to a political union between the two countries ". To which many arguments were opposed, to shew that they had such authority, or none; and concluded with desiring, that if that was, in the opinion of the Members, the case, yet that the Congress ought, in justice to their country, to digest and form one, and recommend it to their respective Assemblies, by whom it would be presented with more constitutional propriety than by any other body of men. 
A second objection was, That it deprived the Colony Legislatures of a part of their rights. 
To which it was replied, That a Colony Legislature is capable of passing laws to regulate its internal police; but not adequate to any general regulation, not even in the necessary one of granting aids to the Crown. 
That there is no proposition more just, than that every Colony, as a Member of the State, ought to be obliged to contribute towards the defence of the whole empire, in proportion to the property and wealth which each Colony possesses. 
That this is a primary consideration in every society; and that no one Colony had a constitutional power to obtain the amount and value of the property of the others, by which to ascertain its proportion. 
Nor was there any authority whatever, save the British Parliament, to compel refractory Colonies to do their reasonable duty, in this or any other general measure : and that this Plan was so far from diminishing the rights of any Colony Legislature, that it extended them; by giving to each a new jurisdiction to decide upon regulations which relate to the general affairs of the Colonies. 7 7 See nos. 102, 109, post ; also Galloway's speech in the Journals, Sept. 28. September, 1774 59 J2. Joseph Galloway, Statement relative to his Plan of Union. 1 [September 28, 1774.] .... I proposed a plan of accommodation in the Congress, agreeable to my instructions; 2 some of the best men, and men of the best fortunes, espoused the plan, and drew with me. It was proposed and debated a whole day, and carried upon the question, six Colonies to five, that it should be resumed and further considered. 
I have in my hand the introductory resolve of Congress in my own writing, which identically was delivered by me in Congress. 
It is indorsed in the hand of Charles Thompson, the then and present Secretary to the Congress. 
The introductory resolve is but short, and I will, therefore, for the information of the Committee, and in vindication of my own reputation, beg leave to read it. 3 .... I beg further to observe, before I read the Plan, that my great object was to prevail on the Congress to take the ground of accommodation, and to avoid that of arms; and therefore, in forming the plan, I omitted several things that I thought might obstruct their taking that ground. 
I do not, therefore, propose it as a perfect plan, nor altogether as a plan of my judgment. 
Withdrew. 
Called in again, and proceeds. 
The reason why the plan was not altogether to my judgment was, because I thought it would admit of some very material additions, and not that I disapproved of the plan as far as it went. 4 .... 73. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 29, 1774.] 2pth. 
The Congress met, 2 considered a non-importation of all dutiable goods, and a non-exportation to Great Britain, and adjourned. 3 74. John Adams to William Tudor. 1 Philadelphia, 29 September, 1774. .... You have no adequate idea of the pleasures or the difficulties of the errand I am now upon. 
The Congress is such an assembly as never
See his statement preceding this passage. 
The proceedings are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 606-607. The instructions are in the Journals, Sept. 5. 3 The resolution is in the Journals, Sept. 28. 4 Here follows the plan. 
It is in the Journals, Sept. 28. [73] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 441. 2 There is no separate entry in the Journals for Sept. 29, but see the last paragraph under Sept. 28. 3 See no. 67, ante, especially Mifflin's proposal; see also the Journals, Sept. 30. Cf. nos. 77, 81, 83, post. [74]! Works, IX. 346. 60 Continental Congress before came together, on a sudden, in any part of the world. 
Here are fortunes, abilities, learning, eloquence, acuteness, equal to any I ever met with in my life. 
Here is a diversity of religions, educations, manners, interests, such as it would seem almost impossible to unite in one plan of conduct. 
Every question is discussed with a moderation, an acuteness, and a minuteness equal to that of Queen Elizabeth's privy council. 
This occasions infinite delays. 2 We are under obligations of secrecy in every thing, except the single vote you have seen, approving the resolutions of the county of Suffolk. 
What effect this vote may have with you, is uncertain. 
What you will do, God knows. 
You say you look up to the Congress. 
It is well you should ; but I hope you will not expect too much from us. The delegates here are not sufficiently acquainted with our province, and with the circumstances you are in, to form a judgment what course it is proper for you to take. 
They start at the thought of taking up the old charter ; they shudder at the prospect of blood ; yet they are unanimously and unalterably against your submission to any of the Acts for a single moment. 
You see by this what they are for ; namely, that you stand stock still, and live without government or law, at least for the present, and as long as you can. 
I have represented to them, whenever I see them, the utter impossibility of four hundred thousand people existing long without a legislature, or courts of justice. 
They all seem to acknowledge it, yet nothing can as yet be accomplished. 
We hear perpetually the most figurative panegyrics upon our wisdom, fortitude, and temperance ; the most fervent exhortations to perseverance ; but nothing more is done. 3 I may venture to tell you that I believe we shall agree to non-importation, non-consumption, and non-exportation, but not to commence so soon as I could wish. 
Indeed all this would be insufficient for your purpose : a more adequate support and relief to the Massachusetts should be adopted. 
But I tremble for fear we should fail of obtaining it We have had numberless prejudices to remove here. 
We have been obliged to act with great delicacy and caution. 
We have been obliged to keep ourselves out of sight, and to feel pulses, and to sound the depths ; to insinuate our sentiments, designs, and desires, by means of other persons, sometimes of one province, and sometimes of another. 
A future opportunity in conversation will, I hope, make you acquainted with all. 75. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 29 September, 1774. .... I shall be killed with kindness in this place. 
We go to Congress at nine, and there we stay, most earnestly engaged in debates upon the most abstruse mysteries of state, until three in the afternoon ; then we adjourn, and go to dine with some of the nobles of Pennsylvania at four
See also the Journals, Oct. 6-1 1. [75] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 42. October, 1774 61 o'clock, and feast upon ten thousand delicacies, and sit drinking Madeira, Claret, and Burgundy, till six or seven, and then go home fatigued to death with business, company, and care. 
Yet I hold it out surprisingly. 2 .... 76. James Duane, Proposed Resolve. 1 [October
Not a moment to spare is disagreeable, yet there is very little in all this bustle. 
We are wide of our business." George Read to Mrs. Read (without date), Life of Read, p. 94. Cf. nos. 39, 47, 49, ante, no. 89, post. [76] 1 N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Duane Papers, IV. 219. 2 " Zealous for " substituted for " interested in ". 3 Cf. Duane's propositions III. and IV. offered in the committee on rights (no. 58. ante). See also the petition to the King (Journals, ed. Ford, I. 119) and the memorial to the British colonies (ibid., I. 96). [77PR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1763-1775, p. 108; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 16; Col. Recs. of R. I., VII. 304. 2 See the Journals, Sept. 17, and no. 38, note 4, ante. 3 See the Journals, Sept. 22, 27, 30, and cf. no. 73, ante, and nos. 78, 81, 83, post. 
See also the Association, in the Journals, Oct. 20. 62 Continental Congress Whenever any Measures are adopted the Communication of which will either give pleasure to the Colony or promote its Interest, we shall (the moment we are at liberty) give you the earliest Intelligence of them. 
The Magnitude of the Subjects before the Congress, the peculiar Circumstances of Delicacy and Intricacy in which they are involved, the Danger of taking a false Step in a Matter of such vast Importance, and the Necessity of adopting of every proper measure, cannot fail to lengthen the Session. 
What has been done we hope will be honored with the Approbation of the Colony. 
Much still remains to be done, and however Striking the Ideas of our Friends and Connexions at Home may be after a long Absence, we shall Chearfully continue here as long as the Service of our Country requires it, and we hope faithfully to exert our utmost Endeavours in this arduous Undertaking for the common Good of America. 
We are, with great regard, Your Honor's most ob't and humble servants, To the Hon. Joseph Wanton, Esq. Sam. Ward. 78. Thomas Cushing to Mrs. Cushing. 1 Philadelphia, Oct. 4, 1774. My dear: .... I wish I could write you any politics; but as I am enjoined to secrecy, must refrain. 
It is currently reported in the city that the Congress have voted that no goods shall be imported from Great Britain and Ireland after the first day of December next, and that none imported after that day shall be used or consumed, and that the Congress have also voted that no goods or merchandise shall, after the 10th day of September next, be exported from the Colonies to Great Britain, Ireland, or the West Indies, unless our grievances shall be redressed before that time, — and I do not deny or contradict these reports. 2 .... 79. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 4, 1774.] 4th. Met, and gave instructions to the Committees for addressing, etc. 2 80. John Adams, Diary. 1 [October 4, 1774.] 4. Tuesday This evening, General Lee came to my lodgings an«l showed me an Address from the C. to the people of Canada, which he had. 2 [78] 1 Hist. 
Mag., VI. 216. 2 Cf. nos. 73, 77, ante, nos. 8i, 83, post. [79] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 441. 2 On Oct. 1 Congress resolved to send a loyal address to the king. 
The Journals record the instruction under Oct. 3, and, in a separate paragraph under the same date, indicate that the following day was occupied in debating matters pertaining to the address. 
See also the Journals, Oct. 5, and no. 95, post. [80] » Works, II. 392. - A committee to prepare an address to the people of Quebec was appointed Oct. 21. See also the Journals, Oct. 24, 26. October, 1774 63 81. John Sullivan to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia, September [October] 5, 1774. Sir: .... I should gladly give you an account of our proceedings but am under obligations of secrecy, except with respect to the general nonimportation and non-exportation, the former to take place on the first of December next, the latter in September following. 2 We have selected those Acts which we determine to have a repeal of or forever restrain our trade from Great Britain, Ireland and the West Indies, among which acts is Canada Bill, in my opinion, the most dangerous to American liberties among the whole train. 3 .... 82. John Adams, Notes of Debates. 1 [October 6(?), 1774.] Mr. Gadsden. 
There are numbers of men who will risk their all. 
I shudder at the thought of the blood which will be spilled, and would be glad to avoid it. Mr. Pendleton. 
How is the purchaser to know whether the molasses, sugar, or coffee, has paid the duty or not ? It can't be known. 
Shan't we by this hang out to all the world our intentions to smuggle ? Don't we complain of these acts as grievances, and shan't we insist on the repeal ? But this will give an advantage to the West Indians, and will make it their interest to oppose our obtaining any redress. 
Colonel Dyer. 
This subject, as every part of our deliberations, is important. 
The question is, how far to extend the non-importation of dutiable articles. 
Mr. Chase. 
I am against the question before you. 
What are the ways and means of obtaining redress? In the manner it is penned it would not answer the end. 
How shall the buyer know whether the duties have been paid or not? Our enemies will think that we mean to strike at the right of Parliament to lay duties for the regulation of trade. 
I am one of those who hold the position that Parliament has a right to make laws for us in some cases to regulate the trade, and in all cases where the good of the whole empire requires it. My fears were up when we went into the consideration of a bill of rights. 
I was afraid we should say too little or too much. 
It is said, this is not a non-importation resolution. 
But it is ; for there is no importation of goods but according to the law of the land. [81] 1 Am. Cath. 
Hist. 
Researches, XVIII. 49; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple. 2 See the Journals, Sept. 22, 27, 30, and cf. nos. 73, 77, 78, ante, no. 83, post. 3 The subcommittee to report upon the violations of rights was appointed Sept. 14, and the report, prepared by Sullivan, was brought in Sept. 24. See nos. 
S7, 62 (note 2), ante, also the Journals, Sept. 24, Oct. 14. Concerning the Canada bill, see especially no. 105, post. [%2Y Works, U. 393- 6-i Continental Congress &■ Mr. Lynch. 
I came here to get redress of grievances, and to adopt every means for that end which conld be adopted with a good conscience. 
In my idea, Parliament has no power to regulate trade. 
But these duties are all for revenue, not for regulation of trade. 
Many gentlemen in this room know how to bring in goods, sugars and others, without paying duties. 
Will any gentleman say he will never purchase any goods until he is sure that they were not smuggled ? Mr. Mifflin. 
We shall agree, I suppose, to a non-exportation of lumber to the West Indies. 
They cannot send their sugars to England nor to America, therefore they can't be benefited. 
Mr. Low. Gentlemen have been transported, by their zeal, into reflections upon an order of men, who deserve it the least of any men in the community. 
We ought not to deny the just rights of our mother country. 
We have too much reason, in this Congress, to suspect that independency is aimed at. I am for a resolution against any tea, Dutch as well as English. 
We ought to consider the consequences, possible as well as probable, of every resolution we take, and provide ourselves with a retreat or a resource. 
What would be the consequence of an adjournment of the Congress for six months ? or a recommendation of a new election of another, to meet at the end of six months? Is not it possible they may make it criminal, as treason, misprision of treason, or felony, or a praemunire, both in the assemblies who choose and in the members who shall accept the trust? Would the assemblies or members be intimidated? Would they regard such an act ? Will, can the people bear a total interruption of the West India trade? Can they live without rum, sugar, and molasses ? Will not this impatience and vexation defeat the measure? This would cut up the revenue by the roots, if wine, fruit, molasses, and sugar were discarded as well as tea. 
But a prohibition of all exports to the West Indies will annihilate the fishery, because that cannot afford to lose the West India market, and this would throw a multitude of families in our fishing towns into the arms of famine. 2 83. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 6, 1774.] 6th. Met, considered non-importation of some dutied articles, and prohibited it. Non-exportation of particular articles dropped. 2 Received letters by express from Boston, laying before us the distressed state of the town, and desiring our advice. 
Referred until to-morrow. n
See also nos. 83, 97, 98, 101, post, and the Association, in the Journals, Oct. 20. [83] ' Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 441. 2 Cf. nos. 73, 77, 78, 81. ante. 3 See the Journals, Oct. 6-1 1, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 810, 820. October, 1774 65 84. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 7, 1774.] jth. 
Met, and appointed a Committee to write to General Gage and the Committee of Correspondence ; considered the instructions to be given the Committee. 2 85. John Adams to William Tudor. 1 [October 7, 1774.] If it is a secret hope of many, as I suspect it is, that the congress will advise to offensive measures, they will be mistaken. 
I have had opportunities enough, both public and private, to learn with certainty the decisive sentiments of the delegates and others upon this point. 
They will not, at this session, vote to raise men or money, or arms or ammunition. 
Their opinions are fixed against hostilities and rupture, except they should become absolutely necessary ; and this necessity they do not yet see. 
They dread the thoughts of an action, because it would make a wound which would never be healed ; it would fix and establish a rancor which would descend to the latest generations ; it would render all hopes of a reconciliation with Great Britain desperate; it would light up the flames of war, perhaps through the whole continent, which might rage for twenty years, and end in the subduction of America as likely as in her liberation. 2 86. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 7 October, 1774. My Dear, .... Mr. Revere
There was no committee of correspondence in Congress and the instructions were given by Congress direct to the committee appointed to draft the letter. 
See the Journals, Oct. 7, 10, and 11. Cf. nos. 86, 87, 92, post. [85] 1 Frothingham, Rise of the Republic, p. 370 (extract). 2 Cf. no. 74, ante, and no. 86, post. 
See also Drayton, Memoirs, I. 165 : " People began to regret the late Congress had not acted with more vigour; and that General Gage had not been attacked and overcome in Boston, before the reinforcements could arrive. 
A proposition had indeed been made by one of our Deputies in Congress, Mr. Gadsden, for that purpose; but it was soon overruled. 
Not because the people of Massachusetts were not willing, as well as able, to undertake the attack; but because, Congress were of opinion, such a measure would be premature."[86] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 44. 2 Paul Revere was the express who had brought to Congress the letter from the Boston committee of correspondence. 
See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 820. 3 See the Journals, Oct. 6-1 1 ; also no. 122, post. 66 Continental Congress 87. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 8, 1774.] 8th. Met. The Committee reported a letter to the General, which was recommitted, and reported again at six o'clock. 2 Not being a Quorum from some Colonies, we adjourned. 88. Joseph Galloway, Statement to a Committee of the House of Commons. 1 [October 8, 1774.] Q. Did not the Congress come to a resolution approving the opposition made by the inhabitants of Massachuset's Bay to the execution of the late Acts of Parliament; and that if the same should be attempted to be carried into execution by force, all America ought to support them in their opposition ? A. I remember a resolution to that amount. 
Q. Did you oppose it? A. I did oppose it ; and I recollect particularly, I insisted in Congress, that they should suffer me to enter my protest. 
Another Member (Mr. Duane) joined me in it. There was a long debate, and we were over-ruled. 
We then insisted, that our motion for protesting should be entered on the minutes — with their negative. 
It was refused ; on which Mr. Duane and myself, when we returned from Congress, gave each other a certificate, declaring our opposition to that question, as we thought it a treasonable one. 
Q. Did you continue to attend Congress after? A. I did ; but proposed to Mr. Duane to leave the Congress, and consulted my friends out of doors, respecting my personal safety if I did. 
Could I have prevailed on him to have left the Congress with me, or had not my friends unanimously advised me that my personal safety would be in danger, I should certainly have left the Congress. 
The city of Philadelphia, on the arrival of that resolve, was thrown into great confusion and disorder, the violent party insisting that it should be carried into execution ; so that we were in great danger from our opposition. 2 .... 89. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 9 October, 1774. I am wearied to death with the life I lead. 
The business of the Congress is tedious beyond expression. 
This assembly is like no other that ever existed. 
Every man in it is a great man, an orator, a critic, a statesman; and therefore every man upon every question must show his oratory, his [87] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 441. 2 There is no record of these reports in the Journals; hut see the Journals, Oct. 10, 11, and no. 92, post. [88J 1 Examination of Joseph Gallozvay, p. 63. See no. 72, note 1, ante. 2 See the Journals, Oct. 8 and note. 
See also no. 90, post. 
Cf. Galloway, Historical and Political Reflections, p. 68. [89] l Familiar Letters, p. 45. October, 1774 67 criticism, and his political abilities. 
The consequence of this is that business is drawn and spun out to an immeasurable length. 
I believe if it was moved and seconded that we should come to a resolution that three and two make five, we should be entertained with logic and rhetoric, law, history, politics, and mathematics, and then — we should pass the resolution, unanimously, in the affirmative. 2 The perpetual round of feasting too, which we are obliged to submit to, makes the pilgrimage more tedious to me 90. Joseph Galloway, Statement to a Committee of the House of Commons. 1 [October 10, 1774.] Q. Was not there a resolution passed, entered unanimously, that every person acting under the authority of the Massachusetts charter act, ought to be held in detestation and abhorrence by all good men, and considered as the wicked tools of that despotism which is preparing to destroy those rights which God, nature, and compact had given to America? 2 A. I believe there was such a resolution, but I don't know how it was entered. 
Q. Did you oppose it? A. I certainly did 91. John Adams, Diary. 1 [October 10, 1774.] 10. Monday. 
The deliberations of the Congress are spun out to an immeasurable length. 
There is so much wit, sense, learning, acuteness, subtlety, eloauence. etc. among: fifty gentlemen, each of whom has been habituated to lead and guide in his own Province, that an immensity of time is spent unnecessarily. 2 Johnson of Maryland has a clear and a cool head, an extensive knowledge of trade as well as law. 
He is a deliberating man, but not a shining orator; his passions and imagination don't appear enough for an orator; his reason and penetration appear, but not his rhetoric. 
Galloway, Duane, and Johnson are sensible and learned, but cold speakers. 
Lee, Henry, and Hooper, are the orators ; Paca is a deliberator too; Chase speaks warmly; Mifflin is a sprightly and spirited speaker; John Rutledge don't exceed in learning or oratory, though he is a rapid speaker ; young Edward Rutledge is young and zealous, a little unsteady and injudicious, but very unnatural and affected as a speaker; Dyer and Sherman speak often and long, but very heavily and clumsily. 2 Cf. no. 74, ante, no. 91, post. [go] 1 Examination of Joseph Galloway, p. 64. See no. 72, note 1, ante. 2 See the Journals, Oct. 10, and no. 88, ante. [91] » Works, II. 395- 2 Cf. nos. 74, 89, ante. 68 Continental Congress 92. Samuel Adams, Proposed Letter to General Gage. 1 [October 10, 1774.] Sir The Delegates from his Majestys Colonies of New Hampshire, [etc.] .... assembled in general Congress in the City of Philadelphia take the Liberty of addressing you upon Subjects of the last Importance, to your own Character, Happiness and Peace of Mind, to his Majestys Service, to the Wellfare of that Province over which you preside and of all North America, and, perhaps, of the whole British Empire. 
The Act of the British Parliament for shutting up the Harbour of Boston is universally deemd to be unjust and cruel; and the World now sees with Astonishment and Indignation the Distress which the Inhabitants of that loyal though devoted Town are suffering under the most rigid Execution of it. There are two other Acts passed in the present Session of Parliament, the one for regulating the Government of the Province of Massachusetts Bay and the other entitled an Act for the more impartial Administration of Justice in the same Province ; the former of these Acts was made with the professed Purpose of materially altering the Charter of that Province granted by his Majesties Royal Predecessors King William and Queen Mary for themselves their Heirs etc. forever ; and both or either of them if put into Execution will shake the Foundations of that free and happy Constitution which is the Birthright of English Subjects, and totally destroy the inestimable Blessing of Security in Life Liberty and Property. 
By your own Acknowledgement, the refusal of the People to yield obedience to these Acts is far from being confind to a Faction in the Town of Boston. 
It is general through the province. 
And we do now assure your Excellency, that this Refusal is vindicable, in the opinion of this Congress, by the Laws of Reason and Self preservation ; and the People ought to be and will be supported in it by the united Voice and Efforts of all America. 
We are fully convinced that the Town of Boston and Province of the Massachusetts Bay are suffering in the righteous Cause of America, while they are nobly exerting themselves in the most spirited opposition to those oppressive Acts of Parliament and Measures of Administration which are calculated to annihilate our most sacred and invalueable Rights. 
It is with the deepest Concern that we observe, that while this Congress are deliberating on the most effectual Measures for the restoration of American Liberty and a happy Harmony between the Colonies and the parent State, so essentially necessary to both, your Excellency is erecting Fortifications round the Town of Boston, whereby well grounded Jealousies are excited in the Minds of his Majesties faithful Subjects and apprehensions that all Communication between that Town and the Country will be cut off, or that this Freedom will be enjoyed at the Will of an Army. 
Moreover we would express to your Excellency the just Resentment which we feel at the Indignities offerd to our worthy fellow Citizens in [92]' Writings of Samuel Adains (ed. dishing), III. 159; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 
October, 1774 69 Boston and the frequent Violations of private property by the Soldiers under your Command. 
These Enormities committed by a standing Army, in our opinion, unlawfully posted there in a time of Peace, are irritating in the greatest Degree, and if not remedied, will endanger the involving all America in the Horrors of a civil War! Your Situation Sir is extremely critical. 
A rupture between the Inhabitants of the Province over which you preside and the Troops under your Command would produce Consequences of the most serious Nature : A Wound which would never be heald ! It would probably establish Animosities between Great Britain and the Colonies which time would never eradicate ! In order therefore to quiet the Minds and remove the Jealousies of the people, that they may not be driven to such a State of Desperation as to quit the Town and fly for Shelter to their Friends and Countrymen, we intreat you from the Assurance we have of the peaceable Disposition of the Inhabitants to desist from further fortifications of the Town, and to give orders that a free and safe Communication between them and the country may be restored and continued. 2 93. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull). 1 Philadelphia, 10 Oct., 1774. Sir, We arrived in this city the 1st of September last, and the Delegates from Virginia, North Carolina, and New York not being come, 2 the Congress was not formed until the 5th, when the Hon. Peyton Randolph, Esq. was unanimously chosen President, and Charles Thompson, Esq. Secretary ; a list of the members we enclose. 
The mode of voting in this Congress was first resolved upon, which was, that each colony should have one voice; but as this was objected to as unequal, an entry was made on the journals to prevent its being drawn into precedent in future. 3 Committees were then appointed to state American rights and grievances, and the various Acts of the British parliament, which affect the trade and manufactures of these colonies. 
On these subjects the committees spent several days, when the Congress judged it necessary, previous to completing and resolving on these subjects, to take under consideration, that of ways and means for redress. 4 On the 16th arrived an express from Boston with letters to the delegates, and the Suffolk resolves. 
These were laid before the Congress, and were highly approved of and applauded, as you will see by the enclosed paper of the 19th, in which the proceedings of the Congress thereon is published, at large, by their order. 5 A general non-importation
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, second ser., II. 221; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Trumbull Papers, IV.; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 854. 2 Cf. Ward's Diary, Aug. 30-Sept. 4. Ward records in his diary that the Connecticut delegates arrived Aug. 31. 3 See the Journals, Sept. 6, and nos. 6, 12, 13, ante. 4 See the Journals, Sept. 22, 24, and cf. no. 62, note 2, ante. _ 5 The proceedings, with the Suffolk resolves, were published in the Pennsylvania Packet, Sept. 19, 1774. See the Journals, Sept. 17; cf. nos. 38 (note 4), 44 (note 2), ante. 70 Continental Congress of British goods and manufactures, or of any goods from thence, appearing to the Congress one of the means of redress in our power, and which might probably be adopted, to prevent future difficulties and altercations on this subject among those, who might now be, or for some time past had been, sending orders for goods, the Congress unanimously came into the enclosed Resolution on the 22d, and the same was ordered to be published immediately. 
Since this, a non-importation [and non-consumption] 6 of goods, etc., from Great Britain and Ireland, from and after the first of December next, has been unanimously resolved on ; 7 but to carry so important a resolution into effect, it is necessary, that every possible precaution should now be taken, on the one hand to prevent wicked and desperate men, from breaking through and defeating it, either by fraud or force, and on the other to remove as far as possible every temptation to, or necessity for the violation thereof : for this a committee are appointed, who, not having as yet completed their report, nothing is published particularly on this subject more than what we now are at liberty, in general, to relate. 8 We have the pleasure of finding the whole Congress, and through them the whole continent, of the same sentiment and opinion of the late proceedings and acts of the British parliament; but at the same time confess our anxiety for greater despatch of the business before us, than it is in our power, or perhaps in the nature of the subject, to effect. 
An assembly, like this, though it consists of less than sixty members, yet, coming from remote colonies, each of which has some modes of transacting publick business peculiar to itself, some particular provincial rights and interests to guard and secure, must take some time to become so acquainted with each one's situations and connexions, as to be able to give an united assent to the ways and means proposed for effecting, what all are ardently desirous of. 9 In this view, our President, though a gentleman of great worth, and one who fills and supports the dignity of his station to universal acceptance, yet cannot urge forward matters to an issue with that despatch, which he might in a different assembly ; nor, considering the great importance of something more than a majority, an unanimity, would it be safe and prudent ? Unanimity being in our view of the last importance, every one must be heard, even on those points or subjects, which are in themselves not of the last importance. 
And indeed it often happens, that what is of little or no consequence to one colony, is of the last to another. 
We have thus hinted to your honour, our general situation, which we hope will account for our being delayed here beyond the time which either the colony or we ourselves expected. 
Though our private concerns and connexions, as well as the publick expectation and interest of the colony urge us to make all possible despatch, yet as we find it would not only be of dangerous consequence but perhaps
Hist. 
Soc. text. 7 See the Journals, Sept. 22, 27, 30; cf. nos. 67, 69, 82, ante. 8 The committee was appointed Sept. 30. See also the Journals, Oct. 1, 12, 15, 17, 1 8, 20. 9 In the Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc. Collections, the reading is: "evidently desirous of, in this view. 
Our President ", etc. 
October, 1774. 71 impracticable to attempt pushing matters to a decision faster than they now come to it in the course they are, we find it most prudent to wait patiently the issue. 
We shall be able to write you more particularly in a few days ; but could not omit this opportunity of writing thus far on the subject of our delegation here We are, with the greatest respect, your honour's most obedient and most humble servants, Eliphalet Dyer, Roger Sherman, Silas Deane. [P. S.] 94. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 11, 1774.] nth. 
Met, finished the resolves relative to the Massachusetts, and dismissed the Express. 95. John Adams, Diary. 1 [October 11, 1774.] 11. Tuesday. 
Dined with Mr. McKean in Market Street, with Mr. Reed, Rodney, Chase, Johnson, Paca, Dr. Morgan, Mr. R. Penn, etc. 
Spent the evening with Mr. Henry at his lodgings, consulting about a petition to the King. 2 .... He has high notions, talks about exalted minds, etc. 
He has a horrid opinion of Galloway, Jay, and the Rutledges. 
Their system, he says, would ruin the cause of America. 
He is very impatient, to see such fellows, and not be at liberty to describe them in their true colors. 96. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 12, 1774.] 12th. Met, considered the Bill of Rights. (That relative to Statutes, and that mentioning our Fathers having not forfeited by emigration, etc., I did not like.) 2 97. James Duane, Notes of Debates. 1 Wednesday 12th Oct 1774 Mr Ward. 
On Trade. 1st, Every man is born free and may chuse his own form of Government. 2d, Bound by the compact, by charter between Crown and people. 
Here no Acts of Parliament can bind. 3d, Colonies obliged by this, acts only [94] * Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 441. [9S] 1 Works, II. 396. 2 See the Journals, Oct. 1, 3, 5, 21, 24, 25. [96] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 441. 2 See the Journals, Oct. 12, 14. Cf. nos. 97, 98, 100, 101, post. [97PN. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Papers, II. 117 (copy). 72 Continental Congress by compulsion. 4th, principle of Protection gives them a right to a compensation, but state the amount and we have overpaid them. 5th, Necessity of the case
Mr. Lee. 1st, Ministry may say they 2d, Slitting mills avoided by this Motion offer a proposition. 5 External Lynch. 
If a Right to bind us in one case may in all but we are bound by none. 2d, Danger of Parliament's abusing the power for then they must be Judges of the Regulations. 6 98. James Duane, Notes of Debates. 1 [October 13(F), I774-] I. America at eve of a civil War — much depends on wisdom of Congress — Our fate suspended on a thread — If Boston subdued all's lost. 
II. But two subjects of dispute between G. B. and the Colonies. a. A Revenue for the support of our own civil establishments. b. the regulation of Trade. (1) As to Revenue the whole amount [s] never more than to about 35,000 and the sums paid by G. B. to above £400.000. (2) This article provided for by our Resolution to provide a competent and honorable salary for the administration of govt, and justice. b. The right of regulating trade the great point. 1. Its importance to G. B. who must support her title to it at the expense of the last drop of her blood and last farthing of her treasure. 2. good policy of allowing it to her clearly ( 1 ) will be the best messenger of peace. (2) It will remove all suspicion that we seek after independence. 3. It is necessary that it should be expressly recognized. a. Because in the great dispute between Hutchinson and the Massachusetts, it is left doubtful. 2 The phrase "necessity of the case" is found in the fourth of the resolutions of Oct. 14. See no. 62, note 2, ante. 3 The reading of the copy in the Bancroft papers is clearly " one or ". It is evident that the text has been corrupted by the copyist, but it is not so clear just what Ward said or Duane wrote. 4 See no. 96, ante. 
Either Duane's notes of Lee's remarks were left incomplete or the Bancroft copyist was unable to read them. o Cf. no. 08, post, " Objection II ". [98PN. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Papers, II. 207 (copy). This is evidently the analysis of a speech by Duane and appropriately fits into the proceedings of Oct. 13. See nos. 99, 100, 101, post, and the Journals. 
Cf. nos. 22, 58, ante. 
October, 1774 73 b. Because every different house of Assembly must instruct its Agent on this essential point. c. Because a difference of sentiment will shew our weakness and may end in our disunion. d. But above all because our Bill of Rights makes this explanation indispensible. 
Vide Art. — bound by no Lazv without participation in Legislature and exclusive Right of legislation. 2 e. These totally defeat all Regulations of Trade — Inst : Custom House and exactions there, seizures on shore, writs of assistance, etc. 
Objections. 1 st. It is said we are not authorized to give up any right, and this is setting up a Right for G. B. Answer. 1. Besides the justice and policy of such a recognition ; it is unavoidable when we are considering a right in connection with the parent state. 2. It is giving G. B. no new right : but only acknowledging what she has enjoyed ever since our colonization. - 3. It is agreed on all hands that there must be some supreme controlling power over our trade, and that this can only rest with Parliament. 
Objection II. It is said to be too dangerous, because on pretence of a Right to regulate Trade, Parliament may raise a Revenue upon us, and otherwise oppress us. 3 Answer. 1. If we argue against the use of power because it may be abused, the argument proves too much. 
It strikes at all society and all government but to a state of society confidence is essential. 2. Instance the prerogative of the Crown to call an Assembly. 
It never may be called — yet we do not deny the prerogative. 
II. But here can be no room for apprehension. 
They exercise the right and none mean to dispute it. our interest will be served by admitting it under restrictions (to wit) that it be conducted bona fide, zvith a just regard to the interest of the respective members of the Empire excluding every idea of taxation internal and external for the purpose of raising a revenue zvith out our consent.* — our admission cannot injure us. 2. Supposing the power should be abused. 
Can we not remonstrate and oppose — shall we be less able hereafter to do ourselves justice than at this day? Objectn. 
III. That this proposition is improper in our Bill of Rights; because instead of a privilege it is a burthen. 2 See article
Object. 
IV. It may be said that because we admit the authority of Parliament in this instance, it may be asserted [ ?] B as a proof of their power in all cases. 
Answer. 
There is a most manifest distinction. i. In cases of internal policy and taxation our legislatures are competent — have enjoyed such jurisdictions. 
They are secured by Charter — not so with respect to trade. 2. The Parliamentary authority over our trade was co-eval with our settlements, and is considered as a compact. 3. This exhibits a line and fixed rule so much desired for ascertaining that power. 99. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 13, 1774.] 13th. Met, considered of the right of Parliament to regulate trade. (Mr. Hopkins for some of the modes proposed. 
I was for none.) 2 100. John Adams, Diary. 1 [October 13. 1774.] 13. Thursday. 
Dined with Mr. Dickinson, with Chase, Paca, Low, Mifflin, Mr. Penn, and General Lee, at six o'clock. 
From ten o'clock until half after four, we were debating about the parliamentary power of regulating trade. 
Five Colonies were for allowing it, five against it, and two divided among themselves, that is, Massachusetts and Rhode Island. 2 Mr. Duane has had his heart set upon asserting in our bill of rights the authority of Parliament to regulate the trade of the Colonies. 
He is for grounding it on compact, acquiescence, necessity, protection, not merely on our consent. 3 •'The copy has "rested". Bancroft has inserted the query, "? wrested". Asserted seems to fit the sense better. [99 1 1 M°gof Am. Hist., I. 441. 2 See the Journals, last entry under Oct. 12. Cf. no. 98, ante, no. 100, post. [ioo] 1 Works, II. 397. 2 See nos. 96, 99, ante. 3 See nos. 20, 22, 26, 58, 62 (note 2), 97, 98, ante, no. 101, post. 
October, 1774 75 101. James Duane, Notes of Debates. 1 Friday 14th October 1774. On the Resolution for Trade to qualify the [fourth] proposition. 2 S. Adams. 
Did not think the Claim's respecting the internal policy [ ?]■ Pendleton 1st. [ ?] 2d. 4th Resolution ought not to be altered to Right of Taxation. 3d. Cant found regulation of Trade on the principle of the British Constitution. 4th. Different parts of the [ ?] to provide for the omission. 5th. Requesting it should be done by Treaty between Great Britain and the Colony Legislatures. 6th. Why will not Parliament accept of the power they wish. 7th. Necessary to state the Bill of Rights. 
We have Legislative power and therefore ought. 
Grievances. 3 Act. 4 G. 3d, c. 15. Preamble to raise revenue in America on Sugar etc., wine, coffee, pimento, foreign molasses 3d. Gallon. 5 G. 3d, c. 25. Act to alter rates of postage — recites the Act of Anne for postage and alter rates. 6 G. 3d, c. 52. An Act for repealing duties in America and granting further duties. 
Duties on molasses id., coffee 7/ pimento l /z pound additional, silk, silk goods. 4 7 G. 3d, c. 46. Act for draw-back duties in America recites Act. 8 G. 3d, c. 22. Act for more easy recovery of [penalties] and forfeitures to be sued for and recovered in any Court of Vice Admiralty. 12 G. 3d, c. 24. Act for better securing his Majesty's dock yard — against the method of trial. 
Mr Lutridge [Rutledge] against the whole. 
The three Boston Acts shutting up the Port altering administration. 
The providing quarters for soldiers in America. 
Authorizing the Governor to take up [uninhabited houses ?] . Act for altering Govt, of Quebec. 
The appointment of Judges, Statute H. 8. c. 2, 5 respecting trials for treason and [misprisions of treasons?] Henry. 
Considers the Quebec Bill as a capital one. 6 4G. 3d, c. 34. Respecting Canada — keeping a standing army without the consent of the Legislature of said Colony. 
Committee appointed to state in form the Rights, Grievances and mode of redress. [101] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Papers, II. (copy). 2 The discussion concerns the fourth resolution in the " Bill of Rights ". See the Journals, Oct. 14, p. 68, and no. 98, ante. 
This fourth proposition is the one around which most of the discussion revolves. 
See also nos. 62 (note 2), 100, ante. 
The blanks and queries are in the Bancroft copy, indicating words and passages which the copyist was unable to read. 
Some of these blanks have been conjecturally supplied. 3 The enumeration here closely corresponds to that in the Journals, Oct. 14. Duane does not include here " 7 Geo. 3, ch. 41 ". The " Statute H. 8, c. 2 " is mentioned in the preamble to the resolutions. 4 This act imposed duties of
VIII. c. 2. 6 See no. 105, and note 2, post; cf. no. 81, ante. '6 Continental Congress &'102. Joseph Galloway, Statement to a Committee of the House of Commons. 1 [October 14, 1774.] Q. Whether the ten resolutions come to by the Congress in consequence of a report from the Grand Committee, which they demanded as their indubitable rights and liberties, are not entered in the journals as being passed Nemine Contradicente! 2 A. I don't recollect, at this time, how they were entered ; but this I know, that many resolutions of Congress, when they were published, I found them entered unanimously, and Nemine Contradicente, when they were not so as to the individual Members. 
The votes of the Congress were taken by colonies ; some of the colonies were represented by nine Members ; some by seven ; some by five ; and some by three ; and whenever a majority of the Members, representing a colony, was for a question, it counted one ; although four out of the nine were expressly against the question; and when all the colonies gave a vote in this way in the affirmative or negative, it was entered unanimously, or Nem. Con. ; although in some instances there were one-third of the Members present against the question carried. 3 Q. Do you recollect that these ten resolutions, which were considered by the Congress as their Bill of Rights, met with any considerable opposition? A. They did meet with a very considerable opposition. 
The Committee sat near three weeks. 
The gentlemen who drew with me in opposition perplexed the proposals made by the violent party, as we acted entirely on the defensive ; so that they did not come to a single resolution for better than a fortnight, neither in stating their rights or their grievances. 
And, as well as I can recollect, the Grand Committee did not determine on those resolutions. 
To the best of my knowledge, the Committee was dissolved before they were voted, and that owing to the opposition these resolves met with. 4 Q. Did you give any considerable opposition to those resolutions, on the report, to the whole, or to which of them ? A. I have not one single one of them in my memory now ; so I cannot say which I opposed, and which not. 
Q. Did you oppose any of them on the report? A. I did make an opposition to some of them, I make no doubt, but I can't say which. 
Q. Are you positive you made any opposition to any of them ? A. If I could see the ten resolutions, I could answer — otherwise not. (He looks over the resolutions in a printed book.) I opposed the 1st and the 4th. The 2d and 3d I don't recollect. 
The 5th I did not, nor the 6th. The 7th I don't recollect. 
The 8th I must have opposed. 
I was of a contrary opinion to the 9th, and believe I opposed it. As to the 10th, I don't recollect [102] 1 Examination of Joseph Galloway, p. 60. See no. 72, note I, ante. 2 See the Declaration of Rights in the Journals, Oct. 14. Cf. no. 62 (note 2), ante. 3 Cf. Galloway, Reply to an Address to the Author of a Pamphlet entitled "A Candid Examination . . . ." (New York, 1775). * Cf. no. 62 (note 2), ante. 
October, 1774 77 103. John Adams, Diary. 1 [October 16, 1774.] 16. Sunday. 
Staid at home all day ; very busy in the necessary business of putting the proceedings of the Congress into order. 2 104. George Read to Mrs. Read. 1 My dear G , 2 It is now brought to Sunday morning again, and no certainty yet of the time I am to return to you. 
The Virginians give out they will go off this day week, but I doubt the business before us will not be in that state it ought by that time
But to make it one of the articles which is to operate on our commerce, cannot be consented to by New York for these reasons. 1. We ought in this measure to carry our thoughts to the event, and to consider the justice and policy of every article as if it was that singly on which we stood for in the event all but that may be rejected. 2. We have three things in this Bill to complain of. 1. The establishment of the Roman [Catholick Religion]. 2d. The institution of an arbitrary government. 3d. The extension of the Colony by excessive limits. [103] 1 Works, II. 400. 2 The editor of John Adams's Works thinks this refers to putting in form the Declaration of Rights, as mentioned in the autobiographical note, no. 62 (note 2), ante, but it is to be observed that these resolutions had been enacted in final form Oct. 14. On Oct. 21 Adams was made one of a committee to revise the minutes of Congress. 
See also Journals, Oct. 22, and no. in, post. [104] 1 Read, Life of George Read, p. 96. 2 Gertrude. 
See no. 113, note 2, post. [iospN. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Papers, II. (copy). 2 Although the Quebec Bill had been included among the grievances enumerated in the resolutions adopted Oct. 14, it appears from the resolve recorded at the end of these notes that the question was further debated on Oct. 17, whether the Congress would stand by the enumeration already made. 
Ward's diary entries for Oct. 15 and 17 would suggest that the whole list was discussed again in connection with the adoption of the Association. 
See also Duane's memoranda of grievances, no. ioi, ante. 78 Continental Congress How far it will be justifiable in us to resist the progress of this Act and attempt to force its Repeal at the expense of our commerce — in the end perhaps of a civil war — ought to be duly considered. ist. 
If we demand too much we weaken our efforts — lose the chance of securing what is reasonable and may get nothing. 2d. Will it not be said that we go beyond our sphere, and while we contend for an exclusive internal legislature intermeddle with the police of other governmts? 3d. Is it not a disputable point with respect to religion whether more is granted to the Canadians than was solemnly promised by the capitulation? 4th. If government is founded on consent is it not disputable whether the new form is not agreeable to the majority of the inhabitants? 5th. Is it not disputable whether the conqueror has not a right to impose laws on the conquered ? 6. Is it probable that in a matter of some uncertainty at least, our constituents will be discontented with this part of our Resolution? And unwilling to lie under restraints on that account. 
Lee
Lee in reply to Mr. Jay. 1. Precedent a capital argument and this also one. 2. Doubts whether the King can make compacts [?]. 4 3. Article of Capitulation only indulges the Roman Catholic religion so far as it is permitted by the laws of England. 
McKean. 1. Magnitude of the law compels us to make a stand. 2. Population in England. 3. Protestants of Quebec will join us in our opposition. 
Mr. Gadsden. (His remarks not given.) 7. Adams. 1. Do op.? (Do oppose) scheme of Wilkendrop 2. Knights of Malta : feudal system .... less. 
Paine. 
Two questions. 1 . Whether the repeal of the bill will remove the Act. 2. Whether we should in opposing it. Henry. 1. If bill in Catholics, will which 2. Feudal Laws cant exist, because repealed by statute. 8 The copy of these Notes of Debates from this point is in the writing of George Bancroft. 
The blank spaces presumably indicate passages in the original which he was unable to read. * The copy has here both " compacts " and " conquests " queried. 
October, 1774 79 Monday 17th October 1774. Resolved that Quebec Bill be an article of the Grievances, to be stood upon. / dissented, but entered unanimously. 106. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 18, 1774.] 18th. Met, completed the Association, 2 read the Memorial to the People of England. 3 107. John Adams, Diary. 1 [October 20, 1774.] 20. Thursday. 
Dined with the whole Congress, at the City Tavern, at the invitation of the House of Representatives of the Province of Pennsylvania. 
The whole House dined with us, making near one hundred guests in the whole; a most elegant entertainment. 
A sentiment was given : " May the sword of the parent never be stained with the blood of her children." Two or three broad-brims over against me at table ; one of them said, this is not a toast, but a prayer; come, let us join in it. And they took their glasses accordingly. [106] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 441. 2 " 20th. Met, considered the memorial, and signed the Association." Ward's Diary. 3 The following passage in a letter from Thomas Jefferson to William Wirt, dated at Monticello, Aug. 4 [1805], is pertinent here: ". . . . mr Henry and Richard Henry Lee took at once the lead in that assembly [the Congress of 1774], and by the high style of their eloquence, were, in the first days of the session, looked up to as primi inter pares, a Petition to the king, an Address to the people of Great Britain and a Memorial to the people of British America were agreed to be drawn. 
Lee, Henry and others were appointed for the first, Lee, Livingston and Jay for the two last, the splendor of their debut occasioned mr Henry to be designated by his committee to draw the petition to the King, with which they were charged ; and mr Lee was charged with the Address to the people of England, the last was first reported, on reading it, every countenance fell and a dead silence ensued for many minutes, at length it was laid on the table for perusal and consideration till the next day, when first one member and then another arose, and paying some faint compliments to the composition, observed that there were still certain considerations, not expressed in it, which should properly find a place in it. at length Mr. Livingston (the Governor of New Jersey) a member of the Committee rose and observed that a friend of his had been sketching what he had thought might be proper for such an address, from which he thought some paragraphs might be advantageously introduced into the draught proposed ; and he read an Address which mr Jay had prepared de bene esse as it were, there was but one sentiment of admiration, the Address was recommitted for amendment, and mr Jay's draught reported and adopted with scarce an alteration, these facts were stated to me by mr. Pendleton and Colo. 
Harrison of our delegation, except that Colo. 
Harrison ascribed the draught to Govr. 
Livingston, and were afterwards confirmed to me by Govr. 
Livingston, and I will presently mention an anecdote confirmative of them from mr Jay and R. H. Lee themselves. " Mr. Henry's draught of a petition to the King was equally unsuccessful, and was recommitted for amendment, mr. John Dickinson was added to the committee, and a new draught prepared by him was passed. " The occasion of my learning from mr. Jay that he was the author of the address to the people of Great Britain requires explanation by a statement of some preceding circumstances." Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XXXIV. 390. Cf. no. 108, note 2, post. [107] 1 Works, II. 400. 10 80 Continental Congress
His election was on Saturday, the 15th, and on Monday, the 17th Oct., he took his seat in Congress, immediately entered deeply into the business then under deliberation. 
He was appointed one of the Comtt. to prepare an Address to the people of Canada, and the first draught of the Petition to the King not meeting the approbation of Congress, was recommitted, and he was added to the Comtt. and had a principal hand in that which was sent. 
After Congress broke up he attended the Assembly and there exerted himself to obtain an approbation of the proceedings of Congress, which was carried in spite of Galloway's efforts to the contrary." N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 280. Cf. Jefferson's statement, no. 106, note 2, ante. 
See, further, no. 116, note 2, post. [log] 1 Examination of Joseph Galloway, p. 64. See no. 72, note 1, ante. 2 See the Journals, Oct. 11, 18, 19, 21. [no] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 442. 2 Galloway's plan. 
See the Journals, Sept. 28, and nos. 68, 69, ante. 
Cf. Galloway's statement that the plan was expunged from the record (no. 71, ante). [in] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, C 51, IV. 30 a; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I 888; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 33. October, 1774 81 the whole of Our proceedings. 2 Our Resolves, addresses, etc., are preparing for the press
But I find in this, like other Assemblies, that the finishing part of Business which being the most critical and requiring the greatest attention, is too often left to the close of the Session, and is of course, ever in danger of suffering through the hurry of the Members. 
Our President is obliged to leave Us tomorrow, in order to meet the House of Burgesses of Virginia, and if We can set out on Thursday Next, hope to be in New- Haven the Monday Following. 
I am with great Truth and regard Your Honor's most Obedt and most Hum e Servt. 
Silas Deane. 
Governor Trumbull. 
P. S 112. John Adams, Diary. 1 [October 24, 1774-] 24. Monday. 
In Congress, nibbling and quibbling as usual. 
There is no greater mortification than to sit with half a dozen wits, deliberating upon a petition, address, or memorial. 
These great wits, these subtle critics, these refined geniuses, these learned lawyers, these wise statesmen, are so fond of showing their parts and powers, as to make their consultations very tedious. 2 Young Ned Rutleclge is a perfect Bob-o-Lincoln — a swallow, a sparrow, a peacock; excessively vain, excessively weak, and excessively variable and unsteady; jejune, inane, and puerile. 
Mr. Dickinson is very modest, delicate, and timid. 
Spent the evening at home. 
Colonel Dyer, Judge Sherman, and Colonel Floyd came in, and spent the evening with Mr. Adams and me. Mr. Mifflin and General Lee came in. Lee's head is running upon his new plan of a battalion. 113. George Read to Mrs. Read. 1 My dear G , I am still uncertain as to the time of my return home. 
As I expected the New England men declined doing any business on Sunday, and though we sat until four o'clock this afternoon, I am well persuaded that our business can by no means be left till Wednesday evening, and even then very doubtful, so that I have no prospect of being with you till Thursday evening. 
Five of the Virginia gentlemen are gone. 
The two remaining ones have power to act in their stead. 2 The two objects before us, and which we expect to go through to-morrow, are an address to the king, and one to the people of Canada. 
This last was recommitted this evening
Samuel Ward records in his diary, Oct. 24 : " gave directions for printing the proceedings ". [112] 1 Works, II. 401. 2 Cf. nos. 64, 74, 75, 89, 91, ante. [113] 1 Read, Life of George Read, p. 97. 2 In regard to the signatures of the Virginia delegates to the petition to the king, see " List of Members ", ante. 82 Continental Con-press 'in order to be remodelled. 
Your brother George
All your friends are well. 
No news but the burning of the vessel and tea at Annapolis, which I take for granted you will have heard before this comes to hand. 
We are all well at my lodgings, and send their love to you. 
I am yours, very affectionately, George Read. 
Monday evening, ten o'clock, 24th October, 1774. 114. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 25, 1774.] 25th. Met, appointed letters to be written to Georgia, 2 etc., made some resolves, ordered a piece of plate for the Secretary, £50 sterling. 3 115. John Adams, Diary. 1 [October 25, 26, 1774.] <?5. Tuesday. 
Dined with Mr. Clymer ; General Lee, etc. there. 26. Wednesday. 
Dined at home. 
This day the Congress finished. 
Spent the evening together at the City Tavern; all the Congress, and several gentlemen of the town. 116. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 26, 1774.] 26th. Met, signed the petition to the King, 2 finished the memorial to Canada, and some other matters and rose. 2 George Ross, a delegate from Pennsylvania. 
Mrs. Read was his sister. 
This was not his first attendance in Congress, which is recorded under date of Sept. 17. [114] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 442. 2 See the Journals, Oct. 21. There is no further mention in the Journals of a letter to Georgia, but see Thomson's memorandum, Journals (ed. Ford), I. 122. 3 In Ward's account rendered to the state of Rhode Island for his services in the Congress of 1774 is an item of £2. i6sh., " Proportion of the present of plate to the Secretary ". Staples, R. J. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 20. [115] 1 Works, II. 401. [116] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 442. 2 The petition to the king was adopted Oct. 25. It is found in the Journals (ed. Ford), p. 115. The petition as adopted was the work of John Dickinson, who was added to the committee Oct. 21 (see no. 108, ante). A letter from Dickinson to Dr. George Logan, Sept. 15, 1804, makes clear his authorship. 
He is replying to a statement in Marshall's Life of Washington that " the original composition has been generally attributed to Mr. Lee ". Dickinson gives the history of the matter, with brief quotations from the Journals, then continues : "Thus it is manifest that the Address agreed to by Congress was not brought in, as the Chief Justice states, merely by the committee first appointed upon that business, but by the persons to whom it was 'recommitted', — that is, by the five gentlemen who were first appointed, and by me who had been added to them on the 21st of October, as is before mentioned. " The truth is, that the draft brought in by the original committee was written in language of asperity very little according with the conciliatory disposition of Congress. 
The committee, on my being added to them, desired me to draw the address, which I did, and the draft was reported by me." .... Stille, Life and Times of John Dickinson, p. 143 (the volume also appears as Memoirs of the Hist. 
Soc. Pa., XIV.) ; Am. Quar. 
Rev., I. 413. See also John Adams to Thomas Jefferson, Nov. 12, 1813, in Adams's Works, X. 78. October, 1774 83 117. John Dickinson to Arthur Lee. 1 Philadelphia, October 27, 1774. Dear Sir: Yesterday the Congress broke up. You will immediately know their Proceedings from publications. 
The Colonists have now taken such grounds that Great Britain must relax, or inevitably involve herself in a civil war, likely in all human probability to overwhelm her with a weight of calamities, in comparison of which, " plus quam civilae bella " , 2 the contentions between the Houses of York and Lancaster, or the distractions of the last century, were gentle misfortunes. 
A determined and unanimous resolution animates this Continent, firmly and faithfully to support the common cause to the utmost extremity, in this great struggle for the blessing of liberty — a blessing that can alone render life worth holding I wish for peace ardently ; but must say, delightful as it is, it will come more grateful by being unexpected. 
The first act of violence on the part of Administration in America, or the attempt to reinforce General Gage this winter or next year, will put the whole Continent in arms, from Nova Scotia to Georgia. 3 May God of his infinite mercy grant a happy event to these afflicting agitations. 
Your friend, John Dickinson. 
P. S 118. Joseph Hewes to James Iredell. 1 Philadelphia, 31st Oct., 1774. .... The Congress broke up on Thursday
I have the pleasure to inform you that they are generally approved of here by all ranks of people; the Germans who compose a large part of the inhabitants of this province are all on our side ; the sweets of liberty little known in their own country are here enjoyed by them in its utmost latitude. 
Our friends are under apprehension that administration will endeavor to lay hold of as many delegates as possible, and have them carried to England and tried as rebels ; this induced the Congress to enter into a resolve in such cases to make a reprisal. 3 I have no fears on that head, but should it be my lot, no man on earth could be better spared. 
Were I to suffer in the cause of American liberty, should I not be translated immediately to heaven as Enoch was of old ? . . . . [117] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 947; Hist. 
Mag., X. 289. 2 This phrase is found in the text in Hist. 
Mag., but not in Am. Arch. " Civilae "should of course be " civilia ". In the same text instead of the word " inevitably " above, is " immediately ". 3 Cf. the letter to Josiah Quincy, Oct. 28, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 947. [118] 1 McRee, Life of Iredell, I. 227. 2 Congress adjourned Wednesday, the 26th. See nos. 115-117, ante; also Adams's Diary for Oct. 27; but cf. the Diary of Ezra Stiles, I. 471. 3 See the Journals, Oct. 21. 84 Continental Congress 119. Edward Rutledge to Thomas Bee. 1 [October, 1774.] I long to tell you what we have done, but am prevented, from silence having been imposed upon us all by consent, the first week in congress ; this, however, I may say, that the province will not be able to account for our conduct until we explain it, though it is justifiable upon the strictest principles of honour and policy. 2 Dont be alarmed; we have done no mischief, though I am sure, if Mr. 3 had had his way, we should. 
But you may thank your stars you sent prudent men. and I trust that the youngest is not the least so. The gentleman to whom you alluded is, if possible, worse than ever; more violent, more wrong-headed. 
But I do not mean to censure others ; sufficient for me if I pursue a right line, and meet with the approbation of my countrymen. 120. The New York Delegates to the Chairman and Freeholders of Dutchess County. 1 New York 7th November 1774. Gentlemen . .... Unable sooner to present you in one View with the Acts of the Congress, it is with Regret that we have thus long been obliged to withold this mark of Respect, which we owe to our worthy Constituents. 
The Copy inclosed comprizes every proceeding except the petition to the King which cannot in point of Decorum be made publick until it has been laid before the Throne. 
The several Resolutions are too clear and explicite to require Illustration, you will therefore be pleased to be refered to them for the Measures it is expected you will at this momentuous period adopt and religiously observe. permit us only to add that the Recommendation of the Committee of Correspondence of this City in Favour of the distressed Inhabitants of the Town of Boston has received additional weight by one of the Resolutions of the Congress. 2 Every Motive of Duty Humanity and Policy requires that we should at such a Juncture contribute to the Relief of a people suffering in the common Cause as the devoted Victims of Ministerial Vengeance ; and we flatter ourselves that you will not be backward in setting an Example on this Occasion worthy of Imitation and Applause. 
We have the Honour to be with the greatest Esteem, Gentlemen — Your most obliged and most obedient humble Servants. 
Phil. 
Livingston John Alsop Isaac Low Jas. Duane John Jay To Zephaniah Piatt Esqr. 
Chairman and the Freeholders of the County of Dutchess. [ 1 19 ] l Sanderson, Signers of the Declaration of Independence, III. 16 (extract). 2 See no. 121, post. 
Cf. a note in John Adams, Works, II. 385. 3 Gadsden? See no. 121, post. 
I120] 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 715. 2 See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 313, 317, 322, 323, 324, 328, 329, and the Journals, Sept. 17. November, 1774 85 121. South Carolina Delegates, Report to the Provincial Congress. 1 Our Delegates from Congress being present, the proceedings of that body at Philadelphia were taken into consideration, and many questions were proposed to them relative to various parts of the proceedings, to which, answers and explanations were given by them. 
One of the most important of these was, why, at a time when a number of gentlemen were sent to Congress from all parts of America, for the express purpose of considering and stating" the American grievances and for devising the proper means of redressing them; why did they limit their researches to the year 1763 and not trace back, as could easily have been done, the many aggressions which had been committed by Great Britain upon her infant Colonies in the jealousies, monopolies, and prohibitions, with which she was so prodigal towards them, for the express purpose of depressing their population, confining their trade, and crippling their attempts, at even the most domestic and necessary manufactures? To this it was answered, that our Delegates were willing to have stated all the grievances, as were the greater part of the other Delegates, but the people of Virginia would not retrospect farther back than 1763, being limited in their powers. 2 And, although they did not avow the reason, yet, it was privately declared, it had been agreed upon at home, not to go beyond that year, as thereby, the greater odium would be thrown upon the reign of George III., which was so fatal to the peace of America. 
The Delegates farther answered, it was then pressed in Congress that the other Colonies should in this measure act independently of Virginia, but Maryland and North-Carolina represented that as their exports were similar to those of Virginia, so, they could not with any advantage to the common cause act independently of her, for their own commodities would be carried to the Virginian ports, which would run away with all their trade. 
And, that in this manner was the measure of stating all the grievances defeated. 3 The articles of association determined upon by Congress, and recommended to the Provincial Conventions and Congresses to be carried into execution, now came on to be considered, and the four last words of the fourth article of that instrument, {" except rice to Europe") gave room for a long and a violent debate. 
This exception had created an alarming disunion throughout the whole Colony, in consequence of which the Representatives had met, with jealous feelings on the subject, as by that article of the Association it was contracted that after the 10th day of September 1775, America "will not directly or indirectly export any merchandize or commodity whatsoever, to Great Britain, Ireland, or the West Indies, except rice to Europe " . This exception had given so general a disgust that the whole interior of the province considered their interests as sacrificed to the emolument of the rice planters, and, accordingly, a motion was made and seconded " that the Delegates to be elected use their [121 J 1 Drayton, Memoirs of the Revolution, I. 167; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. mi. The report was made Jan. 11, 1775. 2 See the Journals, Sept. 24; cf. remarks of Duane in no. 69, ante. 3 Cf. no. 67, ante. 86 Continental Congress 6'utmost endeavours at the ensuing Congress at Philadelphia to cause those words to be expunged ". 4 Mr. Gadsden then rose and explained to the Congress what had taken place in the Continental Congress during the passage of the obnoxious exception. 
He said he thought it was his duty to declare he had not any hand in causing those words to stand in the instrument of association, that they had well nigh occasioned a division in Congress. 
And, so ill was a proposition of that nature received that it had occasioned a cessation from business for several days, 5 in order to give our deputies time to recollect themselves. 
That when the association was completing and the members of Congress were signing that instrument, all our Deputies but himself withdrew. 
That he would have been glad of the honour of signing his name alone, and for doing so would have trusted to the generosity of his constituents. 
That he had offered to do so, and that Carolina was on the point of being excluded the association when our Deputies being again summoned by the Secretary, they returned into Congress, yielding up the article of indigo, and that Congress only for the sake of preserving the union of America, allowed the article rice to be added to the association. 
That this however was illy received by the other Colonies, who had thence become jealous of the rice Colonies, and therefore it was his opinion that for the common good as well as our own honour we ought to remove this as soon as possible by having the words " except rice to Europe "struck out of the fourth article of the association. 
Mr. John Rutledge now undertook his own defence and that of his three associates. 
He said that at an early period he and the other Delegates from this Colony had warmly pressed an immediate non-importation, and total non-exportation. 
That as a non-exportation to Great Britain and Ireland was to withhold from thence the advantages their people might acquire from a receipt of American commodities, so, the end would be more surely effected by retaining those commodities altogether in America. 
Such measures however could not be effected; the Northern Colonies resolving to remit to England, as usual, to pay their debts by the circuitous mode of their flour and fish trade to the rest of Europe. 
In short, the commodities they usually sent to the mother country were but trifling, and their real trade would be but little affected by the association. 
For instance, Philadelphia carried on a trade of export to the amount of £700,000 Sterling, whereas, scarce £50,000 value of it went to the market of the mother country. 
That as it was evident those Colonies were less intent to annoy the mother country in the article of trade than to preserve their own trade, so, he thought it was but justice to his constituents to preserve to them their trade as entire as possible. 
That as the Northern trade would be but little affected by the association, he saw no reason why ours should be almost ruined, for nearly all our indigo and two thirds of our rice went to the ports of the mother country. 
That if we must bear
Ward records that the Association was completed Oct. 18 and signed Oct. 20. See no. 106, ante. 
Dec ember ; 1774 87 burdens in the cause of America they ought to be as equally laid as possible. 
Upon the whole, he said the affair seemed rather like a commercial scheme among the flour Colonies to find a better vent for their flour through the British Channel, by preventing, if possible, any rice from being sent to those markets, and, that for his part, he could never consent to our becoming dupes to the people of the north, or, in the least, to yield to their unreasonable expectations. 
That as by the association the rice planters preserved their property, so it had been the idea of the Delegates at the Congress that they should make compensation to the indigo planters, who could not send their crops to the mother country. 
Such a plan was just and practicable, and it ought to be the subject of our debate rather than expunging the means of exporting a great part of our annual crop, and therewith supplying ourselves with those necessaries we might require. 6 122. John Adams to Edward Biddle. 1 Braintree, 12 December, 1774. .... I have sometimes wished, since my return, that we had fallen in, totis viribus, with the motion made by Mr. Ross, and seconded by Mr. Galloway, that this province should be left to her own discretion with respect to government and justice, as well as defence. 2 Our provincial Congress had in contemplation some sublime conceptions, which would in that case have been carried rapidly into execution Pray write me as often as possible, and let me know how the fourth resolution in our bill of rights is relished and digested among the choice spirits along the continent. 
I had more anxiety about that, than all the rest. 
But I find it is extremely popular here. 
Our provincial Congress have approved and adopted it in strong terms. 
They consider it a great point gained. 
They think it has placed our connection with Great Britain on its true principles, and that there is no danger from it to us, and there is quite as much allowed to her as either justice or policy requires. 3 123. James Duane to Samuel Chase. 1 New York 29 December 1774. Dear Sir .... I think you may rely that the Inhabitants of this province will adhere to the Association with inflexible Integrity, That they will give it all the Time and opportunity to operate that can be desired, and if pacific measures finally prove ineffectual that they never will surrender up their Liberties. 
At the same time as far as my information extends they are
Soc, Duane Papers, IV. 260 (copy). 88 Continental Congress universally of your opinion that the rights of regulating our Trade bona fide, as the Basis of an accommodation ought to be ceded in the most express terms. 
The Maryland Arguments, in which you had so great a share, on this essential point were unanswerable they never were attempted to be answered, yet unhapily they produced no conviction. 
Tell me then my dear Sir how a plan of Union is to be adopted which will be acceptable in every colony ? You have not I see altered your opinion ; If the Question comes to be proposed to you in your Legislative Capacity do you think you will ? If not is it reasonable to expect that this Colony will at once recede from what they have always laid down as a fundamental principle of their constitution. 
For my part I candidly confess that had this cardinal point been properly ascertained on a great occasion I should have been much more happy than I am at present. 
Finding it would not be yielded in any terms which could give Satisfaction or even elude suspicion I listened to a certain plan
I have not yet been fortunate enough to hear any objections against it which weigh in my Judgment. 
I ask the favour of you who were averse to it and will not determine but on good grounds to state them. 
In the mean time suffer me to explain the light in which it strikes me. The plan is calculated to secure to every colony its own exclusive interest, Legislation and form of Government except in rriatters which respect Great Britain and the Colonies jointly, such for instance as war and commerce, the new Council were to have no authority; and in all cases the Representatives of the people were to be vested with a complete negative. 
Thus far we should secure the first and capital Right of all free subjects; to be bound by no laws without their prior consent. 
But why it is said ought the Parliament of England to participate in this great Council? I conceive for two reasons, first that there may be but one supreme head in the State to conduct events which regard the whole Empire and upon which its very existence may depend ; Secondly because it is just that Great Britain should be guarded against all attempts of the Sovereign to unite with one part of the Empire which must soon be the most important, to oppress or injure her. 
It has been objected that this Plan by introducing these additional Assemblies is repugnant to the constitution. 
I answer that Colonization is a new case unprovided for by the constitution and it is therefore necessary to remedy the defect by a new system founded on general principles of Liberty. 
It is further objected that it is highly dangerous and by giving .... may be exposed to corruption, to this it is answered that our assemblies at present . . . . 3 that there can be no society without confidence and that the direction of the Council may be so contrived as effectually to Silence the fears of seduction, you are already master of my sentiments on this plan and I may express my thoughts with freedom but I would not have you to understand that I think it perfect in its present rude form, much less that I am
See the Journals (ed. Ford), Sept. 28; also nos. 71, 72, ante. 3 About two lines of the letter were evidently all but illegible to the copyist. 
The words "may .... present" are in pencil, in the writing of S. W. Jones (author of the Memoir of Duane), who also made other corrections in the copy. 
May, 1775 89 so fond a friend of it as to recommend it to our assembly for adoption. 
This however I must observe that if the rights of regulating Trade is to be rejected or pared away to nothing Some Plan of Union must be seriously thought of. That our different Assemblies will be called upon by Government for their respective Systems, I make no question; any more than I doubt that delegates even from our congress would have been respectfully received by Government if they would have suggested any fit and reasonable Scheme for terminating our unhapy dissentions amicably. 
I entreat you my dear sir and the other delegates appointed for your Colony to take this subject into serious consideration. 
If you cannot approve of something like the above mentioned plan devise one which you will support. 
Think in time of the conditions of union to which you will accede, and communicate them with candour. 
This may be of the most important consequence to this Colony and to the Common cause. 
We are among those that are thought most strongly attached to the parent State and probably from us will first be demanded a system of Union. 
We therefore stand in need of information, at least we ought to know the sentiments of some of the Colonies, and I exclusively have my eye upon those whose politics I think the most consistent and rational. 
I am afraid I have tired you with this long disquisition, but remember that you have twice pressed me to communicate my thoughts with freedom, and I am encouraged from a sense of duty as well as the expectation of a rich .... [illegible]. .... inferring [expecting?] 4 from you the same fraternal candour I am with great Esteem Dear Sir Your most Obedient Humble Servant Jas. Duane. 5 Samuel Chase Esqr. 
Anapolis, Maryland 124. Richard Henry Lee to [William Lee]. 1 Philadelphia 10 May 1775. Dear Brother, I am exceedingly pressed with business and therefore must be short, and for this time, mix politics with business of a private nature. 
The Virg a . Delegates arrived here yesterday where they find all those from the Southward of this, with the Deputies from N. Hamshire. 
In an hour all from the Colonies North of this will be here and then the Congress
The words " rich " and " inferring "are in pencil, in the writing of S. W. Jones. 
The word " fraternal " is also a pencilled correction from " political ". 5 On the same day Duane wrote to Thomas Johnson of Maryland discussing the situation. 
The draft, much erased, is in the Duane Papers, IV. 253. Johnson had written Duane Dec. 16, emphasizing the need of unanimity in regard to the Association. " You and I, I believe, thought much alike and were equally distressed on particular points." The letter is ibid., IV. 249. [i24pVa. Hist. 
Soc, Lee Papers, IV. 133; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh),!. 134- 90 Continental Congress will be opened. 2 There never appeared more perfect unanimity among any sett of Men than among the Delegates, and indeed all the old Provinces not one excepted are directed by the same firmness of union and determination to resist by all ways and to every extremity. 3 .... 125. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney. 1 Phila. 
May the nth. 1775. Sir, I have very little news (as yet) to write you more than what the printers (who are very apt to get the whip-hand of their neighbours in that way) have set forth in their papers which you will get pr. post. 
Billy Rodney will give you a description of the public entry of the Bostonian delegates into this city yesterday. 
It was very grand and intended to show their approbation of the conduct of the good people of that govt, in the distressing situation of affairs there." .... The Congress met yesterday, chose Peyton Randolph President and Charles Thomson Secy. 
Franklin, Willson and Thos. 
Willing are added. 
The Congress will be opened this day with prayers by Mr. Duche
I am yours Caesar Rodney. 126. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 My Dear, .... Dr. Franklin is of the Congress; the proceedings of which, as before, will be kept secret. 2 Galloway is fled, as they say. 3 .... The delay of the Rhode Island delegates as to coming up prevents our entering at once deeply on business, 4 but you may depend all will be well ; that is, if I may judge from appearance; but believe nothing you hear reported of us, for our doings will not be published but by authority of the whole. 
The scenes before us are so vast that I can give no kind of judgment as to the term we shall be detained here, and I tremble when I think of their vast importance. 
May the God of Wisdom preside ! 2 " Early this morning a great number of persons rode out several miles, hearing that the eastern delegates were approaching, when about 11 o'clock the cavalcade appeared." Curwen, Journal, May 10, 1775. See also no. 125, post. 
For a particular description of the progress of the New England delegates and their entrance into Philadelphia, see Deane's letters to his wife, May 7, 12, in Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 221, 226; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 43, 46. See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 517. Eliphalet Dyer, in his letter to Gov. Trumbull, May 18 (see no. 131, note 4, post), also describes the journey and the reception in Philadelphia. 
See also Christopher Marshall's Diary, May 9, et seq. 3 " May 9, 1775. Dined with Stephen Collins; passed the evening at Joseph Reed's, in company with Col. Washington (a fine figure and of a most easy and agreeable address), Richard Henry Lee, and Col. Harrison, three of the Virginia delegates. 
I could not perceive the least disposition to accommodate matters." Curwen, Journal. [125] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Miscellaneous. 2 See no. 124, note 2, ante. 3 The copy has " Durkee ". [126] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 226; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 46. 2 See the Journals, May 11 (p. 22). 3 See no. 131, note 7, post. 4 See no. 127, post. 
May, 1775 91 Mr Dushay [Duche] made a most pathetic and pertinent prayer at our opening. 
Prest and Secy, the same as before Friday, May 12th. P. S 127. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [May 15, 1775.] 15th. A number of members arrived. 
The Secretary allowed to employ Timothy Matlack as clerk under an oath of secrecy ; a petition from the Murrays ; 2 ordered that the Congress be resolved into a Committee to-morrow as above; New York asked advice relative to the troops ; the Delegate from St. John's did not insist on a voice, save when the Colonies were not called. 3 Arrived myself at this time. 4 .... 128. The New York Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety. 1 Philadelphia, May 16, 1775. Gentlemen: Enclosed we send you the advice of the Congress on the subject on which you requested it ; and lest the advice to remove the Military Stores might be construed to extend to those belonging to the Crown, we think it prudent to suggest to you, that the contrary construction is the true one. 2 You would have received this advice before, had not sundry circumstances not material, or perhaps proper to explain, concurred in deferring it till now. 
We are, gentlemen, your humble servants, James Duane, Lewis Morris, Francis Lewis, Philip Livingston, John Jay, John Alsop. [127] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 503. 2 See the Journals, May 15, 16, 27; N. J. Arch., first ser., X. 561; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 144-148, 689. 3 Lyman Hall, delegate from the parish of St. John's, Georgia. 
See the Journals, May 13, IS- 4 Ward arrived May 15 in the midst of debate (see the Journals, p. 50). Concerning the instructions to the Rhode Island delegates Ward wrote to Richard Henry Lee, Dec. 14, 1774: "It was supposed by some Gent n . that if our grievances were redressed this Winter there would be no Necessity of another Congress. 
I am of a different Opinion, many new Regulations of Commerce, Manufactures, etc., may be adopted for the general Good of the Colonies and should the Ministry be inclined to make any new attempts upon Us our being united and on our Guard would be the most probable means of preventing them for these Reasons I proposed an annual Congress . . . ." Haverford College, Roberts Collection, 715. The commission of the Rhode Island delegates and their instructions are in the Journals, May 15, and in Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., pp. 22, 23; cf. ibid., p. 17. [128] 1 Force. 
Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 618; Pennsylvania Packet, May 22, 1775 ; Pennsylvania Journal, May 24; Pennsylvania Gazette, May 24; N. Y. Royal Gazette, May 25. 2 See the Journals, May 15. The request for this advice was on May 10. See Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, II. 531 ; cf. ibid., pp. 705-707. Cf. nos. 132, 152, post. 92 Continental Congress 129. The New York Delegates to the Committee for the City and County of Albany. 1 Philadelphia 18th May 1775. Gentlemen. 
Your Letter inclosing the Intelligence of the taking Possession of the Post of Ticonderoga has been laid before the Congress, and inclosed you have their Resolutions upon this Important event. 2 .... We are with great Respect Gentn. 
Your Most Obt. Servts. 
Wm. Floyd Francis Lewis Jas. Duane Geo : Clinton Lewis Morris John Alsop Ph : Schuyler To the Committee for the City and County of Albany 130. George Read to Mrs. Read. 1 May
We sit in Congress generally till half-past three o'clock, and once till five o'clock, and then [I] dine at the City Tavern, where a few of us have established a table for each day in the week, save Saturday, when there is a general dinner. 
Our daily table is formed by the following persons, at present, to wit : Messrs. 
Randolph, Lee, Washington, and Harrison, of Virginia, Alsop of New York, Chase of Maryland, and Rodney and Read. 
A dinner is ordered for the number, eight, and whatever is deficient of that number is to be paid for at two shillings and sixpence a head, and each that attends pays only the expense of the day. 
I have dined there thrice in this way, as I find it very disagreeable to keep a table covered for me at these late hours at my brother's I drank tea with Mrs. Vining yesterday, having seen her at the commencement of the college in this place, where the members of Congress attended by special invitation. [129] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Proceedings of the Albany Committee of Correspondence, I. 44 (copy). 2 See the Journals, May 18. The despatches which came to Congress are probably those in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 605-606. Cf. ibid., pp. 450, 485, 507, 546, 556-560, 584-585, 618, 623, 624, 638, 645-646, 705. See also the proceedings of the provincial congress (ibid., p. 1244), and nos. 131, 132, 136, 147, 152, 154, post. [130] 1 Read, Life of George Read, p. 106. May, 1775 93 As to news, you will see the depositions relating to the attack of the troops in their expedition to Lexington and Concord. 
These were sent to Congress, and by them ordered for publication in Bradford's paper,"which you get by the post. 
I inclose the Evening Post? Last night an express came to town from one Colonel Arnold, informing that, with a detachment of men from the colony of Connecticut, he had taken possession of the fort Ticonderoga, an important pass on Lake Champlain, which, if kept, will prevent any army from Canada. 
I have not heard the particulars. 4 . . . . 131. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia May 18th 1775. Sr Your favor of the nth Instant came safe to hand this day and am much Obliged for the Intelligence therein given
Indeed they are not all so well prepared with the means as we could wish for
Some depositions relative to the Lexington and Concord affair, together with the address of the Massachusetts Provincial Congress to the inhabitants of Great Britain, are found in the issue of May 17. A fuller publication of the documents is found in the Pennsylvania Gazette of the same date. 3 The Pennsylvania Evening Post. 4 " We know not how long we may stay here. 
All secret as before." Read to [Nicholas Van Dyke?], May 18, Life of Read, p. 102. [131] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 2 The reference is doubtless to the capture of Ticonderoga. 
See no. 132, post; also note 5, below. 3 See the Journals, May 11 (p. 22). 4 Dyer describes at some length the journey from Hartford to Philadelphia, in company with the Massachusetts delegates. 
The impressive features of the journey were the military receptions and escorts accorded the delegates at several places. 
See no. 124, ante, and John Adams's Diary, Works, II. 406. 5 John Brown, who brought the despatches concerning the capture of Ticonderoga. 
See the Journals, May 18, and no. 129, ante. 
There is a biographical sketch in the Berkshire Historical and Scientific Society, Collections, I. 312. 6 The Pennsylvania Packet of May 15 and the Pennsylvania Gazette of May 17 contain a statement by Joseph Galloway in reply to the charge that he had " insulted the Delegates of the present Congress, at Bristol, and declared that they were an unlawful body of men, and that the Magistrates ought to disperse them ", etc., declaring that the reports were malicious and without the least foundation. 94 Continental Congress who freely took his seat in Congress. 7 your repeated Intelligence will be Very agreable my respects to our officers etc. and am Sir yr Hie Servt Elipht Dyer Mr Joseph Trumbull Cambridge. 132. Silas Deane to the Governor of Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull). 1 Philadelphia 19th. May 1775. Sir Your Letter of the 15th we received last Evening by Mott and Now inclose the resolutions of the Congress respecting the Military Stores at Ticonderoga, have not Time to mention at large the Reasons which induced them to prefer a Removal of the Stores to the keeping the post, but in general, that it was judged a post on this side might [be] seized on and kept at much less expence and to equall advantage. 2 .... 133. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 Philadelphia, May 21st, 1775. My Dear, .... I mentioned adjourning to Hartford, but no motion has as yet been stirred or made public on the subject, and all is uncertainty. 2 If we do not adjourn, am not in expectation of returning soon; for however great the sacrifice is, it cannot be greater than all, and I can by [no m]eans desert the Cause in which I consider my [life] itself embarked. 
The Congress did little more the first week [tha]n form themselves; and the Rhode Island members not coming until late last week, little more has been done than just to enter on the great subject before us May 24th. Our discourse about adjourning is somewhat abated. 
Our President left us yesterday, on acct of attending as Speaker of the House of Burgesses now called in Virginia, and Mr. Hancock presides in his room. 3 7 Franklin was chosen a delegate on May 6, the next day after his arrival from London (see Pa. Packet, May 8, 1775), and Galloway was excused on May 12. See the credentials in the Journals under May n ; also in Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, II. 455, 457- [132] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, C 51, XXVII. 249 (copy). 2 See the Journals, May 18; cf. no. 131, ante, nos. 136, 147, 152, post. [133] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 233; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collectiohs: Deane Papers, I. 49. 2 Titus Hosmer wrote to Deane, May 28: " The removal of the Congress northward is, as you observe, a very delicate point. 
The Union of the Colonies is our safety; should it endanger that, although remotely, it would countervail any proposed advantage. 
I own, I fear were you near us you would have too many questions referred to you, and too much business cast upon you by the New England Colonies, to leave you the leisure you ought to have to digest and perfect matters of greater importance; but if a station nearer the present scene of action should be thought eligible, might it not answer some very good purposes were it chosen in or near New York? Wherever the Congress is, there will be the Spirit of Liberty." Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 241. See also nos. 149. 155, 177, 189, 200, 215, 220, 236, 239, 295. post. ...... , , . 3 Cf. no. 140, post. 
Dunmore's proclamation calling the Virginia assembly is Force, Am. Arch., fourth scr., II. 578. May, 1775 95 134. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Phyladelphia, May 21, 1775 My Dear Friend, .... Our unwieldy Body moves very slow. 
We shall do something in Time, but must have our own Way. We are all secret. 
But I can guess that an army will be posted in New York, and another in Massachusetts, at the Continental Expence. 
Such a vast Multitude of Objects, civil, political, commercial and military, press and crowd upon us so fast, that We know not what to do first. 
The State of fifteen or sixteen Colonies, to be considered, Time must be taken 135. James Wilson to John Montgomery. 1 Dear Sir .... The Proceedings of the Congress, you know are secret. 2 I must beg of you ; and I know you will do it chearfully ; to promote, as far as lies in your Power, the military Spirit that so laudably prevails in Cumberland County. 
Every Thing depends on it. I will not fail to transmit to you by every Opportunity, any remarkable News we may have ; or any Thing done in Congress which I am at Liberty to communicate. 
Philada 22d May 1775 J Montgomery Esquire. 3 136. The New Hampshire Delegates to the New Hampshire Provincial Committee. 1 Philadelphia, May 22d, 1775. Gent We take this early opportunity of Inform
Partridge that the Congress upon hearing of the forts at Ticonderoga and Crown Point being seized by the people of New England to prevent General Carleton with his Canadians and Indians taking possession of them to annoy our Frontiers, and finding by about Thirty Indian Chiefs now in Philadelphia as well as by persons sent to sound the Dispositions of the several Indian Nations that such a Design is Really on foot and that Guy Johnson the Superintendent for Indian affairs has Really Endeavoured to persuade the Indians to enter into a war with us and that many other steps have been taken by a bloody minded and cruel Ministry to induce those Hereditary Enemies of America to fall upon and Butcher its Inhabitants ; we say [134] 1 Warren- Adams Letters, vol. 
I. (Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, vol. 
LXXIL), P- 5i. [135] 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722. 2 See the Journals, May 11. 3 John Montgomery was at this time chairman of the committee of observation for Cumberland County, and this letter was addressed to him at Carlisle. 
In 1776 he was appointed by Congress one of the commissioners to negotiate a treaty with the Indians at Fort Pitt. 
From 1782 to 1784 he was a delegate to Congress. 
A brief account of him is in Appleton, Cyclo. of Am. Biog. [136] 1 N. H. Prov. 
Papers, VII. 501; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 669. 11 96 Continental Congress &'upon those things appearing to the Congress, they have ordered the above Forts to be demolished and the warlike Stores to be removed and another Fort to be erected and maintained at the Lowest part of Lake George, if the Committee of New York shall think it necessary and to call upon all the New England Governments to give assistance if Required by New York. 2 We earnestly entreat you for the the honor of the Province, if such a requisition be made to give them every possible assistance to preserve our People from the invasions of a barbarous and Savage Enemy. 
We are sorry Gentlemen that Honor will not permit us to give you the least information respecting our proceedings. 
We can only say That all the Colonies are firmly united and are preparing for the worst. 
We hope that you will in Imitation of the other Colonies proceed to choose your officers and Establish your Militia upon the new Plan which has been adopted by every Colony upon the Continent. 
We shall bring with us Governor Wentworth's Letters to Lord Dartmouth for 12 months past that you may Judge whether he is your friend as he pretends, or whether he is not rather your Inveterate Enemy. 
Gentlemen, we are with great respect your most obedt servts. 
Jno Sullivan John Langdon. 
P. S To the Provincial Committee of New Hampshire. 137. William Hooper to Samuel Johnston. 1 Philadelphia, May 23, 1775. Dear Johnston: The close attention which I am compelled to pay to the business of the Congress, scarce gives me an opportunity to pay my duty to my friends. 
As we meet at nine A. M. and sit till four P. M., you will readily conceive that the little leisure we have is not sufficient for the common functions of life and exercise to keep us in health. 
While I am writing I encroach upon Congress hours, and if I could furnish you with any thing interesting it might be some apology for the transgression. 
But the strict secrecy which is enjoined upon the members, leaves us at large to communicate nothing worthy attention that happens within the walls of the State-House. 
Let it suffice, that the most perfect harmony subsists among the members. 
The character of the New-Yorkers is no longer suspicious. 
They take a forward and an active share in the opposition ; all ranks of people among them are embarked in the common cause, and are sacredly resolved to preserve the cargo or perish with the ship. 
The few Tories among them are silent; the cry of liberty is irresistible. 2 .... 2 See the Journals, May 18; see also no. 129, note 2, ante; cf. R. H. to Francis Lightfoot Lee, May 21, Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 136. Several letters of the New Hampshire Provincial Congress relative to the matter are in TV. H. I'rov. 
Papers, VII. 497-502. See also the letters of Guy Johnson, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 661 ; cf. ibid., pp. 664-666, 668-672, 676. [137] > Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 679. 2 Richard Henry Lee wrote to Francis Lightfoot Lee, May 21: "There never was a more total revolution at any place than at New York. 
The Tory's have been obliged to fly, the Province is arming, and the Governor dares not call his prostituted Assembly to receive Lord Norths foolish plan." Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh),!. 137. May, 1775 97 Only let me add to the members of the Committees, that a resolve has passed the Congress, and ordered to be published, that no vessel shall be suffered to load for Newfoundland, St. John's, or Nova-Scotia, to supply the British fisheries there, or any where else along the coast of America. 3 This is much to be noticed ; it is a just retaliation for restraining the American fishery. 
Hewes orders me to Congress that he may have an opportunity to despatch his vessel ; and as Caswell is indisposed I must obey, and thereby save your patience a further trial. 138. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston. 1 Philadelphia 23d. May 1775. Dear Sir, .... We have done very little in Congress. 
The secrecy injoined the Members puts it out of my power to communicate anything worth your attention. 
The Congress had entered into a resolve, that no vessel shall be suffered to Load for Newfoundland, St. John's Nova Scotia, or the British Fishery on any of the [coasjts of America; to take place immediately; thereby to prevent the British [fisheries] from being supplied with provisions and Stores. 2 It was moved to amend this resolve by prohibiting all importation from these places; to take place im [mediately.] To this it was objected and very justly too, that many pe[rsons i]n those places were indebted to the other colonies; and that suc[h a reso]lve would prevent them from sending their effects to this, [or any] of our ports ; and would injure ourselves, so the whole matter was p[ostponed] for some days, in order to debate the latter part of th[e resolve.] The first part being agreed to unanimously; .... You prevailed on Hooper and [me] to be elected delegates to attend the Congress. 
You have been instrumental in putting a halter about our necks, if we should be obliged to pro[m]ise so much for our province we shall want your abilities and influence to carry us through. 
In the interim you ought, I think to exert yourself in getting the province put in a state of defence. 
Encourage the people to associate in companies for that purpose, and to make themselves acquainted with Military discipline This you may do without appearing active in it yourself. 
Hooper calls to me from the next room and says he is writing a long letter to [you] he is much better qualified to give you information than I am, therefore I [beg leave] to refer you to him for a further acct. of politics. 3 .... 3 Hooper makes some omissions from the resolve. 
See the Journals, May 17; cf. no. 138, post. [138] 1 Letter-book in the possession of C. E. Johnson, Raleigh; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 679. 2 See the Journals, May 15, 17, including erased entries. 
Cf. no. 137, ante. 
The proceedings relative to the amendment of this resolve do not appear in the Journals. 3 See no. 137, ante, and the entire letter in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 679. 98 Continental Congress 139. George Read to Mrs. Read. 1 [May 23, 1775.] My dear G .... I really begin to tire of my confinement. 
I attended at nine o'clock in the forenoon [to-day], and did not stir till after five; this is common ; could we separate at three, I could bear it tolerably well 140. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [May 24, 1775.] 24th. Met. Mr. Randolph going to the Assembly, Mr. Middleton was chosen (President) ; declined on account of his ill state of health, and Mr. Hancock was chosen. 2 Then resolved into a Committee, and Mr. Ward reported as above. 141. James Duane, Notes on the State of the Colonies. 1 [May 25, 1775.] 2 on the state of the colonies. 
I. The importance of the subject, — it concerns our liberties, our lives, our property. 
II.' The eyes of Europe and America are fixed on this Assembly, and the fate of one of the greatest empires on earth, in no small degree, depends on the issue of their deliberations. 
III. We are contending with the State from whence we spring, with those who were once our fathers, our guardians, our brethren, with those fleets and armies which were lately our protection, and contributed to rescue us from Gallic tyranny and oppression. 
IV. Cemented by the ties of blood, religion and interest, victory itself how[ev]er decided must be fatal: and whichever side prevails must weep over its conquests. 
On our side we tremble for the dearest and most inestimable of all earthly blessings, our liberty and for those rights and that most excellent constitution and free government, which (resources) were procured by the blood and handed down to us by the wisdom and the bravery of our renowned ancestors. 
V. Doubly exposed to the cruel projects of an unrelenting and despotic Ministry, and if they are defeated to the danger of foreign invasions from bigots and tyrants, no condition can be more alarming. f 139I 1 Read, Life of George Read, p. 108. I140] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 504. 2 The Journals do not record the election of Middleton. fi4i] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Papers, II. 501-515 (copy). The originals of these notes have not been found. 2 These notes are placed at May 25 as probably having been delivered to Congress in connection with the motion made at the close of that day's session looking toward reconciliation. 
See the proceedings on the motion May 26, and the note relative to a motion of Duane. the Journals, p. 65. These notes may however have been presented in connection with the debates in the committee of the whole. 
They should be compared with Duane's Notes and propositions in September, 1774. See no. 58, ante. 
May, 1775 99 VI. How necessary then while we summon up all our fortitude and rise superior to fear and every selfish regard while we are ready to lay down our fortunes and even our lives in the defence of the best of causes, that at the same time we restrain every emotion of intemperate zeal, every sally of anger and passion : and coolly and deliberately examine and consider the state of the Colonies uniting with one heart and one voice our best and wisest counsels for the preservation of our country. 
VII. However diffident of my own abilities, and conscious that I can contribute but very little in the great and arduous enquiry, silence on this momentous occasion would ill requite the confidence reposed in me by mv constituents. 
VIII. I am the more encouraged to offer my sentiments, because I have the happiness to find, that they are confirmed by some of the most respectable authorities which distinguish the bright catalogue of American Patriots and in whose steps I may tread with some degree of confidence. 
IX. I shall not spend the time in reviewing that wicked system of ministerial oppression which has reduced America to its present deplorable situation. 
It has been done with precision and elegance by the worthy member from Virginia. 3 X. Nor need I enter upon the question whether all the united Colonies are to be considered as in a state of War, or Peace? XL It is a sufficient ground for my conduct, that the sword of ministerial vengeance has been drawn against our Brethren in the Massachusetts Bay and their innocent blood been shed. 
That they suffer in our common cause ; and that we are bound by the most solemn engagements by every tie of duty interest and policy to succur and support them and to hazard our all in the tremendous conflict. 
XII. One common danger therefore awaits us and we must share one common fortune. 
May that gracious being upon whom we depend inspire our Councils with wisdom and bless our efforts with success ! and speedily restore us to that peace and harmony with Great Britain on principles of liberty and mutual advantage which is the ultimate wish of every virtuous patriot. 
XIII. The subject of our debate divides itself into two general heads. 1 st. A vigorous preparation for our common defence — for Sir, I wish we may never part with the idea that every hostile measure on our part is undertaken for and shall be conducted to our own self preservation : and that however injured and provoked the desire of conquest, of independence and much less of revenge may be banished from every American breast. 
Let this be ever considered as a family quarrel, disgraceful and ruinous into which we are innocently plunged by intolerable oppression, and which we are sincerely disposed to appease and reconcile, whenever the good providence of God shall put it in our power, consistent with the preservation of our just rights. 
This loyal and benevolent sentiment which to the honor of injured America under all her grievances so universally prevails will open the next head of debate viz
Whether any means of reconciliation are left in our power which we can propose with a prospect of success, and a just regard to our invaded Rights. 
As to the ist point — a vigorous preparation for our common defence. 
I have no military skill and, considering the critical state of the Colony which gave me birth, I have reason to lament it. Our capital may be surrounded with ships of war, which we are wholly incapable of resisting. 
Hudson's River affords an easy communication for vessels of force upwards of ioo miles into the heart of our best settlements. 
Our Western frontier covered with scattered villages interspersed to the distance of ioo miles from Albany are exposed to the ravages of the Western nations of Indians while our Northern and Eastern frontiers are at the mercy of the Canadians and the savages long in their alliance. 
The fertility of the Colony, its advantageous situation to supply the Ministerial armament and to cut off the communication between the Eastern and Western provinces are circumstances which render it of the utmost moment to the contending powers. 
We must therefore expect that every effort will be put in practice to secure it for the Ministry. 
The force of America must consequently be divided into two bodies — one to defend the Massachusetts the other to secure New York. 4 Two large armies must be kept on foot for these purposes; sufficient to overawe the Ministerial troops and confine them to the post they may under cover of the fleet be able to secure. 
The army which is to defend New York must again be subdivided — a sufficient number to overawe and confine the troops which may be landed in the City of New York ; and the rest to oppose the attempts of the Indians and Canadians. 
In our operations we must hazard all upon the success of our small arms — there is no prospect that we shall be able to erect forts or batteries which, will prove the least serviceable. 
We have some cannon but no engineers; no apparatus necessary for fortifying and what is worse very little powder of any kind, and no cannon powder or ball though with the latter we might speedily be supplied. 
Besides if we had both materials and capacity to construct fortifications they would probably only serve as decoys to ensnare us, for it would be opposing inexperience to discipline and meeting regular troops in their own way and on their own guard. 
In short the examples and success of the Massachusetts point out the only way in which we can meet our tyrants with any prospect of success. 
Under this head of preparation for defence will be considered — 2dly, The number of men to be raised in each Colony and 3dly, The means of their support. 
But these are subjects which can only be investigated by a thorough knowledge of the abilities and circumstances of each Colony of which I am too ignorant to venture any estimate. 4 See nos. 180, 181, 185, 186, 188, 189, 190, 191, 193, post. 
Ma y> T 775 101 [As to the] I come now to the
Many are the reasons which ought to induce us while we are preparing vigorously for the last appeal to open a door for reconciliation. 
I shall mention only three, i. That we can g [cetera desitnt]. 6 142. The New Hampshire Delegates to a Committee of Congress. 1 The Delegate [s] from New Hampshire beg Leave To Inform the Committee That Two of the Principal Towns in That Colony viz Portsmouth and New Castle are Situate on Pescataway River near the Entrance of The Harbour and are much Exposed To Naval Attacks : That Those Towns are about five Miles Distance from Each other : Portsmouth The Capital, Lying Farthest up the River and not Quite So much Exposed as New Castle which Lies at The Entrance Defended only by a Fort Capable of Mounting about Thirty pieces of Cannon on The Rampart; but The Fortifications are Extremly weak. 
That to Defend the Entrance of The Harbour against a Naval Force would be Extremely Difficult, if not Impracticable. 
That Batteries might be Erected between Those Towns which with Booms, Chains etc. might possibly Secure Portsmouth from Such attack. 
That to Defend the Pass and Secure The Retreat of the Inhabitants will require at Least Fifteen hundred Men. But as they have a well Regulated Militia in That Neighbourhood which may Suddenly be Called Together for that purpose, They are of opinion That there will be no necessity of Enlisting men at the Continental Expence Especially as The Militia will Readily agree to Serve in Turn for the Defence of Those places. 
They beg Leave further to Inform the Committee That There are Sixteen Regiments of Foot and Two of Horse in That Colony The Foot amounting in the whole to upward of Sixteen Thousand Effective men, Tolerably well provided with Arms and Ammunition. 
That the number of Horse is uncertain and Those but 111 provided. 
That great Numbers of these Foot Soldiers have been in Actual Service and That out of those they are Ready to Raise and Send to Serve in Massachusetts So many as the Committee Shall please to order. 
That the Number of their Inhabitants are very uncertain as persons are Continually Emigrating from Other Colonies and Settleing in that more than in any other of The Northern Colonies. 
That The persons Thus Emigrating are Extremely poor for which Reason The wealth of the Province bears no proportion to the number
There is accordingly some uncertainty what the original text was. 6 The last two lines are in the writing of George Bancroft, including the two words in brackets. [142] 1 Library of Congress, N. H. Papers, III.; Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, II. 725; N. H. Prov. 
Papers, VII. 492. 102 Continental Congress S'of Inhabitants, with Respect to the amount of their Exports and Imports no accurate account can be given as the officers of the Customs have Long Since Refused to Suffer the Books to be Inspected. 2 [Endorsed :] N. 2. State of New Hampshire as delivered by their delegates May 27, 1775. 143. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 29 May 1775. .... The Congress will support the Massachusetts. 
There is a good spirit here. 2 But we have an amazing field of business before us. When I shall have the joy of meeting you and our little ones I know not. 
The military spirit which runs through the continent is truly amazing. 
Colonel Washington appears at Congress in his uniform, and, by his great experience and abilities in military matters, is of much service to us 144. Edmund Pendleton to William Woodford. 1 Phila. 
May 30. 1775 Dear Sir I was yesterday favd. wth. yrs. of the 23d. .... I Wrote you my Sentiments on the Publications in Approbation or censure of the Hanover March and am much pleased wth. the part Our Committee took. 
The Variety of Opinions on that Subject makes it prudent to have it as little Agitated as may be, lest difference of Sentiment should be wrought into dissentions, very injurious to the common Cause; at the same time Mr. Henry need not doubt a firm and united Protection from all, should any Attempt be made to give serious aspects to a Proclamation, which I consider at present as Waste Paper, or a mere subject of Ridicule. 
The Congress will not meddle with the Subject, nor did the Deputies from Virga. choose to dispose of the money, but left it to the Colony Assembly or convention. 2 .... 2 This statement was probably presented in connection with the discussion in the Committee of the Whole, in regard to placing the colonies in a state of defense. 
See the Journals, May 26, p. 65. [143] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 58. 2 This sentence is not in Familiar Letters, but does appear in the earlier edition of Adams's letters to his wife. [144] 1 Library of Congress, Personal. 
Addressed, "William Woodford, Esqr., Caroline County, Viriginia; To the Care of Capt. 
Weedon, Fred[ericksbur]g ". 2 This letter relates to the episode of the removal by Lord Dunmore of the powder from the magazine in Williamsburg (Apr. 21), and the consequent events. 
An extended account of the affair is found in Henry, Patrick Henry, vol. 
I., ch. xii. 
Documents relating to the affair are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 881, II. 371, 387, 395, 426, 441-443. 464-466, 477-4/8, 502-504, 516, 525-527, 529, 539-541, 547, 578, 587, 640-644, 681-682, 710-71 1, 718, 872, 931, 938. May, 1775 103 145. The New York Delegates to the Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia 30th May 1775. Gentlemen We received your Favour of the 26th Instt
You see by the Order of the Congress heretofore sent you that they have trusted to your Prudence the Appointment of Officers. 3 .... We shoud be glad to have a particular Account from you of any Measures that you may have taken to establish Post-Riders, 4 and are Gentlemen with great Respect your Most Obedt Humble Servts. 
Jas Duane Lewis Morris John Alsop Robt R Livingston junr Geo Clinton Phil. 
Livingston To The Provinceal Congress of New York 146. George Ross to the Lancaster Committee of Correspondence. 1 Philada. 30th. May 1775 Gent Your Express has brought safe the Letters directed to the Members of the Congress. 
The one to the pennsylva : Delegates Contains a Copy of a Resolve of the Committee of Correspondence at fort Pitt, the purport of which is " That the uncertainty of the Boundaries between Virginia and Penna. is the Cause of great uneasiness ". As the Express came to town after the Congress broke up yesterday I gave the Letter for Mr. Randolph to Coll : Washington — it contains a Copy of the resolve above and a Petn : from the Committee and relative to their fears of the Indians, and Containing some reasons for such fears among which is that a Treaty has not been held there by Ld : Dunmore according to promise. 2 .... [i45] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 161 (in the writing of Clinton); Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 25, II. 15; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 850. 2 The letter is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 845, 1255 ; and Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 14. See no. 153, post. 3 See the Journals, May 25 (resolve 4, p. 60). 4 See the Journals, May 29, July 25, 26, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 482, 506, 536-538, 981-983, 1802. Cf. ibid., pp. 800, 802, 1 160, 1497. See also the Journals, Oct. 5, 1774 (P- 55, note). [146] 1 Library of Congress, Pennsylvania Papers. 2 See the Journals, June I. 104 Continental Congress 147. The Connecticut Delegates to William Williams. 1 Philadelphia May 31st 1775 Sir We received your favor of the 25th Instant
Carlton in bringing any forces down the lake, which much altered the opinion of the Congress on that head, beside their being much more Convinced since of the Importance of that post or of others in that quarter to Secure against the Incursions of the Canadians into the frontiers of the Country. 
And now for fear New York may be too slow in raising men for the defence of that part of the Country, they do heartily approve of the steps taken by the Colony of Connecticut, and have now recommended to the Colony Immediately to forward such a Number of additional Troops as they think Necessary to secure that Important post. 
For the present about 1000 Men have been mentioned by some of the Congress to be sent forward from Connecticutt of which they are to Judge how many, as it is left with them, they have orderd the Provincial Congress att New York to see that Battoes and Boats are prepared on the lakes and provisions to be forwarded with all dispatch, at the same time they expect that all Surpluss Cannon, Stores etc. att Ticonderoga and Crown point, not necessary for use and defence there, or thereabouts, be sent down to some place of Security, as soon as possible, if New York should raise a Sufficient Number of Men for the purpose, it is likely our Men will be relievd by them when they can be forwarded there. 4 .... Am oblidged to write in Utmost hurry and am Sr. with most Sincere respects ■ Your Hie Servts Elipht. 
Dyer Roger Sherman Care must be taken that our Men are provided for from New York. [147] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 2408; Hist. 
Mag., VII. 22. 2 The letter of William Williams, May 23, is in Hist. 
Mag., VII. 21. Cf. the letter of Gov. Trumbull to the Massachusetts congress, May 25, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 706; also nos. 132, 136, ante. 3 See the Journals, May 18, and no. 129, note 2, ante. 4 See the Journals, May 31 ; also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 940, 941, 1047-1048, 1066, 1067, 1085-1088. Cf. ibid., II. 685-686, 693-694, 698, 699, 705, 707, 711-716, 719, 721-724, 728-738, 808, 839, 851, 876, 895-896, 957-958, 970, 975-978, 986, 988, 1025-1027; also no. 129, note 2, ante. 
Ma -- 105 [48. Benjamin Franklin. 
Proposed Resolutions Resoh That the Thanks of this Congress : all America, and in our Opinion, of Britain like :re due to the Right Honourable the Earl of Chatham; for his benevolent Endeavours to accommodate the present unhappv Differen. d particularly for the .cellent Plan he offer'd in the House of Lords for that purp hich - rejected by their Lordships without Consideration, and which if it had been received and attended to might have been the Basis of a Reconciliation and lasting Agreen.errt.- R: :. Tha: the Thanks of the Cor.;^r be presented Kkf to Edmund Burke Esqr. and to I I Hartley. 
Esq. for their generous Endeavours in the same commc:: ser hole British Empire. 5 Resolved, That the Thanks :: : his Congress be also presented to the R ght Reverend the Bishop of S:. A?;. - . : 5: and Speech on American Affairs. 4 And to all the noble Lords and Commoners in both Hoc - i Parliament who have been pleased to espouse the Cause of our much injured and op 149. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deans 'My Dec T K by express, this moment se:::ng out e therefore only that I am well, but the City gr; t xtreme warm and I wish for the northward air, but most wish for a while in vain. 
I am in hopes that the Congress will, in their adjournment, appoint a large Commh: [148] * Am. Phil. 
Soc~ Franklin Papers. voL L. (I), no. 22 (in the writing of Franklin). 2 The proceedings in the House > on Chatham's bill of .- -\> :acernir.c Burke, see ibid.. I. :. ; "-. : stq. 
Concerning Hartley see iri'j'.. I. 1 ! . - ." _ E Si Asaph was Jonathan Shir '.:;• 1714-1788 . ;: ; s Sermon before the S for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, at their anr. g Fen. ift 1773 '-ondon, 1773), and the Speech intended to have been spoken on the Bill for altering the Charters of the Colony of JIassacht.. (London [774 is published in several editions both in England and America. :ad in V L 07-104, Curiously enough Mr. John Bigelow, in : . his Life of Franilin, ascribes the authorship .vnklin, and prints it in voL IL of that work_ (pp. . -~< -\i3dd). .:: in an appendix pp. 547-55 - ranklir. - - . voL L, pp. 164-: Cor.^. e the speech in England, see especially rranklin to Thomas - S- ::. r. :.--_ - :> >:. Jed to be Spoi: Mended to be Spoken, etc, * Dedic .\everend the Lord Bishop Si . *" v London. .-"_ s T' . - do not appear .~arr.aU of Cong may . er have been offered. 
The fri< the . .merican affairs in Parliament in the winter and spring d naturally grw :e of thanks. 
Franklin entered Con^ :h these Cf. John Ufauns's N^vanglus [i49] 1 X. Y. Soc, Collections: Deane Paper.- Soc, Cat .'.. ^49. 106 ^Continental Congress their body to sit constantly at Hartford or elsewhere near the scene of action. 2 I send you a newspaper of to-day, etc. 
And am, etc., S. Deane. 
Friday, June 2d, 1775. 150. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 2 June, 1775. I had yesterday the pleasure of two letters from you, by Dr. Church. 
We had been so long without any intelligence from our country^ that the sight of the Dr. gave us great joy. 2 .... 2 See no. 133, note 2, chite. [1 50] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 59. 2 Dr. Benjamin Church had brought to Congress a letter from the provincial convention of Massachusetts relative to the question of organizing the state government. 
The letter is printed in full in the Journals under June 2. It is also in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 620; cf. ibid., p. 806. Concerning the proceedings thereon John Adams says in his Autobiography : " It is necessary that I should be a little more particular, in relating the rise and progress of the new government of the States. " On Friday, June 2d, 1/75, " The President laid before Congress a letter from the Provincial Convention of Massachusetts Bay, dated May 16th " This subject had engaged much of my attention before I left Massachusetts, and had been frequently the subject of conversation between me and many of my friends, Dr. Winthrop, Dr. Cooper, Colonel Otis, the two Warrens, Major Hawley, and others, besides my colleagues in Congress, and lay with great weight upon my mind, as the most difficult and dangerous business that we had to do; (for from the beginning, I always expected we should have more difficulty and danger, in our attempts to govern ourselves, and in our negotiations and connections with foreign powers, than from all the fleets and armies of Great Britain.) It lay, therefore, with great weight upon my mind, and when this letter was read, I embraced the opportunity to open myself in Congress, and most earnestly to entreat the serious attention of all the members, and of all the continent, to the measures which the times demanded. 
For my part, I thought there was great wisdom in the adage, ' when the sword is drawn, throw away the scabbard '. Whether we threw it away voluntarily or not, it was useless now, and would be useless forever. 
The pride of Britain, flushed with late triumphs and conquests, their infinite contempt of all the power of America, with an insolent, arbitrary Scotch faction, with a Bute and Mansfield at their head for a ministry, we might depend upon it, would force us to call forth every energy and resource of the country, to seek the friendship of England's enemies, and we had no rational hope, but from the Ratio ultima rcgum et rerumpublicarum. 
These efforts could not be made without government, and as I supposed no man would think of consolidating this vast continent under one national government, we should probably, after the example of the Greeks, the Dutch, and the Swiss, form a confederacy of States, each of which must have a separate government. 
That the case of Massachusetts was the most urgent, but that it could not be long before every other Colony must follow her example. 
That with a view to this subject, I had looked into the ancient and modern confederacies for examples, but they all appeared to me to have been huddled up in a hurry, by a few chiefs. 
But we had a people of more intelligence, curiosity, and enterprise, who must be all consulted, and we must realize the theories of the wisest writers, and invite the people to erect the whole building with their own hands, upon the broadest foundation. 
That this could be done only by conventions of representatives chosen by the people in the several colonies, in the most exact proportions. 
That it was my opinion that Congress ought now to recommend to the people of every Colony to call such conventions immediately, and set up governments of their own, under their own authority; for the people were the source of all authority and original of all power. 
These were new, strange, and terrible doctrines to the greatest part of the members, but not a very small number heard them with apparent pleasure, and none more than Mr. John Rutledge, of South Carolina, and Mr. John Sullivan, of New Hampshire." Works, III. 12. Cf. nos. 160 (note 2), 333 (note 3), post. 
June, 1775 107 Our debates and deliberations are tedious; from nine to four, five, and once near six — our determinations very slow — I hope sure. 
The Congress will support us, but in their own way. 
Not precisely in that way which I could wish, but in a better way than we could well expect, considering what a heterogeneous body it is 151. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [June 3, 1775.] 3d. A Committee appointed to consider of the state of the Massachusetts, 2 a Committee to borrow six thousand pounds sterling, Committees for a petition to the King, 3 (an) Address to the people of Eng- In Almon's Remembrancer, Part I. for 1776, p. 35, is a " Fragment of a speech made in the General Congress of America, by one of the Delegates, in 1775 ", which, if made at all, must have been made about this time. 
The editor of John Adams's Works (III. 13) says of this speech: "By whom this was furnished, or whence obtained, does not appear. 
Mr. Austin, in his Life of Gerry, inserts it in a note to p. 188, vol. i, with the intimation of his belief that it was not made by John Adams. 
If genuine, the ownership probably lies between him, Patrick Henry, Richard Henry Lee, and Edward Rutledge, as there were no other eloquent men on that side of the question in this Congress. 
The difficulties are, that it has too much rhetoric for Mr. Adams, too much learning for Patrick Henry, and too much vigor for R. H. Lee, whilst its political tone is too high for Rutledge. 
With these comments, the reader will be left to form his own opinion from the perusal." Besides the works already mentioned, the speech is found in Niles, Principles of the Revolution, p. 395; and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1865 ; as printed in the Life of Gerry, there are some omissions. 
Concerning speeches attributed to Richard Henry Lee and John Dickinson, see nos. 687 (note 3), 752 (note 5), post. [151] 1 Mag of Am. Hist., I. 504. 2 See no. 150 (note 2), ante. 3 John Adams, in his Autobiography, summarizes the situation leading up to the second petition to the king and relates an incident connected with the discussion of the petition, which probably occurred between June
I dreaded the danger of disunion and divisions among us, and much more among the people. 
It appeared to me that all petitions, remonstrances, and negotiations, for the future, would be fruitless, and only occasion a loss of time, and give opportunity to the enemy to sow divisions among the States and the people. 
My heart bled for the poor people of Boston, imprisoned within the walls of their city by a British army, and we knew not to what plunders or massacres or cruelties they might be exposed. 
I thought the first step ought to be recommended to the people of every State in the Union, to seize on all the Crown officers, and hold them with civility, humanity, and generosity, as hostages for the security of the people of Boston, and to be exchanged for them as soon as the British army would release them; that we ought to recommend to the people of all the States to institute governments for themselves, under their own authority, and that without loss of time; that we ought to declare the Colonies free, sovereign, and independent States, and then to inform Great Britain we were willing to enter into negotiations with them for the redress of all grievances, and a restoration of harmony between the two countries, upon permanent principles. 
All this I thought might be done before we entered into any connections, alliances, or negotiations with foreign powers. 
I was also for informing Great Britain, very frankly, that hitherto we were free; but, if the war should be continued, we were determined to seek alliances with France, Spain, and any other power of Europe that would contract with us. That we ought immediately to adopt the army in Cambridge as a continental army, to appoint a General and all other officers, take upon ourselves the pay, subsistence, clothing, armor, and munitions of the troops. 
This is a concise sketch of the plan which I thought the only reasonable one ; and, from conversation with the members of Congress, I was then convinced, and have been ever since convinced, that it was the general sense at least of a considerable majority of that body. 
This system of measures I publicly and privately avowed without reserve. 10S Continental Congress " The gentlemen in Pennsylvania, who had been attached to the proprietary interest, and owed their wealth and honors to it, and the great body of the Quakers, had hitherto acquiesced in the measures of the Colonies, or at least had made no professed opposition to them ; many of both descriptions had declared themselves with us, and had been as explicit and as ardent as we were. 
But now these people began to see that independence was approaching, they started back. 
In some of my public harangues, in which I had freely and explicitly laid open my thoughts, on looking round the assembly I have seen horror, terror, and detestation, strongly marked on the countenances of some of the members, whose names I could readily recollect; but as some of them have been good citizens since, and others went over afterwards to the English, I think it unnecessary to record them here. 
There is one gentleman, however, whom I must mention in selfdefence ; I mean John Dickinson, then of Philadelphia, now of Delaware. 
This gentleman had been appointed a member of Congress, by the Legislature^ of Pennsylvania, about a week before the close of the Congress of 1774, and now, in 1775, made his appearance again at the opening of the Congress of 1775- " In some of the earlier deliberations in May, after I had reasoned at some length on my own plan, Mr. John Rutledge, in more than one public speech, approved of my sentiments, and the other delegates from that State, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Gadsden, and Mr. Edward Rutledge, appeared to me to be of the same mind. 
Mr. Dickinson himself told me, afterwards, that when we first came together the balance lay with South Carolina. 
Accordingly, all their efforts were employed to convert the delegates from that State. 
Mr. Charles Thomson, who was then rather inclined to our side of the question, told me that the Quakers had intimidated Mr. Dickinson's mother and his wife, who were continually distressing him with their remonstrances " The proprietary gentlemen, Israel Pemberton and other principal Quakers now united with Mr. Dickinson, addressed themselves with great art and assiduity to all the members of Congress whom they could influence, even to some of the delegates of Massachusetts ; but most of all to the delegates from South Carolina. 
Mr. Lynch had been an old acquaintance of the Penn family, particularly of the Governor. 
Mr. Edward Rutledge had brought his lady with him, a daughter of our former President Middleton. 
Mr. Arthur Middleton, her brother, was now a delegate in place of his father. 
The lady and the gentlemen were invited to all parties, and were visited perpetually by the party, and we soon began to find that Mr. Lynch, Mr. Arthur Middleton, and even the two Rutledges, began to waver and to clamor about independence. 
Mr. Gadsden was either, from despair of success, never attempted, or, if he was, he received no impression from them. 
I became the dread and terror and abhorrence of the party. 
But all this I held in great contempt. 
Arthur Middleton became the hero of Quaker and proprietary politics in Congress. 
He had little information, and less argument; in rudeness and sarcasm his forte lay, and he played off his artillery without reserve. 
I made it a rule to return him a Roland for every Oliver, so that he never got, and I never lost, any thing from these rencounters. 
We soon parted, never to see each other more, — I believe, without a spark of malice on either side; for he was an honest and generous fellow, with all his zeal in this cause. ' The party made me as unpopular as they could, among all their connections, but I regarded none of those things. 
I knew and lamented that many of these gentlemen, of great property, high in office, and of good accomplishments, were laying the foundation, not of any injury to me, but of their own ruin; and it was not in my power to prevent it. When the party had prepared the members of Congress for their purpose, and indeed had made no small impression on three of my own colleagues, Mr. Dickinson made or procured to be made a motion for a second petition to the King, to be sent by Mr. Richard Penn, who was then bound on a voyage to England. 
The motion was introduced and supported by long speeches. 
I was opposed to it, of course, and made an opposition to it in as long a speech as I commonly made, not having ever been remarkable for very long harangues, in answer to all the arguments which had been urged. 
When I sat down, Mr. John Sullivan arose, and began to argue on the same side with me, in a strain of wit, reasoning, and fluency, which, although he was always fluent, exceeded every thing I had ever heard from him before. 
I was much delighted, and Mr. Dickinson, very much terrified at what he said, began to tremble for his cause. 
At this moment I was called out to the State House yard, very much to my regret, to some one who had business with me. I took my hat, and went out of the door of Congress Hall. 
Mr. Dickinson observed me, and darted out after me. He broke out upon me in a most abrupt and extraordinary manner; in as violent a passion as he was capable of feeling, and with an air, countenance, and gestures, as rough and haughty as if I had been a school-boy and he the master. 
He vociferated, 'What is the reason, Mr. Ad.ims, that you New-Englandmcn oppose our measures of reconciliation? There now is Sullivan, in a long harangue, following you in a determined opposition to our petition to the King. 
Look ye! If you don't concur with us in our pacific system, I and June, 1775 109 land, ditto to Ireland, (and a) Letter to Jamaica. 
A Committee for considering (the) money necessary (to be raised). 152. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia June 3d 1775 Sr I have but just a Moments time to Acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 25th and 26th Ulto. 
I wrote you some time since by one Mr Brown who was at the taking the fort at Ticonderoga and from this place (as he said) was bound direct to Cambridge. 2 I then had only to Inform you of our progress to this place, and at this time what we are att Liberty to Communicate from the Congress you will from time to time see in the public papers, there is no doubt but the Congress will approve and Support the Measures which have been taken by the New- England Colonies and I think we have got New York now Compleatly taken in. 3 the advice given to New York with respect to the Troops that might be Attempted to be landed there was in Consequence of their strong solicitation to preserve their City from ruin, it was said to be Impossible to prevent their landing and that an Immediate Attack would Induce the Men of Warr to lay the City in ruins, there is Care taken to have Sufficient Batteries in the most Convenient places up along Hudsons river to prevent any Ks Ships or Cutters going up there. 4 .... we have just now received letters from Albany that Guy Johnson has lately been much alarmed is fortifying and Collected a Number of his Irish Roman Catholicks in that County to protect him, and has alarmed all the Indians in that quarter pretending that he has heard the New England people are coming to take him and his family and make him their prisoner but the Magistrates of Schenecteda and of Albany have had a talk with the Indians assured them of the falsity of that report by which the Indians are quieted and give the strongest assurance they will take no part in the dispute Between great Britain and her Colonies unless their Superintendent Johnson is Molested if he is they must protect him. 5 I hope he will soon be quieted the a number of us will break off from you in New England, and we will carry on the opposition by ourselves in our own way '. I own I was shocked with this magisterial salutation. 
I knew of no pretensions Mr. Dickinson had to dictate to me, more than I had to catechize him. 
I was, however, as it happened, at that moment, in a very happy temper, and I answered him very coolly. ' Mr. Dickinson, there are many things that I can very cheerfully sacrifice to harmony, and even to unanimity ; but I am not to be threatened into an express adoption or approbation of measures which my judgment reprobates. 
Congress must judge, and if they pronounce against me, I must submit, as, if they determine against you, you ought to acquiesce.' These were the last words which ever passed between Mr. Dickinson and me in private. 
We continued to debate, in Congress, upon all questions publicly, with all our usual candor and good humor. 
But the friendship and acquaintance was lost forever by an unfortunate accident, which must now be explained." Works, II. 405. In regard to Adams's relations with Dickinson see no. 244, post. 
Concerning the petition to the king see nos. 212, 218, note 2, post. [152] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 2 See no. 129, note 2, ante. 3 Cf. no. 137, ante. 4 See the Journals, May 15. 5 See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 637-638, 661, 664-666, 671-672, 841-843. 110 Continental Congress Conduct of Connecticut! is highly approved here, our Govrs letters are much Esteemed. 6 God bless you all Succeed and prosper yon. 
I hope the Army will run no great risques at first for but little benefit, in Utmost hast from your sincere friend and H le Serv* [P. S.] I have Inclosed you a print sent to the Congress by the Cham[b]erlain of London as it is said. 7 153. The New York Delegates to the Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia, June 3, 1775. Gentlemen: We have received your several letters, 2 and communicated such of your papers to the Congress as were intended for their inspection. 
Your plan for raising money we are much pleased with, though we have some doubt of its being adopted ; however, as the reasons on which it is founded appear to us to be conclusive, we shall use our endeavour to carry it through. 
Till the success is known, you will, we dare say, see a propriety in keeping the whole secret. 
We observe with pleasure the attention of our Colony to Indian affairs, as they are really of the highest importance. 
Should you conceive the interposition of the Congress necessary, you will let us know the mode in which you think it will be most effectual. 
You inquire whether the direction relative to the Militia of New York was intended to extend farther than that City and County. 
In answer to this we must inform you, that it was the design of the Congress that the whole Province should be well armed and disciplined. 3 We wish to hear that you have received some supply of powder, as we fear that none is to be purchased here, the people conceiving they have not a sufficient stock for their own defence. 
We believe, however, that Connecticut will take care to supply their Troops at Ticonderoga with that article, as the command of that post is for the present vested in their officers, owing to your repeated declaration of your inability to furnish the arms and ammunition necessary for its defence. 4 6 Cf. no. 154, post. 7 This may have been " The Humble Address, Remonstrance, and Petition of the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Livery of the City of London, in Common-Hall Assembled ", presented to the king April 10, 1775, by the lord mayor, John Wilkes. 
This petition was printed in the Philadelphia papers of the following week: the Packet, June 5; the Gazette, June 7, and the Journal, June 7. It is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 1853. See the Journals. 
July
See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., I. 1850. Cf. no. 158, post. [153] J Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 808; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 30; N. Y. State Lib.. Minutes of the Committee of Safety, I., app. 
F (copy). -' Among the letters referred to are evidently those of May 29, 30, and June
See also Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 16-25 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1259-1269. 3 See the Journals, May 25. 4 See the Journals, May 31, June t. Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 728, 1260, 1271, 1276-1277; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 27, 29-30. June, 1775 111 We think it an object of great consequence to know in whom you would wish to vest the command of the Continental Army in our Province, which is to be maintained at the general charge, and hope you will not be at a loss to fix on men among yourselves who may be entrusted with that important charge. 
As General Officers will, in all probability, be shortly appointed by this Congress, your express should return immediately, with a warm recommendation of those persons in our Province who you think may safely be trusted with the first and second commands, as Major and Brigadier Generals. 
If possible let us have an answer to this by Tuesday morning, drawn up in such a manner that, if necessary, it may be offered to the Congress, with the reasons on which such choice is founded. 5 We know of nothing farther that may require your attention, unless it be to recommend a profound secresy with respect to any advice we may offer, particularly on the subject of this letter, though we conceive that your own prudence will render any such recommendation unnecessary. 
If you wish for any other direction, pray be speedy and explicit in your application. 
We remain, with great respect, your most obedient humble servants, James Duane, Francis Lewis, R. R. Livingston, Jr., William Floyd, Philip Schuyler, Simon Boerum, John Alsop, Henry Wisner. 
To the Provincial Congress of the Colony of New York. 154. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 Philadelphia, June 3d, 1775. My Dear, .... The Congress, tho' not numerous, are yet a very unwieldy Body, in their very nature, as no motion or resolution can be started or proposed but what must be subject to much canvassing before it will pass with the unanimous approbation of Thirteen Colonies whose situation and circumstances are various. 
And Unanimity is the basis on which we mean to rise; and I thank God, it hitherto prevails to a most surprising degree. 
Besides, our business has run away with us, as I may say, for though the Northern Expedition met with a warm approbation, yet the Resolutions necessary to be formed respecting those posts put by the forming a general plan of operation, which, had it been previously laid, every such manoeuvre would of course have been provided for at once. 2 .... not only the name of a Yankee, but of a Connecticut man in particular, is become very respectable this way, and Governor Trumbull is highly applauded by the Congress, for the letters he has wrote us, and the measures he has pursued as Governor. 3 .... 5 See the Journals, June 15, 16, 17; also Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 30-33 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser.. II. 1277-1283. [i54] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 252; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 51. 2 See the resolves of May 31 and June
Well as I love the busy scenes of politics, in your and my friends' opinion, I had rather not be appointed to committees quite so often as I am ; for, since my being at this Congress, I have had more than my share of such business. 
The Colony of Connecticut having their men ready has been of service, and I trust we shall get great share of their expense refunded by the Continent. 4 .... 155. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston. 1 Philadelphia 5th. June 1775 Dear Sir I wrote a long Letter to you by Captain Gilles, 2 and now would write a much longer if I was at liberty to mention the business taken up by the Congress, but that I cannot do till the injunction of Secrecy is taken of [sic], they have much before them, scarce a day passes without the Arival of an express from some quarter, and altho' Necessity strongly urges that they should be speedy in their determinations, yet they proceed very slowly. 
I wish to God you was here that I might advise with you on some matters of great importance. 
I could say a thousand things to you in my Chamber that I cannot by any means put on paper. 
I am exceedingly uneasy (so are my Colleagues) not that I think we are doing any thing but what Necessity will Justify, but I fear we shall be obliged to promise for our Colony much more than it will perform and perhaps more than it is able to bear. 
When a large extensive Country Loses its Trade, when its Ports are all Shutt up and all exportation ceases, will there be Virtue enough found in that Country to bear heavy Taxes with patience, suppose a Country, no matter where, should be under such circumstances, and Necessity should oblige the inhabitants to raise a large Army for their defence, how is it to be paid? suppose the exigences of that country should demand one million Sterlg. per Annum, lioiu is it to be raised? hozv made? how sunk? I will not trouble you farther with imaginary Countries, but beg leave to call your attention to your Own, where I think it will be absolutely Necessary to have a Provincial Convention immediately. 
I think Mr. Harvey
V. Henkels of Philadelphia. 
In the N. C. State Rccs., XXII. 514. is printed a letter from Hewes to Johnston, dated June 4, which is probably a first draft, as the differences between the two are principally variations in phrasing. 
The passage concerning a provincial convention is not in the letter of June 4. 2 See no. 138, ante. 8 John Harvey, moderator of the last preceding (second) provincial Congress, that of April, 1775. * Cf. no. 137, ante. 
June, 1775 113 I cannot pretend to say when the Congress will break up, perhaps I may be able to guess at it a month hence, it has been often proposed by some of our Members out of Doors to adjourn to Hartford or Newhaven in Connecticut in Order that we might be near the seat of Action, but some of the Southern Gentlemen have not yet given their consent, nor do I think they ever will. 
Hooper and myself are willing. 
I shall be pleased with the Change it would offer me an opportunity of Visiting the Camp of the American Army near Boston which I want much to see. 5 .... 156. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 Tuesday, June 6th, 1775. 2 .... The Congress are now out on Committees, by which I hoped for leisure, but am forced on one of them, 3 from which I have slipped a minute to write this morning, having [sat] up with them almost the whole of last [night] on business. 
Hope soon to be able to give the public an agreeable account of our proceedings, and alleviate the fears and distresses of our parsimonious Senators, by exhibiting to them specimens of Continental firmness, union, and spirit on the present occasion. [P. S.] 157. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, June 7, 1775 > Dear Sir We have been puzzled to discover what we ought to do with the Canadians and Indians. 
Several Persons have been before Congress who have lately been in the Province of Canada, particularly Mr. Brown
But whether We should march into Canada with an Army Sufficient to break the Power of Governor Carlton, to overawe the Indians, and to protect the French, has been a great Question. 
It seems to be the general Conclusion that it is best to go, if We can be assured that the Canadians will be pleased with it and join. 4 The Nations of Indians inhabiting the Frontiers of the Colonies are numerous and warlike. 
They
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 56; Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 256. 2 This letter is a continuation of the letter dated June 3. 3 Probably the committee appointed June
This committee reported June 7. [157] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 52. 2 John Brown. 
See the Journals, May 18. 3 James Price. 
It was he who was introduced into Congress May 27 (although not mentioned by name in the Journals) to give information concerning Canada. 
See Codman, Arnold's Expedition to Quebec, p. 8. 4 See the Journals, May 27, 29, June 1, 12. 114 Continental Congress seem disposed to Neutrality. 
None have as yet taken up the Hatchet against us; and We have not obtained any certain Evidence that either Carlton or Johnson have directly attempted to persuade them to take up the Hatchet. 
Some Suspicious Circumstances there are. 
The Indians are known to conduct their Wars so entirely without Faith and Humanity, that it will bring eternal Infamy on the Ministry throughout all Europe if they should excite these Savages to War. The French disgraced themselves last War by employing them. 
To let loose these blood Hounds to scalp Men and to butcher Women and Children is horrid. 
Still it [is] Such kind of Humanity and Policy as we have experienced from the Ministry. 158. John Morton to Thomas Powell. 1 To Thomas Powell "1 Merchant, London. 
J Philadelphia
I suppose the Province will raise 20,000 effective Men determined to support the noble Cause of Liberty. 3 .... Thou will hear before this reaches thee the situation of General Gage, he is hem'd in by the Provincials on every side, and cannot penetrate 500 Yards into the Country, were he supported by all the Troops now in England. 
You have declared the New England People Rebels, and the other Provinces Aiders and Abettors, this is putting the Halter about our Necks, and we may as well die by the Sword as be hang'd like Rebels, this has made the People desperate. 
Yesterday arrived here Capt. 
McCulloch, in whose Vessel came Passenger a certain Major Skeene, Governour of Ticonderoga, Crown Point and the Lakes, it has happened so that the said Governor has no Government to go to, the New England Men having some time since taken possession of those important Places, in order to prevent the Canadians from attacking them in the Rear. 
Major Skeene is under a Guard of our Militia, and I imagine our Committee will insist on seeing his Papers, its said he has some proposals to lay before our Congress from Authority. 4 .... I sincerely wish a Reconciliation, the Contest is horrid. 
Parents against Children, and children against Parents, the longer the wound is left in the present state the worse it will be to heal at last. [iSSpDartmouth MSS., American Papers, vol. 
II., no. 1302 (copy). 2 Cf. nos. 137, 138, ante. 3 It would appear from a statement in the Pennsylvania Journal of June 14 that Congress in a hody on June
I think there is one or two more officers with him. believe only Lieuts, all under Guard in this City, every one now seem[s] more and more Convinced of the Importance of that pass at Ticonderoga and of the Necessity of keeping and defending it Mr Joseph Trumbull Cambridge [P. S.] 1 oth day in the Morning Since I finished the other side, I have seen sundry private Letters from London which soon followed this same Majr. 
Skene from London, apprising of us [sic] of the purpose and design of the Ministry in sending him by the way of Philadelphia, we have the best Intelligence that Numbers of the New York Assembly were largely bribed and that Skene now had unlimited Orders to draw on the Treasurer in england for any sums Necessary that he was to bribe and buy over such a Number of the Congress as was Necessary to Confound the whole he was to propose Ld Nths Conciliatory plan and the dunce Imagined he should have easy work to settle the whole Controversy. 
I dare say he told the Ministry so and they fully believed him. it is Amazing how they can be so reduced as to Employe such a genius as this Majr. 
Skene, open, exposed, unguarded, and his Abilitys but moderate, by the best Account the Ministry it seems are now so pushed as they will descend to every, the lowest Artifice and employe every Scoundrell they can pick up for it seems this Mighty Majr has been of the Cabinet, has really guided the Measures, that he has absolutely the ear of Ld North and Datrmouth [sic] and they have relyed upon him for their Intelligence as to America and the proper Measures to take with them to Answer their purpose. 
Skene expected to have easy work that he should soon get into his Kingdom att Crown Point. 
Near 200 St pr An for that, Surveyor of His maj ty Woods at an other Salary. 
I believe also to Command a Canada Regiment, all this with his great plantation had opened his Views Amazingly but the whole prospect was suddenly closed, it is probable he will remain in Custody till affairs are better setled and the officer with him. 2 [i59] 1 Conn. 
State Library, Joseph Trumbull Collection, no. 38. 2 See nos. 158, ante, 161, 173, 214, post. 116 Continental Congress 6'160. The President of Congress to the Massachusetts Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia June ioth 1775. Gentlemen: In consquence of your Application to this Congress for advice respecting a form of Government to be Adopted in the Massachusetts Bay, under your present Circumstances, I am Directed by the Congress to transmit you their Resolution thereon, which is here Enclosed. 2 I am also to Inform you that the Congress have been so pressd with Business that they have been prevented Determining upon the other matters mentioned in your Letters to them; but they will very soon come under their Consideration, and their Resolutions thereon shall be forwarded you. 3 I also Inclose you a Resolve of Congress for furnishing our Army with Flour, this vou will keep secret, at least as far as the Nature of it will Admit, as the publication may give an alarm, w ch may prevent the good Effects of it. 4 Last Evening Mr. Fessenden
Arch., CXCIII. 345; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 955. 2 See the Journals, June 2, 7, 9; also no. 163, post. 
John Adams writes in his Autobiography : " Although this advice was in a great degree conformable to the New York and Pennsylvania system, or in other words, to the system of Mr. Dickinson and Mr. Duane, I thought it an acquisition, for it was a precedent of advice to the separate States to institute governments, and I doubted not we should soon have more occasions to follow this example. 
Mr. John Rutledge and Mr. Sullivan had frequent conversations with me upon this subject. 
Mr. Rutledge asked me my opinion of a proper form of government for a State. 
I answered him that any form that our people would consent to institute, would be better than none, even if they placed all power in a house of representatives, and they should appoint governors and judges; but I hoped they would be wiser, and preserve the English Constitution in its spirit and substance, as far as the circumstances of this country required or would admit. 
That no hereditary powers ever had existed in America, nor would they, or ought they to be introduced or proposed ; but that I hoped the three branches of a legislature would be preserved, an executive, independent of the senate or council, and the house, and above all things, the independence of the judges. 
Mr. Sullivan was fully agreed with me in the necessity of instituting governments, and he seconded me very handsomely in supporting the argument in Congress. 
Mr. Samuel Adams was with us in the opinion of the necessity, and was industrious in conversation with the members out of doors, but he very rarely spoke much in Congress, and he was perfectly unsettled in any plan to be recommended to a State, always inclining to the most democratical forms, and even to a single sovereign assembly, until his constituents afterwards in Boston compelled him to vote for three branches. 
Mr. Cushing was also for one sovereign assembly, and Mr. Paine was silent and reserved upon the subject, at least to me. " Not long after this, Mr. John Rutledge returned to South Carolina, and Mr. Sullivan went with General Washington to Cambridge, sc that I lost two of my able coadjutors. 
But we soon found the benefitof their cooperation at a distance." Works, III. 17. Cf. no. 150 (note 2), ante, and no. 333 (note 3), post. 3 See the Journals, June 10. 4 See the Journals, June 9. Cf. no. 165, post. 5 Josiah Fessenden, express between Boston and Philadelphia. 
June, 1775 117 and when Considered by Congress, their Determinations shall be immediately transmitted to you. 6 I am, with much Esteem, Gentlemen, your most obedient humble servant, John Hancock, President. 
To the Gentlemen of the Provincial Congress, Massa s Bay. 161. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 10 June, 1775. .... It is impossible to convey to you any adequate idea of the embarrassments I am under. 
I wish that you and our friends may not be in greater distress than I am. I fear you are. 
Pray let me know as often as possible. 
Our friends write to Mr. — , 2 not to me, this time. 
They don't let us know the state of Boston people, nor the state of the army in Boston, so exactly as I could wish. .... In Congress w T e are bound to secrecy. 3 But, under the rose, I believe that ten thousand men will be maintained in the Massachusetts, and five thousand in New York, at the Continental expense. 4 We have a major Skene, just arrived from London with a commission to be governor of Crown Point and Ticonderoga, and surveyor of the woods, etc., a close prisoner. 
He must dispute for his government with Arnold and Allen. 5 My love and duty where due. 6 162. John Adams to Moses Gill. 1 Phyladelphia June 10. 1775 Dr Sir It would be a Relief to my Mind, if I could write freely to you concerning the Sentiments Principles, Facts and Arguments which are laid before us in Congress : 2 But Injunctions, and Engagements of Honour
Cf. no. 162, post. 3 See the Journals, May 11. Cf. nos. 180, 187, 192, post. 
See also nos. 312, 318, 349, 353, 354, 363, note 3, post. *Cf. nos. 170, 174, 180, 181, 185, 186, 187, 188, 189, 191, 193, 2ii, 220, post; also Washington to Col. Burwell Bassett, June 19, Writings (ed. Ford), II. 487. 5 Cf. nos. 158, 159, ante, 173, 214, post. 6 In a subsequent letter of the same date Adams says : " When I shall come home I know not. 
We have business enough before us, to detain us until the 31st of next December. 
No assembly ever had a greater number of great objects before them. 
Provinces, nations, empires are small things before us. I wish we were good architects." Familiar Letters, p. 62. [i62pMass. 
Arch., CXCIII. 349; Works, IX. 356. 2 See the letter of Artemas Ward, Joseph Warren, and Moses Gill to Congress, June
What I learn out of Doors among Citizens, Gentn, and Persons of all Denominations is not so sacred. 3 I find that the general Sense abroad is to prepare for a vigorous defensive War, but at the Same Time to keep open the Door of Reconciliation, — to hold the Sword in one Hand and the olive Branch in the other — to proceed with Warlike Measures, and conciliatory Measures Pari Passu. 4 I am myself as fond of Reconciliation, if we could reasonably entertain Hopes of it upon a constitutional Basis, as any Man. But, I think, if we consider the Education of the Sovereign, and that the Lords, the Commons, the Electors, the Army, the Navy, the officers of Excise, Customs etc., have been now for many years gradually trained and disciplined by Corruption to the System of the Court, We shall be convinced that the Cancer is too deeply rooted, and too far Spread to be cured by anything short of cutting it out entire. 
We have ever found by Experience that Petitions, Negotiations every Thing which holds out to the People Hopes of a Reconciliation without Bloodshed is greedily grasped at and relyed on, — and they cannot be persuaded to think that it is so necessary to prepare for War as it really is. Hence our present Scarcity of Powder etc. 5 However, this Continent is a vast, unwieldy Machine. 
We cannot force Events. 
We must Suffer People to take their own Way in many Cases, when We think it leads wrong, hoping however and believing that our Liberty and Felicity will be preserved in the End, tho not in the Speedyest and Surest Manner Pray write me, by every opportunity, and beseech my Friends to write. 
Every Letter I receive does great good. 
The Gentn. to whom most Letters from our Province is addressed, has not Leisure to make the best use of them. 6 .... [Addressed :] To Mr Moses Gill Chairman of the Committee of Supplies Cambridge 163. Thomas Cushing to Joseph Hawley. 1 Philadelphia June 10, 1775 Dear Sir .... Inclosed you have a Vote of the Congress relative to our Peoples taking up Government, which I apprehend will Correspond with y r Sentiments. 2 A motion was made in Congress that advice should be given to the present provincial Congress to chuse Councellors, but there being
Cf. no. 161, ante. [163] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Hawley Papers, II. 2 See the Journals, June 9. Cf. no. 160, and note 2, ante. 
June, 1775 119 many objections to it, it was withdrawn. 
The Person that made the motion observd that the choice of Representatives would occasion great Delay, and that there could not at present be an Equal representation as Boston would not be permitted by the General to chuse representatives upon this occasion — he was answered that the Delay would not be great, that it was best to adhere as near to the Charter as possible and not to vary from it but in case of absolute necessity, that as to the Town of Boston either the present Provincial Congress, or the new assembly could easily make some provision for their being Represented either by directing the late Inhabitants to meet at Cambridge or some other Town and chuse their representatives or by divising some new mode of Collecting the Voice of the People upon this occasion. 
As to giving a Credit to our Provincial Notes
I hope in a few days you will have the determinations of Congress upon these heads. 
It will therefore in my opinion be best to suspend any farther orginization of the army till you hear further 164. Thomas Cushing to Elbridge Gerry. 1 Philadelphia, June 10, 1775. Sir: .... As to giving a credit to our Provincial note[s], and regulating the Army, you will hear further from the Congress soon. 2 The bearer carries a recommendation to the other Colonies to supply you with all the powder they can safely spare. 3 Mr. Elbridge Gerry, Watertown. 
P. S. Pray let me hear from you soon concerning my dear Country. 
Must refer you for particulars to Dr. Church. 165. The President of Congress to the New York Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia, June 10, 1775. Gentlemen: The enclosed resolution of this Congress I am directed to transmit you, and to desire you will order it to be executed in as expeditious and
Cf. Cushing to Gerry, June 10, ibid., p. 955, and no. 164, post. 
The inquiry concerning financial arrangements was in effect answered by the issuing of Continental bills of credit. 
See the Journals, June 14, 15, 22, and 23. Cf. nos. 169, 180, post. 
See also nos. 185, 186, 187, 188, 191, 192, 193, 194, post. [164] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 955; Austin, Life of Gerry, I. 81. 2 Cf. no. 163, note 3, ante. 3 See the Journals, June 10. The bearer was Dr. Benjamin Church. 
See the Massachusetts letter of May 16 in the Journals, June 2; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 620. [165] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 954, 1293; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 39, II. 3; N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 31 (copy). 120 Continental Congress secret a manner as possible, referring to your judgment the most suitable places for landing it, and where there will be the least risk of interruption from the ships-of-war. 
You will please to consign it to the Committee of Correspondence in each place, with a direction to forward the flour to the Army as soon as possible. 
I have it also in charge to recommend to you that the flour be transported in small quantities, as there may be danger of the enemy. 2 I am, gentlemen, your most obedient servant, John Hancock, President. 
To the Honourable Members of the Provincial Congress of New York. 166. The President of Congress to the Governor of Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull). 1 Philadelphia, June 10, 1775. Sir: By order of the congress I transmit you the inclosed resolutions passed by the congress this morning. 2 The necessity of the present emergency requires a speedy compliance with the first respecting the supply of powder to the army, and I need not inform you that the nature of the service requires it to be done with as much secrecy as possible. 
If there are any supplies of powder to be purchased in your colony you will readily see the propriety of engaging it for the use of the continental army, and informing the general of the army thereof, as well as Sir Your most obedt hum e servant John Hancock, President. 3 167. The President of Congress to the Massachusetts Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia, June 15 [10], 1775. Gentlemen: .... 2 1 am also directed by the Congress to request you will please to transmit them, as soon as may be, an estimate of the powder, arms, and ammunition in your Colony, including private as well as publick stocks. 3 By Dr. Church, this morning, 4 I forwarded you the resolution
Hist. 
Soc, C si, XXVII. 268 (copy). 2 See the Journals; cf. nos. 165, ante, 167 (note 2), 168, post. 3 The letter to New Hampshire (N. H. State Papers, VII. 512; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 956) contains a postscript. 
See the letter to Massachusetts, no. 167, and note 3, post. 
The resolutions were also sent to the N. Y. Congress accompanied hy a letter from the President, dated June 12 (Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1307). [167] • Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. iooo. 2 The passage omitted is identical with the first two sentences in the letter to Connecticut, no. 166, ante. 3 This sentence appears as a postscript in the letter to New Hampshire. 
See no. 166, note 3, ante. * See nos. 161, 164, ante. 
June, 7775 121 of Congress respecting the mode of Government. 
I am your most obedient servant, John Hancock, President. 
To the Members of the Provincial Congress of the Massachusetts Bay. P. S. The enclosed letters for the Lieutenant-Governour of Rhode Island, and the gentlemen of New Hampshire, please immediately on receipt to send off by express. 
Pray don't fail. 168. Samuel Adams to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, June 10, 1775. Dear Coll. 
Warren, .... The Spirit of Patriotism prevails among the Members of this Congress but from the Necessity of things Business must go on slower than one could wish. 
It is difficult to possess upwards of Sixty Gentlemen at once with the same Feelings upon Questions of Importance that are continually arising. 
All mean the Defence and Support of American Liberty and Matters are finally well decided; I have endeavored to Act with that kind of Prudence which I dare say, when I shall explain my Conduct to you, you will not condemn. 
Mr. Fessenden a Courier from your Congress arrived here yesterday. 
I could not help flattering my Self that your pressing Demand was political, but I was much pleased to see every Gentleman present anxiously sollicitious to relieve the Necessities of and yield a full Supply to the " American Army before Boston ". Our worthy President has Communicated to yours a Resolution for this purpose. 2 Every Step is taking here for the procuring of Gunpowder from abroad and setting up the Manufacture of it in America and I believe they will be successfull Dr. Church left us this Morning. 
I disclosd to him as much as I could consistent with the Injunctions I am under. 
I refer you to him for particulars. 
Present my affectionate Regards to all the Friends of Liberty, especially the Circle of our Acquaintance. 
Pray write to me. Adieu my Friend. 
S. Adams 169. The New York Delegates to the Provincial Congress. 1 Gentlemen, We are now to acknowledge the Honor of your dispatches of the 7th Inst. 2 [168] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 54. 2 See the Journals, June 10; also nos. 165, 166, 167, ante. [169] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 163 (in the writing of Lewis) ; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 39, II. 16; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 954, 1292. 2 These despatches are in Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 31-33, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1278-1282. A letter of June
See ibid., p. 931, and Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 34"35- See also no. 153, ante. 122 Continental Congress We have long foreseen the difficulties you must be reduced to for want of money, they will not be lessened by the resolutions of the Congress of yesterday recommending it to you to procure and forward five Thousand barrells of Flour for the use of the Army at Boston. 
We communicated the paragraph of your letter in which you complain that unless the Congress shall make some speedy order with relation to the levying of money it will be impossible for you to comply with their farther Requests. 
They however seem perswaded that their Vote of Credit, which accompanies the order for the Supply will remove every obstruction, and relying on your Zeal for the Common Cause they hope you will be able to throw in this provision which we are apprehensive will soon become highly necessary. 
We may venture to hint to you that the emission of paper money will be discus'd on Monday and we expect in the course of next Week to be able to present you with a determination of this importent business, which will free us from much anxiety. 3 We shall not fail to attend to what you suggest concerning the Indians. 
This is an object to our Colonie of the highest moment and we hope in due time it will be considered by the Congress, we think the Indians will not be disposed to engage in this unhappy quarrell unless deceived and deluded by missrepresentations and this, with Vigilence and care on our part, can be prevented, as one step towards it, which we much applaud, are the assurances you have given the Superintendent of his saefty. 
From the temper and customes of the Indians, they would illy brook the extinguishing of their council Fire; and had it been damped by any violence to Col. Johnstons person or property, they must have been and very probably excited to extremities. 4 It is much to be lamented that we are still destitute of Amunition. 
The Goverment of Conecticut have been more provident or more fortunate, and will be able to supply the forces at Tyckonderoga with pouder. 5 We commend your caution in addressing two letters to us upon the Subject of General Officers to command our Troops. 
What we wrote to you was in the Character of your own immediate Delegates; and with a view to discover the sense of our Colonie, that we might when this matter came to be debated in Congress, be fortified with your opinion and arguments, which having obtained we shall to the utmost of our power enforce your recommendations. 6 Your remarks on the resolution of the Continental Congress relative to taking the post at Kingsbridge appear to us to be conclusive, we shall
See also nos. 178, 180, post. 6 Two of the despatches referred to are in part identical and the delegates were authorized to suppress the one or the other according to their judgment. 
Philip Schuyler and Richard Montgomery are unanimously recommended for appointment as major-general and hrigadier-^cniral, respectively, but the letters present somewhat divergent attitudes toward the part which the colony should have in the appointment of general officers. 
The letter also contains paragraphs discussing money and Indian affairs. 
June, iyjs 123 however lay them before our Body as soon as the other important matters under consideration are determined. 7 We have the honor to be with the greatest Respect Gentlem, Your Most Humble Servants, Phil. 
Livingston Jas Duane Frans. 
Lewis Wm. Floyd John Alsop Phila ioth June 1775 To the Provincial Congress att New York. 170. George Clinton to John McKesson. 1 Philadelphia ioth. 
June 1775. My dear Sir, .... I wish I coud tell you when this Congress will break up; but this is a Secret I can by no Means divulge and for the best Reason in the World because I do not know nor dare I even venture to Guess, did it depend on the Business before us perhaps I might to a Week or two but Business multiplies upon us by Expresses daily from different Quarters. 2 No doubt that whatever Army may be kept up in New York will be a Continental Charge. 
Nor do I suppose any Troops will [be] introduced into our Province but from Connecticut untill our own are raised. 3 .... 171. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull). 1 Philadelphia June nth 1775. Sir, .... We have to Assure your Honor that the Conduct of our Assembly the Letter and seasonable Advice received from your Honor from time to Time since the Sitting of the Congress here have given the body perticular satisfaction, they find every step that has been taken exactly coincides with their Opinion and is in fact done to their minds even before they have an Opportunity to Advise you therein, they are now fully Sencible of the Importance of the Pass at Ticonderoga and every day turns up something New which Conferms them in that Opinion, the First Advice they are convinced that was hasty and Premature tho as matters then appeared they Acted right, the grounds of that first resolve, may be explained, on some future Day Elipht Dyer Silas Dean. 7 See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1265, 1273, 1278-1279, 1295. [170PN. Y. State Lib., George Clinton Papers, no. 6390. 2 Cf. nos. 173, 174, 206, 209, 211, 220, 222, post. 3 See the Journals, May 31 ; cf. no. 169, ante ; see also no. 161, note 3, ante. [171]! Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, C 51, XXVII. 269. 124 Continental Congress 172. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [June 12, 1775.] 12th. The order for a Fast engrossed and approved. 
The letter to Canada ordered to lie (on the table). 2 Through hurry went no farther with my memorandum 173. One of the Virginia Delegates to [Philadelphia, June 13, 1775.] .... Colonel Skene (owner of the schooner taken on Lake Champlain, whose son was also taken there, and is now prisoner in Connecticut) is just arrived from London with a commission to be Governour of Ticonderoga and Crown Point, but, private letters say, is charged with a power from Administration to influence the members of the Congress by arguments drawn on the Treasury, over which he has unlimited power; but as we have no occasion for his services at the forts, and do not intend to deal in his reasonings, he remains a prisoner upon his parole, to keep within eight miles of the city, between the two rivers, and not to correspond with any person on political subjects. 2 .... I think we may finish in a fortnight, but can only guess, without forming any precise judgment about it. 3 174. One of the Virginia Delegates to . x [Philadelphia, June 14, 1775.] Col. Washington has been pressed to take the supreme command of the American Troops encamped at Roxbury, and I believe will accept the appointment, though with much reluctance, he being deeply impressed with the importance of that honourable trust, and diffident of his own (superiour) abilities. 2 We have determined to keep ten thousand men in Massachusetts Bay, and five thousand in different parts of the New York Government, at the expense of the Continent ; 3 and probably a larger sum of money will be emitted in order to carry on the war, preparations for which go on rapidly in this place. .... The Congress will sit long. 4 Adjusting the expenses of each Colony for the common cause, and settling proper funds for the Army, are subjects fruitful of debate, and of the utmost consequence. [172] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 505. 2 Cf. the Journals. [173] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 974: "Extract of a Letter from one of the Virginia Delegates to his Friend in Williamsburgh." See also under June 14, 30, and July 5, post. 2 Cf. nos. 158, 159, 161, ante, 214, post. 3 Cf. nos. 170, ante, 174, 206, 209, 211, 220, 222, post. [174I 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 979: "Extract of a Letter from one of the Virginia Delegates to his Friend in Williamsburgh."2 See the Journals, June 15, 16; cf. nos. 181 (note 3), 191, and note 2, post. 3 See no. 161, note 3, ante. 4 Cf. nos. 170, 173, ante, 206, 209, 211, 220, 222, post. 
June, 1775 125 175. George Clinton to John McKesson. 1 Philadelphia 15th. June 1775 Dear Sir, Since writing you last I am favoured with yours of the 10th Inst. 
I am oblidged to you for your News tho as false as Hell, For be assured that whatever Steps may have been taken relative to setting on Foot an Accommadation or whether any No such Message as you mention was ever sent by the Southern Deputies or any of them to our Body nor do I believe such a Thing was ever in Contemplation. 
And as to the two Grand Republicks you mention I have never heard of nor do I believe such a Thought has ever possessed the Mind of any Man amongst us. These Sir are Tory Reports calculated to frighten the Timid and to Create Distrust of our Proceedings. 2 .... 176. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the Committee of Correspondence of Cumberland County. 1 (Circular) Philadelphia June 15. 1775 Gentlemen Enclosed are resolves of the Congress
They are wanted for immediate service at Boston — and we have not the least doubt but the Spirit of our People of this Province will induce them without Delay to enter into so Glorious a service. 
You will please to Consult Such Gent, of knowledg[e] and interest as you can (tho not of your Committee) for the more speedy raising of the men and let us know your Sentiments relative to Such Gent, as may be proper for Officers and such as may be Agreeable to the men. 
We hope the Counties will advance any monies necessary as they Shall be Shortly Repayed by the Congress. 
The honor of Pennsylvania is now at Stake and we have not the least Doubt but that every nerve will now be exerted not only Collectively but individually to Carry this matter into instant execution. 
You will see by the Attestation to be Signed by the men they are to Serve one Year unless sooner Discharged. 
This may seem unconvenient as the inlistments will not be on one Day — the intention is to Discharge them on the first of July 1776 unless their Service may not be wanted so long according to the terms of the Attestation which may Possibly happen to be the Case and then they may be Discharged this fall. [175] 1 N. Y. State Lib., George Clinton Papers, no. 6391. 2 Concerning the action of the New York provincial congress on the subject of accommodation, see especially the proceedings of May 30, June 2, 22, 24, 27, 28, in Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 20, 26, 52, 58, 59, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1265, 1271, 1312, 1315, 1326, 1329. Cf. no. 116, post. 
In regard to the reports referred to, see McKesson to Clinton, June 10, in Public Papers of George Clinton, I. 199. [176] 1 Library of Congress, Pennsylvania Papers (copy). 2 See the Journals, June 14; cf. no. 225, post. 126 Continental Congress &'Lett the Committee or Officers give certificates for any moneys Necessary for the Service to Tavern keepers and others which the Congress will Discharge. 
It is Expected that Cumberland will Raise two Companies, Yorke one, Lancaster one, Berks and Northampton one, Northumberland and Bedford one. 
You will keep the Resolves of the Congress as secret as the nature of the Service will Admitt that the Arrival of the men at Boston may be the first notice Genl. 
Gage has of this matter. 
The pay of the officers is on the Establishment with the whole army, but we beg leave to asshure the officers that our interest Shall be exerted with our Assembly to the utmost to have an Addition to their pay so as to be equal to the pay of Officers of the Same rank in the Pennsylvania service the last war. 
We are with esteem Gentlemen Your Most hble Servts. 
John Morton John Dickinson Thos. 
Mifflin George Ross Thos. 
Willing James Wilson Charles Humphreys Committee of Correspondance Cumberland County 177. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 Philadelphia, June 16th, 1775. My Dear, .... The history of this day is, — rose at five, breakfasted and dressed by seven ; at half past, met a Committee in the State House on business, and never left the house until past five this afternoon, when I went to dine with a stomach, or appetite — so, so; immediately after which, other business called, but your letter and other packets arriving, I have got some excuse, and am now writing this at twelve at night. 
Let this be my apology to you, but do not mention it in public, as they may think I am making an apology for wages and expenses extra. 
Genl Washington will be with you soon ; elected to that high office by the unanimous voice of all America. 2 I have been with him for a great part of the last forty-eight hours, in Congress and Committee, and the more I am acquainted with, the more I esteem him You speak of our^adjourning. 
You must know " This is an event most devoutly to be wished for " , on some acc ts , by me ; but what am I ? Nothing to the great Whole, and I fear the consequences of an adjournment, or more grounds than I incline to mention. 
The subject is delicate, [i77] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 264; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 58. 2 See no. 181, note 3, post. 
June, 1775 127 and on it am silent; but do believe that an adjournment, if any take place, will undoubtedly be for Hartford. 3 Mr. Lynch of South Carolina desires me this day to engage him lodgings for himself, lady and daughter, near Hartford, conditionally. 
I told him I would procure him an house in Wethersfield, which would be more agreeable to him, if we went that way. 
The members talk more and more every day of a removal to Connecticut. 
Should it take place, will give timely notice for due preparation in Hartford and Wethersfield. 
Probable it is to me, and I think it necessary, and shall in due time move it, that a part of the Congress remove to Hartford, as a Committee of the whole, to direct and superintend the movements 178. Eliphalet Dyer to the Governor of Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull). 1 Philadelphia June 16th 1775. Sir .... The Congress have thought fit to desire you upon application from New York Congress to Order the remainder of our Troops on the Western part of the Colony to repair to or Near New York and Occupy some important post there, which you will receive by this express. 2 It gives the Congress some Concern least you S r . should Apprehend some Indelicacy in their mode of applying to you, through the Intervention of the York Provincial Congress, we beg leave just to explain the reasons of their Conduct therein, it is apprehended still in New York (i. e.) their Cautious men are for saving for themselves and the Province a safe retreat if possable. 3 We readily see they most Carefully Avoid taking any ha[n]d in these Matters, therefore the more they are brought to move and Apply the more they will Involve themselves in the same Predicament with the other Colonies, which will give us a stronger Security for their future firmness in the General Cause 179. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia June 17th 1775 Dear S? I have wrote you
See also an extract of a letter, June 20, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1033 ; Almon's Remembrancer for 1775, p. 143 : " As the scene of action is at present far removed from hence, it is thought they will shortly adjourn to, or depute a council to sit at Hartford, in Connecticut." According to Benjamin Harrison the subject of removal was discussed in Congress July 22. See no. 236, post. 
Cf. the Journals, July 30, 31, Aug. 1 ; also no. 295, post. 
L178] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, C 51, XXVII. 274 (copy). 2 See the Journals, June 16. Cf. nos. 180, 189, 190, post. 3 See nos. 175, and note 2, ante, no. 180, post. t I 79l
State Lib., Joseph Trumbnll Coll., no. 40. 2 No. 159, ante 13 128 Continental Congress he Avill shew you. this is only private, you will hear that Coll Washington is Appointed Genii or Commander in Cheif over the Continental Army by I dont know but the Universal Voice of the Congress. 
I believe he will be Very agreable to our officers and Soldiery, he is a Gent, highly Esteemd by those acquainted with him tho I dont believe as to his Military and for real service he knows more than some of ours but so it removes all jealousies, more firmly Cements the Southern to the Northern, and takes away the fear of the former lest an Enterprising eastern New England Genii, proving Successfull, might with his Victorious Army give law to the Southern or Western Gentry, this made it absolutely Necessary in point of prudence, 3 but he is Clever, and if any thing too modest, he seems discreet and Virtuous, no harum Starum ranting Swearing fellow but Sober, steady, and Calm, his Modesty will Induce him I dare say to take and order ever[y] Step with the best advice possible to be obtained in the Army, his allowance for Wages expences and every thing is we think very high not less than £150 law 11 pr month
I have so without your knowledge or Consent been laying in for that birth for you. 
I first mentioned it to Mr Dean, he appeard ready and Chearfull to give all his assistance, Mr Jno Adams and some others of Massachusetts I think they will favor it. Genii. 
Washington has been spoke to on the Occasion as I thot it would be a Clever genteel Birth the Wages tollerable considering no expence for living. 
I believe you will much esteem him and believe he will be pleased with you. 
I dare say you may live very happy with him. it is not Certain as yet it can be accomplished but if I knew it would be agreable I should leave no stone unturned to Accomplish it. a line from you as soon as possible would be very agreable tho cannot expect it before he will set out. in the mean time shall use our best Indeavors and tis but to refuse if you do not choose it if offerd. we hope to supply the Army with six or
I hope they will arrive before Genlls How and Burgoyne attempt to give you a Confounded flogging and which they will do if you are not well on your Guard and s See nos. 181, and note 3, 191, and note 2, post. 
See also nos. 184, 187, post. * See C. M. Andrews, " Current Lawful Money of New England ", in American Historical Review, XXIV. 73-77. The allowance voted, June 15, was $500, which was " £ 150 lawfull " in New England parlance. 5 I dont prohibit shewing above the asterism, below, the Caution would be needless. [Foot-note in the original.] 6 Cf. nos. 184, 189, 233, post. 7 Here used for " supporters of the revolution ", or Sons of Liberty. 
Originally the phrase " Paxton boys " meant those men of Paxton, Pa., who in December, 1763, attacked and murdered the Conestoga Indians. 
June, 1775 129 manage them right when they do come, regards respects Compliments etc. as Usual from your most sincere friend etc. 
Elipht Dyer Mr Trumbull Cambridge 180. James Duane to the New York Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia, June 17, 1775. Gentlemen: Your favour of the
You have by this conveyance two packets from the President of the Congress, on the subjects to which they relate. 
I need make no remark. 3 As it was found that you made no progress in raising men, the Congress have thought fit that the posts directed to be taken in our Government should immediately be occupied by the Troops of Connecticut, which are ready for service, and unemployed. 
We enclose you, by order of the Congress, a certified copy of their Resolution on that head. 4 Your great complaint of the want of money will, I hope, be soon removed. 
For your present satisfaction, we have obtained leave of the Congress to inform you that the General Committee of the whole body have reported a Resolution to emit, in Continental paper currency, a sum not exceeding the value of two millions of Spanish dollars, for the redemption of which all the Colonies are to be pledged. 
Upon revolving the effect of this Resolution, you will find to agree in the main point — the stability of the fund, with your own judicious system. 
We hope soon to furnish you with the particulars of this important transaction. 
We are likewise at liberty to acquaint you that the Congress have agreed to raise, at the Continental expense, a body of fifteen thousand men — ten thousand for the defence of the Massachusetts, and the remainder to be employed in New York for keeping open the communication between the Northern and Southern Colonies ; 6 and that Colonel George Washington is appointed Captain-General and Commander-in-Chief of all the forces raised and to be raised in the common cause. 
You are under no further obligation of secrecy on that subject, than to prevent their being [iSo] 1 Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 46, II. 39; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1016; N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 359. 2 Probably June 14. A letter from the New York congress to the Continental Congress and another to the delegates of this date are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 983-984; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 42. 3 Presumably Hancock's letters of June 12 and 15, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1307, 1308. See the Journals, June 10, 15. 4 See the Journals, June 16, 19, and cf. no. 178, ante. 
See also nos. 190, 205, post. 5 See the Journals, June 3, 7, 12, 14, 15, 22, 23; see also no. 163, note 3, ante. 6 See no. 161, note 3, ante. 130 Continental Congress inserted in any newspaper, from which it is apprehended some prejudices might arise. 7 The letters for Governour Trumbull and General Wooster relate to the removal of the Connecticut Troops into our Government, and are to be forwarded with your despatches on that subject; but they are only from their Delegates, and not authoritative, the Congress having referred it to you to make the application to that Government. 
I have retired from the Congress at the request of my brethren to send off these despatches; for which reason I have done the honour of subscribing myself, with the greatest respect, gentlemen, your most obedient and very humble servant, James Duane. 
To the Provincial Congress at New York. 181. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 17 June. 2 I can now inform you that the Congress have made choice of the modest and virtuous, the amiable, generous, and brave George Washington, Esquire, to be General of the American army, and that he is to repair, as soon as possible, to the camp before Boston. 
This appointment will have a great effect in cementing and securing the union of these colonies. 3 7 See the Journals, June 14-19; also nos. 161 (note 4), 174, 178, ante, 181 and note 3, 186, 187, 188, 191, 192, post. 
The vote releasing members from the obligation of secrecy in this particular is not recorded in the Journals. 
Cf. no. 161, note 3, ante. 
See also nos. 312, 318, 349, 353, 354, 363, note 3, post. [181] * Familiar Letters, p. 65. 2 This letter is a postscript to a letter dated June II. 3 In his Autobiography Adams explains the attitude of Congress and the motives for the election of Washington : " This measure of imbecility, the second petition to the King, embarrassed every exertion of Congress ; it occasioned motions and debates without end for appointing committees to draw up a declaration of the causes, motives, and objects of taking arms, with a view to obtain decisive declarations against independence, etc. 
In the mean time the New England army investing Boston, the New England legislatures, congresses, and conventions, and the whole body of the people, were left without munitions of war, without arms, clothing, pay, or even countenance and encouragement. 
Every post brought me letters from my friends, Dr. Winthrop, Dr. Cooper, General James Warren, and sometimes from General Ward and his aids, and General Heath and many others, urging in pathetic terms the impossibility of keeping their men together without the assistance of Congress. 
I was daily urging all these things, but we were embarrassed with more than one difficulty, not only with the party in favor of the petition to the King, and the party who were jealous of independence, but a third party, which was a Southern party against a Northern, and a jealousy against a New England army under the command of a New England General. 
Whether this jealousy was sincere, or whether it was mere pride and a haughty ambition of furnishing a southern General to command the northern army, (I cannot say) ; but the intention was very visible to me that Colonel Washington was their object, and so many of our staunchest men were in the plan, that we could carry nothing without conceding to it. Another embarrassment, which was never publicly known, and which was carefully concealed by those who knew it, the Massachusetts and other New England delegates were divided. 
Mr. Hancock and Mr. Cushing hung back; Mr. Paine did not come forward, and even Mr. Samuel Adams was irresolute. 
Mr. Hancock himself had an ambition to be appointed commander-in-chief. 
Whether he thought an election a compliment due to him, and intended to have the honor of declining it, or whether he would have accepted, I know June, 1775 131 The continent is really in earnest, in defending the country. 
They have voted ten companies of riflemen to be sent from Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia, to join the army before Boston I begin to hope we shall not sit all summer. 
I hope the people of our province will treat the General with all that confidence and affection, that politeness and respect, which is due to one of the most important characters in the world. 
The liberties of America depend upon him, in a great degree I have found this Congress like the last. 
When we first came together, I found a strong jealousy of us from New England, and the Massachusetts in particular ; suspicions entertained of designs of independency ; not. 
To the compliment he had some pretensions, for, at that time, his exertions, sacrifices, and general merits in the cause of his country had been incomparably greater than those of Colonel Washington. 
But the delicacy of his health, and his entire want of experience in actual service, though an excellent militia officer, were decisive objections to him in my mind. 
In canvassing this subject, out of doors, I found too that even among the delegates of Virginia there were difficulties. 
The apostolical reasonings among themselves, which should be greatest, were not less energetic among the saints of the ancient dominion than they were among us of New England. 
In several conversations, I found more than one very cool about the appointment of Washington, and particularly Mr. Pendleton was very clear and full against it. Full of anxieties concerning these confusions, and apprehending daily that we should hear very distressing news from Boston, I walked with Mr. Samuel Adams in the State House yard, for a little exercise and fresh air, before the hour of Congress, and there represented to him the various dangers that surrounded us. He agreed to them all, but said, ' What shall we do?' I answered him, that he knew I had taken great pains to get our colleagues to agree upon some plan, that we might be unanimous ; but he knew that they would pledge themselves to nothing ; but I was determined to take a step which should compel them and all the other members of Congress to declare themselves for or against something. ' I am determined this morning to make a direct motion that Congress should adopt the army before Boston, and appoint Colonel Washington commander of it.'Mr. Adams seemed to think very seriously of it, but said nothing. " Accordingly, when Congress had assembled, I rose in my place, and in as short a speech as the subject would admit, represented the state of the Colonies, the uncertainty in the minds of the people, their great expectation and anxiety, the distresses of the army, the danger of its dissolution, the difficulty of collecting another, and the probability that the British army would take advantage of our delays, march out of Boston, and spread desolation as far as they could go. I concluded with a motion, in form, that Congress would adopt the army at Cambridge, and appoint a General ; that though this was not the proper time to nominate a General, yet, as I had reason to believe this was a point of the greatest difficulty, I had no hesitation to declare that I had but one gentleman in my mind for that important command, and that was a gentleman from Virginia who was among us and very well known to all of us, a gentleman whose skill and experience as an officer, whose independent fortune, great talents, and excellent universal character, would command the approbation of all America, and unite the cordial exertions of all the Colonies better than any other person in the Union. 
Mr. Washington, who happened to sit near the door, as soon as he heard me allude to him, from his usual modesty, darted into the library-room. 
Mr. Hancock, who was our President, which gave me an opportunity to observe his countenance while I was speaking on the state of the Colonies, the army at Cambridge, and the enemy, heard me with visible pleasure ; but when I came to describe Washington for the commander, I never remarked a more sudden and striking change of countenance. 
Mortification and resentment were expressed as forcibly as his face could exhibit them. 
Mr. Samuel Adams seconded the motion, and that did not soften the President's physiognomy at all. 
The subject came under debate, and several gentlemen declared themselves against the appointment of Mr. Washington, not on account of any personal objection against him, but because the army were all from New England, had a General of their own, appeared to be satisfied with him, and had proved themselves able to imprison the British army in Boston, which was all they expected or desired at that time. 
Mr. Pendleton, of Virginia. 
Mr. Sherman, of Connecticut, were very explicit in declaring this opinion ; Mr. Cushing and several others more faintly expressed their opposition, and their fears of discontents 132 Continental Congress an American republic ; Presbyterian principles, and twenty other things. 
Our sentiments were heard in Congress with great caution, and seemed to make but little impression; but the longer we sat, the more clearly they saw the necessity of pushing vigorous measures. 
It has been so now. 
Every day we sit, the more we are convinced that the designs against us are hostile and sanguinary, and that nothing but fortitude, vigor, and perseverance can save us. But America is a great, unwieldy body. 
Its progress must be slow. 
It is like a large fleet sailing under convoy. 
The fleetest sailors must wait for the dullest and slowest. 
Like a coach and six, the swiftest horses must be slackened, and the slowest quickened, that all may keep an even pace 182. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 18 June, 1775. .... This Congress are all as deep as the delegates from the Massachusetts, and the whole continent as forward as Boston. 
We shall have a redress of grievances or an assumption of all the powers of government, legislative, executive, and judicial, throughout the whole continent, in the army and in New England. 
Mr. Paine expressed a great opinion of General Ward and a strong friendship for him, having been his classmate at college, or at least his contemporary; but gave no opinion upon the question. 
The subject was postponed to a future day. 
In the mean time, pains were taken out of doors to obtain a unanimity, and the voices were generally so clearly in favor of Washington, that the dissentient members were persuaded to withdraw their opposition, and Mr. Washington was nominated, I believe by Mr. Thomas Johnson of Maryland, unanimously elected, and the army adopted. " The next question was, who should be the second officer. 
General Lee was nominated, and most strenuously urged by many, particularly Mr. Mifflin, who said that General Lee would serve cheerfully under Washington, but, considering his rank, character, and experience, could not be expected to serve under any other. 
That Lee must be, aut secundus, aut nullus. 
To this I as strenuously objected, that it would be a great deal to expect of General Ward that he should serve under any man, but that under a stranger he ought not to serve; that though I had as high an opinion of General Lee's learning, general information, and especially of his science and experience in war, I could not advise General Ward to humiliate himself and his country so far as to serve under him. 
General Ward was elected the second, and Lee the third. 
Gates and Mifflin, I believe, had some appointments, and General Washington took with him Mr. Reed, of Philadelphia, a lawyer of some eminence, for his private Secretary ; and the gentlemen all set off for the camp. 
They had not proceeded twenty miles from Philadelphia, before they met a courier with the news of the battle of Bunker's Hill, the death of General Warren, the slaughter among the British officers and men, as well as among ours, and the burning of Charlestown." Works, II. 415. The motion and debate referred to were evidently in the committee of the whole anterior to June 15. There is no record of them in the Journals. 
Elbridge Gerry wrote to the Massachusetts delegates, June 4: "I should heartily rejoice to see this way the beloved Colonel Washington, and do not doubt the New England generals would acquiesce in showing to our sister colony, Virginia, the respect, which she has before experienced from the continent, in making him generalissimo. 
This is a matter in which Dr. Warren agrees with me, and we had intended to write you jointly on the affair." Austin, Life of Gerry, I. yj ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 906. Cf. the Massachusetts letters of May 16 (Journals, June 2) and June 11 (Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 959). The election of Washington as commander-in-chief of the Continental Army is discussed at length in a foot-note to Washington's Writings (ed. Ford), I. 476-481. See, further, no. 180, note 7, ante. 
Cf. two anonymous letters, dated June 20, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1033. See also a letter of Mrs. Adams, July 16, in Familiar Letters, p. 78. [182] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 67. June, 1775 133 very soon. 
Georgia is bestirring itself ; 2 I mean the whole of it. The parish of St. Johns, which is one third of it, was with us before. 183. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 Philadelphia, June 18th, 1775 My Dear, .... Yesterday I was at Committee
Eleven hours at a sitting is too much for my constitution. 
It would be hard enough to attend the Congress hours, but Committees take up all my spare time As to an adjournment, it is still a matter of doubt. 184. Silas Deane to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Dear Sir General Washington will be with You soon, possibly by the Time, You receive This, his Election was unanimous, his acceptance of the high Trust, modest and polite, his Character I need not enlarge on but will only say to his honor, that he is said to be as fixed and resolute in having his Orders on all Occasions executed, as he is cool and deliberate, in giving them, immediately on his Appointment I took the Liberty which I thought our Acquaintance might Justify of recommending You, to him, as his Secretary, for which an handsome Appointment is made by Congress, he told me he was wholly disengaged, and should pursue one rule of Conduct invariably, — To prefer so farr as in his power only those equall to the Post to be filled — That if you were desirous of it, and my recommendation was agreeable elsewhere (viz) To the province he will be in, it would suit him. 
Col. Dyer and self have since applied to the Massachusetts Delegates who appear willing to second the proposal. 2 I hope to write you further by the Time the General setts off, meantime am, Dr Sir Your most Obedt and Very Hum e : Servt S Deane Sunday After Noon June
Putnam is appointed a Major General of the Army of the United Colonies without one dissenting Vote, an honor peculiar to him and the Commander in Cheif tho. 
We have been well United in all of them
II., chs. 
VIII. and IX. [183] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 266; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 60. 2 Probably the committee for drawing up rules and regulations for the army. 
See the Journals, June 14. 3 Christopher Marshall's. [i84] 1 Conn. 
State Library, Joseph Trumbull Collection, no. 30. 2 Cf. nos. 179, ante, 189, 198, 232, 233, post. 134 Continental Congress 185. John Hancock to Joseph Warren. 1 Sunday Morng, 18 June, 1775. Philada. 
My Dear Sir, I intended writing you a long Letter, but am prevented by my Attention to the orders of Congress in Dispatching an Express and writing to Govr. 
Trumbull on matters of infinite Importance. 2 In short from my Scituation in Congress I have great Duty to Do, but I will persevere even to the Destruction of my Constitution. 
I am under a strict Injunction not to Communicate the Doings of Congress, but two or three Circumstances having Taken place in Congress which affected our Army, indued me to ask Leave to mention them, which I obtain'd with this positive Direction that at present they be not mentioned in the Newspapers which you will please to observe. 
The Congress have appointed George Washington, Esqr., General and Commander in Chief of the Continental Army. 
His Commission is made out and I shall Sign it to morrow. 
He is a Gentleman you will all like. 3 I submit to you the propriety of providing a suitable place for his Residence and the mode of his Reception. 
Pray tell Genl. 
Ward of this with my Respects, and that we all Expect to hear that the Military Movements of the Day of his Arrival will be such as to do him and the Commander in Chief great honour. 
General Ward is appointed Second in Command and am sure you will Approve this. 
General Lee is Appointed third in Command, but have not his Answer. 
As to the last Appointment, I hope it will Turn out well. 
I say no more on that head. 
Genl. 
Washington will set out in a few Days. 
Would it not be proper to have a Troop at the Entrance of our Province to escort him down ; and then the Fort ready to Receive him. 
Pray do him every honour. 4 By all means have his Commission read at the head of the whole Forces. 
I can't write Genl. 
Ward ; do mention to him my hurry and lay your plans well. 
The Congress have also order'd Ten Companies of Rifle Men from this Province, Maryland and Virginia of 68 Men each properly officerd, to proceed immediately to join the Army near Boston. 
This is a good Step and will be an excellent additional Strength to our Army. 
These are the finest Marksmen in the world. 
They do Execution with their Rifle Guns at an Amazing Distance. 5 The Congress have also Determined upon 15,000 Men as a Continental Army. 
The Committee of the [185] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 57. 2 See the Journals, June 16. 3 See no. 180, note 7, ante. 
See also the editorial note in John Adams's Works, II. 416. Washington's commission is in the Journals, June 17. 4 See the Journals of Each Provincial Congress of Massachusetts, pp. 391, 398. Cf. nos. 184, ante, 186, 187, 188, 189, 195, 198, 201, 212, 241, 245, post. *Cf. nos. 186, 187, 213, post : 'They are the most accurate Marksmen in the World ; they kill with great Exactness at 200 yards Distance ; they have Sworn certain death to the ministerial officers. 
May they perform their oath." John Adams to James Warren, June 27, in Warren-Adams Letters, I. 66. Cf. Adams to Warren, July 6, ibid., p. 75. See also an anonymous letter, dated June 20, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1033. June, 7775 135 whole Congress have agreed to Report that Two Million of Dollars be emitted in Bills for the Use of the Continent to pay Troops, etc. 
This is all I am allowed to mention 186. John Hancock to Elbridge Gerry. 1 Philadelphia, Sunday Morning, June 18, 1775. Dear Sir, I have but a moment's time left to tell you that your order for the duck, etc., cannot be complied with, there being not enough here to make it worth while to think of sending; and indeed they are in want of the same article here. 
I cannot inform you of the doings of congress in general, being under an injunction; but I am thus far indulged to mention, but by no means to be put in the newspapers at present, that Colonel Washington is appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Army. 
I shall sign his commission to-morrow, and he will depart in a few days. 
He is a fine man. 2 You will judge of the propriety of the mode of his reception. 
Ten Companies of fine Riflemen from this Province, Maryland, and Viriginia, are ordered to proceed immediately to your Army; these are clever fellows. 3 The Committee of the whole Congress have agreed upon a report for the immediate emission of two millions of dollars upon the faith of the Continent. 4 Remember me to Mr. Gill, Pitts, Cooper, and all friends. 
Adieu; I am almost worn out. 
I am your real friend. 
John Hancock. 
Mr. Gerry, Watertown. 187. John Adams to Elbridge Gerry. 1 Philadelphia, 18 June, 1775. Dear Sir, I have at last obtained liberty, by a vote of Congress, to acquaint my friends with a few of the things that have been done. 2 The Congress have voted, or rather a committee of the whole house have unanimously agreed, that the sum of two million dollars be issued in bills of credit, for the redemption of which, in a certain number of years, twelve colonies have unanimously pledged themselves. 3 The Congress has likewise resolved that fifteen thousand men shall be supported at the expense of the continent; ten thousand at Massachusetts, and five thousand at New York, 4 and that ten companies of [186] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1019; Austin, Life of Gerry, I. 82. 2 See no. 180, note 7, ante ; also the editorial note in John Adams's Works, II. 416. 3 See no. 161, note 3, ante. 4 See the Journals, June 22, 23. See no. 163, note 3, ante. [187] 1 Works, IV. 357; Austin, Life of Gerry, I. 87; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1019. 2 See nos. 161, note 3, 180, note 7, ante. 
See also nos. 312, 318, 349. 353, 354, 3^3, post. 3 See no. 163, note 3, ajnte. 4 Such resolves in form can not be found in the Journals. 
See however the Journals, July 21, 25; see also nos. 161 (note 3), 180 (note 7), ante. 136 Continental Congress riflemen be sent immediately, six from Pennsylvania, two from Maryland, and two from Virginia, consisting of sixty-eight privates in each company, to join our army at Boston. 
These are said to be all exquisite marksmen, and by means of the excellence of their firelocks, as well as their skill in the use of them, to send sure destruction to great distances. 5 General Washington is chosen commander-in-chief, General Ward the first major-general, and General Lee the second, (the last has not yet accepted,) and Major Gates adjutant-general. 
Lee and Gates are experienced officers. 
We have proceeded no further as yet. 6 I have never, in all my lifetime, suffered more anxiety than in the conduct of this business. 
The choice of officers, and their pay, have given me great distress. 
Lee and Gates are officers of such great experience and confessed abilities, that I thought their advice, in a council of officers, might be of great advantage to us; but the natural prejudices, and virtuous attachment of our countrymen
But considering the earnest desire of General Washington to have the assistance of these officers, the extreme attachment of many of our best friends in the southern colonies to them, the reputation they would give to our arms in Europe, and especially with the ministerial generals and army in Boston, as well as the real American merit of them both, I could not withhold my vote from either. 8 The pay which has been voted to all the officers, which the Continental Congress intends to choose, is so large, that I fear our people will think it extravagant, and be uneasy. 
Mr. Adams, Mr. Paine, and myself, used our utmost endeavors to reduce it, but in vain. 9 Those ideas of equality, which are so agreeable to us natives of New England, are very disagreeable to many gentlemen in the other colonies. 
They had a great opinion of the high importance of a continental general, and were determined to place him in an elevated point of light. 
They think the Massachusetts establishment too high for the privates, and too low for the officers, and they would have their own way 188. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Phyladelphia, June 20, 1775 My Friend, This Letter will go by the Sage, brave and amiable General Washington, to whom I have taken the Liberty of mentioning your Name. 
The Congress has at last voted near twenty thousand Men in Massachusetts and New York, and an Emission of a Continental Currency to maintain them. 5 See the Journals, July 14; cf. ibid., June 22. See also no. 161, note 3, ante. 
See the Journals, June 15-22, also nos. 180, ante, 188, post. 7 /. e., the New Englanders. 
Cf. nos. 179, ante, 188, 189, 195, 198, 199, 369, 383, 588, post. 
B Cf. nos. 181 (note 3), ante, 188, 195, 241, post. 9 See the Journals, June 14, 15, 16, 21, 22. Cf. Hawley's letter to Adams, Nov. 14, in John Adams's Works, IX. 364, and Adams's reply, no. 369, post. 
Cf. no. 303, post. [188] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 61. June, 1775 137 You will have Lee, as third in Command, Ward being the Second, Schuyler of New York the fourth, and Putnam the fifth. 
Ten Companies of Rifle Men, too, are ordered from Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia. 
Nothing has given me more Torment, than the Scuffle We have had in appointing the General Officers. 
We could not obtain a Vote upon our seat for L[ee]. Sam and John fought for him, however, through all the Weapons. 
Dismal Bugbears were raised. 
There were Prejudices enough among the weak and fears enough among the timid, as well as other obstacles from the Cunning : but the great Necessity for officers of skill and Experience, prevailed. 
I have never formed any Friendship or particular Connection with Lee, but upon the most mature Deliberation I judged him the best qualified for the Service and the most likely to connect the Colonies, and therefore gave him my Vote, and am willing to abide the Consequences. 2 .... I hope to be nearer to you at least, very soon. 3 189. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia June 20th 1775. Sr to what part of the world you are removed I know not. 
I have wrote to you every week but have not had a line from you for near a month tho there are posts and expresses from your Camp allmost every day. 
I wrote you but a few days agoe that Coll Washington of Virginia was Appointed General and Commander in Cheif of the Army of the United Colonies. 
I Imagine he will be Very Agreable to the Genius and Climate of New England. 2 Genii Ward is Appointed first Majr Genii, Genii Lee the 2nd Majr Genii or 3d in Command. 
Brigdr Genii. 
Putnam is also appointed Majr Genii, the next in Command to Genii, the next in Command to Gen 11 Lee. his fame as a Warrior had been so far extended thro the Continent that it would be in Vain to urge any of our Gen 11 officers in Competition with him and he Carried by Universal Voice. 
Coll Schuyler of Albany is also appointed Majr Genii in York department to Sweeten and to and keep up the spirit in that Province, one Majr Gates who has been long an approved officer in the Regular Service and has a large and Valuable Interest and his whole in America and has an Established Carracter for his strong Attachment to this Country he is appointed Agitant Genii, the Brigadier Genlls. will soon be appointed of which we expect Genii Spencer to be one. hope he will not make a point of Putnams preference
Mr. Dean and Mr. Sherman also joined with me. I also procured all the
State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Collection, no. 41. 2 See nos. 179, 181, 184, 186, ante. 3 See the Journals, June 16, 17, 19. Cf. nos. 184, 185, 186, 187, 188, ante, 195, 201, 211, 241, 245, post. 138 Continental Congress Gentn. of the Massachusetts Bay to confirm our recommendation all which believe will Succeed for your appointment unless the Massachusetts Gentn behind the Curtain have made Interest for some other person which I ought not to Suspect. 4 .... Coll Parson Regiment is ordered to join you. about 12 hundred with Gen 11 Wooster are ordered to York for more reasons than one. 5 I hope and somewhat believe this Congress will soon Move towards Connecticut. 6 if necessary have wrote a small Introduction wether it may be proper to Introduce your self by it or not must leave with you to determine if you make use of it you will fold and direct it as proper. 7 Am Sr. with sincere Esteem Yours Elipht Dyer Mr Trumbull Near Cambridge I dare say Genlls Putnam and Spencer will befriend you in the above if you desire them it may have some additional Weight. 
ED 190. Eliphalet Dyer to the Governor of Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull). 1 Philadelphia June 20th 1775. Sir .... the Provincial Congress at New York upon Information from some Gen* of the Navy there, that the transports coming into their Harbour were all ordered to Boston, Immediately as we understand sent Gen'l Wooster Not to come forward with his Troops, but this Congress Notwithstanding presist in their resolutions, that Genl Wooster with our Western forces go forward to New York as soon as possible as the Transports might just withdraw out of sight and finding no Provincial [s] at York, return on a sudden and git footing there; but that is not the only reason, your Imagination I dare say will suggest others. 2 .... 191. George Washington to John Augustine Washington. 1 Philadelphia June 20. 1775. Dear Brother, I am now to bid adieu to you, and to every kind of domestick ease, for a while. 
I am Imbarked on a wide ocean, boundless in its prospect and from whence, perhaps, no safe harbour is to be found. 
I have been called upon by the unanimous Voice of the Colonies to take the Command of the
Hist. 
Soc, C 51, XXVII. 278. 2 Cf. nos. 178, 180, ante, 205, 291, post. [191] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Writings (ed. Ford), II. 491; (ed. Sparks), III. 4; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1031. June, 1775 139 Continental Army — an honour I neither sought after, nor desired, as I am thoroughly convinced, that it requires greater abilities, and much more experience, than I am Master of, to conduct a business so extensive in its nature, and arduous in the execution ; but the partiallity of the Congress, joind to a political motive, really left me without a choice; and I am now Commissioned a General and Commander in Chief of all the Forces now raisd, or to be raisd, for the defence of the United Colonies. 
That I may discharge the Trust to the Satisfaction of my Imployers, is my first wish — that I shall aim to do it, there remains as little doubt of — how far I may succeed is another point — but this I am sure of, that in the worst event, I shall have the consolation of knowing (if I act to the best of my judgment) that the blame ought to lodge upon the appointers, not the appointed, as it was by no means a thing of my own seeking, or proceeding from any hint of my friends. 2 I am at liberty to inform you, that the Congress, in a Committee (which will I dare say be agreed to when reported) have consented to a Continental Currency — have ordered two Million of Dollars to be struck for payment of the Troops etc. and have voted 15,000 Men as a Continental Army — which number will be augmented, as the strength of the British Troops will be greater than was expected at the time of passing that vote. 3 Genl Ward, Genl Lee, Genl Schyler, and Genl Putnam are appointed Major Genls under me — the Brigadier Genls are not yet appointed — Maj Gates Adjutant Genl. 4 I expect to set out to morrow for Boston and hope to be joind there in a little time by Ten Companies of Riflemen from this Province, Maryland, and Virginia. 5 for other articles of Intelligence, I shall refer you to the Papers, as the printers are diligent in collecting every thing that is stirring. 6 .... 192. The New Hampshire Delegates to Matthew Thornton. 1 Phila 20th June, 1775. Matthew Thornton, Esq. 2 .... We are at liberty to inform you that the Committee of the whole Congress have agreed to Report a Continental Currency, which no doubt will be Emitted immediately and forwarded for the payment of
See also Washington's letters to Mrs. Washington, John Parke Custis, Col. Burwell Bassett, and the independent companies of Fairfax, June 18, 19, 20, in Writings (ed. Ford), II. 483, 486, 487, 489. 3 This vote is not recorded in the Journals. 
Cf. no. 163, note 3, ante. 4 See the Journals, June 17. 5 Washington's departure for Boston was on June 23. See nos. 196, 197, post; also Washington's Writings (ed. Ford), II. 493 n. 6 "Yesterday the three Battalions, with the Artillery, Light-Horse, and Rangers of this City and Liberties, were reviewed by General Washington, attended by the Honourable the Members of the Congress." Pennsylvania Journal, June 21, 1775. See also the Pennsylvania Packet of the same date. [192] 1 N. H. Prov. 
Papers, VII. 524; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1035. 2 See the N. H. State Papers, VII. 480-483; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 695, 696. 140 Continental Congress &'the Troops. 3 The Congress have appointed General Washington to the Command of the American forces, who will set out for the Camp to morrow or next day : 4 have also agreed upon a Continental army. 
The other proceedings of Congress are not yet to be made publick unless what appears in the prints. 5 It is impossible to conceive of a greater unanimity in the Colonies, than that which at present subsists, one and all being Determined to defend our Rights to the last. 
May the great Author of all things Bless and assist us, is the most ardent prayer of your obt Humb servants Jno. Sullivan John Langdon. 
P. S. Inclosed is an order for General Fast. 6 193. John Adams to Joseph Palmer. 1 Phyladelphia June 20th 1775 D r Sir We send you for your Comfort, the Generals Washington and Lee with Commissions for Ward and Putnam : together with a Vote to support about twenty thousand Men, for the present, fifteen Thousands in Mass. and 5000 in New York. 2 We have voted to issue Bills of Credit to the amount of two Million Dollars, and must, I suppose, vote to issue a great deal more. 3 .... 194. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney. 1 Phila. 
June the 20th. 1775. Sir, .... I can now let ypu into a part of our proceedings in Congress. 
We have ordered
Cf. nos. 211, 220, post; also the Journals, July 21. 3 See the Journals June 22, 23; also no. 163, note 3, ante. f 194] J Library of Congress, Force Trans., Rodney. 2 See the Journals, June 22, 23; also no. 163, note 3, ante. 
There is no entry in the Journals at this time concerning the mode of redemption; but see the Journals, July 25, 29. June, 1775 141 appointed Col. George Washington, General and Commander in Chief of all the Colony forces, Gen Ward, (now with the army before Boston) to be Majr. 
Genl. and second in command, Gen Lee a Major Genl. and 3rd. in command, Col. Skeiler
All the Brigd. 
Genls Cols. 
Lt. Cols. 
Majors etc. are confirmed according to their appointments by the colonies where the troops they command were raised. 4 .... 195. John Adams to Joseph Warren. 1 Phyladelphia, June 21, 1775 Dr. Sir, This Letter I presume will be delivered into your own Hand by the General. 
He proposes to set out, tomorrow, for your Camp. 
God speed him. 
Lee is Second Major General, Schuyler who is to command at N. York is the third and Putnam the fourth. 
How many Brigadiers general we shall have, whether five, seven or eight, is not determined, nor who they shall be. One from N. Hampshire, one from R. Island, two from Connecticutt one from N. York, and three from Massachusetts, perhaps. 
I am almost impatient to be at Cambridge. 
We shall maintain a good Army for you. 
I expect to hear of Grumbletonians, some from parsimonious and others from Superstitious Prejudices. 
But we do the best we can, and leave the Event [P. S.] We have all recommended Billy Tudor
Will he make a good one? This moment informed of Powder arrived here, 500 Blls they say. 
We must send it along to you. 196. The President of Congress to Artemas Ward. 1 22d June 1775 6 o'clock P. M. Sirs The Congress just up, below is their Determination with respect to Superior officers and Rank. 2 .... We have just a Report of a Battle, and that Co' 1 Gardiner is mortally wounded. 
We are anxious. 
No Express. 
God Send us a good acco*. 3 I am now Signing the Commiss
The Genl sets out early in the morng. 
I am yrs J. Hancock. 3 Philip Schuyler. 4 See the Journals, June 15-22. Cf. nos. 181 (note 3), ante, 198, 202, post. [195] 1 W arr en-Adams Letters, I. 65. 2 William Tudor (1750-1819). He was appointed judge advocate of the army, July 29, 1775. Cf. no. 189, ante. [196] 1 Winsor, Narrative and Critical History of America, VI. 143. 2 See the Journals. 3 Cf. no. 197, post. 
An express from Gov. Trumhull arrived on the night of June 24; one from Boston, June 27. See nos. 201, 204, post; also Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, II. 1018, 1036. 142 Continental Congress 197. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 23 June [1775]. I have this morning been out of town, to accompany our generals, Washington, Lee, and Schuyler, a little way on their journey to the American camp before Boston. 
The three generals were all mounted on horse-back, accompanied by Major Mifflin, who is gone in the character of Aid-de-camp. 
All the delegates from the Massachusetts, with their servants and carriages, attended; many others of the delegates from the Congress; a large troop of light horse in their uniforms; many officers of militia besides, in theirs; music playing, etc. 
Such is the pride and pomp of war. 2 .... We had, yesterday, by the way of New York and New London, a report which distresses us almost as much as that we had last fall of the cannonade of Boston. 
A battle at Bunker's hill and Dorchester point. 3 .... 198. Roger Sherman to David Wooster. 1 Philadelphia, June 23, 1775. Dear Sir, The Congress having determined it necessary to keep up an army for the defence of America at the charge of the united colonies, have appointed the following general officers. 
George Washington Esq., Commander-in-Chief, Major Generals Ward, Lee, Schuyler, and Putnam, Brigadier Generals Pomroy, Montgomery, yourself, Heath, Spencer, Thomas, Major Sullivan of New Hampshire, and one Green of Rhode Island. 
I am sensible that according to your former rank, you were entitled to the place of a Major General; and as one was to be appointed in Connecticut I heartily recommended you to the Congress. 
I informed them of the arrangement made by our Assembly, which I thought would be satisfactory, to have them continue in the same order: but as General Putnam's fame was spread abroad and especially his successful enterprise at Noddle's Island, the account of which had just arrived, it gave him a preference in the opinion of the Delegates in general so that his appointment was unanimous among the colonies. 2 But from your known abilities and firm attachment to the American cause we were very desirous of your continuance in the army, and hope you will accept of the appointment made by the Congress. 3 .... f 197] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 70. 2 See no. 181, note 3, ante. 3 Cf. nos. 196, ante, 201, post. [198] 1 Boutell, Life of Sherman, p. 86; Davis, Memoirs of Burr, I. 50; Am. Antiq. 
Soc, Proceedings, n. s., XXIX. 59. 2 See the Journals, June 19, 22; cf. nos. 189, ante, 228, note 2, post. 
The Connecticut assembly had, at its session in April, made Wooster a major-general, Spencer a brigadier-general, and Putnam " second brigadier-general ". See the Public Records of Connecticut, XIV. 422. Concerning Putnam's enterprise at Noddle's Island (East Boston), see Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 874; Moore, Diary of the Am. Rev., I. 85. 3 Replying to this letter, July 7, Gen. Wooster said : " I enclose with this the commission delivered to me by General Washington. 
You will see that somehow by mistake it was never dated. 
You will be good enough to deliver it to Mr. Hancock with my best compliments, and desire him not to return it. I have already a commission from the assembly of Connecticut." Boutell, Life of Sherman, p. 88. Cf. nos. 200, 228, post. 
June, 1775 143 199. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the New York Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia 24th June 1775 Gentlemen By order of the Congress I inclose you certain Resolves pass'd yesterday respecting those who were concerned in taking and garrisoning Crown Point and Ticonderoga. 
As the Congress are of Opinion that the Employing the Green Mountain Boys in the American Army would be Advantageous to the common Cause, as well on Account of their Situation as of their Disposition and Alertness, they are Desirous you should Embody them among the Troops you shall Raise. 
As it is Represented to the Congress that they will not Serve under any Officers but such as they themselves Chuse, you are Desired to consult with General Schuyler, in whom the Congress are informed those People place a great Confidence, about the Field Officers to be Set over them. 2 To the Members of the Provincial Congress of New York. 200. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull). 1 Philadelphia June 26th, 1775. Sir Yours per express dated the 20th. 2 We received and are happy to find that every Measure within your Power for the Public good has been Uniformly pursued, while the Advice from Congress has been rather as approving than Directing your Conduct. 
You will By this express receive a Letter from the President informing you of the appointment of General Washington and other General Officers, and by Unanimous Order of the Congress expressing the high sense they retain of your Important Services to the United Colonies, at this Critical Period. 3 In the arrangement of General officers, the Character of General Putnam command [ed] every Vote for his Major General Ship, an Honor peculiar to the Commander in Chief and himself. 
We hope that his Appointment will give no umbrage to General Wooster or General Spencer as they [iggpN. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 37 (A. L. S. of Hancock; signature cut out) ; Library of Congress, Pap. Cont. 
Cong., no. 40, vol. 
I., f. 401 (copy) ; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 63, II. 4; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1076. 2 See the Journals, June 23 ; also the proceedings of the New York congress, July
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 63-66; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1338- I 339- A letter of Schuyler bearing date of June 4, in the first-mentioned volume, is given the correct date, July 4, in the latter. 
With erroneous date June 4, it is also ibid.. II. 904. The letter of June 10, from the officers at Crown Point, read in Congress June 23, is ibid., p. 958. See also Schuyler's letters of July
Lib., Sparks MSS., XXIX. 270 (copy) ; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, C 51, XXVII (copy). 2 Trumbull's letter was read in Congress June 26. See the Journals. 3 See the Journals, May 31, June 16, 26, and no. 202, post. 14 144 Continental Congress are honorably provided for.* We wish the prospect of a Supply of one Article was more favorable but from the large quantities in the West Indies hope for the best, the Article of Salt Petre is now under Consideration, and shall in a few Days be able to write at large on the Subject. 
The Account brought us by Mr. Avery of the Action of the 17th has given us the greatest possable anxiety, as it leaves us in suspence and Uncertainty as to the event of so important an Action, and our receiving no further Advices has increased it greatly. 
By a Letter from Albany received Yesterday we are informd of the Defection [of the] Caughnawaga Indians, effected by the presents of Governor Carlton who is meditating Hostilities, are not some of their children with Doc r Wheelock ? G If so may not some Advantage be taken of that Circumstance? regulating and issuing a Continental Currancy and providing ways and means for its redemtion has taken up much Time, but the work is in such forwardness, that we hope soon to have it circulating and that several other important regulations now under consideration will be compleated and take place. 
We should be happy would our Business admit of greater Dispatch, the Distance from Our Families and Friends, and from the great Scene of Action gives us uneasiness, and with respect to adjourning nearer which has been repeatedly mentioned though a majority of Voices might [be] obtained, yet We conceive it to be too delicate a Subject for us to urge on many and Various reasons, it is probable the Congress after finishing the more important Business before them will have a recess appointing a Committee of War or Safety to sit. in the meanwhile, this Committee will undoubtedly be directed to remove as near the scene of Action as Hartford. 6 We are greatly obliged to Col Williams and Capt Trumbull for their Letters but the express is in haste and prevents our returning their favors. 
We are with the greatest Esteem and very Humble Servants Eliph
I must leave it to some future opportunity, which I have a charming Confidence will cer- 4 Cf. no. 198, ante. 5 Eleazar Wheelock, president of Dartmouth College and principal of the Indian school, also at Hanover, N. H., which he had founded at Lebanon, Conn. 
See the Journals, July 12. 6 See no. 133, note 2, ante. [201 ] l Warren-. I dams Letters, I. 66. June, 1775 145 tainly come to inform you fully of the History of our Debates and Resolutions. 
Last Saturday night at Eleven o'clock an Express arrived from the worthy Govr Trumbull informing of the Battle of Charlestown. 2 An hundred Gentlemen flocked to our Lodgings to hear the News. 
At one o'Clock Mr H[ancock] Mr A [dams] and myself went out to enquire after the Committee of this City, in order to beg some Powder. 
We found Some of them, and these with great Politeness and Sympathy for their brave Brethren in the Mass. agreed to go that night and send forward about Ninety Quarter Casks and before Morning it was in Motion. 
Between two and three o'Clock I got to bed. 
We are contriving every Way we can think of to get you Powder. 
We have a Number of Plans for making Salt Petre and Gentlemen here are very confident that we shall be able to furnish Salt Petre and Powder of our own Manufacture, and that very Soon. 
A Method of making it will be published very soon by one of our Committees. 3 Before this reaches you, Gen. Washington, Lee, etc., will arrive among you. 
I wish to God, you had been appointed a General Officer in the Room of some others. 
Adams and Adams strove to get it done. 
But, Notions, narrow Notions prevented it — not dislike to you, but fear of disobliging Pomroy, and his Friends. 4 Your Govt, was the best We could obtain for you. 
We have passed some Resolutions concerning North Carolina which will do a great deal of good. 5 We have allowed them to raise 1000 Men, and to take Care of Traytors, if necessary. 
This must be kept secret 202. The President of Congress to the New York Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia June 27th 1775 Gentlemen By the Unanimous Vote of this Congress I am Directed to Assure you that they have a high Sense of your Services in the common Cause of the United Colonies, and to Inform you of the Appointment of the Several General Officers to Command the Continental Forces, a list of whom I now Inclose you. the Subordinate Officers to be Recommended
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 63, II. 4; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 11 14. The same letter, to the New Hampshire Congress, is in N. H. Prov. 
Papers, VII. 533- Practically an identical letter, to the Massachusetts congress, is in Mass. 
Arch., CXCIV. II. A letter to Gov. Trumbull of Connecticut containing a similar paragraph, together with a summary of the pertinent resolutions of June 27, is printed in the Am. Antiq. 
Soc, Proceedings, n. s., XV. 328. A copy of the latter is in the Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, C 5L XXVII. 294. 146 Continental Congress by the Provincial Congresses to the General, to whom Commissions from this Congress are sent to be fill'd up agreeable to such Recommendation. 2 I am Gentlemen Your most Obedt Servt. 
John Hancock, President To The Members of the Provincial Congress [New York] 203. The President of Congress to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia June 28th: 1775 Sir By Direction of the Congress I now Transmitt you several Resolutions pass'd yesterday, by which you will Observe they have Directed Major General Schuyler to Examine into the State of the Posts at Ticonderoga and Crown Point, and of the Troops Station'd there, as also to Enquire into the Disposition of the Canadians and Indians. 
You will likewise find they have Directed him to Take or Destroy all Vessells, Boats or Floating Batteries prepar'd by Governor Carlton on or near the Waters of the Lakes, and to Take possession of St Johns and Montreal if he finds it practicable, and not Disagreeable to the Canadians. 
The Alterations of the Sentiments of Congress since your Departure relative to making an Impression into Canada was occasion'd by a Letter they Rec'd from the Committee, of Albany, a Copy of which you have Inclos'd. they Gave their Directions upon these important matters directly to Major General Schuyler, as he would be near the Posts abovemention'd and as their being sent to you would Occasion such Delay as might prove Detrimental to the Service. 2 I send you the Remainder of the Commissions Sign'd. should you have occasion for more, please to acquaint me, and they shall be immediately Transmitted to you. 
Brig r Gen
I Expect him to morrow, and shall Deliver him his Commission, and promote his Joining you as soon as possible. 
Inclos'd is a Letter from him. 3 With my best wishes for every personal Happiness, and Success in all your undertakings, I have the Honor to be, Sir His Excellency Your most obedt hum c Servt General Washington John Hancock President
See, however, the Journals, June 22. Cf. no. 194, ante, and no. 220, post. [203] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 2; Am. Antiq. 
Soc, Proceedings, n. s., XV. 329. 2 See the Journals, June 26, 27 ; cf. ibid., June I. A copy of Hancock's letter to Schuyler, June 28, is in the Library of Congress, Force Trans., Hancock. 
The Albany letter, dated June 21, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1048. Cf. a letter from Stockbridge, Mass., dated June 22, ibid., II. 1060. See also nos. 204, 206, 208, post. 3 See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1058. June, 1775 147 204. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia, 29th June 1775 Dear Sir, Nothing material has occurred since you left this place, except the imperfect accounts we have of the Charlestown battle, which upon the whole seems to have nothing unfavorable to our great cause, but the loss ^f Dr. Warren. 
To an infant Country, it is loss indeed, to be deprived of wise, virtuous, and brave Citizens. 
I hope however, still to hear, that our Enemies have lost Characters very useful to them. 
We received the account of this engagement late on Saturday evening last, and a few of us immediately applied to, and prevailed with the Committee of this City, to dispatch 90 odd quarter Casks of powder to the Camp, which I hope will arrive safe and in good time. 
We are this day informed in Congress that the six Nations and Canada Indians are firmly disposed to observe a strict nieutrality, and I think we shall endeavor to cultivate their friendship. 
The Congress have been engaged these two days about the mutiny and military regulations, and at last we shall adopt those of Massachusetts with very few alterations. 2 You will see that we have again taken up the business of entering Canada, and have left the propriety of it to Gener. 
Schuyler. 3 If it can be done, in a manner agreeable to the Canadians, it will certainly shut the door against dangerous tampering with the Indians on all our Western frontiers. 
Nothing has yet been done about a Military Hospital, and I suppose we shall wait for your return of the state of the Army. 4 .... 205. The New York Delegates to the Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia, June 30, 1775. Gentlemen: We have received your letter of the 23d instant, and are sorry to be informed of your being retarded by any difficulties in completing your levies. 2 It would be extremely imprudent to suggest the least hint of your objections to the Congress. 
Be assured that the Northern and some other Colonies are ready to raise men on almost any terms, and would [204] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington; Letters to Washington (ed. Hamilton), V. 180. 2 The regulations adopted are in the Journals (ed. Ford), under June 30. Cf. no. 215, post. 3 See the Journals, June 27. Cf. nos. 203, ante, 206, post. 4 Washington's letter to Congress, July 10, reporting the state of the army, was read in Congress July 19. See also his letter of the same date to Richard Henry Lee. The letters are in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 8, 21. Concerning the military hospital see the Journals, July 19, 24, 25, 27. [205] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1137; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 64, II. 16; N. Y. State Lib. Revolutionary Papers, I. 165 (in the writing of Jay). 2 The letter of June 23 has not been found. 
See however the proceedings of the New York Provincial Congress of that date, Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 51. Cf. the proceedings of May 29, 30, 31, June 27, ibid., pp. 16, 20, 21, 57. This letter of the delegates was read in the New York congress, July 3. See ibid., p. 64. See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1260, 1265, 1266, 1314, 1324. 148 Continental Congress &'be happy of an opportunity of furnishing Troops without any allowance for bounty or clothes. 
Permit us earnestly to recommend to you to proceed in this business with alacrity and despatch. 
The honour as well as the interest of the Province is much concerned in the success of this measure. 
Your neighbours of Connecticut boast of their having raised their men in ten days' time; endeavour not to be behind hand with them. 
We have the pleasure to acquaint you that a Continental currency is forming, and when completed, you will be immediately supplied with a sum adequate to your exigences. 3 .... We are, gentlemen, with the greatest respect, your most obedient and humble servants, Philip Livingston, John Alsop, John Jay, William Floyd, Robt. 
Livingston, Jun. To Peter Van Brugh Livingston, Esq. P. S. Since writing the above, the Congress have requested the Committee of Philadelphia immediately to send forward fifty quarter-casks of powder ; 4 it set out this day consigned to the Committee at Elizabethtown, who will send it to Dobb's Ferry. 
You are requested to provide for its being immediately taken from thence and carried to Albany, for the use of the Troops at Ticonderoga and Crown Point, etc. 206. One of the Virginia Delegates to . x Philadelphia, June 30, 1775. .... Our Army now before Boston amounts to about fifteen thousand effective men, commanded by Generals Washington, Ward, Lee, Putnam, Gates of Berkely, with several Brigadiers. 
In New York, we have now about four thousand ; and they are to be increased to five thousand, under the immediate command of General Schuyler. 2 The Canadians absolutely refuse to join Carleton, and the Indians assure us they will observe a strict neutrality. 3 Thus, we seem to be well secured in the north against ministerial madness. 
A faithful observance of the Association with us will surely rouse the sleeping lion ere long, and bring exemplary punishment on the most abandoned Ministry that ever abused mankind, and disgraced human nature We are here confined to a constant and painful attendance on business, from nine in the morning to four and five, and sometimes six o'clock in the afternoon ; and, what is more, have not the most distant prospect of rising yet. 4 .... 3 See the Journals, June 22, 23 ; cf. no. 169, ante. 4 Such a resolve appears in the Journals, June 26; the body of the letter must therefore have been written not later than that date. 
See nos. 208, 230, posl. [206] ' Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1137: " Extract of a Letter from one of the Virginia Delegates to his Friend in Williamsburgh."2 See the Journals, June 23, 27. 8 See nos. 203, 204, ante. 4 Cf. nos. 170, 173, 174, ante, 209, 211, 220, 222, post. 
July, 1775 149 207. The South Carolina Delegates to the Secret Committee at Charleston. 1 Philadelphia, July 1, 1775. Gentlemen By directions of the continental Congress, we have sent the Vessell by which this goes, to procure from you a Quantity of Gun-Powder for the Use of the armies actually in the Field for the Service of America. 
The frequent severe Skirmishes in the Neighborhood of Boston have so exhausted their Magazines that' an immediate Supply is absolutely necessary. 
We entreat you to purchase all that can be bought in Town, and to despatch this Vessell with it for this Place as soon as possible, Together with as much as can be spared out of the Public Stock without Danger to your own Safety. 
Shoud there be any damaged Powder on Hand, please send it also, as it may be recovered here. 
By one of the Resolutions
Shoud you be able to send more than four Thousand Weight of Powder we woud wish the overplus may be sent by some other Opportunity In order to prevent Suspicion we have sent Bushels of Indian Corn in this Vessell, which may be sold or exchanged for Rice, in which the Casks of Powder may be concealed so, perhaps, as to prevent Suspicion shoud she unhappily be unable to avoid being overtaken by a Cruizer The utmost Secrecy and Despatch are absolutely necessary. 
As large Quantities of Powder will be wanted we strongly recommend that you continue to import all that you can, and think it probable that large Quantities might be got from the Government of the Havana as we can find no application there from any of these Colonies We are, gentlemen, Your most Obedt Servants Henry Middleton, Tho. Lynch, Christ. 
Gadsden, J. Rutledge, E. Rutledge. [207] 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 715 (writing of Thomas Lynch) ; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 720, item 614 (facsimile and printed text) ; Drayton, Memoirs of the Revolution, I. 298; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1519. 2 See the Journals, June 10. No resolution directing the action of the South Carolina delegates is found, but payment for their expenses was ordered Aug. 1. Cf. the Journals, July 25, 28, and no. 253, post. 
For an account of proceedings in South Carolina, see Drayton, Memoirs of the Revolution, I. 268-273; McCrady, Hist, of South Carolina in the Revolution, pp. 16-21 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1723-1726. The secret committee at Charleston was composed of William Henry Drayton, Arthur Middleton, and Charles Cotesworth Pinckney. 150 Continental Congress &'208. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to Philip Schuyler. 1 Philadelphia July 1st 1775 Sir .... You will please particularly to notice that altho' the Congress have given you peremptory Instructions
Carlton on or near the Lake Yet with respect to your proceeding to Montreal and Quebec such circumstances are pointed out by their resolutions which they expect you be fully possessed of previous to your undertaking the prosecution of that expedition. 
I enclose you the arrangement of the Officers with their pay so far as has been determined by Congress, as soon as the whole is settled you shall be made acquainted. 
As to the allowance of Provisions that at present must be left to your discretion, until your hear further from this congress or the General on that subject. 3 I am to inform you that besides the quantity of Powder sent from Connecticut to Ticonderoga the committee of this City by desire of Congress, Yesterday sent forward fifty quarter casks of Powder to that place. 4 .... 209. John Langdon to Matthew Thornton. 1 Philadelphia, 3d July, 1775. Matthew Thornton, Esq. Sir, .... I am in some hopes that the Congress will rise in abt. fortnight, but this is meer conjecture, as it will depend on what news we may receive from our army, and some other matters. 2 I am very sorry to be alone, in so great and important Business as that representing a whole Colony, which no man is equal to, but how to avoid it, I know not [208] l Library of Congress, Force Trans., Hancock. 2 See the Journals, July
I209] 1 N. H. Prov. 
Papers, VII. 558; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1532. 2 Cf. nos. 170, 173, 174, 206, ante, 211, 220, 222, 236, 253, 255, post. 
My, J 7/5 151 210. The Committee of Philadelphia to the New York Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia, July 4, 1775. Gentlemen: The enclosed was yesterday intercepted by the Committee of this City, and laid before the Congress, who have recommended that it be forwarded to you. 2 I am, Gentlemen, your most humble servant, Charles Thomson, In behalf of the Committee of Philadelphia. 
Provincial Convention or Congress of New York. 211. One of the Virginia Delegates to Philadelphia, July 5, 1775. .... The Congress have directed twenty thousand men to be raised immediately, the greater part of which is already raised. 2 Two millions of dollars also are voted. 
This is all I am at liberty to tell of their proceedings. 
As to the time of their rising, it is totally beyond conjecture; expresses after expresses daily coming from the northward, and the machinations of the people in office on other parts of the Continent, keep us from making any progress in the main business. 
At the same time such an impatience for home seems to possess us all, that nothing keeps the Congress together but the visible certainty that till our military proceedings are got into a good train, their separation would endanger the common cause greatly. 
If things cannot be got into such a state soon as they may be left, we must petition to be exchanged for fresh hands, that we may return to our families. 3 212. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Phyladelphia, June [July] 6th, 1775 Dear Sir, .... Want of frequent Communication and particular Intelligence led us into the unfortunate Arrangement of General Officers which is likely to do so much Hurt. 
We never reed the most distant Intimation [210] 1 Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 68; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1343; N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 239. 2 The enclosure was a letter, dated June 13, 1775, from Gov. Martin of North Carolina to Henry White of New York. 
See Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 67-69 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 974, 1343-1347, 1609; III. 75; N. C. Col. Recs., X. 16, 74, 75-84. See also the letter of Gov. Martin to the Earl of Dartmouth, Aug. 28, 1775, ibid., X. 230. Cf. the Journals, July 3, and no. 219, post. [211] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1573: "Extract of a Letter from one of the Virginia Delegates to a Gentleman in Williamsburgh."2 See no. 161, note 3, ante. 3 Cf. nos. 170, 173, 174, 206, 209, ante. 
See also the Journals, July 21, 25, and nos. 220, 222, 236, 253, 255, post. [212] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 73. 152 Continental Congress 6'of any Design to new model your Army ; and indeed Some of us were obliged to give up our own Judgments merely from Respect to what We took to be the Arrangement of our provincial Congress. 
I have made it my Business ever since I heard of this Error to wait upon Gentn. of the Congress at their Lodgings and elsewhere to let them into the Secret and contrive a Way to get out of the Difficulty, which I hope we shall effect. 2 .... [P. S.] Secret and Confidential, as the Saying is. The Congress is not yet so much alarmed as it ought to be. There are still hopes, that Ministry and Parliament, will immediately receed as soon as they hear of the Battle of Lexington, the Spirit of New York and Phyladelphia, the Permanency of the Union of the Colonies etc. : I think they are much deceived and that we shall have nothing but Deceit and Hostility, Fire, Famine, Pestilence and Sword from Administration and Parliament. 
Yet the Colonies like all Bodies of Men must and will have their Way and their Humour, and even their Whims. 
These opinions of Some Colonies which are founded I think in their Wishes and passions, their Hopes and Fears, rather than in Reason and Evidence will give a whimsical Cast to the Proceedings of this Congress. 
You will see a strange Oscillation between love and hatred, between War and Peace — Preparations for War and Negociations for Peace. 
We must have a Petition to the King
This Negociation I dread like Death : But it must be proposed. 
We cant avoid it. Discord and total Disunion would be the certain Effect of a resolute Refusal to petition and negociate. 
My Hopes are that Ministry will be afraid of Negociation as well as We and therefore refuse it. If they agree to it, We shall have Occasion for all our Wit Vigilance and Virtue to avoid being deceived, wheedled threatened or bribed out of our Freedom. 
If we Strenuously insist upon our Liberties, as I hope and am pretty sure We shall however, a Negotiation, if agreed to, will terminate in Nothing, it will effect nothing. 
We may possibly gain Time and Powder and Arms. 
You will see an Address to the People of G. Britain, another to those of Ireland, and another to Jamaica. 
You will also see a Spirited Manifesto. 4 We ought immediately to dissolve all Ministerial Tyrannies, and Custom houses, set up Governments of our own, like that of Connecticut in all the Colonies, confederate together like an indissoluble Band, for mutual defence, and open our Ports to all Nations immediately. 
This is the system that your Friend has arrived at promoting from first to last : But the Colonies are not yet ripe for it — a Bill of Attainder, etc., may soon ripen them. 2 Cf. nos. 185, 187, 188, 195, 201, ante, 241, 245, post. 3 See no. 218, post. 4 " Manifesto ", or Declaration on Taking Arms, is found in the Journals, July 6. See no. 218, note 2, post. 
The address to the people of Great Britain is ibid., July 8, under which date is also found the petition to the King. 
The address to the Assembly of Jamaica is ibid., July 25. That to the people of Ireland is ibid., July 28. Cf. nos. 222, 224, post. 
The Declaration was printed in the Pennsylvania Packet, July 10. 1775, in the Pennsylvania Journal, July 12, and in a "Postscript" to the Pennsylvania Gazette, July 12. The Address to the Inhabitants of Great Britain was printed in the Gazette, July 12, in a " Supplement " to the Packet, July 17, and in the Journal, July 19. July, 1775 153 213. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Phyladelphia, June [July] 6th, 1775 Dr. Sir, I have this Moment Sealed Letter to you which is to go by my hospitable honest benevolent Friend Stephen Collins. 
But I have several Particulars to mention to you which are omitted in that Letter. 2 .... A few Minutes past, a curious Phenomenon appeared at the Door of our Congress — a german Hussar, a veteran in the Wars in Germany, in his Uniform and on Horseback, a forlorn Cap upon his Head, with a Streamer waiving from it half down to his Waist band, with a Deaths Head painted in Front, a beautifull Hussar Cloak ornamented with Lace and Fringe and Cord of Gold, a Scarlet Waist coat under it, with shining yellow metal Buttons, a Light Gun strung over his shoulder, — and a Turkish Sabre much Superior to an high Land broad sword very large and excellently fortifyed by his side — Holsters and Pistols upon his Horse — In Short the most warlike and formidable Figure, I ever saw. 
He says he has fifty Such Men ready to inlist under him immediately who have been all used to the Service as Hussars in Germany, and desirous to ride to Boston immediately in order to see Burgoigne's light Horse. 
This would have a fine Effect upon the Germans through the Continent of whom there are Multitudes. 
What will be done is yet uncertain. 3 I should not myself be fond of raising many Soldiers out of N. England. 
But the other Colonies are more fond of sending Men than I expected. 
They have their Reasons, some plausible, Some whimsical. 
They have a Secret Fear, a Jealousy, that New England will soon be full of Veteran Soldiers and at length conceive Designs unfavourable to the other Colonies. 
This may be Justly thought whimsical. 
But others Say, that by engaging their own Gentlemen and Peasants and Germans etc they shall rivet Jheir People to the public Cause — this has more weight in it. But that it may have this Effect it is necessary that all who shall be sent be respectfully treated. 214. Silas Deane to Titus Hosmer. 1 Mr Hosmer Sir This will be handed you by Governor Skene, who is by order of Congress to reside for the present at Middletown, or Wethersfield, with such Liberties as to Governor Trumbull shall appear proper. 
At Philadelphia he had Eight Miles allowed him round the City to take his exercise in at Pleasure. 
I think he might be allowed Hartford, Wetherfield, and Middletown to choose his residence in. it probably will not be of Long Continuance, and I have assured him and the Gentleman with him, that [213] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 75. 2 Adams mentions the marching of the ten companies of expert riflemen. 
See nos. 185, 186, 187, ante. 3 See the Journals, July 11, Aug. 1. About a year later, Congress again voted to raise a battalion of Germans. 
See ibid., May 17, 25, June 17, 27, 1776. [2i4] 1 Conn. 
State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Collection, 31 (copy, in Deane's writing). 154 Continental Congress &• they will meet with no personal insult or injury but with every civility their situation will admit of. their Expences will be reimbursed by the Continent. 2 I am with Compliments to all Friends Dear sir your most Obed Hum e Servant Silas Deane Philadelphia July 6th 1775 215. Roger Sherman to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia July 6th. 1775 Dear Sir .... The Congress are very diligent in making every needful provision in their power for the Support of the American Cause at the same time do not neglect any probable means for a reconciliation with great Britain, tho' I have no expectation that administration will be reconciled Unless the Colonies Submit to their Arbitrary system, or convince them that it is not in their power to carry it into execution, the latter I hope will soon be done. 
You have had a bloody Battle, but I think in every encounter through the merciful Interposition of Divine Providence the advantage has been much in our favour, the people here seem as Spirited in the Cause as in New England, many of the Quakers as well as others have armed themselves and are Training every Day. Majr. 
Mifflin
I want to know what measures the ministry will take after hearing of the Battle at Concord and Lexington; if they dont relax, but order reinforcements, I hope every Colony will take Government fully into their own hands until matters are settled. 
I have nothing to acquaint you with of the doings of Congress but what you will hear of before this comes to hand. .... I wish this Congress would adjourn nearer the great scene of action and am not without expectations that it will. 4 2 See nos. 158, 159, 161, 173, ante ; also the Journals, June 8, 10, 27, July 5, Oct. 12, Nov. 2, 1775; Jan. 5, July 24, 1776. See also the letter of Silas Deane to his wife, July
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 280), and Skene to Deane, Sept. 5, ibid., II. 300. [2i5] 1 Conn. 
State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Collection, 243. Addressed, "To Capt. 
Joseph Trumbull at the Camp Near Boston, I suppose in Cambridge". 2 Mifflin had been reared a Quaker. 3 Cf. no. 204, ante. 4 See no. 133, note 2, ante ; also nos. 220, 236, 239, post. 
July, 1775 155 216. The New York Delegates to the Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia 6th July 1775 Gentlemen We have the Honour of your Favour of the 29th June, 2 accompanying your Plan and Proceedings respecting an Accommodation with the Parent state. 
Nothing could be more interesting or acceptable to us than a Communication of the Sentiments and wishes of our worthy Constituents on this most important Subject; and while we applaud the wisdom of your Decisions, we beg you to be assured that they shall command our most earnest and respectful Attention. 
Deeply sensible of the Calamities of a civil war, we have nothing more at Heart than to be instrumental in compromising this unnatural Quarrel between the two Countries, on the solid Basis of mutual Justice and constitutional Liberty ; and the most strenuous Efforts on our part shall be exerted with unremitting Ardour to accomplish this salutary Purpose. 
We acknowledge with the utmost Gratitude the Deference you are pleased to pay to our Judgement, and your Delicacy in leaving us unrestrained in a point of all others the most essential to yourselves and your Posterity, to the Continent of America and the whole british Empire ; and happy shall we esteem ourselves if in the Discharge of this difficult and arduous Trust we shall merit your Approbation and the Confidence of our Country. 
We have the Honour to be with the greatest respect Gentlemen Your most obedient hum e Servants Henry Wisner Phil. 
Livingston Wm. Floyd Jas. Duane John Jay Robt R. Livingston junr Provincial Congress of New York. 
P. S. We have unanimously agreed to be silent on that Article in the Plan of Accommodation which asserts, " That no earthly legislature or tribunal ought or can of Right interfere or interpose in any wise hozvsoever in the religious and ecclesiastical concerns of the Colonies." As the Inhabitants of the Continent are happily united in a political Creed, we are of Opinion that it would be highly imprudent to run the Risque of dividing them by the Introduction of Disputes foreign to the present Controversy ; especially as the Discussion of them can be attended with no one single advantage. 
They are Points about which Mankind will forever differ and therefore should always, and at least in Times like these be kept out of Sight. 
We are the more confirmed in these Sentiments by this circumstance, that both this and the former Congress have cautiously avoided the least Hint on Subjects of this Kind, all the members concurring in a Desire of burrying all Disputes on ecclesiastical Points, which [2i6] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 167 (the body of the letter in the writing of Duane, the P. S. in Jay's writing) ; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Duane Papers (draft) ; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 73, II. 16; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1591. 2 The letter, dated June 28, is in Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 59, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, II. 1329. 156 Continental Congress have for ages had no other Tendency than that of banishing Peace and Charity from the World. 3 Lewis Morris Phil. 
Livingston Robt R Livingston junr Jas. Duane John Alsop John Jay Frans. 
Lewis Wm. Floyd Henry Wisner 8th July 1775 X. B. The other Delegates are absent. 217. Benjamin Franklin to Joseph Priestley. 1 Philadelphia, 7th July 1775. Dear Friend, The Congress met at a time when all minds were so exasperated by the perfidy of General Gage, and his attack on the country people, that propositions of attempting an accommodation were not much relished; and it has been with difficulty that we have carried another humble petition to the crown, to give Britain one more chance, one opportunity more, of recovering the friendship of the colonies ; which, however, I think she has not sense enough to embrace, and so I conclude she has lost them for ever We have not yet applied to any foreign power for assistance, nor offered our commerce for their friendship. 
Perhaps we never may; yet it is natural to think of it, if we are pressed. 
We have now an Army on our establishment, which still holds yours besieged. 
My time was never more fully employed. 
In the morning at six, I am at the Committee of Safety, appointed by the Assembly to put the province in a state of defence ; which committee holds till near nine, when I am at the Congress, and that sits till after four in the afternoon. 
Both these bodies proceed with the greatest unanimity, and their meetings are well attended. 
It will scarce be credited in Britain, that men can be as diligent with us from zeal for the public good, as with you for thousands per annum. 
Such is the difference between uncorrupted new states, and corrupted old ones
Corr., II. 58; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1603; Library of Congress, Franklin Papers, no. 283. July, 1775 157 218. John Dickinson to Arthur Lee. 1 Dear Sir, Before this comes to hand, you will have received, I presume, the Petition to the King. 
You will perhaps at first be surpriz'd, that we make no Claim, and mention no Right. 
But I hope, [on] considering all Circumstances, you will be [of] opinion, that this Humility in an address [to] the Throne is at present proper. 
Our Rights [have] been already stated — our Claims made — W[ar] is actually begun, and we are carrying it on Vigor [ously] . This conduct and our other Publications will shew, [that our] spirits are not lowered. 
If Administration [be] desirous of stopping the Effusion of British [blood,] the Opportunity is now offered to them [by an] unexceptionable Petition, praying for [an] accommodation. 
If they reject this application] with Contempt, the more humble it is, [the more] such Treatment will confirm the Minds of [our] Countrymen, to endure all the Misfortunes [that] may attend the Contest. 2 .... Fairhill, July [7, 1775.] [218] 1 Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Lee MSS., II. 60; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1604. The signature has been obliterated, but the writing is that of Dickinson. 2 The petition to the king was agreed to July
See also the Journals, May 16 (p. 52n), 26, June 3, 5, 8; and cf. nos. 151 (note 3), 212, 217, ante, and nos. 244, 265, post. 
See also Dickinson's letter to Arthur Lee, Apr. 29, 1775, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 443. Dickinson was almost the sole author of the petition to the king, and he was the joint author with Thomas Jefferson of the Declaration on Taking up Arms, adopted by Congress July 6. In his Autobiography Jefferson relates concerning the authorship of these two productions : " This [the Virginia answer to Lord North's conciliatory motion] being passed, I repaired immediately to Philadelphia, and conveyed to Congress the first notice they had of it. It was entirely approved there. 
I took my seat with them on the 21st of June. 
On the 24th, a comm ee which had been appointed to prepare a declaration of the causes of taking up arms, brought in their report (drawn I believe by J. Rutledge) which not being liked they recommitted it on the 26th, and added Mr. Dickinson and myself to the committee. 
On the rising of the house, the comm" having not yet met, I happened to find myself near Govr W. Livingston, and proposed to him to draw the paper. 
He excused himself and proposed that I should draw it. On my pressing him with urgency, ' we are as yet but new acquaintances, sir, said he, why are you so earnest for my doing it?' 'Because, said I, I have been informed that you drew the Address to the people of Gr. Britain, a production certainly of the finest pen in America.' ' On that, says he, perhaps sir you may not have been correctly informed.' I had received the information in Virginia from Colo Harrison on his return from that Congress. 
Lee, Livingston and Jay had been the comm ee for that draught. 
The first, prepared by Lee, had been disapproved and recommitted. 
The second was drawn by Jay, but being presented by Govr. 
Livingston, had led Colo Harrison into the error. 
The next morning, walking the hall of Congress, many members being assembled but the house not yet formed, I observed Mr. Jay, speaking to R. H. Lee, and leading him by the button of his coat, to me. ' I understand, sir, said he to me, that this gentleman informed you that Govr Livingston drew the Address to the people of Gr. Britain.' I assured him at once that I had not received that information from Mr. Lee and that not a word had ever passed on the subject between Mr. Lee and myself; and after some explanation the subject was dropt. 
These gentlemen had had some sparrings in debate before, and continued ever very hostile to each other. " I prepared a draught of the Declaration committed to us. It was too strong for Mr. Dickinson. 
He still retained the hope of reconciliation with the mother country, and was unwilling it should be lessened by offensive statements. 
He was so honest a man, and so able a one that he was greatly indulged even by those who could not feel his scruples. 
We therefore requested him to take the paper, and put it in a form he could approve. 
He did so, preparing an entire new statement, and preserving of the 158 Continental Congress former only the last
We approved and reported it to Congress, who accepted it. Congress gave a signal proof of their indulgence to Mr. Dickinson, and of their great desire not to go too fast for any respectable part of our body, in permitting him to draw their second petition to the King according to his own ideas, and passing it with scarcely any amendment. 
The disgust against this humility was general; and Mr. Dickinson's delight at its passage was the only circumstance which reconciled them to it. The vote being passed, altho'further observ" on it was out of order, he could not refrain from rising and expressing his satisfaction and concluded by saying ' there is but one word, Mr. President, in the paper which I disapprove, and that is the word Congress', on which Ben Harrison rose and said ' there is but one word in the paper, Mr. President, of which I approve, and that is the word Congress'." Writings (ed. Ford), I. 15. A similar account of the matter is given by Jefferson in a letter of Aug. 4, 1805, to William Wirt: "the 2d session of the 1st Congress met on their own adjournment in May 1775. Peyton Randolph was their President, in the mean time L. North's conciliatory propositions came over, to be laid by the Governors before their legislatures. 
Ld. Dunmore accordingly called that of Virginia to meet in June, this obliged Peyton Randolph, as Speaker, to return, our other old members being at Congress, he pressed me to draw the answer to L. North's propositions. 
I accordingly did so, and it passed with a little softening of some expressions for which the times were not yet ripe, and wire-drawing and weakening some others to satisfy individuals. 
I had been appointed to go on to Congress in place of Peyton Randolph, and proceeded immediately, charged with presenting this answer to Congress, as it was the first which had been given, and the tone of it was strong, the members were pleased with it, hoping it would have a good effect on the answers of the other states, a Committee which had been appointed to prepare a Declaration to be published by Genl. 
Washington on his arrival at the army, having reported one, it was recommitted, and Dickinson and myself added to the Committee, on the adjournment of the house, happening to go out with Govr. 
Livingston, one of the Committee, I expressed to him my hope he would draw the Declaration, he modestly excused himself, and expressed his wish that I would do it, but urging him with considerable importunity, he at length said 'you and I, sir, are but new acquaintances ; what can have excited so earnesf a desire on your part that I should be the draughtsman? why, Sir, said I, I have been informed you drew the Address to the people of Great Britain ; I think it the first composition in the English language, and therefore am anxious this declaration should be prepared by the same pen. he replied that I might have been misinformed on that subject', a few days after, being in conversation with R. H. Lee in Congress hall, a little before the meeting of the house, mr Jay observing us, came up, and taking R. H. Lee by a button of the coat, said to him pretty sternly, ' I understand, Sir, that you informed this gentleman that the Address to the people of Great Britain, presented to the Committee by me, was drawn by Governor Livingston.' the fact was that the Committee having consisted of only Lee, Livingston who was father-in-law of Jay, and Jay himself, and Lee's draught having been rejected and Jay's approved so unequivocally, his suspicions naturally fell on Lee, as author of the report ; and rather as they had daily much sparring in Congress, Lee being firm in the revolutionary measures, and Jay hanging heavily on their rear. 
I immediately stopped mr Jay, and assured him that tho' I had indeed been so informed, it was not by mr Lee, whom I had never heard utter a word on the subject." A draft of this letter is in the Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, sixth sen, XI. 2. It is in reply to a letter from Wirt, July 24, 1805, ibid., second ser., LXXXV. 2. Wirt's letter (with the date July 23) is printed in Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XXXIV. 385, Jefferson's, ibid., p. 300. See also a letter of Jefferson to Wirt, Aug. 5, 1815, ibid., p. 408; also in Writings (ed. Ford), IX. 475, Memorial edition, XIV. 340. The subject is treated at length by George H. Moore in a monograph entitled : John Dickinson: the Author of the Declaration on Taking up Arms, 1775, in which is found a facsimile of Dickinson's draft. 
This essay of Moore has been largely reproduced in an appendix to Stille, Life and Times of John Dickinson. 
Two statements of Charles Thomson are pertinent here. 
In some observations drawn up presumably for William Henry Drayton in 1779 he says: "A Declaration was deemed necessary to justify the Americans in taking up arms. 
D., who still retained a fond hope of reconciliation with Great Britain, was strenuous for trying the effects of another Petition to the King, and being warmly seconded the measure was agreed to, and D. had a considerable hand in drawing up both the Petition and Declaration, which were both sent at the same time to England. 
The subject of the Petition, as well as the Declaration, occasioned warm and long debates in Congress, in July, i/75 I 59 219. Joseph Hewes to James Iredell. 1 Philadelphia, 8th July, 1775. Dear Sir: .... I have sent to the Committee of Correspondence at Edenton a copy of a letter from General Gage to Governor Martin, also a copy of a letter from Governor Martin to Henry White, Esq., in New York; the first was sent to the Congress from the Provincial Convention of New York, the latter from the Committee of this city ; by them you may see what part our Governor intends to take in the present unhappy dispute. 2 The Congress some days ago took into consideration the state of the trade of America ; all the arguments that could be made for and against shutting up the ports on the 20th of July were duly attended to, and after mature deliberation they determined to let the matter rest on the Association Agreement entered into last Congress, so that the ports will remain open till the 10th of September next, unless shut sooner by the people themselves in their separate committees ; a resolution was entered into against the two last restraining Acts of Parliament which you will see in the newspapers. 3 .... which D. took a distinguished part, which was circulated about in whispers to his disadvantage. 
However he maintained his ground among the generality of the people in his own Province, and particularly among those who still wished and hoped to see a Reconciliation take place; and it must be allowed that if his judgment had not quite approved the measure, yet on account of the people of Pennsylvania it was both prudent and politic to adopt it. Without making an experiment it would have been impossible ever to have persuaded the bulk of Pennsylvania but that an humble Petition, drawn up without those clauses against which the Ministers and Parliament of Great Britain took exception in the former Petition, would have met with a favourable reception and produced the desired effect. 
But this Petition, which was drawn up in the most submissive and unexceptionable terms, meeting with the same fate as others, obviated objections that would have been raised and had a powerful effect in suppressing opposition, preserving unanimity and bringing the Province in a united body into the contest. 
Whatever hand D. had in the promoting it ought to have redounded to his credit as a politician." N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 274; Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., II. 274. In a letter to Dr. David Ramsay, Nov. 4, 1786, Thomson says : " As to matters of fact, the Proclamation which you ascribe to Genl Washington upon his first taking the command of the Army was drawn up by Congress. 
The consideration of it proceeded pari passu with the Petition to the King, and was passed by Congress while the petition was engrossing. 
The truth is there was a considerable opposition to the sending another petition, considering the manner in which the former had been treated. 
But several members were warm in favour of it. The matter was compromised, and the petition and declaration were both ordered and passed in a manner together." N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 215. [219J 1 McRee, Life of Iredell, I. 257. 2 Concerning the letter of Gage, see the Journals, July 3, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, II. 1323-1324, 1331 ; Gage's letter (dated Apr. 12) is printed also in A'". C. Col. Recs., X. 105; cf. Martin to Dartmouth, July 16, Aug. 28 (A''. C. Col. Recs., X. 96, 230). Concerning the letter of Martin to White, see nos. 210, ante, 220, post. 3 See the Journals, June 30, July 3, 4; cf. ibid., Sept. 30, 1774. The resolve of July
All the other officers are to be appointed by the Provincial Convention. 3 we have Resolved to petition the King, tc address the People of England, also the people of Ireland, to write a Letter to the City of London, and to the Inhabitants of Jamaica, we have published a manifesto or declaration of War. 4 Caswell set off about ten days ago to meet the Assembly which you say is expected on the
I tli ink otherwise, perhaps not before the last of August, but this is only guess work. 8 .... [220] 1 N. C. Col. Recs., X. 85. 2 See no. 161, note 3, ante. 8 Cf. Hancock to the New York congress, June 27. 4 See no. 212, note 4, ante. 5 Dated June 19, 1775. See TV. C. Col. Recs., X. 20-23 ; cf. ibid., pp. 65, 73, 144, 268. 8 Cf. nos. 210, 219, ante. 7 See AT. C. Col. Recs., X. 222. Cf. the Journals, July 4, erased resolves. 8 Cf. nos. 170, 173, 174, 209, 211, ante, and nos. 222, 236, 253, 255, post. 
See also no. 133, note 2, ante. 
July, 1775 161 221. Samuel Chase to Philip Schuyler. 1 Philadelphia, July. 10th: 1775. My Dear Sir .... The Congress have not as yet appointed the Commissary of Musters. 
As it is uncertain whether the Nomination of the Deputy, for the New-York Department, will be vested in the Principal, or in yourself (the latter will be my Wish). 2 .... 222. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia July 10th. 1775 Sir .... I by order of Congress forward you the Declaration, and the Address to the People of England [P. S.] I hope to be with you soon, as there seems to prevail an Opinion that we may have an Adjournmt. in a little Time. 2 We expect soon to hear from you, all Military Matters are suspended till your State arrives. 3 223. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, July 10th, 1775 Dr Sir, I have just Time to inclose you a Declaration and an Address. 
How you will like them I know not. 
A Petition was sent yesterday by Mr. Richard Penn in one ship and a Duplicate goes in another Ship this day. 
In exchange for these Petitions, Declarations and Addresses, 2 I suppose We shall receive Bills of Attainder and other such like Expressions of Esteem and Kindness. 
This Forenoon has been spent in an Examination of a Mr Kirkland, 3 a worthy Missionary among the Oneida Indians. 
He was very usefull last Winter among all the Six Nations, by interpreting and explaining the Proceedings of the Continental Congress and by representing the Union and Power of the Colonies as well as the Nature of the Dispute. 
The Congress inclines to wait for Despatches from General Washington before they make any Alteration in the Rank of the Generals, least [22i] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 240. 2 Chase was interesting himself in the appointment of Gunning Bedford as deputy muster-master. 
The appointment was made July 17. The appointment of a commissary of musters was referred to Gen. Washington. 
See the Journals, July 19. Cf. no. 236, post. [222] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 6. 2 See no. 220, note 8, ante. 3 What is doubtless meant is Washington's report on the state of the army. 
Cf. nbs. 204, ante, 223, post. [223] 1 Warren- A dams Letters, I. 79. 2 See nos. 212, ante, 224, post. 3 See the Journals, July 17, 18. The conference with Kirkland July 10 is not mentioned in the Journals. 162 Continental Congress they should make some other Mistake. 
But every Body is well inclined to place General Thomas in the Stead of Pomroy. 4 You must not communicate without great Discretion what I write about our Proceedings, for all that I hint to you is not yet public. 
I am etc. 224. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia July 11 1775 Hond and Dr Sir, I have the Pleasure of inclosing you a Declaration. 
Some call it a Manifesto. 
And We might easily have occasioned a Debate of half a Day whether it should be called a Declaration or a Manifesto. 
Our Address to the People of Great Britain will find many Admirers among the Ladies, and fine Gentlemen; but it is not to my Taste. 
Prettynesses. 
Juvenilities, and much less Puerilities become not a great assembly like this the Representative of a great People."July 23 We have voted Twenty-two thousand Men for your Army. 
If this is not enough to encounter every Officer and Soldier in the british Army, if they were to send them all from Great Britain and Ireland, I am mistaken. 
What will N. England do with such Floods of Paper Money? We shall get the Continent nobly in our Debt. 
We are Striking off our Paper Bills in Nine different sorts, some of twenty Dollars, some of Eight, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. We shall be obliged to strike off four Millions of Dollars I fear. 
Secret as usual. 
Our Fast has been kept more strictly and devoutly than any Sunday was ever observed in this City. 
The Congress heard Duche in the Morning and Dr Allison in the Evening, good Sermons. 3 By the way do let our Friend Adams's son * be provided for as a Surgeon. 225. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the Lancaster County Committee. 1 Gent. 
Yours relative to the Riffle Compy : to which Capt : Smith is appointed we have reced. in the same you mention That there are a Number of
Cf. no. 232, post. 
Concerning Rev. Jacob Duche see nos. 14, 16, 17, ante. 
Dr. Francis Allison (1736- 1779) was minister of the First Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia. 4 Samuel Adams (1751-1788), who studied medicine with Dr. Joseph Warren. 
The returns sbow a surgeon of this name in Colonel Fellows' regiment, 1775; in Colonel Phinney's regiment, 1776, and in the continental Hospital, 1777-1780, and possibly later. [Note in Warren- Adams Letters.] [225] 1 Library of Congress, Pennsylvania Papers. 
Addressed, "To the Committee of Correspondence and Observation for Lancaster County ". July, 1775 163 Men Raised by Mr : James Ross out of which a good Company may be formed. 
We Immediately laid this Matter before Congress and they were pleased to approve of them and directed that they should be immediately taken into the service, you will please to Certify to us the Officers as heretofore in the other Compy : And endevour to have them fitted off with the utmost dispatch to follow Capt : Smith who we suppose will have March'd ere this reaches [you], we would have you send the best of the Men. the establishment you know. 2 The Congress highly approve the generous bounty given by the good People of Lancaster County, we are with Esteem Gent Your very Hble Servts Geo: Ross James Wilson B. Franklin Philada: July nth: 1775. 226. Continental Congress, Minute. 1 In Congress July 13th 1775. The following Gentlemen elected Commissioners of Indian Affairs for the Northern Departm* Vizt. 
General Philip Schuyler, Major Joseph Hawley, Mr Turbot Francis, Mr Oliver Woolcot and Mr Volkert P. Douw. 2 By order of Congress John Hancock President 227. George Read to Mrs. Read. 1 [July 13, 1775.] My dear G .... Your nephew, James Ross, will command a company of riflemen, — one company only had been ordered to be raised in the county of Lancaster; however, Jemmy undertook to raise the second, and they have been accepted of by Congress. 2 .... 2 See the Journals, July 11 ; also nos. 176, ante, 227, post, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1524. [226] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Hawley Papers. 2 In the organization of the Indian departments on July 12 it was resolved that there should be three commissioners each for the northern and middle departments. 
On July 13 it was resolved: "that there be one more added to the number of the Commissioners for the Northern Department", following which is an entry giving the names of four commissioners chosen. 
Then follows an incomplete entry: "On motion, agreed, that Mr. Volkert P. Douw be ". It is accordingly evident from "the record given above that Douw was added as a fifth commissioner. 
In the Oliver Wolcott Papers (I. 119), in the Connecticut Historical Society, is a certified minute as follows: "July 13th. That there be five Commissioners for the Northern Department : — The following Gentlemen chosen for that service (viz) Genii P. Schuyler Major Joseph Hawley Mr. Turbot Francis Mr. Oliver Wolcott and Mr. Volkert P. Douw." Cf. nos. 243, 249, 260, 262, 464, post. [227] 1 Read, Life of George Read, p. 109. 2 Cf. no. 225, ante. 164 Continental Congress 6'228. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 [July 15, 1775.] My Dear, .... I am informed that the late arrangement of affairs is highly displeasing to JVooster and Spencer, and that high words have passed on the occasion; that Wooster talks high of his thirty years' service, and that Spencer left his forces to shift for themselves, though expecting hourly to be attacked, to return home and pray an alteration. 2 I see the bottom of the whole, and am well aware that the storm is raised, or at least blown up by others, and am at no loss to foresee the direction of it ; but am determined to do my duty, and will on no occasion sacrifice the good of my country to the whim of any old man, or old woman rather, or their sticklers. 
When Wooster was appointed, I washed my hands of the consequences, by declaring him, in my opinion, totally unequal to the service. 
This I did openly in the face of the Assembly. 3 And if I thought him unfit for a Major General of Connecticut forces only, could any one think I would oppose the voice of the Continent and my own sentiments by laboring to prefer him to Putnam, on whom by every ace
As to Spencer, I once had a good opinion of him ; but his leaving the forces in the manner I hear he has, shocks it very greatly, and if true. 
I wish him to resign at once and let another take his place 229. The Maryland Delegates to the Committee of Baltimore. 1 Philadelphia, July 18, 1775. Gentlemen: We this morning laid your proceedings on Mr. Christie's letter, before the Congress. 
That body has thought proper to refer it to our Provincial Convention. 
We are sorry that any inhabitant of our Province should have entertained sentiments so inimical to our common liberties as those contained in Mr. Christie's letter, and, with you, are of opinion, that for such conduct it is proper and necessary there should be an adequate punishment. [228] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 287; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 71. 2 See the Journals, June 19, 22. Cf. nos. 198, ante, 231, 232, 233, 234, 235, 236, 241, 248, 250, post. 
See also Washington's letter to Congress, July 10, in Writings (ed. Ford). III. 8, (ed. Sparks), 111. 17; Washington to Gen. Thomas, July 23, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 39, Reed, Life of Joseph Reed, I. 109; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1624; cf. ibid., II. 1585, S. B. Wehb to Deane, July 11, Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 284. 3 The reference is to the action of the Connecticut assembly. 
See the Public Records of Connecticut, XIV. 422; Force, .lm. Arch., fourth ser., II. 414. [229J 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1724. July, 1775 105 We are, gentlemen, with respect and regard, your most obedient servants, Thomas Johnson, Jun., William Paca, Samuel Chase. 
To the Committee of Baltimore Town. 2 230. The New York Delegates to the Committee of Safety. 1 Philad
We are honourd with your dispatches of the 12th. and 15th. Instant
We shall however seize the first Opportunity to draw this important Point to a Conclusion. 
In the mean time as your Troops are sure of being placed on an equal footing with their Neighbours it is hoped the Difficulty will not be unsurmountable. 
This is all the Satisfaction which we can at present give you on that Head. 
From a want of proper Directions from those who had the Charge of transporting the Powder for the Use of Major General Schuyler's department, from this City to Elizabeth Town, it has unfortunately been delayed on the Road. 
We could do no more than complain. 
The Fault will be repaird, and you may expect it soon. 3 We are not insensible of the Distress to which you must be reduced for the want of money arms and Powder. 
With the first you will soon be supplied. 
The difficulties attending an Emission so uncommon, of which the necessary Guards against Counterfeits is not the least, has render'd it's Progress very tedious. 
We can give you no Assurances of a Supply of Arms and Ammunition from this Quarter. 4 Every scheme which could be devised to procure them from abroad has been pursued, and on their Success, and the Efforts of the different Colonies, we must depend ; for in the Southern Provinces there is very little and none to be spared. 2 There is no mention of this affair in the Journals. 
The letter of James Christie, dated Feb. 22, 1775, is printed in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1654-1655, 1732-1733. A part of the proceedings of the Baltimore committee is ibid., II. 1652- 1654; the entire proceedings, with the principal parts of the letter, are ibid., III. 124- 127, and also ibid., IV. 1722-1725. A memorial of Christie, dated July 27, is ibid., III. 129, and a letter to the public of the same date is ibid. 
K II. 1732. The proceedings of the provincial convention are ibid., III. 104, 105-106, and in the Arch, of Md., XL 9, II, 12, 13. The Baltimore committee's proceedings are ibid., pp. 44-48, and Christie's memorial is ibid., pp. 51-52. [230PN. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 171 (in the writing of Duane) ; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 84, II. 17; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1684. 2 The letters of the New York committee of safety, July 12 and 15, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1784, 1788. See also a letter of July 11, ibid., p. 1780. 3 See nos. 205, 208, ante. 
Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1336, 1344, 1345, 1674, 1793. 1799, 1800. 4 See no. 251, post. 166 Continental Congress Some Blankets are to be had in this City which will be purchased as soon as the money is issued. 
We are Gent. 
Your most Obedient Servants Lewis Morris Phil. 
Livingston Jas. Duane Henry Wisner Committee of Safety of New York. 5 231. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Phildelphia July 18th 1775 Dear Sr .... We are surprised att our Colony raising two Regiments more without ever applying to or having any requisition made by this Congress. 2 it was with the greatest dificulty that we could get the other of our forces into Continental pay and that we are not assured of for the whole when New York raise their Quota appointed them. 
I fear the New Regiments will be at the sole Charge of the Colony as we know not where they can be Imployed. 
We much wonder we have received no express from the Gen 11 since his Arrival of the state of the Army etc. but expect every hour. 3 we hear the appointment of Gen 11 Officers by the Congress gives Uneasiness to some Gent". Putnams fame ran so high as Induced the Congress to give him the Preference, hope the Interest of the Country and the great cause in question will take place in the minds of Gent n (who may think themselves slighted in these appointments) and in their View bare away ivery [sic] other Consideration. 4 we hope to Adjourn in About a fortnight, remember me as Usual to Friends. 
I wrote Gen 11 Spencer but never receivd an Answer also to Coll Parsons. 232. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 Philadelphia, July 20th, 1775. My Dear, Yours of the 13th I received last evening, and am glad to find the good and virtuous of Connecticut are willing to stand by the Resolutions of the Congress, who, in the appointment of Gen. Putnam, acted on principles as much superior to those which actuate the dissatisfied, as Heaven is superior to earth. 
Putnam's merit rung through this Continent; his fame still increases, — and every day justifies the unanimous applause of the continent. 
Let it be remembered, he had every vote of the Congress ; and his health has been the second or third at almost all our tables in this city. 2 .... 5 The following is apparently erased : " P. S. The rest of our brethren are returned home."[231 J 1 Conn. 
State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Coll., no. 43. 2 See the proceedings of the Connecticut assembly, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1579.; also a letter of Thomas Mumford to Silas Deane, July 2, in Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 276. Cf. no. 234, post. '■'■ See the Journals, July 19. * Cf. no. 228, note 2, ante. [232] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collectiotis, II. 289; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 73. 2 See nos. 198, 228, ante, 233, 234, 241, 248, 250, post. 
Cf. no. 442, post. 
July, 1775 167 General Washington writes, that Spencer left his post without so much as waiting on him, or sending him a single word of his intentions. 3 You can be at no loss to infer what opinion is formed of him from this conduct, in doors and out. 
Suffice it to say, the voice here is, that he acted a part inconsistent with the character either of a soldier, a patriot, or even of a common gentleman I recommended, without solicitation, my friend, Jos. Trumbull, and have been happy enough to find him successful in an honorable and important, though a very laborious station. 4 .... The Rev. Mr. Duche in the forenoon, and Dr. Allison this afternoon, entertained the Congress at church and meeting. 5 .... 233. Silas Deane to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia 21st July 1775. Air. Trumbull Sir I have to thank you for Two of your favors, and to Congratulate you on the Unanimous Voice of the Congress in your Appointment to the Post of Commissary General
But the General did you full Justice, in his Letter to the Congress and greatly to my Satisfaction. 
I am greived at the part Genl. 
Spencer has acted, 4 as [it] has greatly hurt him here, you know how hard it is to efface such kind of impressions, but We make the best We can of it. I have wrote freely to my Freind Col. Parsons on the Subject, which I hope he will take as I meant it, in good part — I find he is charged by many in Connecticut, with having had too great a Share in the uneasiness which I am ready to attribute to the insinuations of his enemies, who are, you know, jealous of his enterprizing Genius My Compliments to Col. Read and Major Mifflin. 
I am Dear Sir with Esteem Yours S Deane. 
Joseph Trumbull Esqr. 3 Washington to the President of Congress, July 10, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 8, (ed. Sparks), III. 17; Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, II. 1624. * See the Journals, July 19, and Washington's letter July 10; cf. nos. 233, 234, post. 5 See the Journals, July 19, and no. 224, ante. [233] 1 Conn. 
State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Coll., no. 32. 2 President Hancock notified Trumbull of his appointment and sent his commission July 24 (Conn. 
State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Coll., no. 120). At the foot of Hancock's letter is a draft of Trumbull's acceptance, dated Aug. 2. See nos. 232, ante, 234, post. 3 Joseph Reed, appointed by Washington to be his secretary. 4 See no. 228, note 2, ante. 168 Continental Congress 234. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia July 21st 1775 Dear Sr I wrote to you the 18th Instant by Mr Burr
I Imagine another advantage will be derived from that appointment which is that it is most probable that office must be Continued thro the winter as it will be necessary to employe the whole time in preparing for the Next Campaigne unless Affairs should be Accomadated in the fall. in my last I wrote you I feard we should not find a place in the Army for our two New Regiments raising in the Colony, but as Connecticutt Troops are in high Esteem here and the Gen lls hinting the want of more Troops and advised to the raising of them in Connecticut etc we obtaind Orders for them to be taken into the Continentall Army. 4 a quarter Master Gen 11 , Commissary of the Muster and Commissary of the Artillery we have referred to the Gen 11 being unacquainted with the proper persons ourselves, also have put
Gen 11 Washington mentions it. I have Indeavoured to make all the excuse for him possible that as this Congress had superseded him in Rank by Gen 11 Putnam tho he had the strongest love for his Country, yet they must make some allowance for the first feelings upon such an Occasion. 
I hope he may soon return and behave in Charracter. 
I wrote to him some time agoe hope he has receivd it as therein I Indeavoured to explain the matter to him. 6 our Friend Coll. 
Parsons must lay aside all other scheming but against the enemy, you write you soon expect another Battle, may God give us Success, the fast yesterday was observed in this place with great decency and Solemnity much beyond what the Sabbath has been generally observed here, my sincere regards and respects to all proper and am sincerely yours Elipht Dyer I hope to get the Wages of Comm ry . Gen 11 some raised Joseph Trumbull Esqr [234] ' Conn. 
State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Coll., no. 44. 2 Aaron Burr. 3 See the Journals, July 19, and nos. 232, 233, ante. 4 See no. 231, ante, and the Journals, July 19. 5 See the Journals, July 19; cf. ibid., July 29, Sept. 21. Schuyler wrote to Deane July
General in this department? I dare not mention it to Congress, and would not have it known that I had ever hinted it, as it might create jealousy. 
Be silent therefore with respect to me." Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc. Collections, II. 251 (dated June 3). On July 17 Congress passed a resolution desiring the New York convention to recommend to Gen. Schuyler a proper person for deputy adjutant-general or brigade major of the northern department. 
Accordingly the provincial congress of New York appointed William Duer deputy adjutant-general with the rank of colonel. 
Duer declined the office and Edward Fleming was then appointed (Aug. 29). See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1731, 1803, 1804, III. 139, 531, 548. Sept. 14 Fleming was appointed and commissioned by Congress. 
See no. 290, post. 6 See no. 228, note 2, ante. 
July, 1775 169 Georgia has United in full with the other Colonies and have appointed their Delegates from every Parish to attend the Congress. 7 South Carolina have intercepted and taken about fourteen thousand wt powder which was sent to Georgia for Ministerial purposes : E. Dyer. [P. S.] 235. Silas Deane to Gurdon Saltonstall. 1 Hon d Sir, .... General Spencer is universally censured for resenting the promotion of Putnam — universally applauded and unanimously elected. 2 .... 2 1 st July, 1775. P. S. The Post Office is not yet completed. 3 The Congress have now sat, without a day's respite, since the 10th of May, and consequently are much fatigued ; believe they will have a recess for a few weeks, after a fortnight more. 236. Benjamin Harrison to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia July 21st: 1775. Dear General: I Rec'd your very acceptable favour of the 10th inst. by Express. 2 Your fatigue and various kinds of trouble I dare say are great, but they are not more than I expected, knowing the people you have to deal with by the Sample we have here. 
The Congress have Taken the Two Regiments now Raising in Connecticutt into Service which with Riflemen and Recruits to your Regimts. will I hope make up the Number voted by your Council of War. I wish with all my Heart your Troops were better and your Stores more Complete. 
Every thing that we can do here to put you in the best posture possible I think you may depend will be done. 
I trust you will have a Supply soon of Ammunition, without any accident you may Depend on it. The want of Engineers I fear is not to be Supplied in America. 
Some folks here seem'd much Displeas'd at your Report on this head, they Affirm there are two very good ones
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 289. 2 See no. 228, note 2, ante. 3 See Saltonstall to Deane, June 26, Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 273. [236] 1 Hist. 
Soc. of Pa., Conarroe Coll., Signers, I. 46 (copy) ; Library of Congress, British Transcripts, no. 123; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1697; Cal. Home Off. Papers, IV. 412 (abstract). Stevens's Index records the following copies in England: A. W. I. 130-509; Home Office, Admiralty, 167: I5h; Brit. 
Mus., Add. MSS. 21687:222; Dartmouth MSS., Amer. 
Papers (see Hist. 
MSS. Comm., Dartmouth, II. 333). This letter was intercepted and printed in the Massachusetts Gazette; also in the Gentleman's Magazine for Sept., 1775. See no. 313, post. 2 A letter of this date to Congress, also one to Richard Henry Lee, are in Washington's Writings (ed. Ford), III. 8, 21, (ed. Sparks), III. 17, 26; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1624, 1635. The proceedings of the council of war (July 9) are ibid., II. 1628. For proceedings on matters in Washington's letter see the Journals, July 19. 170 Continental Congress with you. a Coll Gridley I think is one. 
I took the Liberty to say that they must be mistaken, they were certainly either not in the Camp, or could not have the Skill they were pleas'd to Say they had. this in my soft way put a stop to any thing more on this Subject, indeed, my friend, I do not know what to think of some of these men, they seem exceeding hearty in the Cause, but still wish to keep everything among themselves. 
Our President is quite of a different Cast, Noble, Disinterested and Generous to a very great Degree. 
The Congress have Given you the Appointment of Three Brigade Majors. 
Mr Trumbull has the Office you propos'd for him. 
The Appointment of the Commissary of Artillery, of A lusters, and Quarter Master General are also left to your disposal. 
Nothing is yet done as to the Hospitall, but I will bring it on very soon. 
Your Brothers in the Delegation have Recommended it to our Convention to Send some Virginians to the Camp at the Expence of our Colony to learn the Military Art, and I hope you will see them soon. 
We have given the Commission of First Brigadier to Mr. Thomas. 
As Putnam's Commission was deliver'd it would perhaps have offended the Old Gentn to have superceeded him; the other I hope will still Act. 3 the Congress have from your Acco". a high Opinion of him, and I dare Say will grant any thing in their power that he may hereafter Require. 
Your Hint of the Removal of the Congress to some place nearer to you will come on tomorrow. 
I think it will not Answer your Expectations if we should Remove, you shall have the Result in the Close of this. 
The Military Chest I hope will be Supplied soon, they begin to Strike the Bills this day, so that I hope some may be forwarded to you next week. 
What has occasion'd a delay of this Article I know not, without an Imitation of the Congress in it slowness has become fashionable We think the Season too far advane'd to Send you any more. 
Men from the Southward, but it seems to be the general Opinion to Send some Thousands early in the spring. 
Should this be the case, if I have the honour of being here, you may Depend on my Care of Mr Johnston. 
We have an imperfect Acco" of an Attack on New York by some of the over lake Indians. 
I hope it is not true, (indeed between you and I) I give very little Credit to any thing from that Quarter, and wish I could Say I had no Reason to be suspicious of those people. 
We yesterday Received Dispatches from Georgia, they have Come into the Union, and have Appointed Delegates to the Congress, they have even done more, they with the South Carolinians Armed a Vessell, and have Taken a Ship with 140 barrs. of King's powder which they have Divided betwixt them. 4 .... 23d. The Debate about the Remove was taken up yesterday and Determen'd in the Negative. 
I propos'd a Committee but could not Carry it. I think the last Method would have Answer'd your purpose
It occurs however in the abstract in the Cat. Home Off. Pap. There is also a postscript not found in Force. 
See no. 313, post. 
July, 1775 171 best, but the Gentlemen could not think of parting with the least particle of their power. 5 Pendleton left us yesterday. 
All Maryland are gone off this Day, and we intend to follow them on Sunday if nothing material happens betwixt this and then, our going I Expect will break up the Congress, indeed I think it is high time there was an End of it. we have been too long together 237. James Duane to Robert Montgomery. 1 Philadelphia, July 21st, 1775. Dear Sir, I am directed by the Congress to acquaint you of an arrangement in the Massachusetts department, and the reason which led to it, lest, by misunderstanding it, you might think yourself neglected. 
When brigadiers-general were to be appointed, it was agreed that the first in nomination should be one of the Massachusetts generals. 
The gentlemen from that province recommended General Pomeroy, who was accordingly fixed upon; but before his commission arrived at the camp, he had retired from the army. 
Under these circumstances the Congress thought it just to fill up the commission designed for Mr. Pomeroy with the name of General Thomas as first brigadier. 
You, consequently, hold the rank to which you were elected. 
I sincerely hope this may not give you any displeasure, as I am confident no disrespect was intended. 2 Be pleased to accept my sincere wishes for your honor and happiness, and particularly in the discharge of the important trust which you have undertaken. 
I am, with regard, Dear sir, your most obedient servant, Jas. Duane. 
General Montgomery. 238. Thomas Johnson [?], Note on Franklin's Articles of Confederation. 1 [July 21, 1775.] [Articles
Cf. no. 295, post. [237] 1 Davis, Memoirs of Burr, I. 60. 2 See the Journals, July 19; also Washington's letter of July 10 to Congress, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 8, and his letter to Gen. Thomas, July 23, ibid., III. 39. Cf. nos. 223, 236, ante, 241, post. [238] x N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Duane Papers, IV. 357. 172 Continental Congress S'[Article 9.] This council should consist of one from each colony. 2 239. Silas Deaxe to Mrs. Deane. 1 Philadelphia, July 23d, 1775. My Dear. .... The Congress (I think,) will adjourn in two weeks, to the 10th of September, but whether to meet here or in Connecticut, uncertain. 2 .... 240. Eliphalet Dyer to William Judd. 1 Philadelphia July 23d 1775 Dear Sr I this day heard by Capt Strong
I am Very glad that a Gent n . of the Capacity and Abilities I esteem you (without flattery) to be possessed of is about to move into that Country as Gent n of knowledge and prudence may be of great service there especially at this Critical time when a jarr between two Colonies may be of allmost fatal Consequence to the whole. 
I am therefore Oblidged for your prudent Conduct to let you know that the Proprietors their Friends Agents and land Jobbers who have purchased large Tracts in our Country are extremely Jealous least we from Connecticutt take advantage of the times and press upon and Violently remove their people from their
The copy of the articles is not in the writing of Duane, and the marginal notes are in still another hand. 
S. W. Jones, who printed the articles in his Memoir of James Duane (p. 48), supposed the notes to be in the writing of Thomas Johnson. 
The Duane copy of the articles shows some variations from the text as printed in the Journals (ed. Ford), due chiefly, it would appear, to imperfections in copying. 
The articles are also found in the Journal of the Proceedings of the Provincial Congress of North Carolina, under Aug. 24, 1775, printed in the N. C. Col. Recs., X. 175 (with some imperfections), with the following statement prefixed: ^ " The provincial Congress of North Carolina are to View the following articles as a Subject which will be proposed to the Continental Congress at their next session; it therefore becomes the duty of the provincial Delegates now assembled, to instruct the Gentlemen whom they shall make choice of to Represent them in the next Continental Congress, what they are to express to be the sense of this province. 
Their former Delegates beg that this plan may be considered not as having had the sanction of the Continental Congress, or Recommended by them, or as expressing the Sentiments of the Delegates who Represented this province in the last Continental Congress, but wish they may be dispassionately Debated and approved or Condemned upon their own Intrinsick merits."For the action of the provincial congress upon the articles see ibid., X. 181, 186, 191, 192 (Aug. 28, Sept. 1, 4). See also a letter of Gov. Martin to the Earl of Dartmouth, Oct. 1 6, 1775, ibid., X. 264. l
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 293; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 77- 2 Cf. no. 133, note 2, and no. 236, note 5, ante. [240] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Jonathan Trumbull Papers (draft). 2 Eliplialet Dyer, William Samuel Johnson, and Jedediah Strong were appointed by the general assembly of Connecticut in 1773 as commissioners to treat with the proprietaries of Pennsylvania respecting the boundary. 
Their report is in the Public Records of Connecticut, XIV. 461-482. July, 1775 173 settlements, they have propagated that Opinion among the Penns people on the West branch and below Wyoming and that part of the forces raised in Connecticut are for that purpose that our Assembly in this time of distress are making strides into that Country extending their Claim etc. and Indeed they goe farther and trye to possess the minds of Southern Gent n of the Congress that we are a hardy daring enterprising people and if we prove Success full against the Ministerial Army here we shall after that make our way by force into any the Southern Colonies we please. 
Mr. Dickinson the Pensylvania farmer as he is Called in his Writings is lately most bitter against us and Indeavours to make every ill Impression upon the Congress against us but I may say he is not very highly Esteemed in Congress, he has taken a part very different from what I believe was expected from the Country in general or from his Constituents, but S r . I mean to let you know and be apprised that a little matter, a little driving or Imprudence now in that Country may blow all up into a flame Or the least threat or offer of force or Violence, therefore Sr hope you will take every precaution and guard our people against every appearance of that kind let all the setlers under the propriet s and their land holders know they will not be put of by force but may be quieted in their actual possessions and Improvements as their own, on the most reasonable terms free from quit rents or services to any. 3 .... the Congress have taken ever[y] step to quiet the Indians, Belts are sent forward, every thing providing for a Treaty, Indian goods for presents etc. but if hostilities should begin the Country will defend the frontiers it is provided for but hope there is no danger. 4 241. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, July 23d, 1775 Dr Sir, I have many things to write you which thro. 
Haste and Confusion I fear, I shall forget. 
Upon the Receipt of General Washington's Letter, the Motion which I made Some Days before for appointing General Thomas first Brigadier was renewed and carried, so that the return of the Express will carry his Commission. 2 I hope that this will give all the satisfaction which is now to be given. 
You ask me upon what Principle We proceeded in our first Arrangement. 
I answer upon the Principle of an implicit Complyance with the order in which the General officers were chosen in our Provincial Congress last Fall. 
Not one of us would have voted for the Generals in the order in which the General Officers were chosen in our Provincial
Cf. Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 647, 648. A passage of some length, which is here omitted, relates to the same subject. 4 See the Journals, July 12, 13. [241] 1 Warren- Adams Letters, I. 85. 2 See the Journals, July 19. Cf. ibid., June 22, and nos. 223, 236, 237, ante. 
The letter of Washington referred to, dated July 10, is in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 15. 174 Continental Congress Congress last Fall; Not one of us, would have voted for the Generals in the order in which they were placed, if We had not thought that you had settled the Rank of every one of them last Fall in Provincial Congress and that We were not at Liberty to make any Alteration. 
I would not have been so shackled however, if my Colleagues had been of my Mind. 3 But, in the Case of the Connecticutt officers, We took a Liberty to alter the Rank established by the Colony and by that Means made much Uneasiness ; so that We were sure to do Mischief whether We conformed or deviated from Colony arrangements. 
I rejoice that Thomas had more Wisdom than Spencer or Woorster, and that he did not leave the Camp nor talk imprudently. 
If he had we should have lost him from the Continental service; for I assure you, Spencer by going off, and Woorster by unguarded Speeches have given high offence here, it will cost us Pains to prevent their being discarded from the service of the Continent with Indignation. 4 Gentlemen here had no private Friendships, Connections, or Interests which prompted them to vote for the arrangement they made but were influenced only by a Regard to the Service ; and they are determined that their Commissions shall not be despised. 
I have read of Times, either in History or Romance, when Great Generals would cheerfully serve their Country, as Captains or Lieutenants of Single Companies, if the Voice of their Country happened not to destine them to an higher Rank; but such exalted Ideas of public Virtue seem to be lost out of the World. 
Enough of this. 
I have laboured with my Colleagues to agree upon proper Persons to recommend for a Quarter Master General, a Commissary of Musters and a Commissary of Artillery — but in vain. 
The Consequence has been that the appointment of these important, and lucrative officers is left to the General, 5 against every proper Rule and Principle, as these offices are Checks upon his. 
This is a great Misfortune to our Colony; however, I hope that you and others, will think of proper Persons and recommend them to the General It is a vast and complicated System of Business which We have gone through, and We were all of us unexperienced in it. Many Things may be wrong, but no small Proportion of these are to be attributed to the Want of Concert and Union among the Mass. 
Delegates. 
We have passed a Resolution that each Colony make such Provision as it thinks proper and can afford, for defending their Trade in Harbours Rivers, and on the Sea Coast, against Cutters and Tenders. 6 We have had in Contemplation a Resolution to invite all Nations to bring their Commodities to Market here, and like Fools have lost it for the present. 7 This is a great Idea. 
What shall we do? Shall we invite all Nations to come with their Luxuries, as well as Conveniences and Necessaries? or
Dr. Franklin has been very constant in his attendance on Congress from the beginning. 
His conduct has been composed and grave, and, in the opinion of many gentlemen, very reserved. 
He has not assumed any thing, nor affected to take the lead; but has seemed to choose that the Congress should pursue their own principles and sentiments, and adopt their own plans. 
Yet he has not been backward; has been very useful on many occasions, and discovered a disposition entirely American. 
He does not hesitate at our boldest measures, but rather seems to think us too irresolute and backward. 
He thinks us at present in an odd state, neither in peace nor war, neither dependent nor independent; but he thinks that we shall soon assume a character more decisive. 
He thinks that we have the power of preserving ourselves; and that even if we should be driven to the disagreeable necessity of assuming a total independency, and set up a separate state, we can maintain it. The people of England have thought that the opposition in America was wholly owing to Dr. Franklin ; and I suppose their scribblers will attribute the temper and proceedings of Congress to him; but there cannot be a greater mistake. 
He has had but little share, further than to cooperate and to assist. 3 He is however a great and good man. 
I wish his colleagues from this city were all like him ; particularly one, whose abilities and virtues, formerly trumpeted so much in America, have been found wanting. 4 There is a young gentleman from Pennsylvania, whose name is Wilson, whose fortitude, rectitude and abilities too, greatly outshine his master's. Mr. Biddle, the Speaker, has been taken off by sickness, Mr. Mifflin is gone to the camp, Mr. Morton is ill too, so that this province has suffered by the timidity of two overgrown fortunes. 
The dread of confiscation or caprice, I know not what, has influenced them too much ; yet they were for taking arms, and pretended to be very valiant. 
This letter must be secret, my dear ; at least, communicated with great discretion. 
Yours, John Adams. [24a] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 83. 2 May 24 and July 5, Familiar Letters, pp. 55, 73. 3 " Doct. 
Franklin is with us, but he is not a speaker, tho' we have I think his hearty approbation and assent to every measure." Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane, July
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 275; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, 1.66). 4 Cf. no. 244, post. 16 176 Continental Congress 243. Thomas Cushing to Joseph Hawley. 1 Philadelphia July 24, 1775 Dear Sir .... I embrace this opportunity to Inform you that the Congress sinsible of the Importance of the Freindship of the Indian Nations thro this Continent, have appointed Commissioners for three different departments vizt the Southern, the Middle and the Northern, in order to treat with the Indians and secure their Freindship and Neutrality relative to the present Contest between Great Britain and these American Colonies. 
They appointed for the Northern Department, General Schuyler, The Honble Joseph Hawley •, Esqr. 
Mr Alderman Dow of Albany, Mr Wolcot of Connecticut, and Col Francis of this City. 2 Your Business will lay principally with the Six Nations. 
I suppose Mr Hancock has or will Inform you of this Appointment, and at what time it will be necessary for you to attend at Albany to execute this Commission. 
I thought you well qualified for this important trust and accordingly with the rest of my Bretheren I recommended you to the Congress. 
I hope it will be agreable to you to attend to this appointment. 
All my fear is least the critical and perplexed situation of our Province should require your Constant attendance at the General Court 244. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, July 24th, 1775 Dear Sir, In Confidence. 
I am determined to write freely to you this time. 
A certain great Fortune and piddling Genius, whose Fame has been trumpeted so loudly, has given a silly Cast to our whole Doings. 2 We are between Hawk and Buzzard. 
We ought to have had in our Hands a month ago the whole Legislative, executive and judicial of the whole Continent, and have completely modeled a Constitution; to have raised a naval Power, and opened all our Ports wide; to have arrested every Friend to Government on the Continent and held them as Hostages for the poor Victims in Boston, and then opened the Door as wide as possible for Peace and Reconciliation. 
After this they might have petitioned, and negotiated, and addressed etc. if they would. 
Is all this extravagant? Is it wild? Is it not the soundest Policy? 3 [243] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Hawley Papers, II. Addressed to Hawley at Watertown. 2 See the Journals, July 12, 13, Sept. 14, Nov. 24; also no. 226, ante, and nos. 249, 260, 262, 464, post. [244] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 88 ("From a copy of the letter, in an unidentified writing, in the Warren papers") ; Works, I. 178, II. 411 ; Familiar Letters, p. 268; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1717; Cal. N. Y. Hist. 
MSS., I. 114; Brit. 
Mus., Add. MSS. 21687, f- 225 (copy). 2 John Dickinson. 
Cf. no. 242, ante. 
See also no. 280, post. 3 Cf. nos. 151 (note 3), 212, 217, ante, 265, post. 
See also Warren to Hancock, July 9, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1616, and a letter from Thomas McKnight to Samuel Johnston, Sept. 17, in N. C. Col. Recs., X. 249. July, 1775 177 One Piece of News, Seven thousand Weight of Powder arrived here last Night. 
We shall send some along as soon as we can, but you must be patient and frugal. 
We are lost in the Extensiveness of our Field of Business. 
We have a Continental Treasury to establish, a Paymaster to choose and a Committee of Correspondence or Safety, or Accounts, or something, I know not what, that has confounded Us all Day. 4 .... 245. Samuel Adams to James Warren. 1 Philada., July 24, 1775 My Dear Sir, I am exceedingly obligd to you for your Letter of the 9th of July. 
It affords me very great Satisfaction to be informed by you, that " no Suspicions, no Uneasiness at all prevails with Regard to our old Generals."I assure you I have been otherwise informd since I received your Letter. 
Indeed I do not always rely much upon the Information we have, being often obligd even to the Citizens for the Intelligence they are pleased to give us of the State of our Army, the Character of our officers and the Scituation of our oppressd Friends in Boston. 
However ill a Choice was made of Delegates for the Continental Congress by our Colony it would certainly have been good Policy, to have as far as possible supported their Reputation and given them some Degree of Weight by putting it in their Power at least to ascertain Matters of Fact within their own Colony. 2 But I am disposed to make Allowance for the Multiplicity of Affairs you must attend to, and will cease to complain lest I should charge our Friends foolishly. 
I have many things to say to you. 
I expect we shall soon make a short Adjournment. 3 If so, I shall then have the Opportunity of seeing you 246. John Adams to James Warren. 1 July 26, 1775 Dear Sir, I can never Sufficiently regret that this Congress have acted so much out of Character as to leave the Appointment of the Quarter Master
They ought not to be under any dependance upon him or so great obligations of Gratitude as those of a Creature to the Creator. 2 We have another office of vast Importance to fill, I mean that of Paymaster General; and if it is not filled with a Gentleman, whose Family, Fortune, Education, Abilities and Integrity, are equal to its Dignity, and whose long Services in the great Cause of America have abundantly merited it, it shall not be my Fault. 
However I can't fortell with Certainty whether I shall be so fortunate as to succeed. 3 .... We shall establish a Post office, 4 and do what We can to make salt Petre and to obtain Powder. 5 By the Way about Six Tons have arrived here within
The Salary of this officer is one hundred Dollars per Month. 
It is an office of high Honour and great Trust. 2 There is another Quantity of Powder arrived in New Jersey, about 5000 Weight from So. Carolina, and it is said that another Boat has arrived in this River with about Six or Seven Tons. 
It will be ordered to the Generals Washington and Schuyler. 
We have voted fifty Thousand Dollars, for Powder to be got immediately — if possible 248. Roger Sherman to W t illiam Williams. 1 Philadelphia July 28th 1775 Dear Sir I this Day received your favour of the 22d Instant. 
We should have wrote to you oftener but had not much Intelligence of importance to
May 29, July 25, 26. 5 See ibid., July 28. [247] ' Warren-Adams Letters, I. 93. 2 See nos. 246, ante, 250, 254, post. [248] x Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. 
V. Henkels of Philadelphia. 
July, 1775 179 communicate but what was by order of Congress Transmitted to the [sic] his Honr the Govr which we supposed you would be acquainted with, besides we have had but little leisure being obliged to attend Congress from
General Wooster is dissatisfied as well as General Spencer. 
I feared that would be the Case, we had just heard of the Engagement at Noddles Island before we proceeded to the appointment of General Officers, which engagement being conducted by General Putnam occasioned him to be highly esteemed for his Bravery by the Congress, the officers were chosen by Ballot, but previous to giving the votes I informed the Congress of the Choice and Arrangement made by our Gen. Assembly and that I supposed if the same order Should be preserved by the Congress it would best Satisfy the officers and the Colony. 
Col°. Dyer was not then in the Room but came in immediately afterward and made the same representation without knowing what I had said, but the votes turned as you have heard, there was likewise an uneasiness in the Massachusetts Bay on a like occasion which General Washington being made acquainted with before he delivered the Commissions represented it to the Congress and it was rectified, but he had delivered General Putnam his Commission before he heard of the uneasiness, so that I dont know how the difficulty can be remedied at present. 
I hope Generals Wooster and Spencer will consider the Grand Cause we are Engaged in of so much Importance as not to let it suffer any disadvantage on account of this disagreable circumstance which was not occasioned by any disregard in the Congress toward those Gentlemen but for want of a more mature consideration of the ill consequences that might attend such a transposition. 2 The Congress has set much longer than I at first expected it would; but I believe not longer than was needful. 
I hope it will adjourn the beginning of next week and have a recess of a few weeks, it is very tedious Sitting here this hot season : I have herewith Enclosed a Declaration and an Address to the people of England, the whole proceedings will be published within a few Days
I sometimes sign with them, sometimes they sign my name others they sign only with their own names it not being very material and in Congress hours it is needful some should attend while others are writing. 
I have not been absent at any time while the Congress has been sitting. 
Mr. Jonathan Trumbull Junr was this Day appointed Paymaster for the New York Department, the pay is 50 Dollars per month. 2 See no. 228, note 2, ante, and no. 630, post. 180 Continental Congress s* 249. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut. 1 Philadelphia July 28th 1775 Sr .... We have to inform you that every step has been taken by this Congress to forward and promote the expedition to the Northward, hope it may soon succeed to the utmost of our Wishes. 
We have also made every preparation for a Treaty with the Indians especially the
Mr Kirkland is gone forward. 
Genl Schuyler, Major Hawley, Colo. 
Wolcott of Litchfield, Mr. Voliher P. Dow [Volkert P. Douw] of Albany, Colo. 
Francis of this place are Appointed Commissioners to Treat with the Indians in the Northern Department Including the
A Number of Gentlemen are also Appointed for the Middle and another set for the Southern Department. 
Belts of Intelligence are sent forward, Union and other Belts proper are prepareing. all this was done very much by the Direction of Mr. Kirkland who was a Week or 10 Days attinding the Congress, was well Esteemed by them, and they have for the present established his Mission, gave him about £100. for the present a proper quantity of Indian goods and stores are provided, hope we shall secure ourselves from that quarter. 2 .... Your Honors most Obedient Humble Servants Eliphalet Dyer Roger Sherman To Govr Trumbull 250. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia July 28th 1775 Sir Yours of the 20th and 21st came safe to hand. 
I have the pleasure to Inform you that we have about thirteen Tons of powder arrived at this place sent for by this Congress since their arrival here, more is soon expected, the 13 Tons is sent forward to your army and about
Doctr Warren is appointed pay Master General for the Army near Boston at [249] l Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, C 51, XXVII. 312 (copy). 2 See the Journals, July 12, 13, 17, 18; also a letter from Kirkland to the Albany committee, June 9, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, II. 1309; and cf. ibid., pp. 1319, 1321, 1/93-1794- Cf. nos. 226, 243, ante, 260, 262, post. 
See also the Journals, Nov. 8, n, Dec. 23, and no. 464, post. [250] • Conn. 
State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Coll., no. 45. July, 1775 131 100 dolls pr month, your brother Jonathan is appointed the same for the Northern or York department at 50 dolls pr month, wether it will be agreable to him I know not, but hope he will undertake for this Season. 2 I hear Genii Spencer is returnd. 3 if he had been so good as to have resigned I had designd to have taken his birth my self, as I believe I might [have] had the offer, have been obliged to say much for him to keep the Congress from giving him a dismission as they much resented his with several other officers leaving the Army after the Generalls arrival and at so Critical a season. 
We are all exhausted sitting so long at this place and being so long confined together that we feel pretty much as a Number of passangers confined togeather on board ship in a long Voyage, we shall take a short recess by Next Week, what we have done good or bad will soon be published, my respects to the Genlls and Regards to all Inquiring Friends, remembring Coll Reed, Mr Mifflin etc. 
And am Sr Sincerely Yours Elipht Dyer To Joseph Trumbull Esqr. [P. S] . . . . 251. The New York Delegates to the Committee of Safety. 1 Gentlemen We have rec d . your Letters of the 18th and 22d Inst, and tho' sensible of the Inconveniences arising from a Scarcity of arms, are much at a Loss respecting the best measures for a Supply. 
As we have good Reason to believe that an application to the Congress to recommend a Loan of the Jersey arms would not succeed, we have agreed not to make it. No Colony has as yet given the Congress any trouble on that Head, and we are unwilling that New York should be the first. 
We advise however that accurate accounts of Disbursements for arms be kept, so that should any Charges of that Kind be made against the Continent our Colony may be prepared to support their Claim. 
Besides, it is easy to foresee that New Jersey under the present Circumstances of public Affairs, would very reluctantly part with their arms, and be displeased with any Recommendation for that Purpose. 2 2 The appointments of Dr. Benjamin Church and Dr. James Warren were made July 27 ; that of Jonathan Trumbull, July 28. In regard to Dr. Church see the Journals, Oct. 14, and nos. 325, 334, post. 
In regard to the appointment of James Warren, John Adams says in his Autobiography : " This gentleman had been appointed at my solicitation, Mr. Samuel Adams and Mr. Gerry concurring; our other colleagues notwithstanding." Works, III. 41. See nos. 246, 247, ante, 254, post. 
Warren resigned Mar. 30, 1776. and his resignation was accepted Apr. 19. See the Journals of that date and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 551, 1139. 3 See Washington's letter of July 21, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 28. Cf. nos. 228 (note 2), 248, ante, and no. 630, post. [251PN. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 173 (in the writing of Jay) ; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Duane Papers, IV. (draft, in the writing of Jay) ; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., II. 17; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1752. 2 See the New York letter of June 22, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1797- 182 Continental Congress 6'Permit us to recommend to your most serious Attention the necessity of laying your Hands on all the Powder that is or. may be imported into the Colony. 
We think none should be permitted to go out of the Province, but by the express Direction of the Congress or your Committee, and that magazines of that article should be formed in different parts of the Province and not that the whole be risqued in one Place. 
We hope our Province will depend for Defence on their own Exertions, and without Delay put the Militia on the Footing recommended by the Congress. 
The Delegates of New Jersey are charged with the transportation of two Tons and a half of Powder to Dobbss Ferry, where the Congress desire you to have a Boat ready to recieve and forward it to General Schuyler. 3 As to a Treaty or Conference with the Five Nations the Congress has already provided for it, and consequently it would be improper to lay the Papers you sent us on that Subject before the Congress. 4 We are Gentlemen with the greatest Respect Your most obedt. and h'ble Servt. 
Phil. 
Livingston John Jay Lewis Morris Jas. Duane Geo : Clinton Philadelphia 29 July 1775 The Committee of Safety of the Colony of New York. 
P. S. We recommend to collect all your Accounts against the Continent with all convenient Speed, it is probable that a Com
The continental Money is signing, and will be ready next Week. 252. John Adams to Josiah Ouincy. 1 Philadelphia, 29 July, 1775. .... You tell me, Sir, that General Lee complained that " he did not find things as the Massachusetts delegates had represented them." 2 What General Lee could mean by this, Sir, I know not. 
What particular he found different from the representation, I do not know ; nor do I know
See the Journals, July 25, 26. [252] » Works, IX. 360; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1751. 2 See Gen. Lee's letter to Robert Morris, July 4, in N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, I. 188. July, 1775 183 which delegate from the Massachusetts he received a mistaken representation from. 
I think he should have been particular, that he might not have run the risk of doing an injury. 
If General Lee should do injustice to two of the Massachusetts delegates, he would commit ingratitude at the same time ; for to two of them he certainly owes his promotion in the American army, how great a hazard soever they ran in agreeing to it. I know him very thoroughly, I think, and that he will do great service in our army at the beginning of things, by forming it to order, skill, and discipline. 
But we shall soon have officers enough 253. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 30 July, 1775. My Dear. .... We have nothing new, but the arrival of some powder. 
Three little vessels have certainly arrived, making about ten tons in the whole, and four or five tons have arrived from South Carolina. 2 A supply, I think now we shall certainly obtain. 
Congress have taken measures for this end, 3 which I hope to have the pleasure of explaining to you, in person, within a few days, as Congress have determined to adjourn to some time in September. 4 I could not vote for this myself, because I thought it might be necessary to keep together; but I could not blame those who did, for really we have been all so assiduous in business, in this exhausting, debilitating climate, that our lives are more exposed than they would be in camp. 5 Love to the children. 254. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, July 30th, 1775 Dear Sir, For the Honour of the Massachusetts I have laboured in Conjunction with my Brethren to get you chosen Paymaster General and Succeeded so well that the Choice was unanimous! But whether We did you a Kindness or a disservice I know not. 
And whether you can attend it or will incline to attend it, I know not. 
You will consider of it however. 2 I253] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 90. 2 See the Journals, July 25, 28, Aug. 1. Cf. nos. 207, 251, ante. 3 Doubtless refers particularly to the resolutions on saltpetre, July 28. 4 See the Journals, July 29, 31, and Aug. 1. Cf. nos. 255, 257, post. 5 In his Autobiography {Works, II. 419) Adams says : " Congress was much fatigued with incessant labors, debates, intrigues, and heat of the summer, and agreed on a short adjournment."[254] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 94. 2 See no. 247, ante. 1S4 Continental Congress 255. Samuel Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia July 30 1775 My dear Betsy As I have no doubt but the Congress will adjourn in a few days, perhaps tomorrow, I do not expect to have another opportunity of writing to you before I set off for New England. 
The arduous Business that has been before the Congress and the close Application of the Members, added to the Necessitv and Importance of their visiting their several Colonies and attending their respective Conventions, have indued them to make a Recess during the sultry Month of August. 2 My Stay with you must be short, for I suppose the Congress will meet again early in September 256. Benjamin Franklin, Proposed Resolution. 1 [July ? 1775?] And whereas altho' the Conquest of Canada, and Louisiana, was effected as aforesaid by the joint-Force and Expence of America with Britain, the latter hath seized the whole acquired Territory as its own, excluding us from any share in the Property, without the least regard to Equity or Justice. 
Resolved, That in case such Satisfaction as aforesaid is refused, all the Lands in America claimed by the Crown, and all the Quit rents now unpaid to the same, shall be considered as liable to an appropriation for that purpose. 
And all Persons from whom such Payments of Ouitrents are now due, or who have purchased Lands from the Crown, and have not yet paid the Purchase-money, are advised to withold the same; and all Persons wanting Lands are advised to forbear Purchasing of the Crown, till such Satisfaction shall be made; that if Heaven shall finally bless our Endeavours in this just War with Success, as much as possible may be saved towards such Indemnification. 2 [255] 1 Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 221; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 2 See the Journals, July 30, 31, Aug. 1. Cf. no. 253, ante, and no. 257, post. [256] 1 Am. Phil. 
Soc, Franklin Papers, vol. 
L. (II.), no. 52. 2 No record has been found showing in what connection this resolution was drawn up or whether it was ever actually proposed, but it is placed here as probably belonging to this period of protest and declaration. \)r. [. Minis Hays, librarian of the American Philosophical Society, states that the preamble to this resolution is written in a somewhat cramped manner at the top of the page, indicating that it had been inserted after the resolution was written, and that the top of the page, above the preamble, which evidently contained some writing has been cut away. 
At the bottom of the page is bracketed " between Pages
Among the writings of Franklin appears a paper entitled : " Vindication and Offer from Congress to Parliament " (Writings, ed. Smyth, VI. 412, ed. Bigelow, V. 556, ed. Sparks, V. 83). Concerning this Vindication", Sparks quotes Vaughan as saying: "It was drawn up in Committee of Congress, June 25th, 1775, but does not appear on their minutes ; a severe act of Parliament which arrived about that time, having determined them not to give the sum proposed." In what way Vaughan fixed the date of the document is not known. 
Sparks inclines to connect its production with the work of the August, i//5 185 257. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia 1st. August 1775 Dear Sir, After the fatigue of many days, and of this in particular, I should not sit down at eleven o'clock at night to write to a gentleman of whose goodness of heart I have less doubt than I have of yours. 
But well knowing that you will pardon what flows from good intentions, I venture to say that my hopes are, you will find from what Congress has already done, and from what I hope they will do tomorrow, 2 that it has been a capital object with us to make your arduous business as easy to you as the nature of things will admit. 
The business immediately before us being finished, the approaching sickly season here, and the great importance of our presence in the Virga. 
Convention, have determined a recess of a Month, it standing now, that the Congress shall meet here again on the 5th. of September. 3 The capital object of powder we have attended to as far as we could by sending you the other day six Tons, and tomorrow we shall propose sending six or eight Tons more, 4 which, with the supplies you may get from Connecticut, and such further ones from here, as committee appointed June
It seems scarcely probable however that Franklin's " Vindication " was intended to serve as the " Declaration on Taking up Arms ", although some of the ideas found in it are similar to those expressed in the Declaration adopted (see the Journals, July 6). In its purpose it bears of course a relationship to the Address to the Inhabitants of Great Britain, adopted July 7. On the other hand the principal point of discussion in the Vindication, that is, the question of colonial support of the mother country, suggests that it may have been written in connection with the preparation of the answer to Lord North's conciliatory motion. 
Franklin was also of the committee which prepared that answer. 
The committee was appointed July 22, reported July 25, and the report was adopted July 31. Finally, the fragmentary preamble to the resolution shows that it was intended to follow a recital setting forth that colonial conquests in America had been accomplished by the joint effort and expense of Britain and America, a recital similar to that which is found in the " Vindication ". In the Calendar of the Franklin Papers in the American Philosophical Society (IV. 402) is mentioned a letter (without date) from Peter Collinson to Franklin, in which Collinson speaks of enjoying the "Vindication" and wishes that a copy be sent to David Barclay. 
Possibly Franklin composed and circulated the " Vindication " merely for the entertainment or enlightenment of his friends. 
For Franklin's criticism of Lord North's motion, see his Works (ed. Bigelow), V. 524. [257] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, VI. 175; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 11 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1 ; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 145. 2 Although the Journals record that Congress adjourned Aug. I, this letter clearly points to a meeting " tomorrow ". Furthermore Francis Lewis definitely says in his letter of Aug. 2, post, that Congress adjourned "this morning", and Livingston and Clinton, in a letter also dated Aug. 2 (Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1816, III. 11), likewise say "adjourned this morning". It is scarcely probable that all three letters were erroneously dated. 
Lee's letter was evidently written prior to the resolve to despatch powder to Washington, and Livingston and Clinton's letter subsequent to the appropriation to the New York convention but on the same day. 
Jefferson says in his Autobiography : " On the 22nd of July Dr. Franklin, Mr. Adams, R. H. Lee and myself, were appointed a commee to consider and report on Ld. North's conciliatory resolution. 
The answer of the Virginia assembly on that subject having been approved I was requested by the comm" to prepare this report, which will account for the similarity of feature in the two instruments." Writings (ed. Ford), I. 18. Cf. Jefferson's autobiographical statement under July 7, ante. 
See also no. 265, post. 3 See the Journals, July 29. Cf. nos. 253, 255, ante. 4 Cf. the Journals, Aug. 1. 186 Continental Congress future expected importations may furnish, will I hope enable you to do all that this powerful article can in good hands accomplish There is nothing- I wish so much as your success, happiness, and safe return to your family and Country, because I am with perfect sincerity dear Sir Your Affectionate friend and countryman. 5 Richard Henry Lee 258. The Connecticut Delegates to Zebulon Butler and Others. 1 Philadelphia August 2nd 1775 Gentn It has been represented to the Continental Congress
We are therefore desired by the Congress to write to you and press upon you the necessity of peace and good order not only among your selves, but by no means to give the least disturbance or molestation to the persons property or possessions of those setled under the Proprietaries of Pensylvania and especially to the family property or possession of those who are gone as Riflers
Cf. Dyer to Judd, July 23, ante. 8 The printed text has here " to oppose ". * See the Journals, July IX. 5 Instead of "or the heads of them" the printed text (Pa. Arch.) has "setled under the title of the Proprietaries". The printed text reads : " make no attempts upon their possessions or Settlements, but for both sides to remain ". August, 1775 18 7 We are desired by the Congress to write to you to the purpose above, and as they may have further to do in this affair. 7 We hope your Conduct will be such as to give no offence to that respectable body. 8 We are your Friends and H le Servts Elipht Dyer Roger Sherman Silas Deane To Coll. 
Butler Esqr. 
Dennison Esqr. 
Judd and Mr. Slueman etc. 9 259. Francis Lewis to Philip Schuyler. 1 Philadelphia 2d August 1775 Dear Sir I have the honor to inform you that this morning
I however moved at Random for I had no Rule, that 200000 Dollars shoud be deposited with the paymaster of your Army and that if this Sum shoud be expended before the next meeting of the Congress you should be empowerd to draw for 100,000 Dollars more. 
The Congress granted this Request with an immaterial Variation and I enclose you a Copy of their Resolve. 2 The original for fear of Accidents I have lodged with the President of our provincial Conventio[n] where you can command it. Mr Jonathan Trumbull Junr. son of the Governour of Connecticut is paymaster for
See ibid., July 31, Sept. 30, Oct. 7, 9, 11, 14, 17, Nov. 4, 7, 10, 11, 15, 16, 27, Dec. 18, 20, 21, 23, 1775, and Apr. 15, 1776. See also nos. 240, ante, 308, 329, 331, 399, 402, 405, 409, 414, post. 
A history of the controversy, including an account of the hearing before the committee of Congress, appointed Oct. 17, is given in a memorial to the Pennsylvania assembly, dated Oct. 25, in Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 669-678. See also ibid., pp. 647, 648, 660, 661, 665, 685, 687; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 221, 259, 773, 807, 875-876, 1530, 1770-1780, 1799, etc.; Pub. Recs. of Conn., XIV. 445-482. See index to Force, Am. Arch., " Susquehannah ". A brief account of the controversy is found in the Life of Roger Sherman, in Sanderson, Biographies of the Signers, III. 234. 8 This paragraph is not in the letter as printed. 9 Endorsed: "reed 4th Sept. 
I775-"[259] 1 Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS. no. 49, II. 125. 2 This letter confirms the inference from Richard Henry Lee's letter of Aug. 1 (no. 257, ante), that there was a meeting of Congress Aug. 2. That the letter is to Schuyler (it is without address) is shown by a letter from Schuyler to the New York congress, Aug. 15, in Force, Am, Arch., fourth ser., III. 141, 538. [260] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 535. 2 See the Journals, Aug. 1. 1S8 Continental Congress &'your Department. 3 He sustains an Amiable Character and was recommended by the Delegates from New York who knew of no Gent, qualified in our Colony who woud certainly accept the Office The Commissioners for Indian Affairs are preparing for a Treaty with the Indians which will soon be held at Albany. £2000 prov. is granted for that Service, yourself Mr. Turbott Francis of Philad., Mr. Volk. 
P Douw of Albany, Major Hawley of Massachusetts bay and [Oliver Wolcott] from Connecticut are named for this Service. 4 .... Xew York 4: Aug 1775 Major General Schuyler 261. James Duane to Jonathan Trumbull, jr. 1 Woodbridge
This tho' personally a Stranger I have venturd to promise as the Service would suffer unspeakably in case of your declining it. I have in my possession a warrant for
I propose to send a Copy to General Schuyler by Express as his order will be necessary to authorize the Receipt of the money at the Treasury. 4 The original I shall lodge with the President of our provincial Convention. 
Col. Hancock will deliver you the Commission and acquaint you of the security to be given on your part. 
I should think it prudent for you to come down to New York and by the first opportunity to acquaint General Schuyler of your Intentions. 
By Saturday week there will be money in the continental Treasury to answer the warrant, and I suppose it will be necessary for you to attend at the Treasury with the warrant and the General's order to take charge of it. Mr Hooper with whom I parted yesterday requested me to present you with his respectful Compliments. 
I am with great regard Sir, your most obedt Servant Jas. Duane. 
Jonathan Trumbull Esqr. 3 The Journals, July 28. Cf. nos. 261, 267, post. 4 See the Journals, July 12, 13; cf. nos. 226, 243, 249, ante, 262, 464, post. 
The proceedings of the commissioners at Alhany are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 473-496, 1275. The reply (Sept. 7) of the commissioners to Schuyler's letter, Aug. 31 (ibid., p. 493), is in the Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Wolcott Papers, I. 121. See the Journals, Sept. 14, Nov. 11, 23; cf. no. 271, post. [261 J 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumhull, jr., vol. 
I., no. 3. 2 In New Jersey, near Perth Amhoy. 3 The Journals, July 28. Cf. no. 267, post. * See the Journals, Aug. 1 ; cf. no. 260, ante. 
August, i'/'/b 189 262. James Duane to Oliver Wolcott. 1 Sir I take it for granted that the Delegates from your Colony have before now apprized you of your being appointed by the Continental Congress as one of the Commissioners of Indian Affairs for the Northern Department. 
I have only now to advise you that Col. Francis and Mr Douw two of your Associates set out this day for Albany in order to prepare for a Congress with the Six Nations. 2 I make no doubt but you will meet them there as soon as it is convenient. 
These Gent, have the Goods and Speech for the Treaty in Charge. 
I am with great Regard Sir Your most hum e Ser
New York 7th Augt. 1775. Oliver Wolcot Esqr. 263. Samuel Chase to Philip Schuyler. 1 Annapolis. 
Augst 10th 1775. My Dear Sir, .... The Expediency, the prudence of the Expedition, is trusted to your Judgment, a previous Condition, a sine qua non, of Marching into Quebec, is the Friendship of the Canadians, without their Consent and Approbation, it is not [to] be undertaken, so I understand the Resolution of the Congress. 2 .... *t> j 264. John Hancock to Joseph Reed. 1 Sir This moment Rec'd your favr. 
I have not with me Copies of the Talks to the several Tribes of Indians, nor was there time to Insert them in the Journals. 2 I enclose you Copies from the Journals of all that Respects Indian Affairs as yet inserted, and I apprehend this will fully Answer your Request, and which you will please to lay before the General. 
I am with Esteem Sir Your most Obedt. 
Servt Watertown John Hancock Augst. 15. 1775 Mr Secretary Reed. 3 [262] x Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. 
I., no. 120. 2 Cf. nos. 226, 243, 249, 260, ante, and no. 464, post. [263PN. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 242. 2 This refers to the resolves of June 27 relative to an expedition into Canada. 
See especially the letter of Gov. Trumbull to Schuyler, July 24, and Schuyler's reply, July 31, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1721, 1762; cf. ibid., 1702, 1704, 1729, 1734, 1747. A number of Schuyler's letters were read in Congress, Sept. 13, 14. See also Schuyler to Washington, Aug. 27, 31 ; ibid.. III. 442, 467. Cf. the Journals, Nov. 8. [264] 1 N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, MSS. of Joseph Reed, III. 2 See the Journals, June 30, July 10, 13, 15. 3 Joseph Reed was at this time secretary to Gen. Washington. 
Reed's letter to Hancock, to which this is a reply, has not been found. 190 Continental Congress 265. Thomas Johnson, jr., to Horatio Gates. 1 Annapolis, August 18, 1775. My dear Sir: I received yours of the 21st July, and in a day or two afterwards forwarded your letter to Mrs. Gates, by my brother, with directions, if she had left Fredericktown, where she then was on a visit, and had no immediate good opportunity, to send a servant on purpose. 
I shall be very unhappy that petitioning the King, 2 to which measure I was a friend, should give you or any one else attached to the cause of America and liberty, the least uneasiness. 
You and I, and America in general, may almost universally wish, in the first place to establish our liberties; our second wish is, a reunion with Great Britain; so may we preserve the empire entire, and the constitutional liberty, founded in whiggish principles, handed down to us by our ancestors. 
In order to strengthen ourselves to accomplish these great ends, we ought, in my opinion, to conduct ourselves so as to unite America and divide Britain ; this, as it appears to me, may most likely be effected by doing rather more than less in the peaceable line, than would be required if our petition is rejected with contempt, which I think most likely. 
Will not our friends in England be still more exasperated against the Court ? And will not our very moderate men on this side of the water be compelled to own the necessity of opposing force by force? The rejection of the New York petition was very serviceable to America. 
If our petition should be granted, the troops will be recalled, the obnoxious acts repealed, and we restored to the footing of 1763. If the petition should not be granted, but so far attended to as to lay the groundwork of a negotiation, Britain must, I think, be ruined by the delay : if she subdues us at all, it must be by a most violent and sudden exertion of her force; and if we can keep up a strong party in England, headed by such characters as Lord Chatham, and the others in the present opposition, Bute, Mansfield, and North, and a corrupt majority, cannot draw the British force fully into action against us. Our friends will certainly continue such as long as they see we do not desire to break from a reasonable and beneficial connexion with the Mother Country; but if, unhappily for the whole Empire, they should once be convinced by our conduct that we design to break from that connexion, I am apprehensive they will thenceforth become our most dangerous enemies; the greatest and first law of self-preservation will justify, nay compel it. The cunning Scotchmen and Lord North fully feel the force of this reasoning; hence their industry to make it be believed in England that we have a scheme of Independence, a general term they equivocally use, to signify to the friends of liberty a breaking off all connexion; and to Tories, that we dispute the supremacy of Parliament. 
In the Declaratory Act is the power of binding us, by its acts, in all cases whatever; the latter we do most certainly dispute, and I trust shall successfully fight against, with the approbation of every honest Englishman. [265] l Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 157. 2 Cf. no. 218, note 2, ante. 
August, 1775 191 Lord North's proposition, and consequent resolution of Parliament, were insidiously devised to wear the face of peace, and embarrass us in the choice of evils — either to accept and be slaves, or reject and increase the number and power of our enemies. 3 I flatter myself that your petition will present to him only a choice of means injurious to his villanous schemes 266. A Member of Congress to a Gentleman in London. 1 [August 26, 1775.] You will see by the publick papers some of the proceedings of our Congress ; the rest will soon be published. 
Three millions of dollars are now striking by their orders, for defending the rights of America. 
The very Quakers in this and other Provinces are in arms, and appear in the field every day in their regimentals, and make as good a figure as the best; you may be sure we are in earnest when they handle a musket. 
All trade to England, and every other part of the world, will most certainly be stopped on the tenth of next month, and if the Ministry do not very soon see the justice and equity of placing the Colonies in the same situation they were in before the year 1763, in which both sides experienced satisfaction and mutual benefit, then you may expect to hear, in the course of next winter, that the Congress have opened all our ports to every foreign Power that will come with their manufactures and trade with us for our produce. 
Whether that will not be one means of dissolving our connections entirely with Great Britain, I shall leave to wiser heads to determine. 
I am far, very far, from wishing such an event, but, nevertheless, I am very apprehensive, from the present temper of our people, that a few more violent steps will lay a foundation for it. 2 267. Silas Deane to Jonathan Trumbull, jr. 1 Dear Sir I was informed by Mr. Vandervoort on the road that you proposed to quit the office of Dep y paymaster General and had wrote my Brother as he had been Nominated, on the Subject, conclude if this be your Determination that you will write the Congress on the Subject in Season, as your Successor must have some little Time, to prepare to leave his Business ; 2 I wish if you write the Congress you would let me know it by Letter at the same Time I am with Esteem D r Sir Yours Silas Deane Trenton 10th Sepr. 1775 3 See the Journals, July 22, 25, 31. Cf. no. 257, note 2, ante. [266] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, III. 435 ("extract"). 2 See the Journals, Sept. 30, 1774, July 4, Aug. 1, 1775. Cf. no. 219, ante. [267] x Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. 
I., no. 10. 2 Cf. nos. 260, 261, ante. 17 192 Continental Congress &'P. S. Tho : my Brother was Nominated his Name is not on the Journal of the Congress so that an Ap[po]intment must be made before he can Succeed. 3 Jona. 
Trumbull Junr Esqr. 268. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September II, 1775.] nth. 
Mr. President and Mr. Cushing, S. Ward, the Connecticut delegates, Mr. Crane of the Jerseys, several Pennsylvania, lower County, Maryland, Virginia and South Carolina and Georgia delegates met, and adjourned to the next day. 2 269. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Tuesday 12 September 1775. I attended at Congress for the first Time since the Adjornment. 
Mr. Hancock having a Touch of the Gout there was no President in the Chair. 
The Colonies of New Hampshire and N Carolina absent as also sundry Members from other Colonies. 
Dr. Franklin read several Letters recieved today by Capt. 
Falkner
Mr. Gadsden and others moved for an Adjornment to 10 Tomorrow, which was complyed with. 3 of the Georgia Delegates were present with Mr. Peyton Randolph and the new Delegates from Virginia, their Credentials not yet delivered, and little Business hitherto done this session. 3 270. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 12, 1775.] 1 2th. Members from the above Colonies
Adams. 
For want of a quorum did no business; adjourned. 
Mr. Hopkins came into the City. 3 Probably Barnabas Deane. [268] J Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 549- 2 See no. 269, note 3, post. [269] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 289. 2 Capt. 
N. Falconer, of the Mary and Elizabeth. 
See the Journals, Sept. 13. Probably some of the letters read are those of which extracts are given in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1755. Copies of these in the writing of Charles Thomson are in the N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, II. 357, 359. See also ibid., III. 167 ff. 3 There is no separate record in the Journals of a session Sept. 12; but see the entry under Sept. 5 ; cf. no. 270, post. [270] > Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 549. 2 See nos. 268, 269, ante. 
September, 7775 193 271. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [September 13, 1775.] Wednesday 13th. Mr. President (Hancock) in the Chair. 
The Credentials of the Georgia, Virginia, and Maryland Delegates were read and accepted without any Objection, the Marylanders were the same as at the last Session. 
An Order was made that the Penns a . Delegates shall send off to Gen. Washington under a proper Guard, the remainder of his Money amounting in the whole to 700,000 Dollars, and they were at the same Time to send the Cloathing for Two Regiments lately seized at Philada. 
Duane and Rob. R. Livingston came today from the Indian Treaty at Albany.-' another Treaty is about to be held at Pittsburg. 3 Dr. Franklins Goods allowed to be landed, a great Number of Letters and Papers were read, some from Gen. Washington
Detroit to be conducted by Col. Arthur St. Clair
Letters from Generals Washington, Schuyler, etc., two from General Washington to General Gage, and one from Gage read. 
Leave granted to Dr. Franklin to receive his books, papers, etc., just arrived. 
Leave granted to two Virginia men to reload and export a cargo which was shipped, timely, on board a vessel cast away. 2 Mr. Hopkins was with us until one. [271] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 289. 2 See no. 273, post, and the Journals, Sept. 14, Nov. II, 23; cf. no. 260, note 4, ante. 3 See nos. 273, 298, post, and the Journals, Sept. 13, 14, 22, 25, 26, Oct. 7. Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, III. 76-78, 387, 7^71 Pa- Arch., first ser., IV. 628, 659. See also no. 279, post. 4 See the Journals (p. 246 n). Washington's letter of Aug. 31, with enclosures, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, III. 243-255, but with date, Aug. 23. Washington's letters to Gage, Aug. 11 and 20, are also in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 77, 90, and Gage's letter to Washington, Aug. 13, is ibid., p. 79. They are also in Reed, Life of Joseph Reed, I. 112-114. 5 Schuyler's letters of July 21 and Aug. 2 are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, II. 1702, and III. 11 ; another letter, dated July 31, is ibid., p. 1760. Schuyler's letter of Aug. 31, read this day, was addressed to the commissioner for Indian affairs. 
It is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 493. See no. 273, note 2, post; also the Journals, Sept. 14. 6 See the Journals, Sept. 13, 14, and nos. 273, 274, 276, 279, post. 
The letter of Morris and Wilson has not been found. [272] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 549. 2 Cf. no. 271, ante. 194 Continental Congress s* 273. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Thursday 14 Scptr. 
Letters read from Gen. Schuyler and others. 2 Col. Francis sent the Journal of the late Indian Treaty at Albany to the Congress which was read. 3 several Members from Virginia, Maryland, Jersey, N York and Connecticut added to the Pennsa. 
Delegates appointed last Session to settle Accounts. 
The Georgia Delegates laid the Proceedings of their Provincial Convention before us cont'g a Petition to the King, another to certain Resolves and other Matters, and motioned for Leave to sell the Cargoes of Two Ships which were shipped without Knowledge of their Agreement of Non Importn, and motioned also for Exportation of certain Articles under certain Limitations, these Motions were opposed by Chase and J. Adams and supported by Nelson, Houstoun and Dr. Zubley, the latter out of Humor with Chase, the Consideration of it was put off till Tomorrow. 4 the proposed Expedition to Detroit
Treaty with the Six Nations read; a plan for taking Fort Detroit, proposed by Mr. Wilson and Colonel Morris, rejected. 
Colonel Morris, appointed a Commissioner at the Indian Treaty for the Middle Department. 2 275. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 15, 1775.] 15. Friday. 
Archibald Bullock and John Houston, Esquires, and the Rev. Dr. Zubly, appear as delegates from Georgia. 
Dr. Zubly is a native of Switzerland, and a clergyman of the independent persuasion, settled in a parish in Georgia. 
He speaks, as it is reported, several languages, English, Dutch, 2 French, Latin, etc. ; is reported to be a learned man. [273] » Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 290. 2 See the Journals. 
Schuyler's letters, July 26, 27, 28, Aug. 6, with enclosures, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1729-1731, I734-I735. I/45-I747, HI- 48-49- 3 The journal of proceedings is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, III. 473-495; see also ibid., p. 1275. Cf. no. 271, and note 2, ante. 4 See the Journals, Sept. 14, 15, and no. 276, post. 
The proceedings of the Georgia convention, July 4-17, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, II. 1543-1547. See also Col. Rccs. of Ga., XII. 411-419. Cf. no. 274, post. 5 See no. 271, note 3, ante, and no. 279, post. [274J 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 549. 2 See the Journals; cf. nos. 271, 273, ante, and no. 276, post. [275]' Works, II. 421. 2 Meaning High Dutch, or German. 
September, 7775 195 He is a man of a warm and zealous spirit; it is said that he possesses considerable property. 
Houston is a young gentleman, by profession a lawyer, educated under a gentleman of eminence in South Carolina. 
He seems to be sensible and spirited, but rather inexperienced. 
Bullock is clothed in American manufacture. 3 Thomas Nelson, Esq., George Wythe, Esq., and Francis Lightfoot Lee, Esq., appeared as delegates from Viriginia. 
Nelson is a fat man, like the late Colonel Lee of Marblehead. 
He is a speaker, and alert and lively for his weight. 
Wythe is a lawyer, it is said, of the first eminence. 
Lee is a brother of Dr. Arthur, the late sheriff of London, and of our old friend Richard Henry, sensible and patriotic, as the rest of the family. 
Deane says that two persons of the name of De Witt, of Dutch extraction, one in Norwich, the other in Windham, have made saltpetre with success, and propose to make a great deal. 
That there is a mine of lead, at Middletown, which will afford a great quantity; that works are preparing to smelt and refine it, which will go in a fortnight. 
There is a mine at Northampton, which Mr. W. Bowdoin spent much money in working, with much effect, though little profit. 
Langdon and Bartlett came in this evening from Portsmouth. 
Four hundred men are building a fort on Pierce's Island to defend the town against ships of war. 
Upon recollecting the debates of this day in Congress, there appears to me a remarkable want of judgment in some of our members. 
Chase is violent and boisterous, asking his pardon; he is tedious upon frivolous points. 
So is E. Rutledge. 
Much precious time is indiscreetly expended ; points of little consequence are started and debated with warmth. 
Rutledge is a very uncouth and ungraceful speaker; he shrugs his shoulders, distorts his body, nods and wriggles with his head, and looks about with his eyes from side to side, and speaks through his nose, as the Yankees sing. 
His brother John dodges his head too, rather disagreeably, and both of them spout out their language in a rough and rapid torrent, but without much force or effect. 
Dyer is long-winded and round-about, obscure and cloudy, very talkative and very tedious, yet an honest, worthy man, means and judges well. 
Sherman's air is the reverse of grace; there cannot be a more striking contrast to beautiful action, than the motions of his hands; generally he stands upright, with his hands before him, the fingers of his left hand clenched into a fist, and the wrist of it grasped with his right. 
But he has a clear head and sound judgment; but when he moves a hand in any thing like action, Hogarth's genius could not have invented a motion more opposite to grace; — it is stiffness and awkwardness itself, rigid as starched linen or buckram ; awkward as a junior bachelor or a sophomore. 
Mr. Dickinson's air, gait, and action are not much more elegant. 276. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Friday 75 Septr. 
Debates upon Indian Commissioners for the Middle Department, Henry and Franklin being unable to attend at Pittsburg. 3 Cf. no. 276, post. [276] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 290. 196 Continental Congress Col. Lewis Morris and Dr. Thos. 
Walker appointed to attend there Hac Vice. 2 then the Affair of the Two Cargoes at Georgia referred from Yes'terday, was largely agitated and in the End a Resolution drawn by Jay took place importing that the cargoes should be sold and the Promts if any put into the Hands of the Georgia Convention or Com ee of Safety to be applied in Defence of the Province. 3 an incidental Matter took up some Time viz, Whether Mr. Nelson should vote for Virginia he being the only Delegate present and whether any lesser Number than the Quorum shall represent any Colony. 
Mr. Nelson waved his Question, and the other went off without a Determination (since that Time no Colony votes without the Quorum present as limited by their Colony, some authorize 3, some 2, some one Delegate to give a Vote). Two of the Georgia Delegates are possessed of Homespun Suits of Cloaths, an Adornment few other Members can boast of, besides my Bro r Crane and myself. 4 277. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 15, 1775.] 15th (Mr. Hopkins [remained] until half past one). 278. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia Septr 15th 1775 Dear Sr I recieved yours with a Continuando to the 5th Instant in which you mention the article of flower you proposed to get from this place etc. the Generalls letter
I can only say at this time you must depend upon Connecticutt for the present but a few days will determine what the Congress will do and I shall give you. the earliest Intelligence, as to Cash there will be a supply for the Military Chest immediately sent forward but if
See no. 279, note 3, post. 8 Cf. no. 273, ante, and no. 277, post. 4 Cf. Adams's remark concerning Bullock, no. 275, ante. \2J7] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 549. [278] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 2 The letter of Washington referred to, dated Sept. 7, and accompanied by an unsigned proposal of Joseph Trumbull, the commissary general, relative to supplying the army with flour and pork, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 662. See the Journals, Sept. 21. Dyer's statement shows that Washington's letter had been laid before Congress as early as Sept. 15. It is probably that mentioned as no. 6, consideration of which was resumed Sept. 16. See also the Journals, Oct. 19. Cf. no. 294, post. 3 /. e., New York. 
September, 1775 197 they conclude to send flower from here or York no doubt orders may be given on the Treasurer to the Amount. 
As to the article of pork I have no doubt but the Method you propose of having the hogs drove down on the foot and salted there will be agreable as it must save a great expence, but what Army or how many will be kept up thro the Winter is Impossible to determine, the Congress will soon take that matter under Consideration. 
I hope there may be some way found out whereby the best officers and those most Worthy may be appointed 279. George Ross to James Wilson. 1 Dear Sir The Affair of Detroit
That Intelligence not clear enough. 
That Cannon might be necessary. 
That as the Treaty at Albany
That perhaps the Indians in your department might take it amiss and Lastly that should Genl: S[c]huyler suceed [sic] as has Embarged 15 days
I say those Reasons determined the Congress unanimously to delay the Expedition at this time. 
We have little to do All waiting with anxiety to hear from Schuyler. 6 .... Geo: Ross Phida 15th Septr: 1775 Jas Wilson Esq [279] 1 Maine Hist. 
Soc, Continental Congress, no. 6. 2 See nos. 271, 273, 276, ante. 
See also the Journals, Sept. 22, and nos. 297, 298, post. 
A letter of James Wilson to John Montgomery, dated Sept. 14, criticizing Virginia's taking possession of Fort Pitt, is in the Hist. 
Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll.; see also a letter of St. Clair, Sept. 15, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 717; Pa. Arch.. first ser., IV. 659. 3 Hancock wrote to Lewis Morris and James Wilson, Sept. 15 : " Your letter of the 6th instant was duly received and communicated to the Congress, who immediately took into consideration the proposed expedition against Detroit; and as the season is so far advanced, and the Congress have not sufficient light to direct their judgment, they cannot undertake to give their countenance to the proposed enterprise; more especially, as an enterprise is now on foot, which, if successful, will necessarily draw that place after it. "Enclosed you have two Resolves passed in Congress relative to the appointment of Dr. Walker and Colonel Morris as Commissioners for Indian Affairs. 
If Dr. Walker should not be present when this reaches you, it may be proper to despatch an express to him and notify him of his appointment." Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 717. See no. 276, note 2, ante. 4 See no. 273, note 2, ante. 5 Schuyler embarked Aug. 31. See his letter of that date to Washington, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 467. The word "embarged" is written above "march"' « See the Journals, Sept. 18, 19; and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 669-672. "The Congress have hardly begun business, New Hampshire and N. Carolina being absent." Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane, Sept. 15, Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 305. The New Hampshire delegates attended Sept. 16. 198 Continental Congress 6'280. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 16, 1775.] 16. Saturday. 
Walking to the State House, this morning, I met Mr. Dickinson, on foot, in Chesnut Street. 
We met, and passed near enough to touch elbows. 
He passed without moving his hat or head or hand. 
I bowed, and pulled off my hat. 
He passed haughtily by. The cause of his offence is the letter, no doubt, which Gage has printed in Draper's paper. 
I shall, for the future, pass him in the same manner; but I was determined to make my bow, that I might know his temper. 
We are not to be upon speaking terms nor bowing terms for the time to come. 2 .... 281. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Saturday 16 Sepr. the greater Part of the Time lost in considering Whether One Officer in our Army may be allowed to hold Two Commissions, it was postponed, this was on read'g Gen. Washingtons Letters. 2 other Parts of his Letters gone into and some small Matters settled. 282. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 16, 1775.] 16th. Entered upon General Washington's letters ; referred to Monday. 
Next Tuesday
A motion that no provisions, hides, or leather, sheepskins, flaxseed, be exported — postponed. 3 (Mr. Hopkins until one). 283. Silas Deane to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia Sepr: 7th [17th?] : 1775 2 Dear Sir .... The Congress is well nigh full, little Business has yet been done, but This Week it will be seriously entered upon, and I wish in Vain, that Mr Mifflin was here. 
Mr Biddle continues dangerouslv ill, Mr Willson I280] 1 Works, II. 423. 2 See no. 151, note 3, ante. 
The letter referred to is that of July 24 to James Warren, no. 244, ante. [281 1 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 290. 2 See particularly Washington's letter of Aug. 4, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 58; Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, III. 26; cf. the letter of Aug. 31, Writings, III. 104; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 243. [282] 1 Mag, of Am. Hist., I. 549. 2 Wednesday, according to the Journals. 
See also ibid., Sept. 20, 26, 27, 28, 31, Oct. 2, 3, 6, 9, 10. 12, 20, 26, 27, 28, 31, Nov. 21, 3 See the Journals, Oct. 2. [283] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Joseph Trumhull Papers. 2 The date of this letter is probably Sept. 17 (Sunday). It can not be Sept. 7, for Deane and other New England delegates lodged at Kingsbridgc the night of the 7th and did not reach Philadelphia until the evening of the 10th. See Deane to Mrs. Deane, Sept. 10, 15 (N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 77, 78; Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 304, 305), and Samuel Ward's Diary, Sept. 7-10, Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 549- September, 1775 199 at Fort Pitt on an Indian Treaty, and Mr Willing a Constant attendant on Congress, will give Mr Mifflin a proper Idea of the representation of this Colony, to whom present my sincerest respects. 3 .... 284. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [September 18, 1775.] Monday 18. Motion to appoint a Com ee to procure 500 Ton of Gunpowder from abroad, together with 10,000 Stand of Arms 20,000 Gun Locks etc with power to draw on the Continental Treasury for the Amount, was carried by Vote, the Payment in Produce was opposed and the further Consideration postponed. 2 Com ee on the Accounts asked Direction how to settle them and the Matter left unsettled Motion by E. Rutledge to enlarge Col. Fenton a Prisoner in Connect*, from New Hampshire, opposed by Langdon and deferred. 3 Letter from Gen. Schuyler giving an Account of his being at Isle aux Noix and postponing the Attack on Carlton at S l . Johns till he sounds the Canadians, after having a small Skirmish. 4 285. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 18, 1775.] 18th (Mr. Hopkins [remained] till half past one.) 2 286. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 18, 1775.] 18. Monday. 
This morning, John McPherson, Esq. came to my lodgings, and requested to speak with me in private. 
He is the owner of a very handsome country seat, about five miles out of this city ; is the father of Mr. McPherson, an aid-de-camp to General Schuyler. 
He has been a captain of a privateer, and made a fortune in that way the last war; is reputed to be well skilled in naval affairs. 
He proposes great things ; is
Rev., I. 290. 2 See the Journals; cf. Ward's Diary, Sept. 18, no. 285, post. 
Concerning an effort of Washington at this time to obtain a supply from Bermuda, see Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, III. 36, 68, 87, 137, 461, 631, 653. 654. 682, 709, 710, 718, 728, 744, 808, 842, 1181, 1250; also Washington's Writings (ed. Ford), III. 53, 81, no, 133; and cf. the Journals, July n, 17, Sept. 13, Oct. 2, Nov. 22. 3 See the Journals, Sept. 19 ; cf. nos. 287, 293, post. 4 See nos. 287, 289, post. 
Schuyler's letter, dated Sept. 8, and enclosures, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 669-672. Congress replied, Sept. 20. See no. 292, post. [285] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 549. 2 A similar comment on his colleague's attendance, " Mr. Hopkins as usual ", appears in Ward's diary of Sept. 19, 20, 21, and 22, with nothing else that is not in the Journals. 
See however his entries for Sept. 23 and 25, nos. 297 and 299, post. [286] * Works, II. 424- 200 Continental Congress sanguine, confident, positive, that he can take or burn every man-of-war in America. 
It is a secret, he says, but he will communicate it to any one member of Congress, upon condition that it be not divulged during his life at all, nor after his death, but for the service of this country. 
He says it is as certain as that he shall die, that he can burn any ship. 2 .... 287. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Tuesday 19 Septr. 
Arguments on Gen Schuylers Letter Whether he shall make a Post at Isle aux Noix and what is best to be done in his Situation, a Com ee of Three named by Ballot to report their Opinion. 2 a Committee of
Mr. Randolph our former President is here and Sits very humbly in his Seat, while our new one continues in the Chair, without Seeming to feel the Impropriety. 2 .... This Congress, I assure you, feels the Spirit of War, more intimately than they did before the Adjournment. 
They Set about Preparations for it with Seriousness and in Earnest. 289. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [September 20, 1775.] Wednesday 20. An Expedition is on Foot against the Kings Forces in Canada via Kennebec under Col. Arnold from Washingtons Camp at
There is no record of it in the Joxirnals of that day, but see the Journals, Oct. 16, 19, 20 ; also nos. 308, 340, post. [287] x Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 291. 2 Cf. no. 284, ante, and 289, post. 
Sec the Journals, Sept. 19, 20. 3 See the Journals, Sept. 19; cf. nos. 284, ante, and no. 293, post. [288] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 112. 2 " May 24, Peyton Randolph, President, was under a necessity of returning to Virginia, to take his place as Speaker of the House of Burgesses, and the Journals of the Congress state 'the chair was vacant'. John Hancock was then unanimously chosen President. 
Randolph never occupied the chair again, and died October 22, 1775." [Note in Warren-Adams Letters.] [289] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 291. September, 1775 201 Cambridge. 2 Com ee brought in the Draught of a Letter from our President to Gen. Schuyler, large Controversy on some Parts of it and particularly how far we shall express Approbation of his late Proceedings in retreating to Nut Island etc. 
Gen. Wooster with a considerable Detachment ordered to join Schuyler. 3 this Morning a Letter in French was delivered to the President directed for Gen. Washington said to be from the Governor of Hispaniola. 4 Whether the Letter shall be opened and whether by a select Com ee or by the President, were made Questions, the general Opinion seemed to be that the President should open it and the Secretary (Charles Thomson) translate it and if of public Nature that it should be laid before Congress but it was dropt. 
Major Robert Rogers was at the State House today he has just come from England and is upon the Kings Halfpay. 5 290. The New York Delegates to the Committee of Safety. 1 Philadelphia, September 20, 1775. Gentlemen: We have the honour of your favour of the 9th instant, which we instantly communicated to the Congress. 2 Deputy Adjutant Fleming's commission, with the rank of Colonel, and a number of blanks, which you request, have already been forwarded ; 3 and you may be assured that we shall be attentive to your want of powder, and embrace every opportunity to supply it. The article of tea gives us real anxiety. 
We sincerely wish to relieve our suffering fellow-citizens, by enabling them to dispose of what, so much to their misfortune, lies useless and perishing upon their hands. 
You cannot be insensible of the delicacy of this subject, and how many
The plan was first brought to the attention of Congress by Washington in his letter of Sept. 21 {Writings, ed. Ford, III. 137), read in Congress Sept. 29, although he had mentioned it to Schuyler in his letters of Aug. 20 and Sept. 8 {Writings, ed. Ford, III. 86, 116). Washington's letter to Arnold and instructions, Sept. 14, are ibid., pp. 121-124, and his address to the people of Canada, Sept. 17, ibid., pp. 124-128. See also his letter to Schuyler, Oct. 4, ibid., p. 156; also Writings (ed. Sparks), III. 62, 74, 82, 86, 90, 92, 112; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 213, 632, 634, 655, 676, 761-767, 778, 945, 947. 3 See the Journals, Sept. 20, and nos. 291, 292, post. 
Cf. nos. 284, 287, ante. 4 This letter has not been located. 
The governor of Hispaniola was Comte d'Ennery. 
A letter from him to Washington, dated Aug. 4, 1776, relative to a Canadian prisoner, de Chambeau (or Chambault), was transmitted by Washington to Congress, Oct. 7, 1776. See the Journals, Oct. 11, 1776, where the name is given as "Count D'Emery ". 5 Cf. the Journals, Sept. 22, and no. 296, post. 
See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 865, 866, 913, 1271, 1674, IV. 158, 264, 300, 311, 575, 581, 696, 1201 ; Washington to Schuyler, Dec. 18, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 288 (see also p. 200 n), (ed. Sparks), III. 207; and the New Hampshire Delegates to Gov. Weare, July 9, 1776, in the next volume of these Letters. [290] x Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 750; N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 175. 2 This appears to be the letter read in Congress Sept. 14. It is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 680. 3 See ibid., III. 564, and the Journals, Sept. 14; also no. 234, note 5, ante. 202 Continental Congress difficulties we have to struggle with to accomplish your humane request; whether we shall succeed or not, it is out of our power to determine. 
We are not without hopes ; but whatever may be the event, you may rely upon our utmost exertions to obtain the permission which you solicit. 4 We have the honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obedient humble servants, James Duane, Rob't R. Livingston, Jun., John Alsop, Francis Lewis. 
John Jay, To the Committee of Safety of New York. 291. The President of Congress to David Wooster. 1 Philadelphia, Septemr 20th, 1775. Sir The necessity of supporting General Schuyler, in the important Enterprize he is now engag'd in, has indue'd the Congress to Direct you immediately on Receipt of this to March with the Troops under your Command to Albany, there to wait the Orders of General Schuyler in case he should want your Assistance, and you will please without loss of time to proceed. 2 I am Sir Your most Obedt hum e Servt John Hancock President. 
To Brigadier General Wooster 292. The President of Congress to Philip Schuyler. 1 Sept. 20, 1775. Sir, Your letter of the 8th Inst, was received yesterday and laid before the Congress. 2 I am directed to express their approbation of your conduct as stated in your letter. 
Your taking possession of the Isle au Noix and the proposed measures for preventing the enemies vessels from entering the lake, appear to them highly expedient and necessary. 
The Congress have such a sense of the importance of that post as to wish it may not be abandoned without the most mature consideration or the most pressing necessity. * See the Journals, Oct. 13, 18, Nov. 13, 25, 28, Dec. 13, 1775; Jan. 30, Feb. 9, 13, Apr. 6, 13, 30, 1776; also nos. 333, 392, 424, 441, 444, 477 (note 3), post. [291] 1 Henkels, Catalogue, no. 969, item 93 (facsimile) ; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 3; Force, Ant. Arch., fourth ser., III. 749. 2 See the erased resolve, in the Journals, Sept. 20. Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 732-735, 778, and the Journals, June 16, July i, 17, Sept. 22, and Oct. 7. See also nos. 180, 190, ante. 
Cf. no. 324, post. [292] « Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 33 (copy in the writing of Charles Thomson) ; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, III. 1 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 749. 2 Schuyler's letter and enclosures are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 669- 672. They were received Sept. 18, taken into consideration on the 19th, and a committee appointed to draft a reply. 
This letter was probably prepared by the committee on the evening of the 19th, hence the word "yesterday". See the Journals, Sept. 18, 19, 20; cf. nos. 284, 287, 289, ante. 
September, ifj^ 203 They view the expedition intrusted to your care as of the greatest consequence to the general cause and as they clearly foresee that its influence whether successful or otherwise will be great and extensive, They are desirous that nothing necessary to give it a fortunate issue may be omitted. 
They have ordered all the forces raised in New York immediately to join you and those under General Worster to march immediately to Albany from whence if you should think such reinforcement necessary you will be pleased to order them. 
Should you stand in need of farther reinforcement, the Congress desire you will apply to General Washington. 
The Congress repose the highest confidence in the abilities, the zeal and the alacrity of the officers and force employed on this expedition. 
They are determined to spare neither Men nor Money and should the Canadians remain neuter flatter themselves, that the enterprize will be crowned with success notwithstanding the great and various difficulties to which it has been and still is exposed. 
It is with great concern that the Congress hear of your indisposition. 
They desire me to assure you of their warmest wishes for your Recovery and to request that in discharging the duties of your Station, you will not omit the attention due to the reestablishment of your health. 
By Order of the Congress signed John Hancock Prest To General Schuyler. 293. The New Hampshire Delegates to the Committee of Safety. 1 Philadelphia, Septembr 20th, 1775. Dear Sir Yesterday it was mov'd in Congress to discharge Col. Fenton from his confinement. 
It seems that [he] living at Hartford had an opportunity to see several of the members as they passed to and from the army and by his politeness and address and by telling how much he had suffer'd, had prejudie'd some of them that he had been hardly Dealt with by us; the Copy of a Letter from General Putnam was also produced, wherein he says, " that the populace had seized him and carried him before the Congress of N. Hampshire, and that after a full hearing they could not find that he had done any thing against the Liberties of America in Word or Deed, but for fear that he might, had ordered him to be confined." But as we knew the whole of that affair we convinced the Congress that our Convention had done right. 
The Congress then Passed a Resolve to this effect, " That whereas the Convention of the Colony of New Hampshire had prudently and justly ordered Col. John Fenton to be confined, and that he being now Desirous to remove to Great Britain or Ireland, therefore Resolved, that General Washington be Directed to allow Col. Fenton to Repair forthwith to New York, and from thence to Great Britain or Ireland, on his giving his Parole not to take up arms against America ", [293] * N. H. Prov. 
Papers, VII. 611 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 750. 204 Continental Congress 6'which order your Delegates consented to, thinking it better than keeping him confined at the Publick Expense. 2 .... We are your most obedient Humble servts Josiah Bartlett, John Langdon. 
Matthew Thornton, Esq., Chairman of the Committee of Safety, N Hampshire, to be communicated. 294. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Thursday 21 Septr. 
On a Question Whether Col. Armstrong or Col. Fry shall be Brig. 
Gen. in the Room of Pomeroy retired, the Colonies were divided
Have nothing new worth sending you. 
Compliments to all friends. 
Love to the family. 
Am in my old usual way, Committeeing it away, and busy as usual, Am your affectionate husband, Silas Deane. 
Sunday, Sept. [24th]. .... You must not expect long letters from me, as I am more taken up than when here last summer, and among other things the settlement of our Continental expences and charges of the war has fell to the lot of a Committee of which I am one
See N. H. Prov. 
Papers, VII. 371, 381, 415, 422, 445, 480, 485, 543, 544, 545, 560. [294] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 291. 2 See the Journals, Sept. 21 ; and Washington's letters of Aug. 4, 31, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 58, 104; also no. 271, note 4, ante, and nos. 303, 363, 437, post. 8 See the Journals, Sept. 21 ; cf. no. 278, ante. * See the letter of William Tudor to Washington, Aug. 23, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 245- [ 2 95] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc., Collections, II. 307; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc., Collections: Deane Papers, I. 79. 2 See no. 133, note 3, and no. 236, ante. 
Cf. no. 712, post. 
September, 7775 205 296. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 22, 23, 1775.] 22. Friday. 
Mr. Gordon spent the evening here. 2 23. Saturday. 
Mr. Gordon came and told us news, opened his budget. 
Ethan Allen with five hundred Green Mountain boys was intrenched half way between St. Johns and Montreal, and had cut off all communication with Carlton, and was kindly treated by the French. 
A council of war had been held, and it was their opinion that it was practicable to take Boston and Charlestown; but as it would cost many lives, and expose the inhabitants of Boston to destruction, it was thought best to postpone it for the present. 3 Major Rogers came here too this morning; said he had a hand and a heart, though he did not choose by offering himself, to expose himself to destruction. 4 I walked a long time, this morning, backward and forward in the State House yard with Paca, McKean, and Johnson. 
McKean has no idea of any right or authority in Parliament. 
Paca contends for an authority and right to regulate trade, etc. 
Dyer, and Sergeant B of Princeton, spent the evening here. 
S. says, that the Irish interest in this city has been the support of liberty. 
Mease, 6 etc. are leaders in it. The Irish and the Presbyterian interest coalesce. 297. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 23, 1775.] 23d. Upon reading a letter from the Quartermaster General, relative [to] coarse goods for clothing the soldiers, ordered, that Mr. Lewis, Mr. Willing, Mr. Deane, Mr. Alsop, Mr. Langdon, be a Committee to purchase £5,000 worth [of] coarse woolen goods for the use of the Continental Army, to be placed in the hands of the Quartermasters General for the soldiers at prime cost and charges ; the quartermaster to have five per cent, for his trouble. 2 Some accounts allowed. 
The letters from Morris and Wilson referred to Monday. 3 (Mr. Hopkins as usual.) A parcel of medicines for the hospital ordered to be bought. [296]* Works, II. 426. 2 William Gordon, the historian. 3 Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 751-754, 767-768. 4 See the Journals, Sept. 22, and cf. no. 289, ante. 5 Jonathan D. Sergeant. 
He became a member of Congress from New Jersey in 1776. 6 Presumably James Mease, who was made commissary Jan. 25, 1776, and clothier general, Apr. 4, 1777. He resigned the latter office Sept. 19, 1778, and was afterward indicted for peculations in office. [297] i-Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 550. 2 See the Journals, Sept. 23, and John Adams's Notes of Debates on this subject, in the Journals (ed. Ford), III. 471-473, and Works, II. 445-448. 3 See the Journals, Sept. 22, 25, 26, Oct. 7, and no. 298, post. 
Cf. nos. 271, 273, 274, 276, 279, ante. 206 Continental Congress 298. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [September 25, 1775.] Monday 25 De Hart moved to restrict all Conventions and Assemblies from issuing any more Paper Money and to recall what they have done without Permission from hence, he was not seconded. 
On reading Wilson and Morris's Letters and other Papers Willing moved that the Congress would interfere in settling a temporary Line between Virginia and Pennyslvania. a letter was read from the Delegates of those Two Colonies to the Inhabitants recomm'g Peace etc. several Orders of the King in Council Dated in June last relative to this Line were read. 2 299. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [September 25, 1775.] 25th (Mr. Hopkins [left] as usual. 
Shall not minute it again, unless he sits all day.) 300. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia, Septr 25th 1775 Sr .... the Money Ordered by Congress was forwarded soon after our arrival and were Surprised to find that Nothing had been done by the delegates of this province who were especially entrusted to send forward the Money as also a Number of Tents and other Necessaries for the Army but when we came here found Nothing had been done in our recess. 2 for ought I can see at present you must depend principally upon Connecticutt for the Provision Supplys for the Army the bread kind as well as others. 
I wish our Soldiery would be Content with Rye and Indian two or
You must set the farmers in Connecticutt Immediately to thresh out their Wheet etc. perhaps you may get some flower from York and from the Western part of our Colony as far as Norwich by Water till that river is froze up. the Congress in generall seem Averse to Venture it by Water from this place at present tho a Com tee is appointed to Consult that affair as well as some others who still have the matter under Consideration. 3 it may be decided in two or
Rev., I. 292. 2 See the Journals, Sept. 22, 25, 26, Oct. 7 ; cf. no. 297 and note 3, ante . The letter of the Virginia and Pennsylvania delegates, dated July 25, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1723. See the Journals, June 1. 1299]' Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 550. [300J 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Joseph Trumhull Papers. 2 See the Journals, Aug. 1 ; cf. ibid., Sept. 14. 3 See the Journals, Sept. 21, Oct. 19; cf. no. 278, ante. * See the Journals, Nov. 4. September, 1775 207 301. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Tuesday 26 Septr. 
Com ee brought in a Letter to Gen Washington, 2 in the Course of it E Rutledge moved that the Gen. shall discharge all the Negroes as well Slaves as Freemen in his Army, he (Rutledge) was strongly supported by many of the Southern Delegates but so powerfully opposed that he lost the Point. 3 the Question of the Lines between Penn a and Virginia agitated but Nothing determined. 4 the Letters between Washington and Gage ordered to be published, 5 then the Journal was read in Order for Publication and some Parts of. it ordered not to be printed as improper for Public Inspection particularly all that was there about fortifying the Passes on Hudsons River and the Directions to the New Yorkers to arm themselves etc. 302. Samuel Adams to Elbridge Gerry. 1 Philadelphia, Sept. 26, 1775. My Dear Sir, I arrived in this City on the 12th instant .... Until I visited headquarters at Cambridge, I had never heard of the valour of Prescott at Bunker's hill, nor the ingenuity of Knox and Waters in planning the celebrated works at Roxbury. 
We were told here that there were none in our camp who understood the business of an engineer, or any thing more than the manual exercise of the gun. 
This we had from great authority, and for want of more certain intelligence were obliged at least to be silent 303. The President of Congress to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia Septemr 26th 1775 Sir Upon considering your Letter of 4th August, the following Points appear'd so exceedingly important, that I am Directed to desire you will Consult such of your Officers as you think proper, upon the most prudent and effectual Methods of Accomplishing them. 2 [301 j
Rev., I. 292. 2 See the Journals, Sept. 25, 26, and no. 303, post. 3 See no. 317, post; also Washington to Congress, Dec. 31, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 312, and the Journals, Jan. 16,. 1776. 4 Cf. no. 298, and note 2, ante. 5 See no. 271, note 4, ante. [302] x Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 226; Wells, Life of Samuel Adams, II. 323; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 806; Austin, Life of Gerry, I. 113. [303] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 35; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 3; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 804. 2 Washington's letter of Aug. 4 had been considered in Congress from time to time since Sept. 13 and action taken on various parts of it. See the Journals, Sept. 13, Smith's Diary, Sept. 13, and Washington's letters of Aug. 31 and Sept. 21. Washington's letters are in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 58, 104, 137. This letter, signed by the President, was prepared by a committee. 
See the Journals, Sept. 25, 26, and cf. nos. 298, 301, ante. 
Replies to it, Oct. 5 and 12, are in Washington's Writings (ed. Ford), III. 161, 162, 172. 18 208 Continental Congress These are the Continuation of the Army, now under your Command, in the Service of the Continent, after the terms of Enlistment, shall have been Completed — the Reducing the Severall Corps of Provincials, which at present compose your Army into one Body of Continental Forces, what number will be necessary for the Winter Campaign, and what Rations shall be allow'd the Men, and what farther Regulations may be necessary for the Government of those Forces. 
Upon these Heads the Congress wish to be favour'd with the Result of your Deliberations as Soon as possible, as the Time of Enlistment in Connecticutt draws to a conclusion. 
The Congress Desire you will Take the proper Steps to provide your Troops with necessary Cover and Fuel for the Winter, as it is highly probable, that the Service of the Army will be wanted during that whole Season at least : and that you lay before Congress an Estimate of the 'Expence which may be necessary for these Services. 
As making any Alterations in the present Appointment of the Officers of different Colonies, and the Reduction of those Regiments which cannot be Compleated to their full Establishment, may Create great Jealousies and Uneasiness, the Congress are of Opinion that at present no Step should be taken therein, as the New Modelling the whole is so soon Expected, when those inconveniences may be Remedied without Danger. 
The Congress desire you will give them your Opinion, whether the Pay of the Private Men, which is consider'd as very high, may not be Reduc'd and how much. 3 Agreeable to the order of Congress I inclose you Copy of a Letter from General Schuyler, with sundry papers Inclos'd. 4 Application having been made to Congress for the Discharge of Coll. 
John Fenton, at present Confined at Hartford, they pass'd a Resolution that he be allow'd to proceed to New York, and from thence to London upon his giving his Parole not to Take up Arms against the Continent during the present Contest. 5 It is determined by Congress that you Issue a Commission to Mr Gridley as Colonell only, and to Suspend the Appointment of a Brigadier General for the present. 
They recommend to you to Grant commissions to Messrs. 
Box, Scammell and Samuel Brewer, as Brigade Majors. 6 The Memorial from Mr. Tudor the Judge Advocate was laid before Congress, and upon Consideration it was Resolved that he be Allow'd and paid Fifty Dollars per Month, for Himself and Clerk from the time of his Appointment, and I Transmit him by this Express his Commission and the Resolution of Congress. 7 3 See Washington's letter of Oct. 12. Cf. no. 187, ante, and no. 369, post. * See no. 292, ante. 5 See the Journals, Sept. 19; cf. nos. 284, 287, 293, ante. 6 See the Journals, Sept. 20, 21 ; cf. no. 294, ante. 7 See the Journals, Sept. 21. The memorial is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 245. September, 1775 209 Some Difficulty having arisen in the Settlement of the Acco tts of the severall Rifle Companies as to Supplies of Money etc. and particularly with Respect to Coll. 
Thompson, and the Congress having on the 29th. July Last Advanc'd to Colonell Thompson Five Thousand Dollars for the Service of his Battalion, I am directed to Desire you will order Coll. 
Thompson to Exhibit to you an Acco" of the Expenditure of the said Five Thousand Dollars, which you will please to Transmit* to me to be laid before Congress, by which the Severall Acco tts may be easily Accommodated. 8 I have nothing further in charge to Communicate. 
You will please to Return Fessenden as soon as you conveniently can. 
I have the Honour to be with great Respect and Esteem, Sir Your most obedient humble servt, John Hancock President His Excellency General Washington, etc. 
I have Sent you Eleven Bundles contg 550 Commissions. 304. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [September 27, 1775.] Wednesday 27. 160,000 Dollars ordered to be advanced to Connect* in part of their Claim on the Congress. 
Willing from the Com ee on Accounts asked whether a Charge should be allowed made by the Com ee of Northampton County in Penna. for their Time and Trouble in settling certain Accounts. 
Mr. Willing was directed not to allow it. 2 the Journal continued to be read and various Parts ordered not to be published, as the Instructions to Gen Wash 11 the Directions to the German Ministers etc. 3 A Petition was read from Messrs. 
Purviance of Baltimore praying Leave to ship off a Cargo of Wheat which the late Storm prevented, refused and ordered to lie on the Table. 4 305. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Thursday 28 Septr. 
No Congress, the Members dined by Invitation on Board of the Row Gallies which sailed down to the Chevaux de Frize near Mud Island and up to Point no Point. 2 I amused myself all the Morning in M. du Simitiere's curious Museum. 8 See the Journals, Sept. 21. Cf. no. 294, ante. [304] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 292. 2 See the Journals, Sept. 27 ; cf. no. 298, ante. 3 See the Journals, July 4, erased resolve, and the Bibliographical Notes, Journals (ed. Ford), III. 514-515. 4 See the Journals, Sept. 27, and John Adams's Notes of Debates, Journals (ed. Ford), III. 476; Works, II. 451-452. Cf. no. 308, post. [305] ^fw. Hist. 
Rev., I. 292. 2 Cf. no. 306, post. 
Samuel Ward's Diary for this day records : " Attended the invitation of the City on board the Galleys." See also Correspondence of Jay, I. 36. 210 Continental Congress 306. John Adams, Diary. 1 [September 28, 1775.] . ... 28. Thursday. 
The Congress and the Assembly of this Province were invited to make an excursion, upon Delaware River, in the new row gallies built by the Committee of Safety of this Colony. 
About ten in the morning we all embarked Last evening, Mr. Hewes, of North Carolina, introduced to my namesake and me a Mr. Hogg, from that Colony, one of the proprietors of Transylvania, a late purchase from the Cherokees upon the Ohio. 
He is ah associate with Henderson, who was lately one of the associate judges of North Carolina, who is President of the Convention in Transylvania. 
These proprietors have no grant from the Crown, nor from any Colony ; are within the limits of Virginia and North Carolina, by their charters, which bound those Colonies in the South Sea. They are charged with republican notions and Utopian schemes. 2 307. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [September 29, 1775.] Friday 29. Letters from Gen. Washington with a Return of his Army, about 19,000 effective Men who are to be disbanded in Deer, by the Terms of Inlistment. he prays Directions how to keep or raise an Army. 
Expenses run very high, great Want of Powder and Money. 2 Chief Part of the Morn'g was spent on a Motion to send a Com ee of the Congress to the Army to take proper Measures for the Winter Campaign, it passed in the affirmative, some Powder said to be just arrived in Delaware our Com ee were desired to purchase it. 3 above 80 of our Men have deserted to Gen. Gage in the Course of this Campaign accord'g to Gen. Wash ns Dispatches. 308. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Saturday 30 Septr. 
A Com ee of 3, viz. 
Harrison, Franklin and Lynch was appointed by Ballot to proceed to the Camp at Cambridge. 
Har- [306] r Works, II. 429. 2 James Hogg came as a delegate from the Transylvania "colony" to Congress, but the memorial which he brought was not presented. 
An account of his mission, written to Richard Henderson, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 543-546. The proceedings of the Transylvania Company, May and September, 1775, together with the memorial to Congress entrusted to James Hdgg, a letter (Nov. 2, 1775), from Silas Deane to Hogg, etc., are ibid., IV. 546-561. See also ibid.. III. 846. The proceedings of Sept. 2 and the memorial are also in N. C. Col. Recs., X. 256-261 ; cf. ibid., pp. 273, 274, 323-324, 382-387. The Deane letter is ibid., pp. 300-304. Hogg's report to Henderson is ibid., pp. 373-376. See also Turner, " Western State-Making in the Revolutionary Era ", in Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 78-81 ; Weeks, " General Joseph Martin and the War of the Revolution in the West", in Am. Hist. 
Assoc, Report (1893), pp. 416-419. [307 J 1 Am. J list. 
Rev., I. 293. 2 Washington's letter, dated Sept. 21, is in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 137, (ed. Sparks), III. 98; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 760-771, with enclosures. 
See no. 289, note 2, ante. z See erased paragraphs in the Journals. 
Samuel Ward makes a similar entry in his Diary for this day. [308J 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 293. September, 1775 211 rison and Dyer had an equal Number of Votes, the Question was taken Whether the Com ee shall consist of
Com ee to give a Regulation Whether or not the Trade Coastwise shall be continued, and a particular Vessel bound to Gloucester in Mass. 
Bay shall be permitted to proceed, after Debate the Matter was postponed. 5 An Application was made to the Congress by Capt John MacPherson offering to destroy all the British Fleet at Boston if permitted — postponed. 6 (I believe he was afterwards permitted to go and that he came back without effect'g any Thing). 7 McKean and Willing moved for Us to interfere in the Dispute between Connecticut and Pennsa. for that there is immediate Danger of Hostilities between them on the Susquehannah — deferred till Monday. 8 the Congress adjorned till Monday to meet at the Lodge in Lodge Alley because the election is to be then held at the State House. 9 309. The President of Congress to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia Septemr: 30th. 1775. Sir, Your Letters, 4, 5 and two other Letters not Numberd, with the Incisures, have been duly Received and laid before Congress. 2 2 The Journals do not show that Dyer was in nomination or that the question of constituting the committee of four members was considered. 
See no. 309, post. 3 The instructions to the committee are in the Journals, Oct. 2. They are recorded in the Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 7 (Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc). The committee's proceedings, reported to Congress, Nov. 1, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1155- 1167. See no. 353, post. 4 See the Journals, July 26, Sept. 30. 5 See no. 304, ante. 6 See the Journals, Oct. 16, 19, 20. Cf. nos. 286, ante, 340, post. 7 This statement is one of the indications that the Diary, in the form in which it has been preserved, is not the original record but an amended copy subsequently made by the diarist. 8 See the erased paragraph in the Journals, Sept. 30. Cf. nos. 240, 258, ante, and nos. 339, 331, 399, post. 9 Cf. the Journals. 
Smith left Congress Oct. 1, returning Dec. 12 (Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 293). [309] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 39; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 55; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 847. 2 The letters of Washington referred to are those of Aug. 4, 31, Sept. 7, 21. See no. 303, note 2, ante. 
The letter of Sept. 7 is found in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 662. It may be the letter mentioned as no. 6 in the Journals, Sept. 16. But see the Journals, Sept. 21 (p. 257 n). Cf. nos. 271, 278, 307, 308, ante. 212 Continental Congress &* As there are sundry matters contain'd in your Letters which are of great importance, and on which the Congress, before they come to a final Determination, are Desirous to have the Advantage of your experience and Knowledge ; They have Appointed three of their Members, Vizt. •Mr. Lynch Doctor Franklin and Mr. Harrison to wait on you, Confer with you and the Governors of Connecticutt and Rhode Island, the Council of Massachussets Bay, and the President of the Convention of New Hampshire, (to whom I have wrote on the subject by order of Congress,) and such other Persons as to the said Committee shall seem proper, touching the most effectual Method of Continuing, supporting and Regulating a Continental Army. 
The Committee will set out as soon as possible, and Expect to be with you by the 12th: of next Month. 3 I have the Honour to be with the greatest Esteem, Sir, Your most Obedt. hum e Servt John Hancock President. [P. S.] 310. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia Octobr 2nd 1775 Sr .... I do not at present see any prospect of your getting flower from this place. 
What they have sent has been taken by the Enemys Ships of Warr which discourages the Congress' permitting any more beingship d from hence that believe you must depend on Connecticutt and New York, but of this you will be more particularly advised by the Gentn. 
Viz Doctr Franklin Mr Lynch and Coll Harrison who are appointed a Comtee to attend the Genii at Cambridge and other G. officers he shall think proper on many Important Matters. 
Govr Trumbull and Depty Govr Cook and the president of New Hampshire Convention are desired to be with them in Consultation, the matter of providing the Army no doubt will be part of their deliberation.- .... 3 See the Journals, Sept. 29, 30 ; cf. nos. 307, 308, ante. 
See also Hancock to Gov. Trumbull, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 848. [310] 1 Conn. 
State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Collection, no. 48. - See the Journals, Sept. 29, 30. Samuel Ward's diary for Oct. 2 contains the entry: " Instructions to General Washington : soldiers to be paid by calendar months."The reference to payment by calendar months in the instructions to the committee to be sent to camp (which are the instructions alluded to by Ward) appear to be incidental; but Ward's specific mention of the matter suggests that there was probably some discussion of the point. 
At all events a controversy presently arose between Washington and the Massachusetts authorities over the question whether the pay should be by calendar or lunar months. 
See no. 383, note 2, post. 
October, 1775 213 311. The New Hampshire Delegates to Matthew Thornton. 1 Philadelphia, Octobr 2d, 1775. Hon. Matthew Thornton Sir Agreeable to your desire that we should write as often as may be, have taken this early opportunity, tho' little or nothing to communicate. 
Before this comes to hand, doubtless you'll receive a letter from our President, desiring your attendance at Head Quarters, to consult with a Committee from this Congress, relative to the Army. 
Doctr Franklin, Mr. Lynch, and Colonel Harrison are the Committee. 2 We humbly beg leave to suggest whether it would not be good opportunity to mention the convuls'd state of our Colony and the absolute necessity of governmt and also to forward by them a Petition from our Convention to take up Government ; we have consulted many of the members on the matter, and as soon as Colonel Bartlett is able to attend the house, which will be in a few days, (as he's almost well of the small-pox) shall motion for leave to take the same government as Massachusetts Bay. 3 You'll also give us leave to urge the forwarding of our Ace* against the Continent immediately, otherwise there may not be money in the Continental Treasury, as great sums are dayly Drawing from thence : the Consequence of which will be, shall be obliged to wait for another emition. 
There has been nothing transacted in Congress as yet that we are at liberty to communicate. 
The Journals are not yet printed, tho' ready for the Press, but will be soon. 
You'll give us leave to Repeat our Desire that our Convention, or Committee of Safety will forward a Petition for Government, setting forth the absolute necessity of it, the impossibility of tax g without, which is a thing that must be done, as it would ruin us to be emitting paper on every occasion. 
You'll pardon us for throw g out these hints. 
We are, S r , your most humb
Not because some Letters [311] 1 N. H. Prov. 
Papers, VII. 615 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 935. 2 See the Journals, Sept. 29, 30; cf. nos. 308, 309, ante. 3 See the Journals, Oct. 18, 26, Nov. 2, 3. Cf. the letter of the New Hampshire delegates, Oct. ", Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 985. See also nos. 333 (note 3), 345, post. [312] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 124. 2 A resolution requiring secrecy had been adopted May 11. In what manner the obligations of secrecy had been " braced up " at this time is not clear, as it is not until Nov. 9 that the Journals record any action in the matter. 
On that day a stringent resolution was adopted and members required to sign it. See no. 363, note 3, post. 
See also nos. 318, 349, 353, 354, post. 
Cf. nos. 161, 180 (note 7), 187, 192, ante. 214 Continental Congress have been intercepted, for notwithstanding the Versification of them, they have done good, tho they have made some People grin. 3 This I can Say with Confidence, that the Propriety and Necessity of the Plan of Politicks so hastily delineated in them is every day, more and more confessed even by those Gentlemen who disapproved it at the Time when they were written. 
Be assured, I never Saw So Serious and determined a Spirit as I see now every day. 
The high Spirited Measures you call for will assuredly come. 
Languid and disastrous Campaigns are agreeable to Nobody. 4 .... 313. Samuel Adams to James Warren. 1 Philada., Octob. 3, 1775 My dear Sir, .... This day Dr. Franklin setts off for Cambridge, being deputed by the Congress in Conjunction with Mr. Lynch of South Carolina and Coll. 
Harrison of Virginia to consult with the General and some Gentlemen of the four New England Colonies, concerning the most effectual Methods of continuing supporting and regulating the Continental Army. 
This Embassy I conjecture will be attended with great and good Consequences. 2 The Intelligence received by the July Packett, which arrived at New York a few days ago, has convincd some, who could not be prevaild upon to believe it before, that it is folly to supplicate a Tyrant, and that under God, our own virtuous Efforts must save us. I hope, that our Troops will before long force their Way into Boston. 
If such a Design should be in Contemplation I dare say you will encourage it to the utmost of your Power. 
Mr. Lynch is a Man of Sense and Virtue. 
Coll. 
Harrison's Character may be drawn from his Confidential Letter publishd not long ago in Madam Draper's Gazette. 8 I hope these Gentlemen will be treated with all the Respect which is due to the publick Character they sustain. 
I mentiond to my valuable friend Coll. 
Lee
Indeed he could not have been well spared from the Congress, and therefore I was the more easily satisfied with his Objection, which was the Want of Health. 
You would have been exceedingly pleasd with him
Cf. the letter to Mercy Warren, Sept. 26, in Warren- Adams Letters, I. 118, also Mrs. Adams to Mercy Warren, Aug. 27, ibid. p. 106. See also ibid., p. 88, note 4, where Hannah Winthrop is quoted as saying (to Mercy Warren) : " As for the Versification, it was in a hand Bill, and so scurrilous is not to be worth notice."4 See Warren to Adams, July 19, ibid., p. 112. [313] 1 Warren- Adams Letters, I. 124. 2 Cf. the letters of John Adams to Warren, Sept. 30, Oct. 1, in Warren-Adams Letters, 1. 119, 120. Sec also nos. 308, 309, 311, ante. 3 See no. 236, ante. 
The Massachusetts Gazette was at this time conducted by the widow of Richard Draper. 
The copy containing the letter has not been found. * Richard Henry Lee. The brother was Arthur Lee. October, 1775 215 314. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 4, 1775.] 4th. . . . Resolved into a Committee upon the trade of the colonies (Additional instructions to the Committee first given.) Only 189,467 dollars ready of the 300,000 yesterday ordered. 
Some accounts allowed. 
Then went into a Committee of the whole, etc. 2 .... 315. James Duane, Notes of Debates. 1 [October
Because it will put all the Colonies on a footing. 
INCONVENIENCES. 1st. If shut up Man of War will be our Custom house officer. 2d. No ship can be entered. 3d. All must be subject to seizure and confiscation. 4th. What will be the state of trade between the present time and the period fixed by the Resolution? 5th. Between the period fixed and time of foreigner's arrival will take further time. 6th. When they arrive they are subject to seizure. 7th. They will then sell dear and buy cheap. 8. If we must trade with foreigners, it will be certain — nor quit costs — precarious, pernicious. 9. It is in nature of a threat by which we have gained nothing hitherto. 
LEE FOR PREPARATION. I. If exempted Colonies — Trade as usual — others will be discontented, jealous. 
Ruin — must all be in the same situation. 1 st. Decisive offense by opening ports. 2d. If treaty fails no consequence. 3d. Agent could not have answered — not knows sense of Cong. 4th. Might obtain assistance by sea. 5th. Necessity of winter supply in Virginia. [3H] l Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 551. 2 See John Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 4, in the Journals (ed. Ford), III. 476-480, Works, II. 452-456. [315PN. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Amer. 
Papers, II. 219-223 (copy). 2 A comparison of these notes with those of John Adams, Oct. 5, 1775, indicates that they belong here. 
See Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 4 and 5, in the Journals (ed. Ford), III. 476-481, and Adams's Works, II. 452-484, passim; also no. 318 and note 3, post. 
Cf. no. 329, note 4, post. 3 John Joachim Zubly, delegate from Georgia. 216 Continental Congress 316. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 5, 1775.] 5//?. Congress according to the order of the day went into a Committee of the whole, etc. 
After some debate a member produced a number of letters from England, which were read, and Captain Read, 2 just arrived, and the gentleman to whom the letters were written, desired to attend the Congress. 
Expresses sent to General Washington, Governor Cooke and Governor Trumbull, to send out several vessels to intercept two transports with powder, etc. 
Encouragement given to the men, etc. 
The vessels to go on the service to be at the risk of the Continent. 3 [316] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. SSI. 2 Probably Capt. 
Thomas Read of the ship Montgomery, in the service of Pennsylvania. 
See Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 745-753, passim, and 769. In June, 1776, he was made captain of the Continental frigate Washington. 
See the Journals, June 6, Aug. 13, 1776, etc. 
The letters from London concerning the two vessels have not been found, but cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 148, 255-257. 3 See the Journals, Oct. 5, 6, 13, 17, 30, and Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 30, in the Journals, III. 504; also Hancock's letters to Washington and to the Massachusetts council, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 950, 951, and Washington to Congress, Oct. 12, read in Congress Oct. 21, ibid., III. 1037 and Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 172, (ed. Sparks), III. 122. Cf. Gerry to Samuel Adams, Oct. 9, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 993. See also Gov. Cooke of Rhode Island to Washington, Oct. 10, ibid., III. 1007, and to the Rhode Island delegates, the same day, Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 41. See further, the Journals, Nov. 2, 8, 23, 24, 25, 28, 30, Dec. 2, 5, 9, 19, 22, 1775 ; Jan. 7, 16, 25, 30, Feb. 7, 1776. Cf. nos. 329, 336, 354, 390, 395, 396, post. 
Many years later John Adams wrote in his Autobiography concerning these proceedings : " On Thursday, October 5th, 1775, sundry letters from London were laid before Congress and read, and a motion was made, that it be ' Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed to prepare a plan for intercepting two vessels which are on their way to Canada, laden with arms and powder, and that the committee proceed on this business immediately.'" The secretary has omitted to insert the names of this committee on the journals, but as my memory has recorded them, they were Mr. Deane, Mr. Langdon, and myself, three members who had expressed much zeal in favor of the motion. 
As a considerable part of my time, in the course of my profession, had been spent upon the sea-coast of Massachusetts, in attending the courts and lawsuits at Plymouth, Barnstable, Martha's Vineyard, to the southward, and in the counties of Essex, York, and Cumberland to the eastward, I had conversed much with the gentlemen who conducted our cod and whale fisheries, as well as the other navigation of the country, and had heard much of the activity, enterprise, patience, perseverance, and daring intrepidity of our seamen. 
I had formed a confident opinion that, if they were once let loose upon the ocean, they would contribute greatly to the relief of our wants, as well as to the distress of the enemy. 
I became therefore at once an ardent advocate for this motion, which we carried, not without great difficulty. 
The opposition to it was very loud and vehement. 
Some of my own colleagues appeared greatly alarmed at it, and Mr. Edward Rutledge never displayed so much eloquence as against it. He never appeared to me to discover so much information and sagacity, which convinced me that he had been instructed out-of-doors by some of the most knowing merchants and statesmen in Philadelphia. 
It would require too much time and space to give this debate at large, if any memory could attempt it. Mine cannot. 
It was, however, represented as the most wild, visionary, mad project that ever had been imagined. 
It was an infant, taking a mad bull by his horns; and what was more profound and remote, it was said it would ruin the character, and corrupt the morals of all our seamen. 
It would make them selfish, piratical, mercenary, bent wholly upon plunder, etc. 
These formidable arguments and this terrible rhetoric were answered by us by the best reasons we could allege, and the great advantages of distressing the enemy, supplying ourselves, and beginning a system of maritime and naval operations, were represented in colors as glowing and animating. 
The vote was carried, the committee went out, returned very soon, and brought in the report in these words : . . . . October, iyy^ 217 317. John Adams to William Heath. 1 Philadelphia, Octr. 5th, 1775. Sir, .... It is represented in this city by some persons, and it makes an unfriendly impression upon some minds, that in the Massachusetts Regiments, there are great numbers of boys, old men, and negroes, such as are unsuitable for the service, and therefore that the Continent is paying for a much greater number of men than are fit for active or any service. 
I have endeavoured to the utmost of my power to rectify these mistakes, as I take them to be, and I hope with some success, but still the impression is not quite removed. 2 I would beg the favour of you therefore, Sir, to inform me whether there is any truth at all in this report, or not. 
It is natural to suppose there are some young men and some old ones and some negroes in the service, but I should be glad to know if there are more of these in proportion in the Massachusetts Regiments, than in those of Connecticutt, Rhode Island, and New Hampshire, or even among the Riflemen. " This committee immediately procured a room in a public house in the city, and agreed to meet every evening at six o'clock, in order to despatch this business with all possible celerity." Works, III. 6. See also the extract of a letter to John Langdon, Jan. 24, 1813, in the Journals (ed. Ford), III. 277 n. Whether Adams was a member of the committee of Oct. 5 is uncertain, for the Journals do not record the composition of the committee. 
At all events, when a new committee had been appointed, Oct. 13, to carry out the plan which the committee of Oct. 5 had reported, Oct. 6 (the committee had made a first report on the same day on which it was appointed), the first committee ceased to exist. 
Nor was Adams a member of the second committee. 
When however the functions of the committee of Oct. 13 were enlarged, Oct. 30, and its membership increased from three to seven Adams was one of the four new appointees. 
It was this committee of seven which presently came to be called the naval committee, although for a time it is designated in the Journals by such phrases as " the committee for fitting out armed vessels ". See the Journals, Nov. 2, 23, 30, Dec. 2, s, 9, 13, 22, 1775 ; Jan. 6, 9, 16, 25, 30, Feb. 7, 1776. Early in 1776 the functions of this committee were absorbed by what became the marine committee, although not at first so called, which since Dec. 14 had existed side by side with it. See especially the memorandum of Charles Thomson quoted in the Journals (ed. Ford), under Jan. 25, l 7?6 (p. 90 n) ; also the Journals, Sept. 19, 1776. Of the origin of the marine committee it is necessary to take note briefly. 
Before the arrival of the budget of news from London which precipitated the action of Congress Oct. 5 a more deliberate step had been taken to induce Congress to create a navy. 
On Oct. 3 the Rhode Island delegates presented to Congress an instruction from their assembly, given Aug. 25, especially urging " the building and equipping an American fleet ". See the Journals, Oct. 3, 6, 7, Nov. 16, Dec. 9, and nos. 343, 364, note 2, post ; also Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 40. It was the Rhode Island instruction that formed the basis of the discussion recorded by John Adams in his Notes of Debates, Oct. 7 (Journals, III. 485; Works, II. 463). This instruction was taken into consideration Dec. 11, and a committee of one from each colony appointed to devise ways and means for furnishing a naval armament. 
This committee made a report Dec. 13, and a new committee, also one from each colony, was appointed, Dec. 14, to carry the plan into execution. 
It is evident that the committee of Dec. 14 was from the first regarded as a standing committee on naval affairs, whereas the so called naval committee was appointed for a specific purpose with a limited scope. 
See no. 395, post. 
For other comment by John Adams concerning the origin of the navy and his part therein see no. 390, note 2, post. 
Adams was not a member of the marine committee at any time. 
For a history of these committees see C. O. Paullin, The Navy of the American Revolution, pp. 35 et seq., 79 et seq. [317] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IV. 3; id., Heath Papers, I. 34. 2 See no. 301, ante. 218 Continental Congress &'You may depend, Sir, upon my using the most prudent caution, in the use of your letter, and especially of your name, but I could certainly make a good use of a letter from you upon the subject. 
Great fault is likewise found in several parts of the Continent of the Massachusetts officers, whom I believe, taken on an average, and in proportion to numbers, to be equal at least if not superiour to any other Colony 318. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, Octr. 7th, 1775 Dr. Sir, The Debates and Deliberations in Congress are impenetrable Secrets ; 2 but the Conversations in the City and the Chatt of the Coffee house are free and open. 
Indeed I wish We were at Liberty to write freely and Speak openly upon every Subject, for their is frequently as much Knowledge derived from Conversation and Correspondence as from Solemn public Debates. 
A more intricate and complicated Subject never came into any Man's thoughts than the Trade of America. 
The Questions that arise when one thinks of it, are very numerous. 
If the Thirteen united Colonies should immediately Surcease all Trade with every Part of the World what would be the Consequence? In what manner, and to what degree, and how soon would it affect, the other Parts of the World? how would it affect G. B., Ireland, the English West India Islands, the French the Dutch the Danish, the Spanish West India Islands ? how would it affect the Spanish Empire on the Continent? how would it affect the Brazills and the Portuguese Settlements in America? If it is certain that it would distress Multitudes in these Countries, does it therefore follow that it would induce any foreign Court to offer Us assistance, and to ask us for our Trade or any Part of it? If it is questionable whether foreign States would venture upon Such Steps, which would perhaps be Violations of Treaties of Peace, and certainly would light up a War in Europe, is it certain that Smugglers, by whom I mean private Adventurers belonging to foreign Nations would come here, through all the Hazards they must run ? Could they be suffered to clear out for America in their own Custom houses? Would they not run the risque of Seizure from their own Custom House officers, or of Capture from their own Men of War? Would they not be liable to be visited by British Men of War, in any Part of the Ocean, and if found to have no Clearances be seized ? When they arrived on any Part of the Coast of N. America would they not be seized by Brittish Cutters Cruizers, Fenders, Frigates without Number? But if their good Fortune should escape all these Risques, have We harbours or Rivers, sufficiently fortified, to insure them Security while here? In their Return to their own Country would they not have the same Gauntlett to run? In short, if We Stop our own Ships, have we even a Probability that the Ships of foreign Nations, will run the Venture to come here, either with or without the [318] J Warren-Adams Letters, I. 126. 2 See no. 312, note 2, ante. 
October, 1775 219 Countenance and Encouragement of their several Courts or States public or private open or secret? It is not easy for any Man precisely and certainly to answer this Question. 
We must then say all this is uncertain. 
Suppose then We assume an intrepid Countenance, and send Ambassadors at once to foreign Courts, what Nation shall We court? Shall We go to the Court of France, or the Court of Spain, to the States General of the United Provinces? to the Court of Lisbon, to the Court of Prussia or Russia or Turkey or Denmark, or where, to any, one, more, or all of these? If we should, is there a Probability, that our Ambassadors would be received, or so much as heard or seen by any Man or Woman in Power at any of these Courts. 
He might possibly, if well skill'd in intrigue, his Pocketts well filled with Money and his Person Robust and elegant enough, get introduced to some of the Misses and Courtezans in Keeping of the statesmen in France, but would not that be all. 
An offer of the Sovereignty of this Country to France or Spain would be listened to no doubt by either of those Courts, but we should suffer any Thing before we should offer this. 
What then can We offer ? An Alliance, a Treaty of Commerce? What Security could they have that we should keep it? Would they not reason thus: These People intend to make Use of us to establish an Independency, but the Moment they have done it Britain will make Peace with them, and leave us in the Lurch, and we have more to dread from an Alliance between Britain and the United Colonies as an independant state, than we have now they are under one corrupted Administration. 
Would not Spain reason in the same manner, and say further our Dominions in South America will be soon a Prey to these enterprizing and warlike Americans, the Moment they are an independent State? Would not our Proposals and Agents be treated with Contempt? and if our Proposals were made and rejected, would not this sink the Spirits of our own People Elevate our Enemies and disgrace Us in Europe? If then, it will not be safe to Stop our own Ships entirely and trust to foreign Vessells coming here either with or without Convoy of Men of War belonging to foreign States, what is to be done ? Can our own People bear a total Cessation of Commerce? Will not such Numbers be thrown out of Employment and deprived of their Bread, as to make a large discontented Party? Will not the Burthen of supporting these Numbers, be too heavy upon the other Part of the Community? Shall we be able to maintain the War, wholly without Trade ? can we support the Credit of our Currency without it? If We must have Trade how shall We obtain it? There is one Plan, which alone, as it has ever appeared to me, will answer the End in some Degree, at first. 
But this is attended with So many Dangers to all Vessells, certain Loss to many, and So much Uncertainty upon the whole, that it is enough to make any Man thoughtfull. 
Indeed it is looked upon So wild, extravagant and romantic, that a Man must have a great deal of Courage and much Indifference to common Censure, who should dare to propose it. 220 Continental Congress 6'" God helps those who help themselves ", and it has ever appeared to me since this unhappy Dispute begun, that We had no Friend upon Earth to depend on but the Resources of our own Country, and the good sense and great Virtues of our People. 
We shall finally be obliged to depend upon ourselves. 
Our Country furnishes a vast abundance of materials for Commerce. 
Foreign Nations have great Demands for them. 
If We should publish an Invitation to any one Nation or more, or to all Nations, to send their ships here and let our Merchants inform theirs that We have Harbours where the Vessells can lie in Safety, I conjecture that many private foreign ^Adventurers would find Ways to send Cargoes here thro all the Risques without Convoys. 
At the Same Time our own Merchants would venture out with their Vessells and Cargoes, especially in Winter, and would run thro many Dangers, and in both these Ways together, I should hope We might be supplied with Necessaries. 
All this however Supposes that We fortify and defend our own Harbours and Rivers. 
We may begin to do this. 
We may build Row Gallies, flatt bottomed Boats, floating Batteries, Whale Boats, Vesseaux de Frize, nay, Ships of War, how many, and how large I can't say. 
To talk of coping Suddenly with G. B. at sea would be Quixotism indeed, but the only Question with me is, can We defend our Harbours and Rivers? If We can We can trade. 3 319. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 9, 1775.] October pth. 
A letter from the Commissary [General] relative to £500, advanced for Colonel Arnold; and the money ordered to be paid accordingly. 
Further order for exchanging £20,000, Pennsylvania] C[urrenc]y, for General Schuyler.- .... 320. The New York Delegates to the New York Convention. 1 Philadelphia 9th Octr 1775 Gen' 1 We reed your favour of the 4th inst, containing an ace
The Congress approve highly of your diligence in the erection of fortifications on Hudsons river; you will I believe receive by this conveyance their senti- 3 Cf. Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 4, 5, 12, 13, 20, 21, in the Journals (ed. Ford), III. 476-481, 490-503; Works, II. 452-457, 469-483. See also no. 315, ante. 
Cf. nos. 337, 342, 348, post. 
For some account of a discussion this day of the Rhode Island proposition for building a fleet see Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 7, in the Journals, III. 485 ; Works, II. 463. See also no. 316, note 3, ante. [319J 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 552. 2 See the Journals, Oct. 6, 9 (erased resolve), 10. Concerning Schuyler's letters see no. 328, post. 
I320] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 179 (in the writing of R. R. Livingston) ; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 171 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1279. October, 1775 221 ments on this subject, as well as extracts of some letters that show its propriety, and the designs of administration against us. 2 We sincerely lament the necessity to which the want of gunpowder may reduce us, and have endeavoured as far as lies in our power to remove it by procuring you at the Continental expense one ton, which was all that could be obtained. 
You will take care not to forward this, unless you know how to supply yourselves, for it is not the design of .the Congress that you should at any time be intirely at the mercy of your enemy. 3 We shall take care to get your a[r]tillery company put upon a proper footing, in which we apprehend no difficulty. 
As to the want of Cloathing for our troops, we are not without hopes that that may be provided for in Canada, of which we cannot but flatter ourselves they will shortly be in possession. 
We remain Gent with the greatest respect Your Most Obt Hum : Servts Phil. 
Livingston John Alsop Jas. Duane Robt R Livingston junr To The Hon : The Convention of the Province of New York. 321. The President of Congress to the New York Convention. 1 Philadelphia Octr 9th 1775 Gentlemen Your Letters of 6th Inst have been laid before Congress. 2 They have issued an order for One Ton of Powder to be sent to New York, but I am directed to inform you if you can with safety spare it or any part, it is the wish of Congress you would immediately forward it to General Schuyler. 
In answer to your Letter Respecting the Brig e Mary Capt Wallace which put into your port to Repair, I am order'd to Acquaint you, that the Congress Recommend that she proceed on her Voyage with the Cargo after being Refitted. 
In Consequence of your Letter to Congress, Inclosing a plan and Estimate of the Fort Erecting on the Highlands of North River, I now Inclose
See also the Journals, June 16. The letter to the New York delegates is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1268; cf. ibid., PP- 535, 541, 565, 567. 659, 732, 735 et seq., 795, 880, 882, 901, 902, 914, 919, 1080, 1274, 1283, 1284, 1285, 1289, 1290, 1293, 1295, 1296, 1299, 1311, 1315, 1316, 1355-136/. 3 See the Journals, Oct. 9; cf. no. 321, post, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., 1093, 1291, 1292. I321] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 49 (L. S. of Hancock) ; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 171, II. 5; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1279. 2 The letters are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 971, 972, 1272, 1273. See the Journals, Oct. 7, 9; cf. no. 320, ante. 
See also Hancock's letter to the New York convention, Oct. 16, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1291, and the convention's letter, Oct. 18, ibid., III. 1292. 222 Continental Congress you the Resolution of Congress thereon to which Refer you. 3 I also Inclose you a Resolve of Congress respecting those who are in your Opinion dangerous by being at large, to which also Refer you. 4 Your proposall inclos'd respecting the Importation of Gunpowder is Submitted to a Committee, the Resolution of Congress thereon shall be Transmitted you. 5 I have wrote to Genl Wooster at Albany, by order of Congress, to proceed to the Fort now building at North River, and there leave as many of his Troops as the Conductor of the Works shall think necessary to Expedite the Works, and with the Remainder to proceed to New York and there Remain. 6 By Desire of your Delegates I inclose you some extracts of letters from London, laid before Congress. 7 I am Gentlemen Your most Obedt Servt John Hancock Presidt. 
The Convention of New York. 322. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to Philip Schuyler. 1 Philada. 
Octr 9th 1775. To Major Genl Schuyler Sir: The enclosed Intelligence was designed to be forwarded on the Day of its Date, but the Arrival of fresh Advices from you prevented it. J I now by order of Congress enclose you sundry Resolutions entered into by them the 14th of Sepr. last respecting the Appointment of Mr. Stringer as Director of the Hospital and Chief Physician, and several other Orders respecting the Hospital and a Direction to the Commissary to pay Doctr. 
Stringer the Amount of Costs of Medicines purchased by him for the Use of the Army and Orders that the Commissary furnish such other Medicines as you shall direct. 3 3 See no. 320, ante. 4 See the Journals, Oct. 6. A copy of this resolve, in the writing of Charles Thomson, in the N. Y. State Lib. (printed in Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 172, and in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1280), has this note appended : " To be kept as secret as its nature will admit." In regard to Dunmore and Tryon see John Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 6, 7 (Journals, III. 482, 485; Works, II. 458, 462), and the resolve concerning Gov. Tryon, Journals, Oct. 19; cf. Hancock to the New York provincial congress, Oct. 20, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 131 1, and the correspondence referred to, ibid., III. 1052-1054,1314. See also a letter of Oct. 16 from a member of Congress to his friend in Virginia, ibid., III. 1072, and Richard Henry Lee to Washington, Oct. 22, ibid., III. 1137; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 152. 6 See the Journals, Oct, 6, 9; and John Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 6, in the Journals (ed. Ford), III. 482; Works, II. 458; and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 944, 1269. 6 See the Journals, Oct. 7, Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 7, in the Journals, III. 485; Works, II. 460; and no. 324, post. 7 These extracts are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1280-1282. Cf. no. 322 and note 2, post. [322] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 12; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 987. 2 The intelligence referred to is doubtless the extracts of letters from London, mentioned in no. 321, ante. 
Cf. Schuyler's letter, Oct. 14, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1065. 8 See the Journals, Sept. 14. October, 7775 223 I am directed by the Congress to inform you that if you judge it necessary, they approve of your appointing a suitable Person for a Brigade Major in your Department. 4 Your several Letters have been duly laid before Congress, and are now under the Consideration of a Committee ; as soon as they report, and the Congress have come to Resolutions thereupon, the Result shall be immediately transmitted to you. 5 But they have directed me to forward to you by this Express, under the Escort of two of the light Horse of this City what Silver and Gold can be collected in the Time, least you should be in Want; and I have accordingly sent you six Thousand three Hundred and sixty-four Pounds Philada. 
Currency. 
A further Sum will be forwarded you by the Express that carries you the Resolutions of Congress on the various Parts of your Letters, which will be dispatched in a few Days [P. S.] You will please to acknowledge the Receipt of the Money. 
Enclosed is the Invo[ice] of the Money. 323. The New Jersey Delegates to the President of the New Jersey Congress (Samuel Tucker). 1 [October 9, 1775.] Sir The Continental Congress have this Day Agreed to Recommend to the Jersey Congress to Raise two Battallions for one year to Consist of
In Case the present Unhappy differences should be soon Settled and they discharged sooner the Men to receive one Months pay extra ordinary. 
The Troops hitherto raised in any of the Colonys have had the Appointment of the Colonells and All the Inferier Officers and the Men 50 shillings pr Month. 
It is Voted by the Congress that
Concerning the appointment of field officers see nos. 326, 330, 344. 19 22L Continental Congress &'Whether the Last proposition will take place or not is Undetermined that is Whether the Continental Congress or the Several provincial Congresses shall Appoint the Regimental field officers. 3 We beg the favor of You to lay this before the New Jersey Congress and request of them to Return an Answer to the Continental Congress Whether on these Terms the Troops*Can be had in Jersey and Whether the Congress will putt the Recommendation in practice. 
As Delegates of New Jersey We think it our Duty to state these Facts for Your Consideration without any Observation of Our own Not doubting but that You will bestow the proper Consideration on the subject and Come to that Determination which Your Duty and the Common Interest Dictate. 4 You will receive We Expect a Letter from the president inclosing the Minutes of the Continental Congress relating to this Matter which will More particularly Mention the Terms. 5 We are with great Respect Your Frds and Serts Js. Kinsey Wil: Livingston 324. The President of Congress to David Wooster. 1 Philada Octr I9[9]th 1775. 2 To Brigadier Genl Worcester at Albany. 
Sir General Schuyler having by Letter informed the Congress that he believed he should have no Occasion to employ the Troops under your Command, I am desired by the Congress to direct that you immediately proceed with the Troops under your Command to the Batteries erecting on the Highlands in North River, and there leave as many of your Troops, as in the Opinion of the Conductor will be necessary for expediting the Completion of the Works there, and that you repair with the Remainder of the Troops to New York, and there continue until further Orders from the Congress. 
But in Case you should have any Orders from Gen
Whether the New England Colonies will submit to that Inclination We doubt."4 See the Journals, Oct. 9, 10, 11, 12, 16, 25, 30, 31, Nov. 4, 7; also John Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 10 (Journals, III. 489; Works, II. 467), and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1050, 1051, 1222-1226 (passim), 1229, 1234, 1255. The New Jersey letters of Oct. 13 and 14 are ibid., pp. 1050, 1051, 1130. See nos. 345, 355, post. 5 See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1223. f324] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 12; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Hancock; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. T105. 2 This letter appears to be dated Oct. 19 in the letter-book and it is printed under that date in Force's Archives. 
That date is however evidently an error. 
It appears in the letter-book among the letters of Oct. 9, and all facts point to that as the correct date. 
See the Journals, Oct. 7, and Schuyler's letter of Sept. 28, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III.826. Cf. no. 291, ante. 
October, I//5 225 or in any Way to be aiding to his Expedition, you are wholly to conform yourself to his Directions, the above Orders of Congress notwithstanding. 
I am, etc. 
J. H. Prest. 325. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 10 October, 1775. .... The surprising intelligence we have in private letters concerning the Director of the Hospital, 2 has made me more cautious of writing than ever. 
I must be excused from writing a syllable of anything of any moment. 
My letters have been and will be nothing but trifles. 
I don't choose to trust the post. 
I am afraid to trust private travellers. 
They may peep. 
Accidents may happen; and I would avoid, if I could, even ridicule, but especially mischief. 
Pray, bundle up every paper, not already hid, and conceal them in impenetrable darkness. 
Nobody knows what may occur 326. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 11, 1775.] nth Debate concerning field-officers resumed, and referred until the return of the Committee from Cambridge. 2 .... 327. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward. 1 Philadelphia nth. 
Octr. 1775. Dear Brother — I reed, your's of 3d. inst. and very readily allow it to ballance our literary accounts to that time. 
Dr. Church, 2 Who could have thought or even suspected it, a man who seemed to be all animation in the cause of his Country, highly caressed, employed in several very honorable and lucrative departments, and in full possession of the confidence of his country, what a complication of madness and wickedness must a soul be filled with to be capable of such Perfidy ! what punishment can equal such hor- [325] x Familiar Letters, p. 108. 2 Dr. Benjamin Church, arrested for carrying on a correspondence with the enemy. 
See the Journals, Oct. 14, 17, Nov. 7. The matter came before Congress through Washington's letter of Oct. 5, read in Congress Oct. 13. Cf. Samuel Adams to James Warren, Oct. 10, 13, Warren- A dams Letters, I. 132, 140; John Adams to Warren, Oct. 13 (two), ibid., pp. 136, 139; and Warren to John Adams, Oct. 20; ibid., p. 149. See also no. 334, post. 
The earliest intelligence of Dr. Church's conduct appears to have reached the members of Congress through a letter from Henry Ward to Samuel Ward. 
See Samuel Ward's letter of Oct. 11, post. 
See, further, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 809, 956-960, 1 159, 1464, 1466, 1472, 1477, 1479-1487, 1497, 1512, 1517, 1636. Concerning a previous investigation of Dr. Church's conduct of the general hospital, see ibid., pp. 667, 712, 769, 770, 780, 856, 857. See also no. 250, ante, and nos. 327, 451, post. [326] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 553- 2 See Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 10, in the Journals, III. 489; Works, II. 467; also nos. 323, ante, 330, 344, 355, post. [327]! Harvard Univ. 
Lib, Sparks MSS, XXV. 48 (copy). 2 See no. 325, note 2, ante. 226 Continental Congress &'rid crimes ; I communicated the affair to the Massachusetts Delegates. 
They could hardly conceive it possible. 
They soon after reed, some account of the matter themselves A letter from Mr. Secre ry Read says, upon searching his papers nothing amiss was found in them. 3 .... Our letter to Govr Cooke, and my last to you contain most of the news, but since those, I have seen one letter from a faithful and very sensible friend in England, which gives us a most minute account of affairs After giving us a very full account of the intentions of the Enemy our friend in a most masterly manner, points out many very important measures for our defence, some of which the Congress have already taken, the rest they will soon adopt, I believe. 
Some of them are of such a nature, I dont choose to commit them to paper. 
The constant training of the Militia is one thing recommended, another is, that all the valuable goods should be removed from Rhode Island, lest the town should be surprised as Boston was ;*.... In one word all hopes of a speedy reconciliation are given over, and we unanimously determine to push the war with the greatest vigour I am almost worn out with attention to business. 
I am upon a standing committee of Claims, which meet every morning before Congress; and upon the secret committee which meets almost every afternoon. 
These, with a close attendance upon Congress, and writing many letters, make my duty very hard, and I cannot get time to ride or take other exercise, but I hope the business will not be so pressing very long. 
My affectionate regards to our friends. 
May God preserve them all. 
P. S 328. The President of Congress to Philip Schuyler. 1 Philada. 
Octr. nth. 1775. Sir: The Congress have considered your Letters of the 19th and 29th of Sepr last, 2 and directed me to assure you, that they are very sensible of the Difficulties under which you labour, and your unremitted Diligence to remove such as may in any wise obstruct the public Service. 
They most heartily lament the Loss of your Health, as well on your own, as on Account of the Public, but find some Pleasure in thinking that you are not without Consolation, when you reflect, that the Obligations of your Country are encreased in Proportion to the Sacrifices you make to her Interest. 
Their Concern for the Public is greatly alliviated by the
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 13; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. ion. 2 Schuyler's letter of Sept. 19 and enclosures are printed in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 738, 744; a letter of Sept. 29, with enclosures, is ibid., pp. 839 et scq. 
A letter of Sept. 25 and one of Sept. 28, read Oct. 6, are ibid., pp. 796, 797-798 (enclosures), 826. See the Journals, Oct. 16, 31, Nov. 2, 8. October, 1775 227 Abilities and Zeal of Genl. 
Montgomery, in which they cannot but place the highest Confidence. 
The Congress see the Necessity of attending to the Situation of Canada, but trust that your Care and Prudence will render any Delegation from this Body unnecessary, at least for the present. 3 What they expect from your Endeavours is, that the Canadians be induced to accede to an Union with these Colonies, and that they form from their several Parishes a Provincial Convention, and send Delegates to this Congress. 
And as in the present unsettled State of that Country, a regular Election can hardly be expected, we must acquiesce in the Choice of such Parishes and Districts as are disposed to Join us. 4 You may assure them that we shall hold their Rights as dear as our own, and on their Union with us, exert our utmost Endeavours to obtain for them and their Posterity the Blessings of a free Government, and that Security to their Persons and Property, which is derived from the British Constitution. 
And you may further declare that we hold sacred the Rights of Conscience, and shall never molest them in the free Enjoyment of their Religion. 
If our Arms should be crowned with Success, you will consult with your principal Officers about the Number of Troops that will be necessary for the Defence of Canada, and for the different Posts of Crown Point and Ticondero^a, and the best Method of procuring Men for those Services. 
If you should observe in the Canadians an Inclination to take up Arms, you may immediately, at the Expence of the Continent, raise a Regiment, and appoint such Officers as you conceive will be most agreeable to them, and serviceable to us. The Congress will endeavour to attend to the Cloathing of your Troops, and approve of your Design to purchase Woollens at Montreal, which they sincerely hope it may be in your Power to accomplish. 
You may depend upon their Compliance with all Contracts made by you for the Supply of the Troops under your Command. 
The Establishment of a Civil Government in Canada is a Subject of great Consequence, and requires the most deliberate Councils. 
The Temper, the Disposition and local Circumstances of our Breth[r]en in that Colony must be known, before we can form a proper Judgment on so important a question. 
You will endeavour therefore to collect the Sentiments of the most discreet and sensible among the principal Canadians and English on this Head, and communicate their Opinion, with your Remarks to the Congress. 3 See Schuyler's letters of Oct. 18 and 21, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1093, 1 130. 4 This paragraph and the one next succeeding are embodied with scarcely any alteration of the language in the instructions to the committee, Nov. 8. The committee did not actually go to Canada. 
See the report in the Journals, Dec. 23. In the minds of some members of Congress the invitation to Canada to join the union of the colonies appeared to be the chief mission of the committee. 
See, for instance, Richard Henry Lee to Washington, Dec. 6 (Letters, I. 164) ; and Jefferson to Eppes, Nov. 21, and to Randolph, Nov. 29 (Writings, ed. Ford, I. 490, 491). See also a letter of Christopher Pelissier, Jan. 8, 1776, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 596. The translation of the letter is at p. 601. 228 Continental Congress It is the Determination of Congress at all Events to keep the Command of Lake Champlain. 
They would therefore have the most effectual Measures adopted for that Purpose; and if our Enemies should be expelled Montreal, will exert their utmost Endeavours to secure the River St Lawrence, and prevent by Batteries, Vessels, and every other Obstruction the Ministerial Troops from regaining the Possession of that Town. 
The Congress approve of the Presents made to the Coghnewagas, also of the Disposition of the Prisoners, and have borrowed one Ton of Gun Powder from the Committee of Safety of this Colony, and directed it to be sent to the Provincial Convention of New York, with a Request to transmit to you the whole, or such a Part of it as they can spare : Nails will be supplied you, by the Convention of New York, when they receive your Direction on that Head. 
They, together with the Committee of Albany, and the Governor of Connecticut will on Application furnish such Carpenters and Blacksmiths, as you may want over and above what may be procured from among the Troops. 
As for the Artificers taken from thence, you will pay them the customary Allowance, if you think their Services entitle them to any Reward. 
The Congress are pleased with the Mode in which you propose to settle with and pay those who took and garrisoned Crown Point, and desire that the Accounts may be transmitted to them as soon as possible. 
Mr. Phelps will be considered as Deputy to Mr. Levingston for the New York Department, and be paid as such at the Rate of forty Dollars per Month from his Entrance into the Service. 5 The Congress are greatly hurt at the Misconduct of a Part of the Troops, and hope they will take the earliest Opportunity to obliterate their Disgrace. 
It is their earnest Wish, that the strictest Discipline be observed. 
For, as on the one Hand they are resolved to reward those who deserve their Favour, so on the other, a Regard for their Country forbids them to overlook the Offences of such as neglect their Duty, or basely betray their Trust. 6 I cannot conclude without assuring you, that the Congress are highly sensible of the Spirit, Activity, and Zeal, of Mr. James Levingston, from which they cannot but promise themselves Advantages, that will be entitled to their earliest Recompense. 
I have the honor to be etc., J. H., Prest. 7 5 See Schuyler's letters of July 31 and Sept. 19, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1760, III. 738; also his letter of Nov. 11 and enclosures, ibid., III. 1520-1529, and the Journals, Dec. 9. 6 Concerning Schuyler's difficulties with New England troops, see Bayard Tuckerman, Life of Schuyler, pp. 105-110; also James Lockwood to Silas Deane, Oct. 16, in N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Dcane Papers, I. 83. 7 This letter was drawn up hy a committee. 
See the Journals, Oct. 9, 10, II ; also no. 322, ante. 
In the British Museum, Add. MSS. 21844, f. 13, is a French translation of parts of this letter : " coppie avec ordre du congres a la pointe aux trembles ce 4* Xbre. 1775, C. V. Desdenens depute Cptne." An endorsement reads: Avis Du Grand Congres pour le sieur pierre Langlois cayitaine des escureiiils." See Report on Canadian Archives, 1888, pp. 893-894. October, 1775 229 329. Silas Deane to Thomas Mumford. 1 Philadelphia Octo. 15th, 1775. Dear Sir .... Our People at Westmoreland
Mr. Sherman and myself pursued quite a different plan, for my own part, I avoided the dispute wholly and when forced upon it express'd my warmest wishes for a friendly Settlement, by this means I stood well with The more dispassionate of the other party, when we left Philadelphia and I fondly hoped that my influence with the settlers, to whom I had wrote in the most peremptory stile to keep quiet was such that I should have no Trouble from that Quarter — Judd and Slumans expedition you have heard of. it is differently related. 
I will therefore pass no positive judgment on every particular, but on the whole, it was the most pernicious step they could have taken. 
This whole province is alarmed. 
Judd and Sluman were a few Days since bro't under a strong guard to this City, and their Friends denied all access to them at the first, and the people in this City thrown into such a Flame that Nothing but Col. Dyers character, as a Member of Congress, protected him for a few Days at first from personal insult. 
The most opulent inhabitants of this City have lately become interested, under the Proprietaries, in those Lands, they assembled, and fell to raising Money to employ an Armed Force to drive off all Our People without exception, artful Enemies to the general Cause of America blew up the Flame, in hopes of breaking the general Union. 
I need not be more particular to give you an Idea of the distress which this Affair threw me into, in a word I publicly and sincerely condemned their Conduct. 
The Cheif Justice ordered them to procure Bail for their Appearance, with Sureties Freeholders of The province, this could not [329] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. 
MSS., Deane. 
Addressed, " To Thomas Mumford, Esqr. of New London, Now at the Genl. 
Assembly, New Haven ". 2 The county erected by Connecticut in the Wyoming Valley. 230 Continental Congress &■ be procured, and they were committed. 
The Congress ordered the Delegates of The Two Colonies to conferr and labor a Settlement, they did, but hitherto in vain, tho' I think the Storm subsides, and that a Temporary Settlement may be bro't about if rightly managed, which believe Me is a most delicate, as well as arduous task. 
Sluma[n and] Judd will probably think hard of my censuring them so severely as I have, but I have done it in sincerity, nor has anything they have said to Me altered my Opinion — Tho' did I think otherways, I should be in no way of serving them, by attempting To justify them, while the Confidence which the Delegates of this Colony and other cool persons here have in Me will enable Me I trust to help on the healing of this unhappy breach between the Two Colonies. 
Thus my Freind, You see The critical Situation into which this mad frolic of these Men has thrown Us, and indeed the very Union of the Colonies. 
I have wrote many Letters into Connecticut, but have received few Answers. 3 As to Commerce, it is my Opinion that it will be opened soon with all Foreign States but no decision has yet been had. the Congress early appointed a Committee on the subject of which I was one. 
We made a Report, which is now under Consideration. 
You shall early be informed of whatever it may be. 4 You ask Me when I shall return, which Question I am in no way of answering, but will give you my particular Situation. 
The Congress have appointed a Board of Claims, 5 of which I am one, and cannot of course be able to return untill the Acc ts of the Expences of this Campaign at least, are Settled, on this Business, We set every Morning. 
The Congress have also appointed a Secret Committee, 6 for Supplying the Continent with certain Necessary Articles, of this I am one, and wish I could see you, or some other of my Connecticut Mercantile Freinds here, as it would be in my power to help them, and in theirs to serve their Country, this hi[nt is a] 11 I can give on this head, and if you will come down, the sooner the better. 
A Naval Force
This I shall lay before them this Day, 8 and am of your Opinion, that N. London harbor is well situated for the rendevous of an American Navy
Cf. no. 353, post. 5 See the Journals, Sept. 25, 27, Oct. 28. Cf. John Adams's Notes of Debates, Sept. 25 (Journals, III. 473; Works, II. 448). 6 See the Journals, Sept. 18. 19, Oct. 6, Nov. 8. Cf. Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 6 (Journals, III. 483; Works, II. 458). 7 See no. 316, note 3, ante. 8 The report was presented Tuesday, Oct. 17. The date which this letter bears, Oct. 15, was Sunday, but it is evident that Deane continued the writing into Monday or Tuesday. 
October, IJ75 231 330. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 16, 1775.] 1 6th. Letter from [the] Provincial Congress of New Jersies, requesting the liberty of appointing field officers to the two battalions proposed to be raised. 2 Committee appointed to answer it. Letter from 'General Schuyler, enclosing letters from General Montgomery and others. 3 .... 331. The Connecticut Delegates, Proposed Resolution. 1 [October, 1775.] Whereas it is represented to this Congress that some Disturbances have lately happened among the People inhabiting the Lands in Controversy between the Colony of Connecticut and the Proprietors of the Colony of Pennsylvania, which, unless speedily quieted, may interrupt the Harmony and weaken the Union of the confederated Colonies, when their united Efforts are necessary for the Defence of their common Rights and Liberties ; and that the Peace of said Inhabitants cannot be preserved nor Offenders duly punished there by the Civil Authority of the Colonies of Connecticut and Pennsylvania, or either of them, by Reason of their interfering Claims of Jurisdiction, and the Assembly of the Colony of Pennsylvania and the Delegates of the Colony of Connecticut have requested the Interposition and Advice of the Congress in the Premises. 
Resolved, that in the Opinion of the Congress, it is expedient for preserving the Peace of said Colonies, that a Temporary Line of Jurisdiction be fixed between them, and therefore recommend for the present, and until there shall be a Legal Settlement of said Controversy or some other Regulation established, that the Colony of Connecticut confine the Exercise of its Jurisdiction (at the Place in Controversy) to that Part of a Township incorporated by the Assembly of that Colony by the name of Westmoreland, that lieth East of a Meridian Line beginning at Latitude 41 ° North at a Distance of 15 English Miles West from the East Branch of Susquehannah River, and from thence running North to the North Line of the Lands in Controversy. 
And that the Colony of Pennsylvania forbear to exercise Jurisdiction within those Limits, unless the South Limit of said Town include any of the Inhabitants who settled and hold under the Claim of the Proprietors of Pennsylvania, that then those Inhabitants remain under the Jurisdiction of Pennsylvania, and that all the Inhabitants on said controverted Lands be suffered peaceably to occupy the Lands now in their actual Possession. 
Provided nevertheless, that nothing contained in this temporary Provision shall any way affect or prejudice the legal Title or Claim of either Party to any of the said Lands. 
And it is further recommended, that all Persons who have been arrested only for attempting to enter upon [330] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 553- 2 See nos. 323, 326, ante, 344, 355, post. 3 Schuyler's letter and enclosures are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, III. 951- 955- [331] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 674; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1773. 232 Continental Congress &• and take Possession of any of the vacant or uncultivated Lands in Controversy, be forthwith released, and that all their Effects be restored to them. 
And that for the future all concerned carefully avoid whatever may tend to disturb the Peace, or interrupt the Harmony and Friendship that ought at all Times, and more especially the present, to subsist among all true Lovers of their Country. 2 .... 332. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 Philadelphia, Oct. 17th, 1775. My Dear, .... I rise at six, write until seven, dress and breakfast by eight, go to the Committee of Claims until ten; then in Congress till half-past three or perhaps four ; dine by five, and then go either to the Committee of Secrecy, or of Trade until nine ; then sup and go to bed by eleven. 
This leaves little room for diversion or anything else, and to tell you the truth I expect this kind of life must be my lot for some time 333. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 18, 1775.] 18th. Report relative to the Tea read, and postponed generally. 2 Delegates from New Hampshire presented an instruction from the Provincial Congress for the advice of Congress relative to their assuming government. 
Referred to Monday next. 3 A Committee appointed to
The resolve was offered by the Connecticut delegates in a committee of Congress, but there is no indication that it ever came before Congress. 
See the entire document of which these resolutions are a part, in Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 669-678; cf. ibid., pp. 660, 661. See also the Journals, July 31, Aug. 1, Sept. 30, Oct. 7, 9, II, 14, 17, Nov. 4, 7, 10, 11, 15, 16, 27, Dec. 18, 20, 21, 23, 1775, Apr. 15, 1776. Cf. nos. 240, 258, 308, 329, ante, and nos. 399, 402, 405, 409, 414, post. 
The committee to whom the resolution was offered was appointed Oct. 17. [332] 1 Conn. 
Ilist. 
Soc. Collections, II. 312; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 85. [3331 x Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 554. 2 See no. 290, note 4, ante. 
In his Diary for Oct. 19 Ward records : " A petition from Messrs. 
Sears and Randal relative to Tea referred [for a] fortnight." See the Journals, Oct. 19, Nov. 2, 6. •''See the Journals, Oct. 18, 26, Nov. 2, 3; also no. 311, ante, nos. 345, 352. post. 
Concerning the proceedings on this subject John Adams wrote in his Autobiography: " On Wednesday, October 18th, the delegates from New Hampshire laid before the Congress a part of the instructions delivered to them by their Colony, in these words : ' We would have you immediately use your utmost endeavors to obtain the advice and direction of the Congress, with respect to a method for our administering justice, and regulating our civil police. 
We press you not to delay this matter, as its being done speedily will probably prevent the greatest confusion among us.'" This instruction might have been obtained by Mr. Langdon, or Mr. Whipple, but I always supposed it was General Sullivan who suggested the measure, because he left Congress with a Stronger impression upon his mind of the importance of it, than I ever observed in either of the others. 
Be this, however, as it may have been, I embraced with joy the opportunity of haranguing on the subject at large, and of urging Congress to resolve on a general recommendation to all the States to call conventions and institute regular governments. 
I reasoned from various topics, many of which, perhaps, I could not now recollect. 
Some I remember ; as, October, 1775 233 collect a just and well authenticated account of all hostilities committed since [the] first [of] March last by Ministerial troops and ships of war, and of the number and value of houses burnt and vessels taken. 4 " 1. The danger to the morals of the people from the present loose state of things, and general relaxation of laws and government through the Union. " 2. The danger of insurrections in some of the most disaffected part of the Colonies, in favor of the enemy, or as they called them, the mother country, an expression that I thought it high time to erase out of our language. " 3. Communications and intercourse with the enmy, from various parts of the continent could not be wholly prevented, while any of the powers of government remained in the hands of the King's servants. " 4. It could not well be considered as a crime to communicate intelligence, or to act as spies or guides to the enemy, without assuming all the powers of government. " 5. The people of America would never consider our Union as complete, but our friends would always suspect divisions among us, and our enemies who were scattered in larger or smaller numbers, not only in every State and city, but in every village through the whole Union, would forever represent Congress as divided and ready to break to pieces, and in this way would intimidate and discourage multitudes of our people who wished us well. " 6. The absurdity of carrying on war against a king, when so many persons were daily taking oaths and affirmations of allegiance to him. "7. We could not expect that our friends in Great Britain would believe us united and in earnest, or exert themselves very strenuously in our favor, while we acted such a wavering, hesitating part. "8. Foreign nations, particularly France and Spain, would not think us worthy of their attention while we appeared to be deceived by such fallacious hopes of redress of grievances, of pardon -for our offences, and of reconcilation with our enemies. " 9. We could not command the natural resources of our own country. 
We could not establish manufactories of arms, cannon, saltpetre, powder, ships, etc., without the powers of government; and all these and many other preparations ought to be going on in every State or Colony, if you will, in the country. " Although the opposition was still inveterate, many members of Congress began to hear me with more patience, and some began to ask me civil questions. ' How can the people institute governments?' My answer was, 'By conventions of representatives, freely, fairly, and proportionably chosen.' ' When the convention has fabricated a government, or a constitution rather, how do we know the people will submit to it?'' If there is any doubt of that, the convention may send out their project of a constitution, to the people in their several towns, counties, or districts, and the people may make the acceptance of it their own act.' ' But the people know nothing about constitutions.'' I believe you are much mistaken in that supposition ; if you are not, they will not oppose a plan prepared by their own chosen friends ; but I believe that in every considerable portion of the people, there will be found some men, who will understand the subject as well as their representatives, and these will assist in enlightening the rest.''But what plan of a government would you advise?' 'A plan as nearly resembling the government under which we were born, and have lived, as the circumstances of the country will admit. 
Kings we never had among us. Nobles we never had. 
Nothing hereditary ever existed in the country; nor will the country require or admit of any such thing. 
But governors and councils we have always had, as well as representatives. 
A legislature in three branches ought to be preserved, and independent judges.' ' Where and how will you get your governors and councils?' 'By elections.' 'How, — who shall elect?' 'The representatives of the people in a convention will be the best qualified to contrive a mode.'" After all these discussions and interrogatories, Congress was not prepared nor disposed to do any thing as yet. 
They must consider farther. "'Resolved, That the consideration of this matter be referred to Monday next.'"Works, III. 18. Cf. nos. 150 (note 2), 160 (note 2), ante; also nos. 345, 352. 333, post. 4 See the Journals, Oct. 18, 26. A circular letter from the committee to the states, dated Oct. 19, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1105 {cf. ibid., p. 1341) \ Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 187 ; II. 19. One of the letters is in Hist. 
Soc. of Pa., Sprague Collection, III. 227. A similar letter, of the same date, from John Adams to William Cooper is in Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, C 81 H 34. A letter from the committee to Cooper ( ?), dated Oct. 25, is ibid., C 81 H 35. One from the committee to James Warren, dated Oct. 24, is in Warren-Adams Letters, I. 162. See also Adams to Warren, Oct. 23, ibid., p. 159- See also nos. 334, 335, 338, 339, post. 
Gov. Trumbull's report to the committee, Mar. 25, 1776, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 149-165. 234 Continental Congress &'334. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Octr. 18, 1775 Dr. Sir, The Letter of Dr [Church] is the oddest Thing imaginable. 
There are so many Lies in it, calculated to give the Enemy an high Idea of our Power and Importance, as well as so many Truths tending to do us good that one knows not how to think him treacherous : Yet there are several Strokes, which cannot be accounted for at least by me, without the Supposition of Iniquity. 
In Short I endeavor to suspend my Judgment. 
Don't let us abandon him for a Traitor without certain Evidence. 
But there is not so much Deliberation in many others, or so much Compassion. 
The Congress declined entering into any Discussion of the Evidence, or anv Determination concerning his Guilt or the Nature of his Offence. 
But in general they had a full Conviction that it was so gross an Imprudence at least and was so Suspicious, that it became them to dismiss him from their Service, which they did instantly. 2 Yesterday they chose a Successor, Dr. Morgan an eminent Surgeon of this City. 
We as usual had our Men to propose. 
Dr. Hall Jackson, and Dr. Forster. 
But Dr. Forster's Sufferings and* services, and Dr. Jackson's great Fame, Experience and Merits were pleaded in vain Let me close now with a matter of some Importance. 
Congress have appointed Deane, Wythe and your servant a Committee to collect a just Account of the Hostilities committed by the ministerial Troops and Navy, in America, since last March ; with proper Evidence of the Truth of the Facts related, the Number and Value of the Buildings destroyed by them, also the Number and Value of the Vessells inward and outward bound, which have been Seized by them, since that Period, also the Stock taken by them from different Parts of the Continent: We shall write to the Assemblies of New England and Virginia at least, but we shall likewise write to many Individuals requesting their Assistance and to you among others. 
I wish you would think a little and consult with others concerning this Business for it nearly concerns our Province to have it well done. 3 335. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Octr. 19, 1775 My dear Sir, .... I have, in almost every Letter I have written, to any of my Friends, entreated that We might have accounts and Vouchers sent Us, that We might obtain a Reimbursement of some Part at least of the inordinate Expence that has fallen upon Us. But have received No answer [334V Warren-Adams Letters, I. 142. 2 See no. 325, note 2, ante. 3 See no. 333, note 4, ante', also Adams to Warren, Oct. 12, in ]\'arrcn-.\dams Letters, I. 134. nte. 1 W'arrcn-Adams Letters, I. 143. October, 1775 235 from any one, concerning it. I wish to be informed, however, what the Difficulty is, that lies in the Way, if We cannot have the Accounts, etc. 
The Continental Money goes away so fast, that I greatly fear We shall have none left in the Treasury, before We get the Proper Evidence and Information to obtain a Reimbursement for our Province. 
Dollars go but little Way in Maintaining Armies — very costly Commodities indeed. 
The Expence already accrued will astonish Us all I fear. 2 Congress has appointed a Com tee — Deane, Wythe and your servant — to collect' a Narration of Hostilities, and Evidence to prove it, to ascertain the Number and Value of the Buildings destroyed, Vessells captivated, and Cattle plundered, etc., every where. 
I hope We shall tell a true Story, and then I am sure it will be an affecting one. 
We shall not omit their Butcheries, nor their Robberies, nor their Piracies. 
But we shall want Assistance from every Quarter. 
I want the Distresses of Boston painted by Dr. Cooper's Pencil. 3 Everything must be supported by Affidavits. 
This will be an usefull Work for the Information of all the Colonies of what has passed in Some, for the Information of our Friends in England, and in all Europe, and all Posterity. 
Besides it may pave the Way to obtain Retribution and Compensation, but this had better not be talked of at present. 
The Committee will write to the Assemblies, and to private Gentn. 4 No Pains or Expense will be Spared I hope to render the Execution of this Commission compleat. 
It concerns our Province verv much. 336. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Octr. 19, 1775 Dr. Sir, What Think you of an American Fleet? I don't Mean 100 ships of the Line, by a Fleet, but I suppose this Term may be applied to any naval Force consisting of several Vessells, tho the Number, the Weight of Metal, or the Quantity of Tonnage may be small. 
The Expence would be very great — true. 
But the Expence might be born and perhaps the Profits and Benefits to be obtained by it, would be a Compensation. 
A naval Force might be created which would do something. 
It would destroy Single Cutters and Cruisers. 
It might destroy small Corvets or Fleets of these like Wallace's at R. Island and Ld. Dunmores at Virginia. 
It might oblige our Enemies to sail in Fleets. 
For two
Journals of the Provincial Congress (Mass.), 594. No report appears to have been made. 
The Continental Congress took up the matter with an equal want of results." [Note in Warren- Adams Letters.} 4 See nos. 333 (note 4), 334, ante, and nos. 338, 339, post. [336] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 145. 236 Continental Congress or three Vessells of 36 and twenty Guns, well armed and manned might attack and carry a 64 or a 70 or a 50 Gun Ship. 
But, there is a great Objection to this. 
All the Trade of Pennsylvania, the Lower Counties, a great Part of Maryland and N. Jersey Sails in between the Capes of Delaware Bay. And if a strong Fleet should be posted in that Bay, Superiour to our Fleet it might obstruct all the Trade of this River. 
Further the Trade of Virginia and the rest of Maryland floats into Cheasapeak Bay between the Capes of Henry and Charles where a Fleet might stop all. 
Besides Virginia and Maryland have no Navigation of their own nor any Carpenters to build ships. 
Their whole Trade is carried on in British Bottoms by British, most of it by North British Merchants. 
These Circumstances distinguish them quite from New England, where the Inlets are innumerable and the Navigation all their own. 
They agree that a Fleet, would protect and secure the Trade of New England but deny that it would that of the Southern Colonies. 
Will it not be difficult to persuade them then to bear the Expense of building a Fleet, merely for N. England. 
We are Speculating now about Things at a Distance. 
Should we be driven to a War at all Points, a Fleet a public Fleet as well as privateers might make prey enough of the Trade of our Enemies to make it worth while. 2 337. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Octr. 19, 1775 Dr. Sir, I want to be with you, Tete a Tete, to canvass, and discuss the complicated subject of Trade. 2 I say nothing of private Consultations or public Debates, upon this important Head. 
When I write you Letters you must expect nothing from me but unconnected Scraps and broken Hints. 
Continual Successions of Company allow me Time only to Scrawl a Page of Paper, without Thought. 
Shall we hush the Trade of the Whole Continent and not permit a Vessell to go out of our Harbours except from one Colony to another? How long will or can our People bear this? I say they can bear it forever. 
If Parliament should build a Wall of Brass, at low Water Mark, We might live and be happy. 
We must change our Habits, our Prejudices our Palates, our Taste in Dress, Furniture, Equipage, Architecture, etc., but We can live and be happy. 
But the Question is whether our People have Virtue enough to be mere Husbandmen, Mechanicks and Soldiers? That they have not Virtue enough to bear it always I take for granted. 
How long then will their Virtue last? till next Spring? If We Stop all Trade G. B. I., 8 and W. I. will not be furnished with any Thing. 2 See no. 316, note 3, ante. [337] ' Warren-Adams Letters, I. 146. 2 See no. 318 and note 3, ante, and nos. 342, 348, post. 3 Ireland. 
October, if]*, 237 Shall We then give Permission for our Vessells to go to foreign Nations, if they can escape the Men of War? Can they escape the Men of War? How many will escape in Proportion? If any Escape, will they not venture to Britain, Ireland, and W. I. in defyance of our Association? If they do not will not the British Dominions furnish themselves with our Produce from foreign Ports, and thereby avoid that Distress, which We expect will overtake them? Will not the W. I. Islands especially, who cannot exist without our Provisions for
If We should invite other maritime Powers, or private adventurers from foreign Nations to come here, Will they venture? They run the risque of escaping Men of War, and the Dangers of an unknown Coast. 
Maps and Charts may give Strangers a confused Idea of the Geography of our .Country, and of the Principal Inlets of Harbours, Rivers, Creeks, Coves, Islands, etc., but without skillful Pilots, the danger of Shipwreck will be 10 to one. 
This vast object is never out of my Mind. 
Help me to grapple it. The W. I., Barbadoes particularly, begin, We are told here by a late Vessell, to be terrified out of their Wits. 338. John Adams to Joseph Palmer. 1 Octr. 19. 1775 Dr Sir Before I left Watertown, a Committee of both Houses was appointed to enquire after Virgin Lead and leaden ore, and the Methods of making Salt, who were to transmit their Discoveries to me — another Committee was appointed, to correspond with your Delegates, here and communicate to them the earliest Intelligence of all Things necessary for us to know. 
We have never received a letter from Either of those Committees, but are in constant Hope and hourly Expectation of Letters from both. 
There is another Thing of great Importance, which I earnestly wish may be furnished us, if practicable immediately, I mean Some accounts and Vouchers or at least Some Representation of the Expenses which our Province has subjected itself to in the common Cause, that We may endeavour to obtain a Reimbursement, before the Continental Treasury shall be exhausted, which I fear will be Sooner than any one can imagine. 2 Congress has appointed a Comtee. to collect a Narrative of the Violences and Depredations, the Rapine and Plunder of the Army and Navy, with affidavits to support it, for the Information of this Generation and all Posterity. 
This Comtee. will write to your general Court and to you particularly very Soon requesting your assistance. 
Pray send me by the first Post Copy of the account of the Charlestown Battle, which was sent to England by the Comtee. of Safety. 
I forgot to bring it with me and wanted it very much. 3 [338] 1 Mass. 
Arch., CXCIV, 150. Joseph Palmer was member from Braintree in the Massachusetts provincial congress. 2 See no. 335 and note 2, ante. 3 See nos. 333, 334, 335, ante, 339, post. 238 Continental Congress 6'We are in hourly Expectation of being overwhelmed all at once, with Floods of Intelligence from England, Quebec, St. Johns, Cambridge, and twenty other Places. 
But at present it is dead as Midnight 339. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 19 October, 1775. .... Congress has appointed Mr. Wythe, Mr. Deane and me, a Committee to collect an account of the hostilities committed by the troops and ships, with proper evidence of the number and value of the houses and other buildings destroyed or damaged, the vessels captivated, and the cattle, sheep, hogs, etc., taken. 
We are about writing to all the general assemblies of New England, and to many private gentlemen in each colony, to assist us in making the collections. 
The gentlemen with me are able men. 
Deane's character, you know. 
He is a very ingenious man and an able politician. 
Wythe is a new member from Virginia, a lawyer of the highest eminence in that province, a learned and very laborious man; so that we may hope this commission will be well executed. 2 .... 340. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 20, 1775.] 20th. Letter to General Washington relative to Captain McPherson read and approved : three hundred dollars ordered to be advanced to him. 2 .... 1339] 1 Familiar Letters, p. no. 2 Cf. nos. 333, 334, 335. 337, 33$, ante. [340] x Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 554- 2 See the Journals, Oct. 16, 19, 20, and nos. 286, 308, ante. 
The letter to Washington is in the Journals, and in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. n 18. On the same day John Adams wrote to James Warren : " Of McPherson's Errand to the Camp ask no Questions and I will tell you no false News. 
It will make a Noise in Time, but for the present for God's sake let not a Word be said." Warren-Adams Letters, I. 155. Nov. 5 Warren replied : " McPherson is yet here, but I dare not ask questions. 
Nothing transpires, and whether any plan is adopted or not can't inform you." Ibid., p. 177. See Washington's letter to Congress, Nov. 8, and his letter to Joseph Reed on the same day, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 202, 207; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1402, 1405; and elsewhere. 
See also Read, Life of George Read, p. 140. McPherson had previously offered his services to Pennsylvania. 
See the minutes of the council of safety, July 28, 1775, in Pa. Col. Recs., X. 292; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1776. For a subsequent project see no. 548, post. 
For some account of McPherson see Scharf and Westcott, History of Philadelphia, I. 302. The authors of that work seem, however, to have been in error in regard to the principal object of McPherson's visit to Washington in Boston. 
The John McPherson who fell with Montgomery in the assault of Quebec was a son. 
In this connection it is of interest to take note of other schemes brought forward about the same time for the destruction of vessels. 
The proposition of one " Nauticus ", Oct. 13, I77S, presented to the committee of safety of Pennsylvania, Oct. 14, is found in Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 666. See the minutes of the committee, Pa. Col. Recs., X. 366; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1818. Another scheme was proposed by Joseph Belton, Sept. 4, n, 1775. His device was a curious submarine vessel. 
See Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 650, 654; also Franklin's letter to Washington concerning Belton, July 22, 1776, Writings (ed. Smyth), VI. 460; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 263; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. I. 406; also in the next volume of these Letters. 
Anotber scheme was that of Daniel Joy of Philadelphia, brought forward Jan. 16, 1776. See Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 698. Still another project was proposed by "A" to the New York com- October, 1775 239 341. Samuel Adams to William Heath. 1 Philadelphia, Octob. 20, 1775. My dear Sir } .... I wish I could inform you of some things which I believe it would be for the common good that some individuals should know, but I am bound by the ties of honor to keep them secret, and such an obligation I am sure you will allow me to hold sacred. 
The affairs of our country are at this moment in the most critical scituation. 
I wait with the utmost impatience to hear from Genl. 
Schuyler and Coll. 
Arnold. 
I was going to say that all depends upon their success. -If they do all that is in their power, it will be as much as their country can in reason expect from them. 2 .... 342. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Octr. 20, 1775 Dear Sir, Can the Inhabitants of North America live without foreign Trade? 2 There is Beef and Pork and Poultry, and Mutton and Venison and Veal, Milk, Butter, Cheese, Corn, Barley, Rye, Wheat, in short, every Species of Eatables animal and Vegetable in a vast abundance, an immense Profusion. 
We raise about Eleven hundred Thousand Bushells of Corn, yearly more than We can possibly consume. 
The Country produces Provisions of all Kinds, enough for the sustenance of the Inhabitants, and an immense Surplusage. 
We have Wood and Iron in plenty. 
We have a good Climate as well as a fertile Soil. 
But Cloathing. 
If instead of raising [a] Million Bushells of Wheat for Exportation and Rice, Tobacco, naval stores, Indigo, Flaxseed, Horses, Cattle, etc., Fish, Oyl, Bone, Potash etc., etc., etc., etc., the Hands now employed in raising surplusages of these Articles for Exportation, were employed in raising Flax and Wool, and manufacturing them into Cloathing, We should be cloathed comfortably. 
We must at first indeed Sacrifice some of our Appetites. 
Coffee, Wine, Silks, Punch, Sugar, Molasses, etc. and our Dress would not be so elegant. 
Silks and Velvets and Lace must be dispensed with. 
But these are Trifles in a Contest for Liberty. mittee of safety, Nov. 4, 1775. See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1351, 1357. "A"was probably Ephraim Anderson. 
See Hancock to Washington, July 10, 1776 (enclosing a letter of Anderson, dated July 9), in the next volume; also in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 155. Other letters of Anderson on the subject, dated July 19, 31, are ibid., pp. 451, 692. [341] x Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IV. 6. 2 Cf. the letter to Mrs. Adams on the same day, Writings (ed. Cushing), III. 227. [342] 1 Warren- Adams Letters, I. 155. 2 Cf. nos. 315, 318, 337, ante, 348, post. 
See also Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 20, 21, 27, in the Journals, III. 495-504. 20 240 Continental Congress &'But is there Temperance, Fortitude and Perseverance enough among the People to endure Such a Mortification of their Appetites Passions and Fancies ? Is not the Merchantile Interest comprehending Merchants Mechanicks, Labourers So numerous, and So complicated with the landed Interest, as to produce a general Impatience and Uneasiness, under Restriction so severe? By a total Cessation of Commerce sh[ould we drive] away our Mariners? Will they not go [to the other] maritime Nations, the French, the Spaniards, the Dutch ? or, which is worse, will they not go to England, and on Board of British Men of War? Shall We not lose a large Property in Navigation which will rot by the Wharves? On the other Hand if We give Liberty Trade, will not most of our Vessells be seized? Perhaps all but those of the Tories who may be priviledged. 343. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward. 1 Philadelphia 24th Oct. 1775 Dear Brother — Since my last we have had the honor of a letter from the Depty. 
Govr. which was immediately read in Congress; as soon as any resolutions are formed upon the subject, we shall transmit them to his Honor. 
I was very desirous of obtaining a resolution of Congress, so as to have forwarded it to the Assembly at the ensuing session, but could not obtain it. 2 .... On Sunday eve g our late worthy President Mr. Randolph died very suddenly. 
He dined at one Mr Hollis' three miles out of town; soon after dinner he was taken with choaking, and one side of his face was distorted, and about eight he expired. 
The Congress determined yesterday to go into mourning, (as permitted by our association) appointed a Com tee to wait upon Mr Durkee [Duche], and request him to preach a funeral sermon, and the Com tee . give all proper directions in concert with his friends and Lady for the funeral service, and we shall all walk as mourners 344. The President of Congress to the New Jersey Provincial Convention. 1 Philada. 
Octr. 25, 1775. To the Convention of New Jersey. 
Gentlemen: The Congress having taken into Consideration your Letters of the 13th and 14th Instant, have directed me to inform you, that they are of [343] 1 Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS., XXV. 50. 2 A letter from Gov. Cooke, dated Oct. 9, was read in Congress Oct. 17. The subject to which Ward alludes was probably the question of building a fleet. 
See no. 316 (note 3), ante, and the Journals, Oct. 3, 6, 7 ; also no. 316 (note 3), ante, and no. 364. post. 1 344 1 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 17; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1 178, 1235. October, 7775 241 Opinion, the Public Service makes it necessary that the Tersey Battalions be levied with all possible Expedition but as the Congress are waiting the Return of their Committee from Camp in order to establish permanent Regulations for all the Continental Forces, they for the present incline to suspend a Determination on the Question about the Appointment of Regimental Field Officers. 2 The public Exigencies will not admit of Loans from the Continental Treasury to any Colonies : the Congress however hope that this will not disable \'ou from supplying yourselves with Arms and Ammunition in doing which, it is not doubted, you will fall upon such Means, as will be most for the Ease and Safety of the Colony without hazarding the Emission of Paper Currency. 
From some Expressions in your Letter of the 14th Inst, the Congress apprehend it is the Intention of your Convention to take into Constant Pay 4000 Minute Men. But as this will be a very heavy Expence, and more, it is apprehended, than any one Colony can afford, we hope you will well weigh and consider such a Measure before you adopt it. With Respect to Provisions for Minute-Men, the Congress have made none conceiving that the several Colonies will make proper Provision for them where necessary, or when they are called into actual Service, except when they are taken into the Continental Service, in which Case they will be entitled to the same Pay as other Continental Troops. 3 I am, etc., J. H. Prest. 345. The New Hampshire Delegates to the Committee of Safety. 1 Philada 26th October, 1775. William Whipple, Esq. Sir Your favour, in Committee of the 12th Instant, is now before us: In answer to which we say, That General Washington had laid the affair of the Flour ship before the Congress, some days before your favour came to hand ; but nothing has been concluded. 
We urged that the ship and her cargo belonged to the Colony, as she was taken by our men in Provincial pay ; and not by Continental forces ; that we had suffered and were still suffering many losses by the taking of our ships inward and outward bound — And that before the taking of this Flour ship. 
As soon as this matter is settled shall inform you. 2 .... 2 The New Jersey letters are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1050, 1051, also 1224, 1226. A letter of the New Jersey congress, Oct. 21, is ibid., p. 1130; cf. ibid., p. 1240. See also nos. 323, 326, 330, ante, 355, post. 3 This letter was agreed to in Congress, but only the first paragraph is recorded in the Journals. [345] * N- H. Prov. 
Papers, VII. 631 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1193. 2 See the Journals, Oct. 13, and Washington's letter of Oct. 5, in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 162, (ed. Sparks), III. 115: Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 956; cf. ibid., pp. 060, 966-970, and no. 362, post. 
The New Hampshire letter of Oct. 12 is in A r . H. Prov. 
Papers, VII. 624, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1049. Cf. Washington's letters of Nov. 8, 11, 28, ibid., pp. 1402, 1532, 1697, and Writings (ed. Ford), III. 202, 213, 241 ; also the Journals, Nov. 25. 24:2 Continental Congress We were sorry to see that you Intended to emit more paper money, but as General Washington's Requisition Demanded it must be done. 
The House is now crowded with motions, otherwise should have mov'd for a grant of a certain sum to our Colony which would have answer d our purpose without emitting ; shall do it first opportunity, but fear the want of our Acct. will prevent the grant. 3 We some time since made a motion for the Regulation of our Civil Government, and this day a Committee is appointed to consider the motion and Report thereon ; could have wished for a Petition 'from our Congress sett g forth all the Reasons etc. had been transmitted to us, which would have help'd the matter much : 4 Committee has been appointed to collect the Depredations committed by the sons of Tyranny thro' the Continent wch you'll hear from. 5 We are with respect, Your most obt Servts Josiah Bartlett, John Langdon. 
P. S. Inclosed is a Resolution of Congress respecting Powder. 346. Francis Lewis to Jabez Huntington. 1 Sir As a Member of the Continental Congress, it was by them thought expedient, that I should proceed to this City in order to purchase necessarys for the Troops at Cambridge, agreeable thereto. 
I have sent by the bearer Twenty Packages to your address as specified in the inclosed receipt, reffering him to you for payment of the freight, as Mr. Vandervoort informs me that you transact the public business at Norwich. 
I must intreat you to forward these goods as soon as possible by land, to the address of Major Mifflin Ouar. 
Masr. 
General at the Camp at Cambridge. 
I shall also advise Major Mifflin thereof by Post. 2 I have the Honor to be, Sir Your very Humble Servt, New York 27. October 1775 Frans. 
Lewis To Jabez Huntington Esqr. 3 See the Journals, Dec. 4. 4 See the Journals, Oct. 18, 26, Nov. 2, 3. Cf. nos. 311, 333 (note 3), ante, and nos. 349, 352, 353, 354, post. 5 See nos. 333. 334. 335, 338, 339. [346] ] .Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc. 2 Lewis was probably acting for the secret committee. 
Oct. 7 an order for payment was made in favor of Lewis, Alsop, Willing, Deane, and Langdon, the last four of whom were members of the secret committee. 
See the Journals, Sept. 19. Lewis was also placed on a committee with Alsop and Sherman, Nov. 2, to purchase supplies for Schuyler. 
October, 1775 243 V 347. The President of Congress to the President of the New York Congress. 1 Philadelphia, October 28, 1775. Sir Your letter of the 17th instant
They prefer that number, as it is the fixed establishment of the Companies in the Continental service. 
You will please to appoint and forward the list of the officers proper to command them, and their commissions shall be made out and sent you. 
The Congress desire you will inform them when this Company shall be completed, and they will take under consideration your proposal for raising a larger number. 
Enclosed is the resolution of Congress. 
I am, Gentlemen, your most obedient humble servant, John Hancock, President. 
The President of Congress of New York. 348. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Octr. 28, 1775 Dr. Sir, Our Association against Importations and Exportations, from and to G. Britain, Ireland and the British West Indies, if We consider its Influence, upon the Revenue, the Commerce, the Manufactures and the Agriculture of the Kingdom, is a formidable Shield of Defence for Us. It is Shearing of its Beams that Luminary, which, in all its Glory might dazzle our feeble Sight. 
But a Question arises, whether, oup Association against Exportations, can be observed, so as to have its full Effect, upon Britain, Ireland and the West Indies, unless We extend it further? We have agreed not to export to B., I. and the W. Indies. 
Parliament has made an Act that We shall not export to any other Place. 
So that Trade is entirely stopped. 
But will not a Smuggling Trade be opened? That is, will not Adventurers push out Vessells against the Act of Parliament ? If they do, When the Vessells are once at Sea, will they not go to the Place where a Famine price is to be had ? The Spirit of Commerce is mercenary and avaricious, and Merchants will go Where the Scarcity is greatest, the Demand quickest and the Price highest. 
What Security then can we have that Merchants will not order their Vessells to the West India Islands, British or foreign, to Ireland or even to Great Britain, in Defyance of our Association ? [347] x Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1315 ; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 191, II. 7; N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 67. 2 The New York letter of Oct. 17 is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1080. See the Journals, Oct. 25, 26, 27, 28. The Journals indicate that it is the letter of Oct. 20 that was under consideration, but that seems to be an error. 
The letter of Oct. 20 is ibid., pp. 1 1 18, 1300. [348] x Warren-Adams Letters, I. 166. 244 Continental Congress Besides is there not reason to apprehend that the concealed Tories of whom there are many in every Colony, and especially in every maritime Town, will send their Vessels to sea, on purpose to be taken by the Enemy, and sent to supply the Army and Navy in America? It is true, their Vessels would be forfeited, and seized, and condemned no doubt; but they might be pleased with this, and would easily obtain hereafter Compensation or Retribution for this meritorious Sacrifice from the Ministry. 
In short may not our association be wholly evaded and eluded, if we don't draw it closer? 2 My own opinion upon these great Questions I may possibly give you some time or other. 
But I wish to have yours. 349. Samuel Adams to Elbridge Gerry. 1 Philada. 
Octob 29 1775 My dear Sir I wrote to you a few days ago by young Mr Brown and then acknowledged your Favor of the 9th Instant. 2 You tell me that a Committee of both Houses of Assembly is appointed to bring in a Militia Bill. 
I am of your opinion that this matter requires great Attention and I wish with you to see our Militia formed not only into Battallions but also Brigades. 
But should we not be cautious of putting them under the Direction of the Generals of the Continent, at least until such a Legislative shall be established over all America as every Colony shall consent to. The Continental Army is very properly under the Direction of the Continental Congress. 
Possibly, if ever such a Legislative should be formed it may be proper that the whole military Power in every Colony should be under its absolute Direction. 
Be that as it may, will it not till then be prudent that the Militia of each Colony should be and remain under the sole Direction of its own Legislative which is and ought to be the sovereign and uncontroulable Power within its own limits or Territory. 3 Novr. 4th? My time is so little at my own Command that I am obliged to improve a moment as I can catch it to write to a Friend. 
I wish I was at Liberty to communicate to you all the Proceedings of Con- 2 See the resolutions concerning trade passed Nov. 1 ; also Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 4, 5, 6, 12, 13, 20, 21, 27, in the Journals, III. 476-580, passim; Works, II. 452-484, passim. 
Cf. nos. 318, 337, 342, ante, 353, post. [349 1 1 Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. W. R. Benjamin of New York; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Gushing), III. 229; Austin, Life of Gerry, I. 119; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1248. 2 The letter of Adams to Gerry here referred to has not been found; Gerry's letter to Adams, Oct. 9, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 993. 3 There follows a discussion of the militia problem. 
Cf. no. 366, post. 
See also Gerry to Samuel Adams, Dec. 13, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 255 ; Samuel Adams to Gerry, Jan. 2, 1776, Writings (ed. Cushing), III. 246. 4 That part of the postscript of Nov. 4, " My time .... obvious " is not in the draft or the printed texts of this letter. 
It is, however, printed in Samuel Adams's Writings (ed. Cushing), III. 232, and in Frothingham, Rise of the Republic, p. 449, as to James Warren. 
The endorsement indicating that the letter was to Warren was probably made by Adams at a later time and is due to an error in his memory. 
See the letter of Nov. 4 to Warren, no. 353, post. 
November, 1775 245 gress that Necessity does not require should for the present be kept secret, but I am restrained and cannot violate my Honor. 5 I will however venture to tell you of one Resolution which from the Nature of it must be immediately made known to many Persons. 
It is recommended to the Colony of New Hampshire to exercise Government in such Form as they shall judge necessary for the Preservation of Peace and good order during the Continuance of the present Contest. 
This I would not have you mention abroad till you see it published or hear it publickly talked of. 6 The government of the New England Colonies will soon, I suppose, be on the same footing; and I am of opinion it will not be long before every Colony will see the Necessity of setting up Governments within themselves for Reasons that appear to me to be obvious. 
Yesterday the Colors of the 17th [7th] Regiment were presented to the Congress. 
They were taken at Fort Chamblee. 7 the Garrison surrendered Prisoners of War to Major Brown of the Massachusetts Forces. 
One hundred and twenty four Barrils of Gunpowder! May Heaven grant us further Success. 350. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [October 31, 1775.] 31st. Letters from General Schuyler read. 2 Resolved into a Committee of the Whole. 
Mr. Ward reported a certain resolution, and desired leave to sit again. 
Report referred. 
Resolve of the Assembly of Pennsylvania presented and referred to Friday. 351. Samuel Ward, Diary. 1 [November 2, 1775.] 2d Business increased so fast, [I] could not go on with the minutes. 5 Cf. nos. 312, 318, ante, 353, 354, 363, post. 6 See nos. 311, 333 (note 3), 345, ante, 352, 353. post. 
Cf. no. 531, post. 7 See the Journals, Nov. 4, and cf. Adams to Warren, Nov. 4, Warren-Adams Letters, I. 169, Writings (ed. Cushing), III. 232. Schuyler's letter of Oct. 21-26, with enclosures, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1130-1134. Cf. his letters to the New York congress and to Washington, Oct. 26 (ibid., p. 1195), and to Gov. Trumbull, Oct. 27 (ibid., p. 1207). See also nos. 350, 352, post. [350]! Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 555. 2 See the Journals, Oct. 31 (text and note relative to Schuyler's letters). The letters, dated Oct. 14, 18, and 20, with enclosures, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1065, 1093-1099, 1124. The letter dated Oct. 14 (it is clearly so in the original) should probably be dated Oct. 19. In it Schuyler says : " I had just closed my letter of yesterday when I had the honor to receive yours of the 9th." The minimum time required for an express to go from Philadelphia to Ticonderoga seems to have been eight days. 
There are also other indications that it was written subsequent to the letter of the 18th. For instance he encloses copies of his correspondence with Wooster of the 19th (ibid., p. 1107), which appears to have taken place after the letter of the 18th had been written. 
Moreover, in the letter of the 18th he says : " since my last of the 5th instant ". This would also indicate that there was no letter from him dated Oct. 6. [351] 1 Mag. of Am. Hist., I. 556. 246 Continental Congress & 352. The New Hampshire Delegates to Matthew Thornton. 1 Philada 3d Novr, 1775. Sr. This serves to inclose a Resolve of the Congress relative to Civil Government for the Colony of New Hampshire, by which you'll see they recommend such a form as shall be agreeable to a free Representation of the People ; in short such a Government as shall be most agreeable to the Province. 
The arguments on this matter (being the first of the kind, as we had no charter) were truly Ciceronial, the eminent Speakers did honour to themselves and the Continent; carried by a very great majority. 2 The power is ample and full even to the choice of Governor, if the Colony should think it necessary; but that, we humbly conceive worthy of consideration. 
You'll see that the government is limited to the present contest; To ease the minds of some few persons who were fearful of Independence, we tho't it adviseable not to oppose that part too much, for once we had taken any sort of government nothing but Negotiation with Great Britain can alter it. We would here beg leave to suggest whether a Government somewhat similar to the Massachusetts would not be best — a free representation of the Province, tho' not too many, as they may be increased at any time, but it would be hard to Diminish; those Representatives to chose a Council, of proper number — say 15 — these two Branches to act in all cases whatever and not to proceed so far as Governor at present, tho' the Door may be left open for that purpose. 
We throw out these hints with great submission to the Honble Convention. [352]! .V. H. Prov. 
Papers, VII. 641. 2 See no. 345, note 4, ante. 
Continuing his discussion of this subject (see no. 333, note 3, ante) John Adams says in his Autobiography: " Monday arrived, and Tuesday and Wednesday passed over, and Congress not yet willing to do anything. " On Thursday, October 26th, the subject was again brought on the carpet, and the same discussions repeated; for very little new was produced. 
After a long discussion, in which Mr. John Rutledge, Mr. Ward, Mr. Lee, Mr. Gadsden, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Dyer, and some others had spoken on the same side with me, Congress resolved, that a committee of five members be appointed to take into consideration the instructions given to the delegates of New Hampshire, and report their opinion thereon. 
The members chosen, — Mr. John Rutledge, Mr. J. Adams, Mr. Ward. 
Mr. Lee, and Mr. Sherman. " Although this committee was entirely composed of members as well disposed to encourage the enterprise as could have been found in Congress, yet they could not be brought to agree upon a report and to bring it forward in Congress, till Friday, November 3d, when Congress, taking into consideration the report of the committee on the New Hampshire instructions, after another long deliberation and debate, — '"Resolved, That it be recommended to the Provincial Convention of New Hampshire, to call a full and free representation of the people, and that the representative.-, if they think it necessary, establish such a form of government, as in their judgment will best produce the happiness of the people, and most effectually secure peace and good order in the Province, during the continuance of the present dispute between Great Britain and the Colonies.'" By this time I mortally hated the words, ' Province ', ' Colonies ', and ' Mother Country ', and strove to get them out of the report. 
The last was indeed left out, but the other two were retained even by this committee, who were all as high Americans as any in the house, unless Mr. Gadsden should be excepted. 
Nevertheless I thought this resolution a triumph, and a most important point gained." Works, III. 20. Adams's account of proceedings relative to government in South Carolina is found under Nov. 4, post. 
November, 1775 247 We think [we] can say without boasting, have done our duty in this matter, by paying constant attention, for long time, not only in the House, but in private conversation with members, to clear up any doubts they might have on this head. 
We can't help rejoicing to see this as a ground work of our government, and hope by the Blessing of Divine Providence, never to return to our former despotick state. 
Inclosed is also Resolves respectg Trade
We have also the Pleasure to inform you, that an express has just arrived from St. Johns, with advice that our men has taken the Fortress at Chamble, 4 and have sent the Standard Coulors of the Seventh Regiment to this Congress, took six tons of Powder, and many valuable stores, abt 100 Prisoners, hope to have possession of St. Johns soon. 
Mr. Langdon expects to set out in a few days for Canada, being one of a Committee for that Place. 5 We are your most obdt servts, Josiah Bartlett John Langdon. 353. Samuel Adams to James Warren. 1 Philada., Novr. 4th, 1775 My dear sir, .... The Gentlemen who have lately returned from the Camp
Be that as it may, the Congress have judgd it necessary to continue the Establishment of the Men's pay, and to enlarge that of the Captains and Lieutenants. 
In Addition to the Continental Army four new Batallions are to be raised, viz, three for the Defence of South Carolina and one for Georgia. 3 These with 1000 Men before orderd for North Carolina, 4 3 See the Journals, Nov. 1. 4 Cf. no. 349, ante. 5 Journals, Nov. 2, 8. Cf. no. 362, post. 
The resolve of Nov. 2 does not specify that the committee is to go to Canada, but the instructions given them Nov. 8 make it an especial part of their mission to endeavor " to induce the Canadians to accede to a union with these colonies ". On the same day on which this committee was appointed a petition from the inhabitants of Passamaquoddy in Nova Scotia was read, applying for admission into the association of the North Americans. 
See the Journals, Nov. 9, 10. For the steps which Washington took in accordance with the resolutions of Nov. 10 see his letter to Congress, Nov. 19, and his instructions to Aaron Willard and Moses Child, Nov. 24, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 225, 233, (ed. Sparks), III. 162, 169; Force. 
Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1608, 1665. Willard and Child's report was transmitted to Congress by Washington in a letter of Feb. 14, read in Congress Feb. 29. The letter and report are ibid., IV. 1148-1149. Cf. Report on Canadian Archives. 1894, pp. 339-347- [3 53] x W arr en- A dams Letters, I. 169; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 232; Frothingham, Rise of the Republic, p. 449. 2 See the Journals, Nov. 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7. At this point the consideration of the committee's report was in connection with Washington's letter of Oct. 30 {Writings, ed. Ford, III. 190; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1256). See also nos. 308, 309, 311, ante, and nos. 354, 360, post. 
The committee's proceedings are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1155-1167. 3 See the Journals, Nov. 4. 4 See the Journals, June 26; cf. ibid., Nov. 24, 27, 28. 248 Continental Congress S'with the Assistance of provincial Forces, it is hoped will be sufficient to defend the three Southernmost Colonies. 
It is recommended to N. Hampshire to form a Government to their own liking, during this Contest; and S. Carolina is allowd to do the same if they judge it necessary. 
I believe the Time is near when the most timid will see the absolute Necessity of every one of the Colonies setting up a Government within itself. 5 No Provisions or Produce is to be exported from any of the united Colonies to any part of the World till the first of March except for the Importation of the Unum Necessarium, 6 and for Supplys from one Colony to another, under the Direction of Committees, and a further Exception of live Stock. 
Under the last Head, and Horses are allowd to be sent to the foreign West Indies. 7 We shall by the Spring know the full Effect of our Non-exportation Agreement in the West Indies. 
Perhaps Alliances may then be formed with foreign Powers, and Trade opened to all the World Great Britain excepted. 8 You will possibly think I have set myself down to furnish a few Paragraphs for Edes and Gills paper, 9 and what is more that I am betraying
Touching the South Carolina matter John Adams says in his Autobiography: " Mr. John Rutledge was now completely with us in our desire of revolutionizing all the governments, and he brought forward immediately some representations from his own State. [Here follow quotations from the Journals, Nov. 3, 4.] " Although Mr. John Rutledge united with me and others, in persuading the committee to report this resolution, and the distance of Carolina made it convenient to furnish them with this discretionary recommendation, I doubt whether Mr. Harrison or Mr. Hooper were, as yet, sufficiently advanced to agree to it. Mr. Bullock, Mr. Chase, and Mr. Samuel Adams, were very ready for it. When it was under consideration, I labored afresh to expunge the words ' Colony ', and ' Colonies ', and insert the words ' State ', and ' States ', and the word ' dispute ', to make way for that of 'war ', and the word ' Colonies ', for the word ' America ', or ' States ', but the child was not yet weaned. 
I labored, also, to get the resolution enlarged, and extended into a recommendation to the people of all the States, to institute governments, and this occasioned more interrogatories from one part and another of the House. ' What plan of government would you recommend ? ' etc. 
Here it would have been the most natural to have made a motion that Congress should appoint a committee to prepare a plan of government, to be reported to Congress and there discussed, paragraph by paragraph, and that which should be adopted should be recommended to all the States. 
But I dared not make such a motion, because I knew that if such a plan was adopted it would be, if not permanent, yet of long duration, and it would be extremely difficult to get rid of it. And I knew "that every one of my friends, and all those who were the most zealous for assuming governments, had at that time no idea of any other government but a contemptible legislature in one assembly, with committees for executive magistrates and judges. 
These questions, therefore, I answered by sporting off hand a variety of short sketches of plans, which might be adopted by the conventions; and as this subject was brought into view in some way or other almost every day, and these interrogatories were frequently repeated, I had in my head and at my tongue's end as many projects of government as Mr. Burke says the Abbe Sieves had in his pigeon-holes, not however, constructed at such length, nor labored with his metaphysical refinements. 
I took care, however, always to bear my testimony against every plan of an unbalanced government." Works, III. 2i. The text in Adams's Writings (taken from the draft in the New York Public Library) reads: "Arms and Amunition". 7 See the Journals, Nov. 1; cf. ibid., July 15. The text in the Writings reads here : " and a further Exception of live Stock under the first head, and Horses are allowd to be sent to the foreign West Indies."8 See no. 348, and note 2, ante . The Boston Gazette. 
November, 1775 249 the Secrets of Congress. 
I confess I am giving my Friend as much information as I dare, of things which are of such a Nature as that they cannot long be kept secret, and therefore I suppose it never was intended they should be. I mention them however in Confidence that you will not publish them. 
I wish I was at Liberty to tell you many of the Transactions of our body, but I am restraind by the Ties of Honor ; and though it is painful to me, you know, to keep Secrets, I will not violate my Honor to relieve myself or gratify my Friend.'"10 354. John Adams to Elbridge Gerry. 1 Philadelphia, 5 November, 1775. Dear Sir: I am under such restrictions, injunctions, and engagements of secrecy respecting every thing which passes in Congress, that I cannot communicate my own thoughts freely to my friends, so far as is necessary to ask their advice and opinions concerning questions, which many of them understand much better than I do. This, however, is an inconvenience which must be submitted to for the sake of superior advantages. 2 But I must take the liberty to say, that I think we shall soon attend to maritime affairs and naval preparations. 3 No great things are to be expected at first, but out of a little a great deal may grow. 
It is very odd that I, who have spent my days in researches and employments so very different, and who have never thought much of old ocean, or the dominion of it, should be necessitated to make such inquiries ; but it is my fate and my duty, and therefore I must attempt it. I am to inquire what number of seamen may be found in our province, who would probably enlist in the service, either as marines or on board of armed vessels, in the pay of the Continent or in the pay of the province, or on board of privateers, fitted out by private adventurers. 
I must also entreat you to let me know the names, places of abode, and characters of such persons belonging to any of the seaport towns in our province, as are qualified for officers and commanders of armed vessels. 
I want to be further instructed what ships, brigantines, schooners, etc., are to be found in any port of the province, to be sold or hired out, which will be suitable for armed vessels ; what their tonnage, the depth of water they draw, their breadth, their decks, etc., and to whom they belong, and what is their age. 
Further, what places in our province are most secure and best accommodated for building new vessels of force, in case a measure of that kind should be thought of. The Committee have returned much pleased with what they have seen and heard, which shows that their embassy will be productive of happy effects. 
They say the only disagreeable circumstance was, that their engagements, haste, and constant attention to business was such as pre- 10 See the Journals, Nov. 9; cf. nos. 312, 318, 349, ante, and 354. 363 (note 3), post. [354] 1 Works, IX. 362; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1354; Mass. 
Arch., CCVII. 266. 2 See the Journals, Nov. 9; cf. nos. 312, 318, 349, 353, ante, 363, note 3, post. 3 See nos. 316 (note 3), 329, 336, ante; cf. nos. 364, 390, post. 250 Continental Congress vented them from forming such acquaintances with the gentlemen of our province as they wished. 
But as Congress was waiting for their return before they could determine upon affairs of the last moment, they had not time to spare. 4 They are pretty well convinced, I believe, of several important points, which they and others doubted before. 
New Hampshire has leave to assume a Government, and so has South Carolina : but this must not be freely talked of as yet, at least from me. 5 New England will now be able to exert her strength, which a little time will show to be greater than either Great Britain or America imagines. 
I give you joy of the agreeable prospect in Canada. 
We have the colors of the seventh regiment as the first fruits of victory. 6 John Adams. 355. William Livingston to Lord Stirling. 1 8 Novr 1775 My Lord Yesterday the officers for the
These were accordingly all dated the
This morning I moved the Matter, and urged the necessity of the measure from this fact but the thing was not relished, and therefore the date of the other Commissions was changed into 8th 356. The New York Delegates to the Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia, November 9, 1775. Gentlemen: The Congress have taken the resolution to appoint a commander of the fortress in the Highlands, with the rank of Colonel, and Wednesday is fixed for the purpose. 
As it must be of moment that this command should be vested in a person of abilities, and in whom the inhabitants place confidence, we wish you would name three or four gentlemen who are competent for the trust, and we shall endeavour to get one of them preferred. 
You will, however, be pleased to observe, that as these works are erected at a Continental expense, the Congress claim an absolute right to appoint the officers. 2 4 Cf. no. 353, ante, 360, 361, post; also Adams to Warren, Nov. 5, Warren- Adams Letters, I. 174. 6 Cf. nos. 333, 345, 349. 353, ante. 6 Cf. no. 349, ante. [3551 1 N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Stirling Papers, IV. 2 The proceedings of the New Jersey congress are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, III. 1240. See the Journals, Nov. 7; also nos. 323, 330, 344, ante. [356] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth scr., III. 1413, 1756; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 200, II. 107; N. Y. State Lib., Minutes of the Committee of Safety, III. 370 (copy). 2 See the Journals, Nov. 8 (pp. 337, 339) and Nov. 9; cf. nos. 372, 425, post. 
November, 17J5 251 We have the honour to be, with the greatest respect, Gentlemen, your most obedient humble servants, James Duane, R. R. Livingston, Jun. To the Honourable Provincial Congress at New York. 357. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston. 1 Philadelphia 9th Nov. 1775. Dear Sir, .... The Congress exert every Nerve to put the Colonies into a proper state of defence ; four Regiments are ordered to be raised on Continental Pay for the defence of South Carolina and Georgia ; 2 it is expected the two Regiments with you will be continued and kept up the same as other parts of the Army. 3 .... It is also recommended that all the Soldiers be put into some Uniform, that the Public purchase the Cloth and have it made up, and that it be discounted out of each Man's Pay at the rate of 10s per month. 
The Soldiers near Boston we are told are well pleased with this regulation. 4 Several other matters which together with some Ships and Vessels that are fitting out at the Charge of the Continent will enhance our expences amazingly, by which you may Judge we have but little expectation of a reconciliation. 
I can assure you from all the accounts we have yet received from England we have scarcely a dawn of hope that it will take place. 
Mr Middleton and Mr Rutledge two of the Delegates for South Carolina set out for that Province on Sunday last, they intended [going] thro' Halifax and carried a Letter for you from the President enclosing a resolution respecting Trade 358. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward. 1 Philadelphia nth Novr. 1775 My dear Bro r A Ship arrived from London on thursday. 
Our Petition you see the Fate of in the Letter published in the Paper I sent Govr. 
Cooke last Evening. 
Passengers assure us that the Hanoverians refuse to come to America, that Administration is determined to push their Measures at all Events, that 20000 Troops are to be sent over in the Spring, four or five Regiments this Fall, that Terms of Accommodation that is the Terms upon which they are willing to receive Us and our Posterity for their Slaves are to be committed to the General and that they will treat with Us no other Way ; The King has carried Sir Jeffrey Amherst out in his [357] 1 N. C. Col. Recs., X. 314; XXII. 752. 2 See the Journals, Nov. 2, 3, 4. 3 Cf. the Journals, Nov. 24, 27, 28 (p. 387) ; cf. ibid., June 26. 4 See the proceedings of the committee of conference at Cambridge, Oct. 20, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1157. [358] 1 MSS. of the late William D. Ely, Providence. 252 Continental Congress Coach seven Mornings running but cannot prevail upon him to take the command in America, that Genl. 
Monckton hath nobly refused, said he would never engage in such an infamous Course. 
Orders are given to open all Letters at the post Offices and stop such as contain any American Intelligence. 
The People disapprove the Introduction of foreign Troops; the Parliament setts 26th Octr. 
Ministrv was collecting its Forces to carry every Measure with a high hand. 
Opposition was rallying its Friends in order to make a vigorous Stand, a Letter from a Gent n of high Character whose Intelligence hath ever been good says that Ministry was putting Arms into the Hands of all who would receive them, English, Scotch, irish, roman catholics, Hessians, Hanoverians etc., and that fifty Men of War are to destroy all our maritime Towns and interdict our Trade : If Administration succeeds they are determined another Letter says to extirpate the New England Colonies, an Army from Canada and the 20000 men from england they suppose capable of doing this. 2 these Threats will not intimidate our brave Men but animate all in their Countryes Cause and blessed be God We are in his all gracious Hands and not in those of a Ministry fit to serve a Nero only. 
To Be or not to be is now the Question, every private View, Passion and Interest ought to be buried ; We are embarked in one common Bottom, if She sinks We all perish; if She survives the Storm, Peace and Plenty (the offspring of Liberty), and every thing which will dignify and fecilitate [felicitate?] human Nature will be the Reward of our Virtue. 
Oh my Brother This is not the Cause of the Colonies and of Britain only but of human Nature itself, and that God who is the Author of Nature, the Friend of Mankind and who hath so remarkably preserved and prospered these Colonies will still continue his all gracious Protection to which I most devoutly recommend You, my Friends and my Country I am Yours most affectionately Sam Ward H. Ward Esqr. 359. John Adams to Henry Knox. 1 Philadelphia Nov. ii, 1775 Dr Sir I had the Pleasure of a Letter from you a few days ago and was rejoiced to learn that you have at last determined to take a more important Share than you have done hitherto in the Conduct of our military Matters. 
I have been impressed with an opinion of your knowledge and Abilities in the military Way for Several years, and of late have endeavoured, 2 See the Journals, Nov. 9. The letter from Richard Perm and Arthur Lee is in Force, Am. Arch,, fourth ser., III. 627, 1792, 1851 ; cf. ibid., p. 255. The letter from Congress in reply is in the Journals, Nov. 29, and in Force, Am. Arch., /ourth ser., III. 1936. Cf. the letters of Richard Henry Lee and Josiah Bartlett, Nov. 13 (parts omitted, post); also N. C. Col. Recs., X. 314; XXII. 752, and Samuel Adams's Writings (ed. Cushing), III. 240. [359] X N. E. Hist. 
Geneal. 
Soc, Knox Papers, I. 171. November, 1775 253 both at Camp, at Watertovvn and at Philadelphia, by mentioning your Name and Character, to make you more known, and consequently in a better Way for Promotion. 
It was a sincere opinion of your Merit and Qualifications, which prompted me to act this Part and therefore I am very happy to be able to inform you, that I believe you will very soon be provided for according to your Wishes, at least you may depend upon this that nothing in my Power shall be wanting to effect it. 2 .... 360. Thomas Lynch to George Washington. 1 Phila, Nov. 13, 1775 My dear Sir: .... I am happy to inform you that Congress has agreed to every Recommendation of the Committee ' and have gone beyond it in allowing the additional pay to the Officers. 
I rejoice at this but cant think with Patience, that pityfull wretches who stood cavilling with you when entreated to serve the next Campaign should reap the Benefit of this addition, they will now be ready enough, but hope you will be able to refuse them with the Contempt they deserve and to find better in their room. 
Coud not some of the Gentlemen at Camp enlist the New England men who have been persuaded to leave you. 
Frazier told me he coud. it woud be a Capital Point to convince the World that it is not necessary to have bad Officers of that Country in order to raise men there. 
I can scarce bear their Tyranny. 
I have a Letter from undoubted Authority that assures me that the destruction of the Parliamentary Army in America will certainly produce Peace and by another that the seizing Quebec will produce the same Effect. 
I have no doubt America stands now indebted to her General for the One and will before the Return of Spring for the other, mistake me not, — I have not altered my mind a jot since I left you. 
I mean not to anticipate your Determinations, but only to approve your Design to hover like an Eagle over your Prey, always ready to Pounce it when the proper Time comes. 
I have not forgot your Proposition relative to that City; I try to pave the way for it, and wait for the Season as you do. 3 .... The Articles of War has all the Amendments we reported. 4 You will enforce them, you will not now suffer your Officers to sweep the Parade [with] the skirts of their Coats or bottoms of their Trowsers, to cheat or
See the Journals, Nov. 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1155-1167. Cf. no. 353, ante. 
See also Washington's letter of Oct. 30 (Writings, ed. Ford, III. 190, ed. Sparks, III. 137; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1256), read in Congress, Nov. 7. 3 In a letter to Gen. Richard Montgomery, Nov. 14, Lynch says : " Mr. Livingston will carry you all the News, except perhaps, the Opinion of our Friends in England, that the total reduction of Canada this Winter must certainly produce Peace in the Spring." British Public Record Office, A. W. I., CLXXXVI. 39 (new ref., C. O. 5 : 1107). 4 See the amendments in the Journals, Nov. 7 ; cf. ibid., Nov. 13. The original articles are in the Journals, June 30. 254 Continental Congress 6"to mess with their Men, to skulk in battle or sneak in Quarters, in short being now paid they must do their Duty and look as well as act like Gentlemen. 
Do not bate them an Ace, my Dear General, but depend on every Support of your Friends here. 
I have strove to keep two Battalions now raising in the Jersey's and one here quite disengaged that they may be ready, on a call to join you, shoud those you have desert you. 
I have not been quite unsuccessful. 5 The Winter, is our own. 
Boston will not during that season be reenforcd at least we have reason to think so. I want the Return I desired from Gates exceedingly. 
Comp nts . to him Lee, Putnam, Mifflin etc. 
Tis so dark I can't read this Letter over or I woud save you the trouble of deciphering it. Dear Sir your most obedt Serv. 
Tho. Lynch [P. S.] . . . . 361. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia Novemr. 13th 1775 Dear Sir: .... I have a very particular reason for entreating that you will inform me by return of Post, what number and what strength of Armed Vessels could possibly be procured from the ports where you are, to be in Delaware Bay, if Congress should desire it, by the middle or last of December, at furthest. 
Two or
The Continental and Virginia Commissioners have just concluded a treaty of firm friendship with the Ohio Indians, and those of the Six nations that inhabit near that Ouarter. 3 We have taken the most effectual measures, by sending runners from all the southern provinces into the Indian Nations thro which he proposes to pass, to arrest and secure Lord Dunmores wicked Agent Connolly. 4 362. josiah bartlett to the new hampshire committee of Safety. 1 Philadelphia, Novr. 13th 1775. Gentn, .... Yesterday Cap. Langdon set off on his journey to Canada, so that I am left here alone to act in Behalf of our Colony. 
I don't expect
Papers, VII. 653; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 22. November, 1775 255 him here any more During this Session of the Congress." When the Congress will rise, can't say, But fear it can't till winter, if it can before Spring. 
The affair of the ships taken at Portsmouth has not been considered by Congress, by reason of urgent Business ; But I expect soon, that that and several other captures will be taken under consideration and some General Rules adopted ; when any thing is Determined on it, will inform you by the first opportunity. 3 I am Directed by the Congress to send you the Inclosed Resolves for making salt petre, and I would earnestly Recommend the putting them in practice. 4 .... 363. John Adams to Samuel Osgood. 1 Novr. 15, 1775 Sir .... The true Cause why General Frie has not reed from me any particular Intelligence is that the Matter has been hitherto suspended, and that I am under such Engagements of Secrecy that I could not in Honour acquaint him with any Thing that has pass'd in Congress. 2 As soon as I arrived in Philadelphia, I made it my Business to introduce General Fries Name and Character into Conversation in every private Company where it could be done with Propriety, and to make his long services and Experience known. 
But I found an Interest making in private Circles in Favour of Coll. 
Armstrong of Pensilvania, a Gentleman of Character and Experience in War, a Presbyterian in Religion, whose Name runs high for Piety, Virtue and Valour. 
What has been done in Congress I must be excused from saying, but nothing in my Power has been omitted to promote the Wishes of our Colony or the Honour and Interest of General Frie. 
It is sufficient to say that nothing has as yet
Langdon made a report (signed also by Robert Treat Paine) on the mission of the committee, Dec. 23 (the report is in the Journals; also in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 442). He had probably returned the preceding day. 
See no. 404, post. 3 See no. 345, note 2, ante, and the Journals, Nov. 25 ; also no. 379, post. 4 Probably the resolves of Nov. 10. Cf. the Journals, Nov. 11; see also ibid., July 18. [363] 1 N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Osgood Papers. 2 See nos. 312, 318, 349, 353, 354, ante, 382, post. 
The frequent mention since early in October of the requirement of secrecy indicate that the resolve of May 11 had been broken by members of Congress and that pressure of some sort had been brought to bear upon them to induce them to observe this obligation. 
On Nov. 9 a resolution of a very rigid character was adopted, which members were required to sign and the violation of which incurred the penalty of expulsion from Congress and denunciation as an enemy to the liberties of America. 
A copy of this resolution, in the writing of Charles Thomson, with appended signatures, is in the Library of Congress. 
A facsimile of the document is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 191 5, and in Warren-Adams Letters, I. 126. The resolution was signed by members as late as June, 1777, the last signature to which a date is attached being that of William Duer, June 5, 1777. It is probable that the three remaining signatures, those of Nicholas Van Dyke, Henry Marchant, and George Frost, were appended the same day. 
Duer had been in attendance since Apr. 7, 1777, Van Dyke only since June 2, while Frost had attended May 16, Marchant May 31. See no. 453, post. 21 256 Continental Congress been determined. 
But it will be settled soon. 
And let it be decided as it may, every good American will acquiese in the Decision. 3 .... 364. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward. 1 [November 16, 1775.] Our instruction for an American fleet has been long upon the table. 
When it was first presented, it was looked upon as perfectly chimerical; but gentlemen now consider it in a very different light. 
It is this day to be taken into consideration, and I have great hopes of carrying it. Dr. Franklin and Colonel Lee, the two Adamses, and many others, will support it. If it succeeds, I shall remember your ideas of our building two of the ships. 2 365. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward. 1 [November 21, 1775.] .... By letters from camp I find there is infinite difficulty in reinlisting the army. 
The idea of making it wholly Continental has induced so many alterations disgusting to both officers and men, that very little success has attended our recruiting orders. 
I have often told the Congress, that, under the idea of new modelling, I was afraid we should destroy our army. 
Southern gentlemen wish to remove that attachment, which the officers and men have to their respective colonies, and make them look up to the continent at large for their support or promotion. 
I never thought that attachment injurious to the common cause, but the strongest inducement to people to risk every thing in defence of the whole, upon the preservation of which must depend the safety of each colony. 
I wish, therefore, not to eradicate, but to regulate it in such a manner, as may most conduce to the protection of the whole. 366. Samuel Adams to James Otis. 1 Philadelphia Novr. 23. 1775 Sir Having very maturely considered your Letter of the nth of November, 2 written in the Name and by the order of the Honble the Council of Massachusetts Bay, and directed to the Delegates of that Colony, [and
Arch., CXCIV. 160 (certified copy); N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (draft) ; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 242; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1654. The text here given is from the copy in the Mass. 
Archives, and contains some variations from that of the draft printed in Cushing's edition of Adams's Writings. 
The principal of these are indicated. 2 The Massachusetts letter of Nov. 11 is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. I53i; cf. ibid., pp. 1499. 1504, 1505, 1509, I5I3-15I5, 1516, 1517- November, 1775 257 consulted with my Colleagues thereon,] - I beg Leave to offer it as my opinion that the Resolves of the 9th of July [June] last, [relative to establishing Civil Government] must be superceded by the subsequent Resolve of the 8th [18th] of July
It therefore seems to me manifest, 7 that the Hon bIe Council are under no Restraint from yielding to the Hon ble House a Voice with them in the Choice of the Militia Officers in the Colony. 
I am prevailed upon to believe that this is the sense of the Congress ; because they have lately recommended it to the Colony of New Hampshire, to set up, and exercise Government in such Form as they shall judge to be most conducive to the promotion of Peace and good Order among themselves, without laying them under Restrictions
If I was of opinion that any Resolution of the Congress now in Force was against the Claim of the Honorable House, as the Honorable Board have proposed that we should lay the Question before Congress I should think it my duty to do it; But it appears to me that supposing the two Resolutions to clash, the last ought to be considered as binding, and as, by this, it is left in the " Discretion of the Assembly either to adopt the foregoing Resolutions, in the whole, or in Part, or to continue their former, as they on consideration of all Circumstances shall think fit ", I think it plain, that the Honorable Board may comply with the Desire of the Honorable House if in their Discretion they think fit. 
I am the more confirmed in the opinion that it is unnecessary to lay this Matter before Congress, as they have lately advised the Colonies of New Hampshire and one more, 2 if they think it necessary, to establish such Forms of Government, as they shall judge best calculated to promote the Happiness of the People. 
Besides the Congress was so pressed with Business, and engaged upon Questions of greater Moment, that I should be unwilling, unless in a case of absolute necessity to interrupt them by a Question of this Kind, not to mention that I would not wish to make known so publickly and extensively, that a Controversy had so soon .arisen between the Branches of our new Government. 
I have had frequent Consultations with my Colleagues since the Receipt of your Letter, upon this Subject; but as we are not unanimous, I think it my Duty to write my private sentiments as soon as possible. 
If Either of my Colleagues shall think fit to propose the Question to congress, I shall there give my candid opinion, as I have done to you. 3 I have the Honor to be, with great Respect to the Honorable Board, sir, your most obedient and very hble Servant John Adams. 368. John Hancock and Thomas Cushing to the Massachusetts Council. 1 Philadelphia, November 24, 1775. Gentlemen: Mr. Revere, the express, informs us this morning he is setting out for home, so that by his return we are not able to give you any advice with I367] 1 Mass. 
Arch., CXCIV. 158 (certified copy) ; Works, IX. 365; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1653. 2 South Carolina. 
See the Journals, Nov. 4, and nos. 352, 353, 354, ante. 3 Cf. no. 366, ante, 368, 369, 370, 373, post. [368] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1662. A foot-note in Adams's Works, IX. 366, says this letter is in Mass. 
Arch. 
November, ijj$ 259 respect to the subject of your letter of the nth instant. 
The determination of the question referred to in that letter, either one way or the other, so nearly affects the interests of, and will be so important in its consequences to the Colony we have the honour to represent, that we dare not venture our opinions what would be the sentiments of Congress upon such a measure as the House proposes, and therefore are clearly of opinion the matter ought to be laid before the Congress, and their sentiments taken upon the same," but we have been so crowded with the consideration of so many interesting and important matters since Mr. Revere's arrival, that there has been no opportunity for this as yet, and therefore must defer at present giving you the advice you request. 
Your application for money is now under the consideration of a Committee of Congress. 3 We conclude, with great respect, your Honours' most obedient humble servants, John Hancock, Thomas Cushing. 
To the Honourable the Council of Massachusetts Bay. 369. John Adams to Joseph Hawley. 1 Philadelphia, 25 November, 1775. This afternoon, at five o'clock. 
I received your kind letter of November 14th, dated at Brookfield, which was the more agreeable because such favors from you, short as this is, are very rare. 
You tell me, Sir, that " we shall have no winter army, if our Congress does not give better encouragement to the privates than at present is held forth to them ", and that " there must be some small bounty given them on the enlistment." What encouragement is held forth, or at least has been, I know not ; but before this time, no doubt, they have been informed of the ultimatum of the Congress. 
No bounty is offered. 
Forty shillings lawful money per month, after much altercation, is allowed. 
It is undoubtedly true that an opinion prevails among the gentlemen of the army from the southward, and indeed throughout all the colonies, excepting New England, that the pay of the privates is too high, and that of the officers too low ; - so that you may easily conceive the difficulties we have had to surmount. 
You may depend upon it that this has cost many an anxious day and night ; and the utmost that could be done, has been. 
We cannot suddenly alter the temper, principles, opinions, or prejudices of men. 
The characters of gentlemen in the four New England colonies, differ as much from those in the others, as that of the common people differs; that is, as much as several distinct nations almost. 
Gentlemen, 2 Cf. nos. 366, 367, ante, 369, 370, 373, post; also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1531. 3 See the Journals, Nov. 16, Dec. 4 ; also a letter of the Massachusetts council, dated Oct. 25, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1182; cf. ibid., pp. 1461, 1462, 1463, 1465, 1473- [369] x Works, IX. 366. 2 Cf. nos. 187, 303, ante. 260 Continental Congress &'men of sense or any kind of education, in the other colonies, are much fewer in proportion than in New England. 
Gentlemen in other colonies have large plantations of slaves, and the common people among them are very ignorant and very poor. 
These gentlemen are accustomed, habituated to higher notions of themselves, and the distinction between them and the common people, than we are. 
And an instantaneous alteration of the character of a colony, and that temper and those sentiments which its inhabitants imbibed with their mother's milk, and which have grown with their growth and strengthened with their strength, cannot be made without a miracle. 
I dread the consequences of this dissimilitude of character, and without the utmost caution on both sides, and the most considerate forbearance with one another, and prudent condescension on both sides, they will certainly be fatal. 
An alteration of the southern Constitutions, which must certainly take place if this war continues, will gradually bring all the continent nearer and nearer to each other in all respects. 
But this is the most critical moment we have yet seen. 
This winter will cast the die. 
For God's sake, therefore, reconcile our people to what has been done, for you may depend upon it that nothing more can be done here, and I should shudder at the thought of proposing a bounty. 
A burnt child dreads the fire. 
The pay of the officers is raised; that of a captain to twenty-six dollars and one third per month. 
Lieutenants and ensigns in proportion. 
Regimental officers not raised. 
You then hint that " if Congress should repeal or explain away the resolutions of 18th July, respecting the appointment of military officers, and vest the council with the sole power, it would throw the colony into confusion, and end in the destruction of the council."The day before yesterday I wrote a letter to the Honorable Board, in answer to one from their President, by order, to us upon that subject, which letter Revere carried from this city yesterday morning. 
Therein I candidly gave my opinion to their honors, that our resolution was clear and plain, that the colony might use its own discretion, and therefore that they might yield this point to the House. 
And that the point was so plain, I did not see the least occasion for laying the controversy before Congress. 
But, my dear friend. 
I must take the freedom to tell you, that the same has happened upon this occasion, which has happened upon a thousand others. 
After taking a great deal of pains with my colleague, your friend Mr. Cushing, I could not get him to agree with the rest of us in writing a joint letter, nor could I get him to say what opinion he would give, if it was moved in Congress. 3 What he has written I know not. 
But it is very hard to be linked and yoked eternally with people, who have either no opinions, or opposite opinions, and to be plagued with the opposition of our own colony to the most necessary measures, at the same time that you have all the monarchical superstition and the aristocratical domination of nine other colonies to contend with. 4 3 Cf. nos. 366, 367, 368, ante, 370, 373, post. 4 Note in Adam's Works: " Copy incomplete ". Touching the action of Cushing, see no. 406, post. pp
Our assembly is scarcely numerous enough for the business ; everybody is engaged, all day in Congress, and all the morning and evening in committees. 
I mention this, Madam, as an apology for not writing you so often as I ought; and as a reason for my request that you would not wait for my answers. 
The dispute you mention between the House and Board, I hope will be easily settled. 
Yet I believe the Board acted with great honor and integrity, and with a wise design and a virtuous resolution to do nothin that should endanger the Union. 
But I am clear that it is best the two Houses should join in the appointment of officers of militia, and I am equally clear that the resolve of Congress was intended to leave it to the discretion of the colony to adopt such a mode as should please themselves ; and I have done myself the honor to write these sentiments to the Board, who were pleased to write to us upon the occasion. 2 .... 371. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston. 1 Philadelphia 26th Nov. 1775 Dear Sir, .... It is thought we sha[ll have occa]sion for all the men we can raise [and] you must not discharge your [troops until you] hear further from our Body. 
Thos. 
Pearsons
We] had that matter under consideration and a committee] was appointed to Consider it; and [will hand in a report?] to Morrow. 
I have not seen [the report but the] purport of it is, that your Two Regiments sha[ll be kept in continental] pay till Deer. 1776, unless discharged [by order] of Congress : and that it is [recommended to] you to fall upon every Method [to procure] ammunition for them; the latter you may be supplied with at Charleston. 
I have done all I could to purchase some of both here ; but cannot as yet get any of either ; if I could have done it, I [shou]ld have had an order of Congress on the treasurer here, for money to have paid for them. 
If the order from Congress should not reach you, before you set off for the next meeting of your Council, you Must prevent the disbanding of your soldiers. . I ought not to call them your soldiers. 
The Continent considers them theirs and the Congre[ss intends] to give orders accordingly. 3 .... [370]! Works, IX. 368. 2 See nos. 366, 367, 368, 369, ante, 373, post. [371] 1 Mutilated. 
Letter-book in the possession of C. E. Johnson, Raleigh. 2 Thomas Person, then a member of the provincial council of North Carolina. 3 See the Journals, Nov. 24, 27, 28. 262 Continental Congress &'372. James Duane to the New York Convention. 1 Gentlemen: .... Our letter on the subject of the fortress on Hudson's River remains unanswered. 
It is of so much importance that our Colony should be satisfied of the fidelitys and abilities of the officer to whom this command is intrusted, that we wait impatiently for your recommendation, flattering ourselves that it will have its full weight. 2 .... Novembr the 28, 1775. P. S Five hundred weight of powder is now forwarded ; it was borrowed from Pennsylvania, by the Congress, with difficulty. 373. John Hancock and Thomas Cushing to the Massachusetts Council. 1 Philadelphia Nov. 29th 1775. Gentlemen We wrote you on the 24 Instant that we thought the Matter in dispute between the two Houses ought to be laid before the Congress and their Sentiments taken upon it, but for various Reasons, too many now to enumerate, this has not yet been done; however we have consulted the members of the Congress individually and upon conversing with them, we find that in general they are extreamly desirous we should Conform, in all Government Matters, as near as possible to the Spirit and Substance of our Charter, and it is their Opinion that when the Resolutions of the 18 July last was passed it was the intention of the Congress not to superceed the Resolve of the
Thus we have Collected and advised you of the Sentiments of the Members of the Congress in general, which we doubt not will be of some aid to you in your deliberations and determination upon this
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 202; Dartmouth MSS., American Papers, vol. 
II., no. 1603; N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, I. 187 (the postscript only). - See no. 374, note 2, ante. [3731 1 Mass. 
Arch., CXCIV. 171 (L. S.). Another copy, apparently in the writing of Cushing, is ibid., p. 169. The letter is printed in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1705. November, 1775 263 Important Subject, and were we present we Should Vote Ageeable to this Advise
P. Schuyler - Sir It is with the utmost Satisfaction that the Congress received your Information of the Surrender of Montreal, and the general Success which has attended the American Arms in the Province of Canada. 
They are sensible of the various Obstacles you had to encounter, and have unanimously resolved that your Conduct, Attention, and Perseverance, merit the Thanks of the United Colonies, which I have now the Pleasure of presenting to you. 
The Congress hear with Concern your Request of Leave to retire. 
They regret the Injuries your Health has sustained in the Service, and beg you will not insist on a Measure, which would at once deprive America of the future Benefits she expects from your Zeal and Abilities, and rob you of the honour of compleating the glorious Work you have so happily and successfully begun. 
You have hitherto risen superior to a Thousand Difficulties in giving Freedom to a great and an oppressed People. 
You have already reaped many Laurels, but a plentiful Harvest still invites you. 
Proceed therefore, and let the Footsteps of Victory open a Way for Blessings of Liberty, and the Happiness of well-ordered Government to visit that extensive Dominion. 
Consider that the road to glory is seldom strewed with Flowers, and that when the black and bloody Standard of Tyranny is erected in a Land possessed by Freemen, Patriots cease to remain inactive Spectators of their Country's Fall. 
Reflect, Sir, that the Happiness, or Misery, of Millions yet unborn, is now to be determined ; and remember that you will receive an honourable Compensation for all your Fatigues, in being able to leave the Memory of
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 26; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1717. 2 This letter to Schuyler and those to Montgomery and Wooster, nos. 375, 376, post, were prepared by a committee appointed Nov. 30, and were approved by Congress Dec. 12. See the Journals. 264 Continental Congress &* illustrious Actions, attended by the Gratitude of a great and free People, as a fair, a splendid, and a valuable Inheritance, to your Posterity. 375. The President of Congress to Richard Montgomery. 1 Philada Nov 30th 1775. To Genl. 
Montgomery. 2 Sir: I am directed by the Congress to transmit you their Thanks for your great and signal Services in the Expedition committed to your Command against the British Troops in the Province of Canada. 
The Reduction of St. John's and Montreal they esteem of inexpressible Advantage to the United Colonies, and the most mortifying Contravention to the ministerial System of enslaving the extensive Territory of Canada. 
It cannot therefore fail of reflecting singular Lustre on the Character of a General so essentially instrumental in preserving that Liberty by the Abolition of which a corrupt Parliament intended to annihilate every Appearance of Freedom in America. 
Nor, are the Humanity and Politeness, with which you have treated those in your Power less illustrious Instances of Magnanimity than the Valour by which you reduced them to it. The Congress, utterly abhorrent from every Species of Cruelty to Prisoners, and determined to adhere to this benevolent Maxim, till the Conduct of their Enemies renders a Deviation from it indispensably necessary, will ever applaud their Officers for beautifully blending the Christian with the Conqueror; and never, in endeavouring to acquire the Character of the Hero, to lose that of the Man. The Victories already gained in Canada afford us a happy Presage of the Smiles of Providence on the farther Designation of the Continental Arms in the North, and will in all Probability greatly facilitate the entire Reduction of the deluded Malignants in that Province to Liberty. 
These, Sir, are Exploits so glorious in their Execution, and so extensive in their Consequences, that the Memory of Gen
At the same Time that the Congress rejoice with you in the Success of their Arms under your more immediate Direction, they cannot avoid expressing their Concern at the Intimation you give of your Intention to retire from the Service. 
They are sensible that the Loss of so brave and experienced an Officer will be universally regretted as a Misfortune to all America. 
But they still hope, that upon reconsidering the Matter, the same generous and patriotic Motives, which first induced you to take so capital a Part in opposing the unprovoked Hostilities of an unnatural Enemy, will prompt you to persevere in the Cause, and to continue gathering fresh Laurels, till you find our Oppressions reduced to Reason, and America restored to her constitutional Liberties. 
I am etc. 
J. H., Prest. 
T [3751 1 : III. 1718; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 27; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., Mag. of Am. Hist., XI. 284. 2 See no. 374, note 2, ante. 
November, 1775 265 376. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to David Wooster. 1 Philada. 
Novr. 30th, 1775. To Brigadier Genl. 
D. Woorster
Your Brethren in America, on whose Behalf that Patriotism has been exerted, will not withhold that Accession of Pleasure which you ought to receive, from their just and grateful Applauses. 
I am directed by the Congress to transmit to you the Thanks of the United Coloniesfor the very important Assistance which you have contributed in reducing St. John's, and spreading the Banners of Freedom over the greatest part of Canada. 377. The Committee of Secret Correspondence to Arthur Lee. 1 Phila. 30 Novr. 1775. Sir, We have the honor to be appointed by the Congress a Committee of Correspondence
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 29; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1718. 2 See no. 374, note 2, ante. [377] 1 Univ. 
Va. Lib., Lee Papers (copy). 2 See the Journals, Nov. 29. Concerning the constitution of this committee John Adams says in his Autobiography : " Within a day or two after the appointment in Congress of the committee of correspondence, Mr. Jay came to my chamber to spend an evening with me. I was alone, and Mr. Jay opened himself to me with great frankness. 
His object seemed to be an apology for my being omitted in the choice of the two great secret committees, of commerce and correspondence. 
He said in express terms, ' that my character stood very high with the members, and he knew there was but one thing which prevented me from being universally acknowledged to be the first man in Congress, and that was this ; there was a great division in the house, and two men had effected it, Samuel Adams and Richard Henry Lee, and as I was known to be very intimate with those two gentlemen, many others were jealous of me'. My answer to all this was, that I had thought it very strange, and had imputed it to some secret intrigue out of doors, that no member from Massachusetts had been elected on either of those committees ; that I had no pretensions to the distinction of the first man in Congress, and that if I had a clear title to it, I should be very far from assuming it or wishing for it. It was a station of too much responsibility and danger in the times and circumstances in which we lived and were destined to live. 
That I was a friend very much attached to Mr. Lee and Mr. Adams, because I knew them to be able men and inflexible in the cause of their country. 
I could not therefore become cool in my friendship for them, for the sake of any distinctions that Congress could bestow. 
That I believed too many commercial projects and private speculations were in contemplation by the composition of those committees, but even these had not contributed so much to it, as the great division in the house on the subject of independence and the mode of carrying on the war. 
Mr. Jay and I, however, parted good friends and have continued such without interruption to this day. " There is a secret in this business that ought to be explained. 
Mr. Arthur Lee, in London, had heard some insinuations against Mr. Jay, as a suspicious character, and had written to his brother, Richard Henry Lee, or to Mr. Samuel Adams, or both, and although they were groundless and injurious, as I have no doubt, my friends had communicated them too indiscreetly, and had spoken of Mr. Jay too lightly. 
Mr. Lee had expressed doubts whether Mr. Jay had composed the address to the people of Great Britain, and ascribed it to his father-in-law, Mr. Livingston, afterwards Governor of New Jersey. 
These things had occasioned some words and animosities, which uniting 266 Continental Congress S'[sic] Our institution is with design to preserve secresy, and thereby secure our friends, who we suppose may be endangered and alarmed by the late proclamation. 
It is considered as of the utmost consequence to the cause of Liberty, that an intercourse should be kept up, and we shall be obliged by your sentiments of the most probable and secure method of effecting it. If anyone should be certainly resolved on which you may think much concerns America to be apprised of, we shall consider it within the power of our appointment to pay the expence of an Express Boat, if you can provide one under proper cautions. 3 We are Sir your most obd. servants
The Congress being made thoroughly acquainted with this whole proceedure, instead of censuring the authors of an injury done to their pledged faith, were not only silent, but rewarded Mr. Deane, and advanced Mr. Carmichael to an office of high trust. 5 378. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston. 1 Philadelphia 1st decemr. 1775. Dear Sir .... I wish I could inform you when we shall adjourn, some say about Christmas, others, not till Spring. 2 I am inclined to think with the former for we grow tired, indolent, Captious, Jealous, and want a recess, these only discover themselves now and then, in general we are pretty with the great questions in Congress, had some disagreeable effects. 
Mr. Jay's great superiority to Mr. Livingston in the art of composition would now be sufficient to decide the question, if the latter had not expressly denied having any share in that address."Works, III. 4- According to a note by the editor this was written March 8, 1805. In regard to the episode referred to in the last paragraph see Jefferson's Autobiography, Works, I. 16; Life of Jay, II. 380. See no. 218, note 2, ante. 
In regard to Arthur Lee's insinuations against Jay, see the letter of Feb. 14, referred to in note 4, below. 3 Cf. no. 391, post; also Franklin to Dumas, Dec. 19, in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. 
Corr., II. 64, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 352. 4 This is probably the letter to which Arthur Lee refers in his letters to " Lieutenant-Governor Colden ", Feb. 13, 14, 1775, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser.. IV. 1125- 1128, and Wharton, Rev. Dipt. 
Corr., II. 71-78. See Wharton's notes concerning these letters, ibid., I. 521 ; also no. 657, note 5, post. 5 This note of Richard Henry Lee was probably written in August, 1778 (see the Journals, Aug. 15 et seq.), or possibly at the time of the Paca-Drayton Information (Apr. 30, 1779). See the letter of Carmichael to Congress, Aug. 6, 1778, in Papers in Relation to the Case of Silas Deane, p. 137 (Seventy-Six Society, Publications). [378J 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., Continental Congress, 1774, no. 429. 2 See the Journals, Dec. 13, 15 ; cf. nos. 390, 392, 395, 396, 406, 409, note 4, post. 
December, 1775 267 unanimous and friendly, no plan of Seperation has been offered, the Colonies will never agree to any till drove to it by dire necessity. 
I wish the time may not come too soon. 
I fear it will be the case if the British Ministry pursue their present diabolical Schemes. 
I am weary of politicks and wish I could retire to my former private Station (to speak in the language of J. Child) a pence and farthings Man. 3 .... 379. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia Decmr. 2d. 1775 Sir, .... Yesterday we rec'd Advice by an Express from the Committee of Frederick in Maryland, that Conolly and three associates were taken prisoners and are now in Confinement in that County. 
By his Examination taken and the Papers found with him, the Deposition of his Servant, which you Transmitted to Congress, is fully Confirm'd. 2 This Day we receiv'd Advice from Northampton in Virginia, that Lord Dunmore has Erected his Standard at Norfolk, proclaim'd Martial Law, invited the Negroes to join him, and offer'd them Freedom, for which purpose he has issued a proclamation from on board the Ship where he Resides ; and that Two Counties have been obliged to Submitt to him. 
However I hope such measures are taking as will speedily and effectually Repel his Violences and secure the peace and safety of that Colony. 3 The Committee have just brought in their Report on the Vessell taken by the People of New Hampshire. 
As soon as the Congress have come
For their further history consult the index to the Journals for 1776, 1777, 1778, 1779. Cf. nos. 420, 426, 453, post. 
See also Smyth's " Narrative ", dated Dec. 25, 1777, in Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., Apr., 1915. In 1784 Smyth published in London and Dublin A Tour in the United States, in two volumes. " A Narrative of the Transactions, Imprisonment, and Sufferings of John Connolly, an American Loyalist and Lieut.-Col. in his Majesty's Service" is found in the Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., 1888, 1889 (vol. 
XII., pp. 310, 407, vol. 
XIII., pp. 61, 153, 281). See also Clarence M. Burton, " John Connolly : a Tory of the Revolution ". Am. Antiq. 
Soc, Proceedings, n. s., XX. 70 (Oct., 1909) ; W. H. Siebert, "The Tories of the Upper Ohio ", Dept. of Arch, and Hist, of W. Va., Biennial Report, 191 1, 1914; "The Tory Proprietors of Kentucky Lands", Ohio Arch, and Hist. 
Quar., Jan., 1919; Thwaites and Kellogg, Revolution on the Upper Ohio, passim. 3 See the Journals, Dec. 2, 4, 28. Cf. Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 6 (Journals, ed. Ford, III. 482; Works, II. 458) ; also nos. 381, 384, 403, 412, 413, post, and Richard Henry Lee to Washington, Dec. 6, Letters (ed. Ballagh), I. 164; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 88. See also the proceedings of the Virginia convention, Dec. 1, 1775- Jan. 17, 1776, passim, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, IV. 75-128; cf. ibid., III. 1103, 1187, 1190-1193, 1385, 1542, IV. 155, 202, 249, 258, 292, 314 330, 465. 268 Continental Congress &■ to a Determination thereon, I shall do myself the pleasure of transmitting it to you. 4 .... 380. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the Governor of Connecticut. 1 Philada. 
Deer. 2d, 1775. Governor Trumbull Sir: The Congress having found it necessary to send Comrs to the Northward to consult with Genl. 
Schuyler, among other Things have instructed them, to use their best Endeavours to induce the Men to re-inlist for one year from the first of Jany next, in the Continental Service : and for the Encouragement of the Connecticut Troops, who have not been mustered by the Deputy Mustermaster Genl., they have given Directions that such as re-inlist be paid all Arrears that may be due to them according to the Rolls to be sent by you. 2 You will be pleased therefore as soon as possible to transmit to Genl. 
Schuyler by express, the Rolls of such of your Colony as are employed in that Department, ascertaining how long the Men have been in the Service 381. Samuel Ward to Henry Ward. 1 Philadelphia 3d. Deer. 1775. Dear Brother, When I wrote you yesterday I was not so well acquainted with the affairs of Virginia, as I am now. 
Last evening a Committee (of which I am a member) appointed to take into consideration the state of that Colony etc. met. 
We had all the Virginia delegates with us, and the letters from the Com te of Northampton County with the Proclamation and new oath of allegiance and an association of Lord Dunmore['s] planning, before us The Com tee has not yet reported, but conclude to recommend a sufficient force to be sent into those two counties to protect our friends and cover our Association till measures can be taken for effectually reducing Ld Dunmore and his associates. 2 .... 382. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 3 December, 1775. My best friend, .... I am obliged, by the nature of the service I am in, to correspond with many gentlemen, both of the army and of the two houses of
Cf. Washington's letter of Nov. 28, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 241 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, III. 1697. I380] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter- Book, IV. 22; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 155. 2 See the instructions, the Journals, Nov. 8; cf. ibid., Nov. 4. See also Hancock to the New England colonies, Dec. 8, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 217. [381] 1 Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS., XXV. 54 (copy). 2 Cf. no. 379, note 3, ante. [382]' J'amiliar Letters, p. 126. December, 1775 269 Assembly, which takes up much of my time. 
How I find time to write half the letters I do, I know not, for my whole time seems engrossed with business. 
The whole Congress is taken upi almost, in different committees, from seven to ten in the morning. 
From ten to four or sometimes five, we are in Congress, and from six to ten, in committees again. 
I don't mention this to make you think me a man of importance, because it is not I alone, but the whole Congress is thus employed, but to apologize for not writing to you oftener. 
Indeed I know not what to write that is worth your reading. 
I send you the papers, which inform you of what is public. 
As to what passes in Congress, I am tied fast by my honor to communicate nothing.- I hope the Journal of the Session will be published soon, and then you will see what we have been about in one view, excepting what ought to be excepted. 3 .... 383. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, Deer. 3, 1775 My Dear Sir, I have only Time to acquaint you that Congress have ordered the Arrears of Pay to be discharged to the soldiers and one Months Advance Pay to be made. 
No Bounty nor any Allowance for Lunar Months. 2 I have a Thousand Things to say — but no Time. 
Our Army must be reconciled to these Terms, or We shall be ruined for what I know. 
The Expences accumulating upon the Continent are so vast and boundless that We shall be bankrupt if not frugal. 
I lately had an opportunity, suddenly, of mentioning two very deserving officers, Thomas Crafts, Junior, who now lives at Leominster, and George Trot, who lives at Braintree, to be, the first a Lt. Coll, the second a Major of the Regiment of Artillery under Coll. 
Knox. 
These are young Men under forty, excellent officers, very modest, civil, sensible, and of prodigious Merit as well as Suffering in the American Cause. 
If they are neglected I shall be very mad, and kick and bounce like fury. 
Congress have ordered their Names to be sent to the General, and if he thinks they can be promoted without giving Disgust and Making Uneasiness in the Regiment, to give them Commissions. 3 .... 2 See no. 363, note 2, ante. 3 See the Journals, Nov. 30, Dec. 14. See also Bibliographical Notes, no. 80, in the Journals (ed. Ford), III. 514. Cf. Richard Smith's Diary, Dec. 14-29. [383] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 186. 2 The action was taken by Congress in consequence of the suggestion of General Washington in his letter of Nov. 19. See the Journals, Nov. 27, 30, Dec. 1 ; also Warren to Adams, Nov. 14, in Warren-Adams Letters, I. 181. Cf. no. 310, note 2, ante. 
Relative to the controversy between the Massachusetts council and Washington over the question of payment by lunar or calendar months, see the general orders of Oct. 31, Nov. 12, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1258, 1612, and correspondence and proceedings, ibid., III. 1711-1713, IV. 191, 194. 205, 1219-1223, 1225, 1323, 1325. 3 See the Journals, Dec. 2. Cf. no. 187, and note 7, ante. 
The remainder of the letter concerns these two men. 270 Continental Congress 5* 384. Samuel Adams to James Warren. 1 Philada., Deer. [5], 1775 My dear Sir, .... We go on here by Degrees, though not with the Dispatch I could wish. 
Gentlemen seem more and more to enlarge their views, and we must be content to wait till the Fruit is ripe before we gather it. A few days ago we had Intelligence from Virginia that their Governor Lord Dunmore had landed a Party of Regulars, who, joynd by a Number of Voluntiers, had attackd and defeated a Number of Provincials. 
His Auxiliaries consisted of the Inhabitants of Norfolk, a Town inhabited by Scotch Tories, and such weak and timid People as they prevail upon to joyn them. 
Lord Dunmore has issued a Proclamation, calling upon the People to resort to the Kings Standard or be deemd Traitors, and declaring the indented Servants and Negroes belonging to Rebels, who will joyn him free. 
He has also in the same Proclamation declared his Determination to execute Martial Law, thereby tearing up the Foundation of civil Authority and Government in the Colony. 
The Congress taking this under Consideration, have recommended to the Colony of Virginia the setting up and exercising civil Government, in like Manner as N. Hampshire and South Carolina. 2 .... 385. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philada December 8, 1775. Sir, Your letter of the 28 of November by Captn Blewer being received was immediately laid before Congress."By my letter of the 2d inst, 3 which I hope you will in Due time receive, you will perceive the Congress have in a great measure prevented your wishes, having written to New York and given orders to General Schuyler to supply you with and forward with all possible expedition what cannon can be spared. 
They have also directed Genl Schuyler to make diligent search for lead, and retaining so much as may be wanted there to send the remainder to your camp. 4 However it is hoped the gentleman you have sent will expedite that business. 5 L384] 1 Warren- Adams Letters, I. 191. 2 See the Journals, Dec. 2, 4, and no. 379, note 3, ante. [385] x Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXX. 116; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 90; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 217; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 23. 2 See the Journals, Dec. 6, 7. Washington's letter is in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 241, and Force, Am. Arch.,, fourth ser., III. 1697. 3 The letter is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 154. 4 See the Journals, Nov. 20, Dec. 2. 6 Henry Knox, appointed colonel Nov. 17. See Washington's letter of Nov. 28; cf. the Journals, Dec. 4, 23 (p. 449), and Knox to Washington, Nov. 7, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1676. Cf. no. 359, ante. 
December, 1775 271 By order of Congress I forward a commission for Mr. Knox who is appointed Colonel of the regiment of Artillery. 
The Congress also have relieved your Difficulties with respect to the two battalions of Marines, having ordered that the raising them out of the Army be suspended. 
It is the desire of Congress that such a body of forces may be raised, but their meaning is that it be in addition to the army voted. 
And they expect you will think of proper persons to command that corps and give orders for inlisting them wherever they may be found. 6 .... The Gentlemen with the Money set out to Day. 7 I hope the arrival of this will relieve some of your Difficulties and that the payment of the arrears and the Months advance, which you are empowered to offer will induce many to reinlist, who seem not to be actuated by nobler motives 386. Robert Morris to [Philadelphia, December 9, 1775.] .... I am now a Member of the Continental Congress and if I have any influence or shoud hereafter gain any it shall be exerted in favour of every measure that has a tendancy to procure Accommodation on terms Consistant with our just Claims and if I thought there was any thing ask'd on this side not founded on the Constitution in reason and Justice I would oppose it. This Subject is so Important that its ever uppermost and you must excuse me for running into it. I will finish with sincerely praying that a Speedy end may be put to the Unhappy Contest. 387. William Livingston to Lord Stirling. 1 Philadel: 9 De r 1775 My Lord Billy Barnet is appointed Surgeon of the Eastern Battalion according to your Lordships Recommendation. 
Mr Hatfield is not appointed D Quarter Master, nor like to be." your Lordship will therefore be pleased to recommend another. 
I am Your Lordships most humble Sert. 
Wil: Livingston P. S. your Lordship may direct your Recommendation to me instead of the President, as the appointment of all officers is referred to a Com- 6 See the Journals, Nov. 10, 30; cf. Washington's letters of Nov. 19, 28, Dec. 14, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 225, 241, 274; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1608, 1697, IV. 262. 7 See the Journals, Dec. I. [386] 1 British Public Record Office, State Papers, Foreign, Spain, 200. Enclosed in a letter of the British consul, Hardy, at Cadiz, as "the abstract of a letter from Mr. Morris of Philadelphia to his correspondent here ". [387] X N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Stirling Papers, IV. 2 See Stirling to Congress, Dec. 3, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 164. Cf. no. 401, post. 22 272 Continental Congress &'mittee of which I have the Honor to make one. 3 I think Mr. Thomas and Mr. Dayton
Having yesterday asked and obtained leave of Congress to go home this morning, I mounted, with my own servant only, about twelve o'clock, and reached the Red Lion about two, where I dine." .... 389. Thomas Jefferson to John Page. 1 [About December 10, 1775.] .... The Congress have promoted Brigadier General Montgomery to be a Major General, and on being assured that Arnold is in possession of Quebec it is probable he will be made a Brigadier General, one of those offices being vacant by Montgomery's promotion. 2 .... 390. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter. 1 Philadelphia Deer 12th 1775 My dear Colonel, .... The Congress are giving the greatest attention to a Navy and I hope we shall have ships enough by the spring to oblige the Ministerial fleet to consult their safety by keeping close together, and of course will not be able to do us much injury. 2 .... 3 The committee on qualifications. 
See the Journals, Dec. 8; cf. ibid., Oct. 10, II. 4 Probably Edward Thomas and Elias Dayton are meant. 
See Stirling's reply, Dec. 12, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 246 (erroneously said to be to the New Jersey committee of safety). I388] 1 Works, II. 430. 2 " One of our members of Congress sets out today for New-England. 
Whether his intents be wicked or not, I doubt much ; he should be watched." Thomas Lynch to Washington, Dec. 8, 1775, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 218. This probably refers to Adams, since it is not known that any other delegate left Congress for New England at this time. " Sometime in December, worn down with long and uninterrupted labor I asked and obtained leave to visit my State and family. 
Mr. Langdon did the same." Adams's Autobiography (see no. 390, note 2, post). The statement concerning Langdon does not seem to be quite correct. 
Langdon was at this time absent on the committee sent to consult with Schuyler, but he returned to Philadelphia Dec. 23. See the Journals of that day; also no. 409, post. [389] x Works (memorial ed.), IV. 252. 2 See the Journals, Dec. 9. Arnold was made brigadier-general Jan. 10, 1776. A part of this letter is printed anonymously in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 294. I390] 1 Va. Hist. 
Soc, Lee Papers, IV. 2 See the Journals, Oct. 3, 5, 6, 7, 13, 30, Nov. 2, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24, 25, 28, 30, Dec. 2, 3, 5, 9, 11, 13, 14, 16, 19, 20, 22. Cf. nos. 316, 329, 336, 343, 354, 364, ante, 392, 393. 395, 390, 404, 406, post. 
Some recollections of John Adams in regard to the inception of the navy have been given in no. 316, note 3. ante. 
The following passages from his Autobiography relate principally to proceedings about this time: " I have been particular in transcribing the proceedings of this day, November 25th, 1/75. because they contain the true origin and foundation of the American navy, and as December, 1775 273 I believe that Congress will adjourn before Christmas, 3 but whether long enough to allow me to see Virga. is uncertain. 
In the meantime my best wishes attend my friends in Richmond. 
I had at least as great a share in producing them as any man living or dead, they will show that my zeal and exertions afterwards in 1798, and 1799, and 1800, at every hazard, and in opposition to a more powerful party than that against me in 1775, was but a perseverance in the same principles, systems, and views of the public interest. " On Tuesday, November 28th, the Congress resumed the consideration of the rules and orders for the navy of the United Colonies, and the same being debated by paragraphs were agreed to as follows. 
They were drawn up in the marine committee, and by my hand, but examined, discussed, and corrected by the committee " This committee soon purchased and fitted five vessels; the first we named Alfred, in honor of the founder of the greatest navy that ever existed. 
The second, Columbus, after the discoverer of this quarter of the globe. 
The third, Cabot, for the discoverer of this northern part of the continent. 
The fourth, Andrew Doria, in memory of the great Genoese Admiral, and the fifth, Providence, for the town where she was purchased, the residence of Governor Hopkins, and his brother Ezek, whom we appointed first captain. 
We appointed all the officers of all the ships. 
At the solicitation of Mr. Deane, we appointed his brother-in-law, Captain Saltonstall. " Sometime in December, worn down with long and uninterrupted labor, I asked and obtained leave to visit my State and family. 
Mr. Langdon did the same. 
Mr. Deane was left out of the delegation by his State, and some others of the naval committee were dispersed, when Congress appointed a committee of twelve, one from each State, for naval affairs, so that I had no longer any particular charge relative to them ; but as long as I continued a member of Congress, I never failed to support all reasonable measures reported by the new committee." Works, III. 11. Adams precedes his statement with an extract from the Journals, Nov. 25, including a part of the series of resolutions in regard to captures, emphasizing these resolutions as containing the true origin and foundation of the American navy. 
In the second paragraph of his statement his emphasis is upon the rules for the regulation of the navy. 
Apparently the two things are confused in his mind. 
The regulations concerning captures were prepared by a committee appointed, Nov. 17, upon a letter of Washington of Nov. 8. Of this committee Adams was a member. 
See the Journals, Nov. 17, 25; also Paullin, The Navy of the American Revolution, pp. 48-50, 67-69. The rules for the navy were prepared by the committee of seven appointed Oct. 30 (see no. 316, note 3, ante), of which committee Adams was also a member. 
The rules were reported by the committee Nov. 23, debated Nov. 25 (see also the erased entry, Nov. 24), adopted Nov. 28, and ordered printed Nov. 30. Concerning these rules see Paullin, The Navy of the Revolution, pp. 43-48. In regard to the appointment of Dudley Saltonstall, a letter of Nov. 27, 1775, signed by Hewes, Hopkins, Gadsden, John Adams, and Deane, offering him a captaincy, is in Joline, Meditations of an Autograph Collector, p. 302. See also N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 90-92; Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 323. When the naval appointments were reported to Congress, Dec. 22, Adams had left Congress. 
See no. 388, ante. 
It is proper to note here that in the list of standing committees given in the Journals (ed. Ford), VI. 1063-1068, what is there given as the navy or marine committee is the committee appointed Dec. 11 to "devise ways and means" for furnishing the colonies with a naval armament. 
As has already been mentioned, the committee of Dec. 11 reported a plan Dec. 13, and a new committee, consisting also of one from each colony, was appointed Dec. 14, to carry the plan into execution. 
It was the committee of Dec. 14, not the committee of Dec. 11, that became the permanent marine committee. 
The membership of the two committees differed however but slightly. 
John Hancock took the place of Samuel Adams for Massachusetts, Samuel Chase that of William Paca for Maryland, and John Houstoun of Georgia was added. 3 See the Journals, Dec. 13, 15; cf. no. 378, ante, and nos. 392, 395, 396, 406, 409, note 4, post ; also Force, Am. Arch, fourth ser., IV. 172. 274 Continental Congress 391. The Committee of Secret Correspondence to Arthur Lee. 1 Philadelphia, December 12, 1775. Sir: By this conveyance we have the pleasure of transmitting to you sundry printed papers, that such of them as you think proper may be immediately published in England It would be agreeable to Congress to know the disposition of foreign powers towards us, and we hope this object will engage your attention. 
We need not hint that great circumspection and impenetrable secrecy are necessary. 
The Congress rely on your zeal and abilities to serve them, and will readily compensate you for whatever trouble and expense a compliance with their desire may occasion. 
We remit you for the present £200. Whenever you think the importance of your despatches may require it, we desire you to send an express boat with them from England, for which service your agreement with the owner there shall be fulfilled by us here. 2 .... With great esteem, we are, sir, your most obedient, humble servants, B. Franklin, John Dickinson, John Jay. 392. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [December 13, 1775.] Wednesday 13. I was at Congress The Delegates of Maryland and Georgia all absent. 
A Report from a Com ee was agreed to for equipping Thirteen Ships of War in several Colonies of 32 guns 28 and 24 Guns each and the Expence of each at an Average estimated at 66,666| Dollars. 2 There is a secret Com ee whereof Govr. 
Ward is Chairman and Thos. 
McKean Clerk. 
Mr. Willing resigned his Seat in it and Robert Morris was chosen in his Room by Ballot
Corr., II. 63; Sparks, Dipl. 
Corr. 
Rev., I. 379; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 246; Lee, Life of Arthur Lee, I. 53. 2 Cf. no. 377, ante. f392p Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 293. 2 See nos. 364, 390, note 2, ante, 393, 406, post. 3 See the Journals; cf. ibid., Sept. 18, 19. See also the case of Dickinson. 
Nov. 7. 4 See no. 390 and note 3, ante. 
In regard to the " Committee of the States ", see Am. Hist. 
Assoc, Report, 1913, I. 139. 5 See the Journals, Dec. 13, 14, and no. 393, post. 
December, 1775 275 the Wages of able Seamen in the Armament now fitting out, from 50/ Penna. 
Cur y which had been before fixed by Congress, to £3 per month and this was carried by Vote, ablebodied Landmen remained as before at 50/ per month. 6 the Order for this day was to consider of giving Gen Washington Directions to storm
McKean informed the Congress that many Persons in Pennsa, Maryland and Jersey sell Tea and drink Tea upon a Report that Congress had granted Leave so to do and he doubted Whether the Committees had Power to restrain them. a Day was fixed for considering the Matter (in April 1776 the Congress gave Leave to sell and use what Tea was in the Country, forbidding any further Importation of it). 8 M[r]. Crane went home, Livingston and myself remain, Kinsey and De Hart have lately resigned. 9 393. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Thursday 14 Deer. 
Agreed to read the Minutes for the first Half Hour every Morning and also the preceeding Day's Transactions, accordingly the Journal was begun from the 5th of Septr. last being the Time of Meeting after the last Adjornm*. Ordered that the Votes be sent to the Press as fast as they are revised, several Matters were marked to be omitted as improper for Public Inspection. 
Much of the Day was spent upon an Answer to that Part of Gen. Wash 115 Letters requesting Directions what to do with the Ships and Cargoes lately taken by our armed Vessels which was at length referred after learned Debates and Authorities from Vattel etc. 
Much Altercation Whether a former Resolution of Congress had passed ag
Hay taken in Canada and now in Philada. he offering his Parole of Honor to go Home to Scotland, resign his Commission and never serve against America. 
Lynch, Lee and others for it who were opposed by Nelson and several more, the Question passed in the Affirmative, the Journal of the Indian Treaty lately held by our Commissioners at Pittsburg lies before Congress and is not
Rev., I. 294. 2 See Washington's letter of Dec. 4, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 256; Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, IV. 180; cf. the Journals, Nov. 25, Dec. 14, 19, and no. 400, post. 
See also nos. 364, 390, note 2, 392, ante, 406, post. 276 Continental Congress yet examined. 
A Member from each Colony (Crane for New Jersey, tho now absent) chosen by Ballot to procure or cause to be built and fitted out the 13 Ships of War yesterday ordered. 3 Gadsden moved that the Congress should purchase a handsome Time Piece and set it up in the Assembly Room in the State House where we meet, as a Present for the Use of the Room. 
Wilson and Willing desired the Motion might be dropt as the Assembly expected no Consideration and it was withdrawn. 
Duane presented a Petition from Peter Berton of New York praying Compensation for a Vessel taken by the Men of War. it was referred by Ballot to Lynch, E. Rutledge and myself. 4 394. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Friday Deer. 15. Part of the Journal read and sundry Paragraphs as usual ordered to be omitted in Publication. 
Controversy Whether a particular Part shall be published, the Colonies were equally divided and the Part is to remain unpublished. 
Motion by Wilson that all Officers below a Major in the Continental Troops now raising in Pennsa. shall be appointed by the several Committees of Correspondence and Observation was at length rejected and the Mode of Appointment there and in the Lower Counties settled. 
A Letter and several Papers from some Indians on the Susquehannah, one of them named Jacob Johnson a Preacher, were read and the Indian Messengers ordered to be taken Care of at the Continental Expence. 2 Robert Morris moved that a Com ee be nominated to consider of Ways and Means to bring in Gold and Silver and keep it in the Country, it is reported that Half Joes have already risen to £3-2-6. it was debated and postponed till Tomorrow. 3 Col. Lee moved that George Mead and Co. of Philada. may export from that City to Virginia 6000 Bushels of Salt and carry abroad Produce to the Amount from thence, opposed by Jay, Lewis and others and supported by Nelson, Wyth, Rob. Morris etc. it passed in the Affirmative
Samuel Ward wrote to his brother, Henry Ward, Dec. 14: "I have the pleasure to acquaint you that, upon considering our instructions for a navy, the Congress has agreed to build thirteen ships of war The particulars I would not have mentioned. 
The ships are to be built with all possible despatch." Gammell, Life of Samuel Ward, in Sparks, Am. Biog., second ser., XIX. 317. See no. 364, ante. 4 See the Journals, Dec. 14, 23. [394] ' Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 294. 2 Cf. the Journals, Dec. 22, 23 (pp. 452, 454), 28. 3 Cf. the Journals, Dec. 23, 30. December, 1775 277 395. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 Philadelphia, Dec. 15th, 1775. I wrote you one line yesterday per Capt. 
Phelps; since which I am fully convinced this Congress will adjourn before Christmas, if nothing new offers. 2 Naval preparations are now entering upon with spirit, and yesterday the Congress chose a Standing Committee to superintend this department, of which I had the honor to be unanimously chosen one. 3 This will detain me here some time after the 1st of January; indeed, I apprehend that the Congress will leave a number, to put into execution the Resolves of the Congress, together with the Naval Committee, as the adjournment will probably be over to the 1st of March. 
I do not expect to return sooner, unless it may be to engage workmen in the business, part of which I shall agree to have carried on in the Colony 396. George Read to Mrs. Read. 1 [December 15, 1775.] My dear G .... We have had no certain accounts from any part of Canada since the capitulation of Montreal, therefore what you see in the papers is not to be relied on. I doubt you will not see me in the beginning of the holidays. 
An adjournment of Congress is much talked of, and wished by some, but really there is so much that must be done before a separation that I cannot give a hint of the time. 2 I was yesterday put upon a committee that is to meet every evening at six o'clock, 3 which may be obliged to sit regularly for ten days to come, and as I am considered a great absentee heretofore, I must attend constantly for awhile 397. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Saturday 16 Deer. 
The Journal read and diverse Passages marked for Omission in Publication, on one Passage there was a vote whether to be printed or not, and the Colonies were equally divided. 
A Letter read from Gen. Washington advising of some Captures made by our Vessels and that he had released the President of the Island of St. Johns and others who had been taken. 2 A Com ee of
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 94; Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 339- 2 Cf. no. 390, note 3, ante, 396, post. 3 See no. 390, note 2, ante. [396] 1 Read, Life of George Read, p. 117. 2 Cf. no. 390, note 3, 395, ante. 3 The committee for fitting out armed vessels. 
See the Journals, Dec. 14; cf. nos. 364, 390 (note 2), 392, 395, ante. [397 J 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 295. 2 See Washington's letter of Dec. 7. Writings (ed. Ford), III. 257; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 214; cf. ibid., pp. 158, 178, 451. For the steps leading up to this affair, see ibid., III. 633, 668, 683, 950, 1037, 1046, 1076, 1109, 1134, 1337, *379- 278 Continental Congress President to Capt. 
White Eyes a chief of the Delaware Indians said to reside on the Muskingham, who was then introduced into the Congress accompanied by One of his Councellors and an Interpreter, the Chief was dressed in a good Suit of Blue Cloth with a Laced Hat and his Counsellor was wrapped in a Blanket. 
Capt. 
White Eyes shook all the Members heartily by the Hand, beginning with the President and used the same Ceremony at his Departure, he stayed about an Hour. 
Our President delivered the Speech and the Chief answered by his Interpreter that he was well pleased to hear such a good Speech and meet his Brethren in the Grand Council Fire, that he would faithfully report to his Friends the kind Disposition of the Congress and proposed to stay in Town all Winter, he wanted a Clergyman, Schoolmaster and Blacksmith established among his People and said they inclined to embrace Christianity and a more civilized Way of Life. 
A Copy of the Congress's Speech was given to him when he withdrew, his Councellor said Nothing. 3 A Motion to keep the Officers and Soldiers all together who were taken at St. Johns, took up several Hours and was lost
Several Reports from Committees were made, particularly one relative to Capt. 
Motts Petition. 5 Jefferson moved that no new Motions shall be offered after 12 oCloc without special Permission till the Order of the Day is satisfyed, which was agreed to. the Com ee appointed to fit out the 13 Ships were impowered to draw on the Treasury for 500,000 Dollars. 
Sundry other Things transacted in such a Hurry and Want of Order that I find it impossible to remember them. 398. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia Decembr. 16th 1775 Sr .... Some of the Congress throw out once in a while as tho the Army might be Supply d at a much less expence and with equally good provisions, they say now the rations Cost the Continent at least a shilling or I4d pr diem law[fu]ll and they have heard persons say in Philadelphia they would undertake for 7d or 8d pr diem Indeed one Wharton has undertaken to Supply a Battalion lately raised here for 7d or 8d this Currency pr diem with the same rations found in the Army. 2 per- 3 Cf. the Journals. 
See also ibid.. Mar. 16, Apr. 1, 10, 11, 1776. 4 See the Journals, Nov. 15, 17, Dec. 4, 6, 7, 9, 16, 18, 30, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 310, 311, 314. 454; also nos. 399, 415, 419, 465, 466, 474, 480, 481, 482, post. 5 Capt. 
Edward Mottc. 
See the Journals, Dec. 15, 16, 18, 27, 1775, Jan. 2, 3, 1776; also nos. 412, 419, post. [398] ' Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 2 See the Journals, Dec. 9. Cf. Trumbull to Washington, Nov. 20, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser.. III. 1617. See also no. 410, post. 
By "this Currency" Dyer means that of Pennsylvania, in which a shilling equalled two-fifteenths (.13S) of a Spanish silver dollar. 
December, 1775 279 haps you may make a bargain to advantage. 
I dare say there will be bidders of this kind which by and by may give uneasiness. 
Indeed they want to engross every thing if possible at this place and are Constantly Intriguing with one or another of the Delegates for places, Pensions; Employments, Contracts etc. 
Indeed I think we have been Cooped up in this prison of a City long enough. 
Poor Connecticutt Troops have lost (here) all their fame and all their glory. 3 you will Scarce hear any thing but execrations against them, the Congress Astonished and Confounded at their want of every thing laudable, or Impossible they could leave the lines at this Critical Moment, and Hazzard their Country and all for Whims, for Trifles, but however we have excused them as far as possible, but especially the Colony as the Congress had till lately made no application to the Colony for Troops, if they had, the Colony would have seen they were had there by the day, either New or Old, but they would obstinately scorn to apply to Govern
An Order passed to allow Capt. 
Mott who takes Care of the Prisoners at Lancaster £30 more for his Expences. 
Major Preston allowed to go to Lancaster for 10 Days. 
Com ee of Lancaster impowered to take the Parole of the Officers who are prisoners there. 2 Chief Part of the Day spent on the Dispute between Pennsa. and Connecticut, various Resolutions were penned by the Delegates of each Colony but the matter was at last postponed. 
The Chief Point was Whether Pennsylvania shall have the Jurisdiction over the disputed Territory, She agreeing and her Delegates to pledge themselves for it, that private Property shall not be affected, they declared explicitly that they would not abide by the Determination of Congress unless this was conceded. 3 An Express arrived from Montreal with Letters from Gen. Montgomery, Col. Arnold and others. 
Eleven Vessels are taken near Montreal by our people who have also seized Brig. 
Prescot who had caused all the Powder to be thrown overboard, but the Ships contain plenty of Provision. 
Ethan Allen is sent to England in Irons. 
Col. James Livingston is about to raise a Regiment of Canadians in our pay
Rev., I. 296. 2 See the Journals, Dec. 4-Jan. 19 (passim) ; also nos. 397, ante, 704, post. 3 See the Journals, Dec. 18, 20, 23; also nos. 240, 258, 308, 329, 331, ante, and nos. 402, 405, 409, 414, post. 280 Continental Congress &'for One Year. 
Arnold is near Quebec but has not Men enough to surround it and his Powder so damaged that he has only
Montgomery's Soldiers very disobedient and many of them come Home without Leave. 
Frauds discovered in some of his Officers. 4 . Gen. Wash n in great Want of Powder and most of the Connect
We sat from 10 oCloc till the Dusk of the Evening. *t>- 400. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Tuesday Deer. 19. the Votes read and one Part only marked not to be made Public, agreed to request the Com ee of Safety of Pennsa. to lend some Powder and Stands of Arms to the Ships of War now in this Port and almost ready to sail, on an Engagement to use all Endeavors to return them by the 1st of February next, agreed to use the like Endeavors to return by that Time the Powder heretofore borrowed of New York. 
A Letter from Gen Wash" read, the Cruizers there (Massachusetts) have taken Two More of the Enemy's Ships. 
Debates upon that Part of the Generals Letters requesting Directions how to dispose of the Captures. 
A report from a Com ee read on that Head, an Amendment proposed by Mr. Wyth implying full Leave for any Person to seize all Ships of G Britain wherever found, was lost on a Vote
The Pay is 25 Dollars per month ; and I am satisfied the Congress mean to allow for the Chest of medicines, but I intend to reduce it to a certainty as far as there is an opening to-day on such a subject. 
Mr. Halsted is unanimously voted Quartermaster of your Battalion by the Committee for receiving the Recommendations to offices, and reported this day, but he must first be confirmed by Congress, which I will push as soon as possible, and then transmit you his Commission. 2 4 See the Journals, Dec. 18, 22, and nos. 405, 407, post; also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1595-1604, 1617, 1633-1636, t68i-i686, 1692, 1694-1697, IV. 188-190, 219, 225 ; cf. nos. 374, 375, 376, ante. 5 Cf. no. 308, ante. [400] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 206. 2 See the Journals; cf. no. 393, ante. 3 I. e., New Bedford. [401PN. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Stirling Papers, IV.; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 354. 2 See Stirling's letter (evidently to Livingston), Dec. 12, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 246, and the Journals, Dec. 21 ; cf. no. 387, ante. 
December, 1775 281 I cannot imagine that Congress wou'd give any Directions respecting the Arms you mention, tho' I really believe coud they be got without much disturbance, it would be connived at by that Assembly from the Principle of Necessity ; and last night I took the opinion of the above Committee, who were unanimous in that Sentiment. 
But I wou'd not chose to be mentiond in the Case, nor to have it done under colour of that Committee, unless you shou'd be complaind of to Congress for the Trespass, and then as far as this Letter woud be your Protection, I give you free Liberty to make use of it for that purpose. 3 I am My Lord your most humble sert Wil : Livingston 402. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Wednesday Deer. 20. The Votes read and no Passage erased. 
David Beveridge allowed to send out Produce for Arms and Ammunition. 
Capt. 
Henry Livingston here, the Congress has ordered a handsome Sword to be made and presented to Him as the Messenger, some Weeks ago, of the Surrender of Montreal. 
Some money allowed to the Rev. Mr. Spencer and the Rev. Mr. MacWhorter who are going at the Request of Congress, among the Regulators of North Carolina. 2 Col. Harrison moved something relative to a Vessel or Two of War ordered heretofore to be fitted out at and for Virginia and a Com ee was appointed. 
Lord Dunmore is driven to his Ships by the Virginians. 
Gen Wash.s Letters proceeded upon and Answers agreed to. Debate Whether Butter shall be Continued to his Army and carried in the Affirmative. 
Motion by Jay to allow it to the rest of the Troops, denied or shuffled off. 3 Application from
Much Time spent on the Wyoming Dispute. 
Two resolutions were on the Table, one drawn by the Delegates of Pennsyla. and the other by Connecticut, the former gave Pennsylvania the temporary Jurisdiction and the latter left each Party to exercise Juris" on their respective Possessions, the Vote passed in Favor of the Connec* resolve
Rev., I. 296. 2 See nos. 422, 428, post ; also the Journals, Oct. 23, 1776. 3 Cf. no. 408, post. 4 See no. 399, note 3, ante. 282 Continental Congress 403. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston. 1 Philadelphia Dec 20. 1775 .... The Virginians are distressed by Lord Dunmore at the head of a few despicable white people and slaves. 
They cry aloud for the aid of Congress. 
Nothing less than Six battalions are talked of nay reported by a committee, for their defence! 2 Four battallions are ordered to be raised in Pensil., One in the lower Counties. 3 New- York I suppose will not be forgotten. 
In short it is probable that by the spring there will be exclusive of our Province a Southern Army of 16 battalions besides minute men and militia 404. josiah bartlett to the n t ew hampshire committee of Safety. 1 Philadelphia December 21st 1775 Gentm The Congress having Determined to Build at Continental Expense a number of Ships of war in the united Colonies to be ready for sea if possible by the last of march next: Have agreed that one, of the Inclosed dementions, to Cary 32 guns, be Built in our Colony. 
It is proposed that one or
See tbe Journals, Dec. 9. [404] ' Dartmouth Coll. 
Lib., Bartlett Correspondence, vol. 
I., 1774-1778. 2 See the Journals, Dec. 13, 14, 22; also nos. 390 (note 2), 392, 393, 396, ante, 406, 407, post. 3 The appropriation was made Dec. 4. Bartlett's letter relative to it, written the same day, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, IV. 172. The resolve of Congress relative to the New Hampshire government was transmitted by Bartlett Nov. 3 (no. 352, ante), a duplicate in his letter of Nov. 13 (no. 362, ante). December, 7775 283 This was Wrote to [be] sent to the Com tte before Mr Langdons arrival from Tuconderoga. on his return before Sending off the letter at his Request I appointed him to build the Ship and he returned home for that purpose. 4 405. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Thursday Deer. 21. The Journal read and several Parts to be omitted as usual. 
Mr. Rogers took his Seat as a Delegate for Maryland, Mr. John Penn from N Carolina had been here some Time. 
McKean made report from the Com ee on Gen. Schuylers Letters, it was partly considered and some Articles agreed to. 2 . . . . The Congress resolved itself into a Grand Com ee , Govr. 
Ward in the Chair, to consider Whether to order the General to storm or bombard Boston in Answer to part of his Dispatches, it was made a Question Whether the Continent should indemnify the Losers, the Gen. says he can, if it is a hard Winter, destroy the Fleet and Army there and at any Rate he can bombard and ruin the Town when he pleases, the Chairman desired Leave to sit again. 3 Leave for M. de Rigouville a Canadian Gent n . one of the Kings Legislative Council there, but now Prisoner at Trenton to come to Town to confess Himself to the Priest. 4 James Livingston Esqr. 
Colonel and the other Officers of the new Canadian Regiment ordered to be Commissioned. 
The grateful Acknowledgments of the Congress ordered to Montgomery, Arnold and Easton
Deer. 22, 1775. My dear Sir My Concern for your Welfare induced me carefully to watch the Weather till I conjectured you had got to the End of your Journey, 2 and
Langdon returned to Congress from his mission to Ticonderoga Dec. 22 or 23. See nos. 362, note 2, 390, note 2, ante, 409, post. [405] ! Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 297. 2 See the Journals, Dec. 9, 18 ; cf. no. 399, ante, and no. 407, post. 3 See the Journals, Dec. 21, 22; cf. no. 392, ante, and nos. 407, 408, post. * See the Journals. 5 Col. James Easton. 
See Heitman, Historical Register; also the Journals, 1776, passim (index), and July 16, 1779. Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1182. There is no record in the Journals of the " grateful acknowledgements ". 6 See nos. 399, 402, ante, 409, 414, post. [406] 1 Adams MSS., Boston. 2 See no. 388, ante. 284 Continental Congress &• I have the Pleasure of believing it has been more agreable than one might have expected at this Season. 
I hope you found Mrs Adams and Family in a confirmd State of Health. 
I will not envy you, but I earnestly wish to enjoy, at least for a few Weeks, domestick Retirement and Happiness. 
I dare not however, urge an Adjournment of the Congress. 
It would indeed be beneficial to the Members and the publick on many Considerations, but our Affairs are now at so critical a Conjuncture that a Separation might be dangerous
Mr. C. 4 has no doubt a Right to speak his opinion whenever he can form one; and you must agree with him, that it was highly reasonable, the Consideration of such Letters as you have often heard read, which had been assigned for the Day, should, merely for the Sake of order, have the Preference to so trifling Business as the raising an American Navy. 
I know it give[s] you great Pleasure to be informd that the Congress have orderd the Building of thirteen Ships of War viz five of 32 Guns five of 28 and three of 24. I own I wishd for double or treble the Number, but I am taught the Rule of Prudence, to let the fruit hang till it is ripe, otherwise those Fermentations and morbid Acrimonies might be producd in the political, which the like Error is said to produce in the natural Body. 
Our Colony is to build two of these Ships. 
We may want Duck. 
I have been told that this Article is manufacture! in the Counties of Hampshire and Berkshire, you may think this worth your Enquiry. 6 .... 407. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Friday Deer. 22. the Journal read and some Passages marked. 
Letters from Lord Stirling and others read, my Lord gives an Account of the Situation and Condition of the
General) appointed Commander in Chief of the American Fleet, he is to sail with the Ships of War now fitting out in the Port of
Cf. John Adams to Joseph Ilawley, Nov. 25, ante. 
See especially a letter of Samuel Adams to James Warren, Mar. 8, 1776, Warren- Adams Letters, I. 211. 5 See the Journals, Dec. 13, and nos. 390, 392, 393, 395, 396, 404, ante, and no. 407, post. [407] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 297. 2 See the Journals. 
Such a letter of Stirling, dated Dec. 17, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 294. Cf. nos. 409, 411, 418, 419, post. 3 See the Journals ; cf. nos. 392, 405, ante, 408, post. 
December, 1775 285 Philadelphia and his Pay was voted to be 125 Dollars per month
Mr. Hopkins had very generously offered to serve without any Pay. Col. Lee and others gave Him a high Character. 4 A Com ee chosen to confer with the Indians now at the State House. 
Gen Schuylers Letters finished. 
Col Harrison the Delegate's Expences ordered to be paid for going lately to Maryland to promote the Equipment of some Frigates there. 
Motion by Gadsden to publish that Part of Gen Schuylers Letter where the Indians say that Guy Johnson invited them to take up the Hatchet against the Colonists and that he roasted an Ox and gave them a Pipe of Wine asking them to feast on the Flesh and Blood of a New England Man — was deferred. 5 part of Conollys Letters was ordered to put in the News-Papers. 408. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philada. 
Deer. 22d : 1775. Sir, Your letters of the 30th. of November and of the 4th. 7th. and 11 of December being duly received were laid before congress. 2 To prevent the ill consequences that might ensue from the backwardness of the men in the present service to reinlist, the Congress, as I informed you in my last, have written to the Governors of Connecticut and Rhode Island, the council of Massachusetts bay and the president of the convention of New Hampshire. 3 In consequence of which letters they have strong hopes and confidence, that measures will be taken to compleat your army. 
As to the article of butter, the Congress desirous to obviate whatever may have a " tendency to give the soldiery room for complaint " have instructed me to inform you, that the same may be continued, until further order. 4 The Congress receive, with great satisfaction, your congratulations on the success of Capt Manly. 
By the enclosed resolves you will perceive their determination on the captures already made, as well as those which
A letter from the commissioners of Indian affairs in the northern department (Schuyler, Oliver Wolcott, and Timothy Edwards) of the same date was probably read this day. 
It relates to an incident at the treaty of Albany which had a bearing upon the dispute between Connecticut and Pennsylvania over the Susquehannah lands and gave rise to a petition to Congress (see the Journals, June 4, 17, 1776) from Turbutt Francis, one of the commissioners. 
See further, Wolcott to Edwards, Nov. 29, 1776, in the next volume of these Letters. [408] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, VII. 334; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 98; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 379. 2 See the Journals, Dec. 11, 13, 16, 19. The letters are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1721, IV. 180, 214, 237. 3 See the Journals, Dec. 7, and no. 385, ante. 4 Cf. no. 402, ante. 
The " certain instructions " given to the President Dec. 20 were probably in reference to this question. 286 Continental Congress &• may be made hereafter. 
It is expected the several Colonies will erect courts of admiralty, and that the judges in those courts will regulate their decisions by the law of nations, except where it is relaxed by the enclosed resolutions. 8 I am further directed to inform you, that the Congress approve your taking such of the articles found on board the Concord, as are necessary for the army. 
The necessity of the case will, they apprehend, justify the measure even though the vessel, upon trial, should, contrary to their expectation, be acquitted. 6 I am Authorized to inform you that it is the pleasure of Congress that Mr Mifflin the Quarter Master General hold the Rank of Colonell in the Army of the United Colonies, and that you Establish his Rank accordingly. 7 I must Beg leave to Refer you to the Inclos'd resolutions of Congress for your future proceedings, which I am directed to transmitt you. 
You will Notice the last Resolution relative to an attack upon Boston, this pass'd after a most serious debate in a committee of the whole house, and the execution Referr'd to you, and may God Crown your attempt with Success. 
I most heartily wish it, tho' individually I may be the greatest sufferer. 8 .... [P. S.] Fessenden being indisposed, I have Sent a special Express, as Congress were Anxious their Resolves should Reach you as quick as possible. 409. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Saturday Deer. 23. the Journal read and some Parts marked not to be printed. 
Letter from Ld. Stirling praying to be furnished with Powder and Six Field Pieces to defend some Vessels that have taken Shelter on the Coasts of Bergen and Essex, he has seized some Tories. 2 Langdon reported the Proceed'gs of Himself and his Two Colleagues who have been sent by Congress to Ticonderoga, which were read and referred. 3 their Expences reported by the Com ee of Claims and Payment ordered, this Com ee reported other Accounts which were allowed. 
Dyer read an Act of the Connec
Jay
Rev., I. 298. 2 Stirling's letter of Dec. 19 is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 354. Cf. nos. 387, 401, 407, ante, and nos. 411, 418, 419, post. 3 See the Journals, Dec. 23, 26. See also no. 388, note 2, ante. 4 " The Congress this day refused to give me leave of absence for next week. 
We expect, however, soon to adjourn .... To-morrow or on Tuesday next the Congress will I believe determine the time of adjournment." Jay to Mrs. Jay, Dec. 23 (Correspondence, I. 39). "I find the Congress will not adjourn even for the holidays. 
They have not indeed so determined but that seems to be the opinion of the members."Jay to McDougall, Dec. 23 (ibid., p. 40). Cf. no. 406, note 3, ante. 
December, 1775 287 extend the Time till further Order of this Congress, his Motion was carried
Debate Whether to admit Capt. 
John the Tuscarora Chief and his Companions into Congress terminated in requiring the Com ee to provide them with Food and Raiment for their Return Home. 
Col. Lee and Cushing had Leave of Absence. 
Motion by Gadsden to publish the Part of Gen Schuylers Letters mentioned in Yesterdays Notes, was carried in the Affirmative. 7 Jefferson from the Com ee brought in a List of Business before Us. The Com ee on Capt. 
Peter Bertons Petition reported that the Prayer of it ought not to be allowed and the Report was confirmed. 
The Prayer from New York for a large Loan of Continental Bills, disapproved of. the Delegates of Pennsa. ordered to inquire what Progress is made in Exchanging Continental Bills for Gold and Silver. 
A Proposition or Report from a Com ee to send abroad a great Quantity of Produce to be returned in hard Money. 
A Com ee reported the Draught of an Answer to Gen Montgomerys Letters, advising a General Convention to be summoned in Canada and Delegates to be sent to our Congress etc. 
Some suppose we ought to keep up at least 3000 Troops in that Province, adjorned till Tuesday, Monday being Christmas. 410. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia, Decembr 26th 1775 Sr I wrote to you a few days agoe by express to Cambridge which trust you have recievd. 2 I have now only to hint to you what I think I have once before with respect to some further allowance being made you for your very great services as Commissary Genii, it is tho't by your particular friends here that it would be best for you to make a short state of your services and what goes thro your hands the Very great occasional expences etc. in a manner you think best lay before the General, and obtain if readily to be had His recommendation to this Congress for some further allowance or at least his opinion on the Subject, a small Commission I should think best ; its coming before Congress in that way believe would not fail of Success, but if it Cannot be done by the way of the General I will Indeavor to get some friend to Introduce the Affair before Congress at some proper time
The Connecticut act is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 273. 6 See no. 411, post. 7 See no. 407, ante. [410] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 2 Dec. 16, no. 398, ante. 3 Cf. nos. 417, 446, post. 
See also Williams to Trumbull, Oct. 7, 10, 1776, and Gerry to Trumbull, Oct. 8, 22, 1776, in the next volume of these Letters. 23 288 Continental Congress & 1 Uncertain as it seems we must wait the Conveniency of the Gentn. (appointed in our stead) to come, and not when it would be most Convenient for us to return, but fear they will keep us here the most part of the Winter 411. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Tuesday 26 Deer. 
Votes of Saturday read and Letters from Gen. Washington, from Dr. John Morgan, from some New England men at Guadaloupe and other Letters. 2 Duanes Propositions for sinking the last
Col. Irwin brought in by Jefferson and passed, this officer is to go from hence to Virginia immed'y with what Companies are ready. 7 Report made from a Com ee recom'g that no more Paper Money may be made by Congress but that the Money wanted for the future may be borrowed and the Treasurers give Notes bearing Interest for 100 Dollars and upwards etc. referred till Tomorrow. 8 Jay moved that the several Comm ees of Inspection in each Colonyshould transmit to the Congress Accounts of what Produce has been and shall be exported, with the Returns of Arms and Ammunition and the Prices and Values and to this there was no Objection. 
An Order took place that all Soldiers in our Service may get their Letters franked and send them free from Postage. 9 Ld. Stirlings Letters were referred to William Livingston, Jay and S. Adams. 10 several other Reports, Motions and Matters acted upon. 
I411] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 299. 2 Washington's letter of Dec. 14 is in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 274, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 262. That of Dec. 16 is ibid., IV. 291. The Morgan letter is ibid., IV. 263. 3 See the Journals; cf. no. 409, ante. 4 George Gymer was made joint treasurer with Michael llillegas July 29 (see also the Journals, Sept. 16). On Clymer's election to Congress Hillegas became (Aug. 6, 1776) sole " Continental Treasurer ". 5 See the Journals, Nov. 23, Dec. 23 (report on unfinished business). There is no record of postponement Dec. 26. 6 See the Journals; cf. no. 414, post. 7 James Irvine. 
See the Journals, Nov. 25, Dec. 16, 26. The instructions have not been found. 8 This action is not recorded in the Journals. 9 See the Journals, Jan. 9, 1776. 10 See the Journals, Dec. 5, 8, 22, 23, 26, 29, 1775, Jan. 1, 2, 1776. Cf. nos. 407, 409, ante, and nos. 418, 419, post. 
December, 1775 289 412. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Wednesday 2/ Deer. 
A Motion was made to allow an Importation of Salt into Virginia, an Amend* offered that the Allowance should be general, this Amend
Hay allowed to negociate a Bill of Exchange to pay his Expences home to Scotland. 
Complaints of the bad Behavior of some of the Captive Officers and Capt. 
Motts Affidavit ordered to be taken thereon. 
An Allowance of £3 per man for Capt. 
Motts Guard on their Return Home to Connect
Report of Accounts from the Com ee of Claims allowed. 
One of them was for maintaining some Prisoners in Goal. 
Harrison moved to enlarge them. 
Vote Whether the Virginian
Montgomery some Weeks ago was created a Major General. 3 .... [412] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 299. 2 See the Journals, Dec. 27, 29; cf. no. 414, post. 3 See the Journals, Dec. 28; cf. no. 379 (note 3), ante, and no. 413, post. 4 See no. 397 and note 5, ante. [413] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 300. 2 See the Journals ; cf. no. 412, ante. 3 Dec. 9. 290 Continental Congress s* 414. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Friday 29 Deer. 
Journal read one or Two passages ordered to be omitted in Publication. 
A Petit" from Simeon Sellick committed to myself. 
Col. Floyd and Francis Lightfoot Lee Esqr." The House went into Grand Committee, Gov. Ward in the Chair, when it was agreed after much Debate to allow Virginia, Maryland and North Carolina to import as much Salt as their several Conventions or Committees of Safety think necessary from any foreign Country, and to export Produce therefor. 3 Debates upon opening our Ports to foreign Countries after the 1st of March next, within the Terms of our Association^ adjorned. 4 A Recommendation to the several Assemblies and Conventions to encorage the Manufacture of Salt, was offered by Dr. Franklin, agreed to and ordered to be published. 
R. Morris informed that a person offers to establish Salt Works on the Jersey Coast if the Congress will lend him £200. Mr. Morris and Lynch were desired to inquire more particularly into it. McKean gave Information that a Quantity of Arms, Ammunition and Cannon is buryed near Sir John Johnsons House with his Privity and that some Scotch and other Tories are there enlisted by the Enemy, a Com ee of
Andrew Allen presented a Petition from a Number of the Inhabitants of Northampton and other back Parts of Pennsylvania intimating that they will not obey the Recommendations of Congress in the Wyoming Affairs, this Petition gave much Offence and was ordered to lie on the Table. 6 An Application from the Virginia Convention praying Means may be used for the Release of
Manly retook and released these Gent n on their Voyage to Gen. Howe at Boston). 7 415. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Saturday 30 Deer. 
A Letter from Gen. Wash n with a packet of Letters just taken by Capt. 
Manley in a Vessel sent with Provisions from Lord Dunmore to Gen Howe (the same Vessel mentioned in the last page), these Letters were from Ld. Dunmore, one Mulcaster, said to be the Kings [414I 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 300. 2 Cf. the Journals, Dec. 30, 1775; Jan. I, 1776; also no. 415, post. 8 Cf. no. 412, ante. 4 Cf. no. 411, ante, and no. 451, note 3, post. 5 See the Journals, Dec. 29, 30 ; cf. no. 415, post. 6 See the Journals; cf. nos. 240, 258 (and note 7), 308, 329, 331, 399, 402, 405, 409, ante; cf. Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 643, 647-648, 66o, 66i, 665, 669 et scq., 685, 687, 689; Pa. Col. Recs., X. 275; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 251-253, 1473. The petition referred to has not been found, unless it be that in Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 669. 7 Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 313, 314. See also no. 415, post. [415] ' Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 301. January, 1776 291 Natural Brother, Hon. John Stuart and many more Persons in the Southern Colonies. 
One Col. Kirkland of S. Carolina was taken in this Vessel."The Letters took up most of the Day in the Perusal, the S Cara. 
Delegates pressed strongly to have the Originals delivered to them and the Virginia Delegates and the Congress to keep attested Copies, but it was opposed and the Letters referred to a Com ee . there was no Objection to those Delegates taking attested Copies. 3 Gen. Wash" has sent to Gen. Howe a spirited Letter informing Him that whatever Severities are inflicted on Col. Allen shall be retaliated on Brig. 
Gen. Prescot and the like as to other prisoners, a Copy of the Letter was read in Congress. 4 Another Letter was reed from Wash 11 recom'g
A Guard of
Simeon Sellecks Petition. 
He commands a small Privateer in Connect* and lately took at Turtle Bay in the Sound, Kings stores to the Amo' of £1500 lawful Money of Connect' 1 . We allowed Him £100 like Money as a Reward for his Expences, Trouble and Risque, he gave up his Prize for the Continental Use. 7 Debates Whether to stop Lieut. 
Moncrief who some Months ago had Leave to go to England and is now about going, he was at length allowed to go. 8 416. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Assembly. 1 Philadelphia, Jany 1st. 1776. Honble Gentlemen We have had the honor to receive the Memorial of the General Court to the Congress and the accounts accompanying the same, which we immediately laid before the Congress, they were referred to a Committee but could not be passed upon as the vouchers did not Come with them, however they have voted to advance to the Colony in part of their
See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 53, 199, 3HS52, 357, 486, V. 570, 1235. 3 Cf. the Journals. 4 See nos. 397 (note 4), 399, ante, and no. 419, note 2, post. 5 The letters from Washington, Dec. 14, concerning Penet and Pliarne are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 261, 262; cf. ibid., IV. 23s, 264, 310, 447, 660. One of Washington's letters {Writings , ed. Ford, III. 274) was read in Congress Dec. 26; the other was a letter of introduction conveyed by their own hands. 6 See the Journals; cf. no. 414, ante. 7 See no. 414, ante. 8 See the Journals, July
Arch., CXCIV. 178; Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, IV. 1391. 292 Continental Congress Accounts the sum of Four hundred and forty three Thousand three hundred and thirty three Dollars and one third of a Dollar which we have received and have hired a light Waggon to Convey it to Watertown, under the care of Mr. dishing. 
Inclosed you have an invoice of the same which we wish safe to hand.'We are with great respect, Your Honours Most obedient humble servts. 
John Hancock, Thomas Cushing, Samuel Adams, Robert Treat Paine. 
To the Honourable the Members of the General Assembly of the Massachusetts-Bay at Watertown. 417. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia Jany. 1st 1776. Dear Sr .... I would mention some particulars but fear my letter might possibly be Intercepted. 
I wrote to you a few days agoe." wherein I Informed you it might be well for you to get the General in some of his letters to Mention how Inadequate your pay is to your services and expences which would give the best opening for application here for an advance. 
I should think the best way would be by a small Commission which would goe down much best with the Multitude but I expect every day to be Superseded by the coming of Mesrs Woolcott and Huntington, they will come and Mr Dean and my self depart in a most Critical season especially for our Colony but hope all will be well, am very glad for my self I may return, tho I think the Colony might have been a little more Complaisant in our dismission. 
How could the cask of Rhubarb which was sent by order of Congress and was then extreamly wanted in the Hospital lye by to this time, after you came away I wrote to Daniel Brown to see it delivered, you need say nothing about either price or pay as it is brot in with a large quantity of other druggs I was Employed to furnish the Army with by Congress, and is setled here with the other Accounts. 3 .... as to Field officers the Congress mean to have the appointment as they say the Army will not yield to Provincial appointments but then they will be ready to recieve and much attend to any Provincial recommendations or from the Genii officers in the Army when they can be had they will be very sure. 4 this is favored by Capt Langdon a delegate from New Hampshire to whom your Civilitys will be Very Acceptable, he will acquaint
Hist. 
Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 2 Dec. 26, 1775, no. 410, ante. 
See also no. 446, post. 8 See the Journals, Sept. 14, 23, Nov. 10. 4 See the Journals, Oct. 10, 11, 1775, and John Adams's Notes of Debates, Oct. 10 (ibid., III. 489) ; cf. ibid., Oct. 25. January, 1776 293 you with our Naval preparations etc. of which I could not write for reason above. 
I may possibly be here a Month longer if not you will hear from me from Windham, regards to Friends and believe me Sincerely yours Elipht Dyer Mr Dean presents his Compliments to you. he is Confoundedly Chagrined at his recall. 
He is really Very Usefull here and much esteemed in Congress. 5 To Commiss y Trumbull 418. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Monday
An Expedition agt. 
St. Augustine recommended to the Colonies of S. and N. Carolina and Georgia if the ruling Powers there shall deem it practicable. 
Report from the Com ee on Ld. Stirlings Letters partly agreed to, 1000 Dollars and 400 Weight of Powder was allowed, and partly disagreed to and recommitted, much was said upon that Part of it relative to disarming and securing the Tories in N Jersey and in case persons ordered to be Secured by Authority would not surrender, then to put them to Death, during this Debate Wilson moved that all Persons in the 13 United Colonies who would not sign the Association should be disarmed and several written Propositions were made about disarming, securing and destroying such Tories as resisted an Arrest ordered by the present Authority." 2 Companies of Ld. Stirlings Regt. are to go to New Fort on the North River in the Highlands, the Report on Capt. 
Sellicks Affair confirmed. 3 An Order passed to commission the Officers of the Battalions raised in N. Carolina. 
Motion by Dyer to pay a Gentlemans Expences who accompanied the
Norman and Bell dedicated to and furnished the Members with a neat American Edition of Swan's Designs in Architecture. 
A former Article or Order respecting Deserters was ordered to be published in the Papers. 
An Adjutant chosen by Ballot for Col Bulls Battalion. 5 Cf. nos. 446, 463, post. [418] x Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 301. 2 See nos. 407, 409, 411, ante, and no. 419, post. 3 See nos. 414, 415, ante. 4 See no. 415, note 5, ante, and the Journals, Jan. 2. 5 Cf. the Journals, Jan. 8, 19. 6 David Rittenhouse's Oration on Astronomy, delivered before the American Philosophical Society, Feb. 24, 1775 (Philadelphia, 1775). The oration is also found in William Barton, Memoirs of the Life of David Rittenhouse, appendix. 20-i Continental Congress 419. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Tuesday
Before Congress met I attended the Com ee of Claims. 
Some Accots of Capt. 
Mott, Egbert Dumond and others for Subsistance and traveling Expences of the Prisoners from St. Johns, were adjusted, these Expences run very high. 
Yesterdays Minutes read. 
Agreed to write to Gen Schuyler ordering Him to confine Brig. 
Gen. Prescot now at Kingston in Ulster County, till further Order, acquaint'g Him, Schuyler, of the reason viz the ill Usage of Col. Ethan Allen. 
We did not order the Prisoner into Irons because it is not quite certain how Allen is treated. 2 Some Accots were reported by Air. Willing Chairman of the Com ee of Claims which were passed. 
Gadsden moved to add a Friend of his to John Rutledge and Middleton now in S. Carolina to whom the Dispatches of Congress relative to the Attack on St. Augustine are to be directed, and he further moved for Leave to repair to S. Carolina he being Commander in Chief of the Militia there where an Attack is apprehended, these Motions were opposed by his Colleagues Lynch and E. Rutledge and others and were carried in the Negative. 
Bartlett and S. Adams were added to the Com ee of Claims, the Com ee on Ld. Stirlings Letters again made Report which being discussed and amended was passed and that Part of it concerning the future Treatment of the Tories was directed to be published in the News Papers. 3 The Report from the Com ee on Capt. 
Coffin and Capt. 
Paddocks Petition whereby they allowed Nantucket to import 7000 Barrels of Flour per Annum, there being on that Island about 7000 People, was objected to and at length rejected. 4 It is said We have no less than 51 Battalions now raised or ordered so to be in the 13 United Colonies, a thin Congress today, not more than 30 Members. 420. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [January 3, 1776.] Wednesday 3d. I was on the Com ee of Claims, sundry Acco^. were there adjusted as Capt Motts, the Signers of the first
In Congress the Report on the State of New York was considered. 1 ' Col. Nat Heard of the Minute Men at Woodbridge and Col. Warterbury
Rev., I. 302. 2 See nos. 397 (note 4), 399, 415, ante, and nos. 465, 466, 474, 480, 481, 482, 486, post. 3 See nos. 407, 409, 411, 418, ante. 4 See the Journals, Dec. 23, 28, 1775, Jan. 2, 1776. [420] > Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 303. 2 See the Journals, Dec. 28, 1775; Jan. 2, 3, 4, 5, 1776. Cf. nos. 421, 424, 425, 427, post. 
See also note 3. below. 3 Col. David Waterbury. 
In regard to Heard's expedition into Queens County see the Journals, Jan. 3, 10, 13, Feb. 6, and nos. 427, 437, 469, 482, 487, post. 
See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 203, 405, 434, 764, 772, 858, 800, 923, 11 18; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 215, 229, 289. January, 1776 295 and Ammunition from the Asia Man of War, and other Parts of the Report agreed to as was a Report from the Secret Com ee implying that a large Quantity of Produce shall be exported for a Supply of Sail Cloth, other Cloth, Blankets, Needles, Military Stores and other Necessaries to fit out our Fleet and Army. 
A Report recommend'g to send out Produce to the Amount of 160,000 Dollars for the Importation of Gold and Silver, was rejected after thorough Discussion. 
Mr. Alexander from Maryland took his Seat. 
Reports of Accounts from the Com ec of Claims confirmed. 
A Letter was received from Mr. Hanson Chairman of a Com ee in Maryland with Conolly and Cameron Two Prisoners. 4 Smith made his Escape. 
The Com ee of Safety here were desired to secure and take the Examination of these Criminals and a Letter was directed to be sent to the Com ee of Frederick County to search a certain Saddle for Conollys Instructions. 
Intelligence of this Saddle had been reed, from Gen. Wash" from whom a Letter was now reed, inclos'g a Copy of Gen. Howe's Answer to our Generals spirited Requisition about Allen. 5 An Answer was made up and sealed to Ld. Stirling inclosing Copies of the necessary Papers. 
Application was made from the Com ee of Philada. asking Advice Whether to secure Ld. Drummond and Andrew Elliot now in Philada
These officers were chosen as the Delegates of that Province recommended viz
Maps produced and Proceedings of the N York Convention thereon read. 
Mr. Palmer attending on their Behalf, ordered that he be heard Tomorrow Morn'g. 2 a Vessel or Two
Concerning Ethan Allen, see also the Journals, Dec. 2, 1775 ; Jan. 2, Apr. 6, 1776. 6 See the proceedings of the Pennsylvania committee of safety, Jan. 4, Pa. Col. Recs., X. 445; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 509. Cf. nos. 428, 448, 459, 527, 536, post. 
Lord Drummond was the oldest son of the earl of Perth. 7 See the proceedings of the Pennsylvania committee of safety, Jan. 2, 3, Pa. Col. Recs., X. 442, 443; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 507, 508, 509. [421] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 303. 2 See no. 420, ante, and nos. 424, 425, 427, post. 
Bernard Romans's maps are found in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III., between pp. 736 and 737. For proceedings and correspondence relative to the fortification of the Highlands see ibid., III. and IV, passim, index, " Highlands ". 296 Continental Congress &'of War are now fitting out in Maryland on Acco
I reed, from the Continental Treasury the iooo Dollars lately advanced to our Com ee of Safety for purchasing Arms for the Use of the Continental Troops raised here. 
I wrote to Samuel Tucker Esqr., Presidt. of the Com ee of Safety and forwarded the Dispatches and Articles of War to Ld. Stirling. 3 .... A Commissary ordered for the
They intend to go first to Halifax; and are the bearers [of thi ] s letter. 
If they should fall in your way, I doubt not you will shew them proper civility."If by giving them any letters to your friends in the West, you can contribute to make their journey more agreeable to them, it will oblige them and me 423. Richard Smith to the President of the New Jersey Committee of Safety. 1 Dr. Sir I am desired by the Congress to transmit to you the enclosed Extracts from their Proceedings .... The Congress wish to know in what Manner the Prisoners of War at Trenton live, who supplies them, and upon what Terms, the Reason of the Inquiry is that very extravagant Claims are made on this Head from other Ouarters, and we aim to render the Public Burthens as light as possible. 
You will, as soon as it is convenient, afford me the necessary Information a I am Your affectionate faithful Sert Richd. 
Smith Philadelphia Jany. 4, 1776. Samuel Tucker Esqr. 3 See no. 423, post. 4 See no. 431, post, and the Journals, Jan. 8. Cf. ibid., Dec. 4, 1775. [422] 1 Letter-Book in the possession of Charles E. Johnson, Raleigh. 2 See the Journals, Dec. 20, 1775, and Oct. 23, 1776; also nos. 402, ante, 428, post. [423] ! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., Continental Congress, 1774, no. 382; Minutes of the Provincial Congress and Council of Safety of New Jersey, p. 329. 2 Cf. nos. 421, ante, 441, post. 
See the Journals, Jan. 2, 4, 12, 23, Feb. 7, Mar. 19, 20; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 814, 815; Minutes of N. J. Prov. 
Cong., etc., PP- 336-338. January, 1776 297 424. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [January 5, 1776.] Friday 5. On my Motion it was resolved that 10,000 Dols. shall be struc to exchange ragged and torn Bills, under the Inspection of the Persons now forwarding the last
Mr. Palmer and Capt. 3 from New York called in and examined as to the Fortifications to be built on Hudsons River. this Affair took up several Hours and was at last, after passing a Resoln. to abandon the Works at Martilers Rock with Romans the Projector of them and to fortify at Poplopens Kill, referred back to the N. York Convention or Com ee of Safety to execute this Resolve as they may think fit. the Delegates of N Jersey and Connect
Davies eldest Lieut, in Col. Bulls Battalion was chosen by Ballot a Captain vice Wm. Allen Jun. promoted to a Lt. Col. -ship. 
An Application from the Wife of Lieut. 
Tyler
Our Secret Com ee . have sent to Europe for some able Engineers much wanted now in America. 7 it is said a Specimen of the Saltpetre Rock in Virginia was sometime past produced in Congress. 
Quaere Whether it answers Expectation. [424] ! Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 304. 2 James Lovell, afterwards a delegate in Congress from Massachusetts. 
See the Journals, Jan. 5, July 24. The case of Lovell was brought before Congress in a letter of Washington, Dec. 18, 1775, read in Congress Dec. 30 (Writings, III. 285). See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 314-315, 890, 975, VI. 1076, fifth sen, I. 381, 502, 510. 587, 679, 711, 765, 820, 860. Cf. no. 435, post. 3 The committee from the New York provincial congress consisted of Abraham Brasher and Thomas Palmer, to whom was added Capt. 
John Grenell, for some time in command of the fortifications at the Highlands. 
See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 425; cf. ibid., p. 875. See nos. 421, ante, 425, 427, post. 4 See no. 427, post. 
Cf. a letter of Gen. Greene to Samuel Ward, Dec. 10, 1775, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 231, and Gen. Charles Lee to Congress, Jan. 22, ibid., IV. 805. 5 See nos. 290, 333, 392, ante, 441, 444, 477 and note 3, post. 6 Edward Tilley. 
See the Journals, Jan. ir, and nos. 438, 439, post. 7 See the Journals, Dec. 2, 1775. 29S Continental Congress 425. The New York Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety. 1 Philadelphia, January 5, 1776. Gentlemen: The Congress has been so much encumbered with Business that it has not till now been in our power to write to you Decisively on the Subject of your Several Favours. 
Indeed the Appointment of an Officer to Command in the Highlands still Remains undetermined; tho' we Doubt not the Recommendation communicated in your letter of the 8th of December will have its Due weight. 2 .... The enclosed Resolution of Congress Respecting the loan of £45000 on the Credit of our Colony will We hope be no Disappointment. 3 It is in our Opinion founded on good Reasons. 
The Precedent would have Justified every other Colony in soliciting the like Indulgence which Could not without gross Partiality have Been Refused. 
The Faith of all must in Every Instance have been pledged to secure the Repayment ; and Consequently all exposed to the Effects of Mismanagement and want of Oeconomy in each separate Government. 
The Quantity of paper money would not have been Diminished — the sums thus borrowed must in the Course of the present Contest have become Enormous. 
These Objections, among others, operated so strongly against the Measure that if we had thought ourselves at Liberty to Exercise Discretion, in the case of a positive Instruction, We should have Declined an Application to which, in our Judgment, we could not wish Success. 
The Deputation from your Convention Respectirthe Fortification in the Highlands was very proper and Seasonable. 
They have Conferred with a Committee of Congress and been heard by the House, and will inform you of every thing which occurred; so that it is needless for us to be explicit. 4 .... The Defection of Queen's and Richmond is much to be Lamented, a Committee of Congress has that Subject now under Consideration and it will not be long before their Resolutions on that head will be Communicated to you. 
D We have the Honor to be with Great Respect Gent, your Most obt and humble Servants, Phil. 
Livingston Jas. Duane John Jay Henry Wisner Wm Floyd. 
P. S [425] 1 John Carter Brown Lib., Providence (lacking date line and salutation) ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1033; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 243, II. 142. 2 The letter from the New York congress, dated Dec. 8, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 392. See nos. 356, 372, ante; also note 4, below. 3 See the Journals, Dec. 23, 1775. 4 See the Journals, Jan. 4, 5, and cf. nos. 420, 421, 424, ante, 427, post. 5 See no. 420, note 3, ante, and the Journals, Feb. 8. Cf. no. 493, post. 
See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 428, 434, 435, 1040, 1069, 1094. January, 1776 299 426. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philada. 
Jany. 6, 1776. Sir, I have the honor of enclosing you sundry resolutions passed yesterday respecting Mr Lovell. 
The Congress are desirous to know your opinion what rank it would be proper the Aids de camp of the general officers ought to hold in the army; and on this head I am directed to write to you and request yr Answer."Just after the receipt of your letter Connolly and Cameron were brought to town. 
By some mismanagement Smith one of the associates was suffered to escape from Frederic where they were confined. 
Orders were given to have the saddles examined, but nothing is discovered. 
There is reason to believe he must have found means to withdraw his papers, as we find by an account from Frederic that his saddle was mended there. 3 The french gentlemen are arrived and referred to the secret committee. 4 The Congress have given orders to general Schuyler immediately to secure and Keep in safe and close custody Brig r general Prescot until further orders. 5 427. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Saturday
Minutes of yesterday read and Letters informing of a considerable Quantity of Powder just arrived at Egg Harbor, some of it consigned to the Congress by Jonat 11 . Parsons, some consigned to Pelatiah Webster and some to another Person in Philada. 
Congress agreed to purchase the whole and the Secret Com ee are desired to have it brought here under a Guard commanded by a Lieut, a Letter of Thanks directed to be sent to Mr. Parsons for his Attention to the Public Welfare. 
I sent off the Dispatches to Cols. 
Waterbury and Heard by Mr. Palmer of N York province. 2 A Letter was received from a French or Swiss Officer at Lisbon offering his Service and another or Two from other Foreign Officers, these were committed to the Secret Com ee . The Memorial from the Town of Newport was agitated for several Hours and at last referred [426] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 56; Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, IV. 585. 2 Washington's reply, Jan. 30, is in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 383; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 890. 3 See nos. 379 (note 2), 420, ante, and nos. 453, 663, post. 4 Penet and Pliarne. 
See the Journals, Dec. 30, 177s, and Jan. 2, 1776; also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 235, 261, 264, 310, 447, 660, VI. 771-782, fifth ser., I. 1011 ; and Wharton, Rev. Dipt. 
Corr., II. 113, 178, 248, 268, VI. 136. 5 Additions were made to this letter Jan. 16 and 18 before it was signed and a further postscript was added Jan. 21. In Force, Am. Arch., the additions of Jan. 16 and 18 are printed as a distinct letter, without the postscript of Jan. 21. As better fitting into a chronological arrangement the additions are here printed under Jan. 16, post. 
I427] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 304. 2 See no. 420, ante. 300 Continental Congress generally to the Assembly of Rhode Island. 3 Mr. Gadsden from the Naval Com ee . reported the Rules for Distribution of the Prize Money which were confirmed with one Alteration viz, That the Rewards for extraordinary Exertions shall not be paid out of the Continental Share of the Captures. 
Letters just reed, from Gens. 
Schuyler, Montgomery and Wooster pressing for an immediate Supply of hard Money and for more Troops otherwise they fear all will be lost in that Quarter. 4 Montgomery was before Quebec on the 16th of Deer, with
Monday Morn'g was assigned to consider this Business and Nothing else to interfere, the Delegates to be upon Honor to meet punctually at 10 oCloc. 
A Report respecting Canada was produced. 5 Dr. Franklin shewed me today a Pattern Paper containing
Cols. 
Heard and Waterbury are to disarm the Tories of Queens County on Oath that they have delivered up all their Arms and ammunitn. and to imprison all that refuse the Oath, these Tories are not to quit their County without a Pass certifying that they are welldisposed to the American Cause — all to be considered as Tories who voted agt. sending Delegates to the present N York Convention, no Lawyer may bring an Action for them. 
Quaere Whether People are not forbid to trade with these Tories, the Cols, are also to seize certain Persons named in a List and confine them till further Order of Congress. 500 Doll
Schuyler's letters, dated Dec. 26, 31, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 463, 480; that of Montgomery to Schuyler, Dec. 5, is ibid., IV. 188; Montgomery to Wooster, Dec. 16, ibid., IV. 288. Cf. Arnold to Washington, Dec. 5, ibid., IV. 190; Montgomery to Schuyler, Dec. 18, 26, ibid., IV. 309, 464; and Wooster to Schuyler, Dec. 18, ibid., IV. 310. 5 Possibly the report adopted Nov. 29, 1776. See the Journals of that date. 
Essentially as it there appears the report is printed in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 586, endorsed as having been considered Jan. 6. 6 This remark belongs properly to the proceedings of Jan. 3. 7 See the Journals, Jan. 10. and no. 437, post. [428] » N. C. Hist. 
Comm.; N. C. Rccs., X. 390, XXII. 515. - Jan. 4, ante. 
January, 1776 301 privileges which belong to them in common with the rest of the Inhabitants. 
I hope their well meant endeavours will be. useful to our Province. 
In your favor of the 5th of November the only one I have received from you I observe the plan you adopted to get arms and ammunition and your wish that the general association had not been infringed. 
I have often wished the same thing, the Congress having adopted and pursued a similar mode and on a much larger scale, however, altho we have not yet reaped much advantage from it, I have altered my mind on that subject and am now perfectly reconciled to it, from a Conviction that our utmost efforts in every way will barely furnish us with a sufficient quantity of those necessary articles. 
Some of the Zealous City politicians are alarmed at the arrival of a Lord Drummond
The next campaign, as our enemies will make every possible effort against us will, probably, require still greater exertions. 
We are, therefore, already in opinion with you that a regiment ought to be raised and kept up in the Colony at the Continental expense, and shall embrace the first favorable opportunity of applying for one.- .... We are concerned for the uneasiness occasioned by the different constructions of the resolve of the 15th of July last. 
We lately gave our opinion upon it, but horned cattle, sheep, hogs and poultry cannot be exported by it. Our extreme want of powder occasioned that resolve
The omitted passage is a brief characterization of Lord Drummond. 4 The text in A r . C. State Recs., XXII. 515, was evidently printed from a copy of this letter other than that now in the office of the North Carolina Historical Commission, for besides _ minor variations it contains a much amplified passage (here omitted). A postscript to the letter, dated Jan. 7, is in the possession of the North Carolina Historical Society. [429] 1 Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 50. 2 See no. 638, post. 302 Continental Con cress &'430. Samuel Adams to James Warren. 1 Philada., Jany. 7, 1776 My dear Sir, .... You ask me " When you are to hear of our Confederation? 'I answer, When some Gentlemen (to use an Expression of a Tory) shall " feel more bold "Are you Sollicitous to hear of our Confederation? - I will tell you. 
It is not dead but sleepeth. 
A Gentleman of this City told me the other day, that he could not believe the People without Doors would follow the Congress passibus aeqnis, if such Measures as some called spirited were pursued. 
I was of a different Opinion. 
It put me in Mind of a Fable of the high-mettled horse and the dull horse. 
My excellent Colleague, Mr J. A., can repeat to you the Fable and if the Improvement had been made of it which our very valuable Friend Coll. 
M 3 proposd, you would have seen that Confederation compleated long before this time. 
I do not despair of it since our Enemies themselves are hastening it 431. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Monday
Votes of Saturday read as were Letters from Gen s , Schuyler and Montgomery." the latter, it seems, was before Quebec the 5th. of Deer, and expects Success in his intended Storm, he demands 10,000 Men to defend Canada. 
A Report consisting of several Articles about that Country was agreed to, then it was voted after much Consideration that
A Battalion consists of about 726 Officers and Men. One of these Battalions is to be raised in New Hampshire, One in Connect
Col. Maxwells to be sent out of N Jersey, Col Bull's to be sent out of Pennsa. and a new One to be raised there, Two to be reinlisted from the Corps under Montg y and Arnold, this Business took up the whole Day but previous to its coming on and after the Letters were read, Gadsden moved and was seconded by me that Col. Arnold may be made a Brigadier Gen. and receive the Thanks of the Congress for his extraordinary March from Cambridge to Quebec and for his other spirited Exertions, this was debated and put off till Tomorrow. 3 The Kings Speech of the 27th. of October (1775) arrived to day as did a Report that a large Fleet was seen at Sea with 5000 Troops [430] ' Warren-Adams Letters, I. 197; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 250; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 2 See nos. 445, 447, post. 3 Mifflin? Cf. the letter to John Adams, Jan. 15, post, where a similar expression is used in reference to "Colonel YV ", i. e., George Wythe (?). [431 J 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 305. 2 See no. 427, note 4, ante. 3 See the Journals, Jan. 10. January, 1776 303 on Board, but some think this premature. 
An Express came with Letters from Baltimore inform'g Ld. Dunmore has Destroyed the Town of Norfolk in Virginia. 4 300 Barrels of Powder just arrived in New York as did
A Letter from Ld. Stirling enclosing a Packet which he caused to be intercepted near Elizabeth Town containing 1. A Letter from Gov. Franklin to Lord Dartmouth inimical to the Americans which inclosed a printed Journal of Congress, an Extract from the Votes of the Jersey Convention, a Paper from New England, a Copy of a Petition to our Assembly against Independency, the manuscript Votes of last Session, with his Messages and the Councils and some Newspapers as also some Notes of the Speeches made in our Assembly by John Dickinson John Jay and Geo. Wyth when they lately attended there from the Congress and prevailed with the Assembly to drop their Petition to the King, there was likewise a Copy of John De Harts Resignation, divers of these papers were
Toward the close of his letter to James Warren, Jan. 7 (no. 430, ante), Samuel Adams says: "While I am writing an Express has come in from Baltimore ", etc. 
See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 578 ; cf. ibid., pp. 575-577- 5 Cf. no. 421, ante. [432] x Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, I. 79. 2 See the Journals, Jan. 3; cf. no. 420, ante. 
Langdon left Congress probably Jan. 1. See no. 417, ante. [4331 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 306. 2 Tilghman's letter is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 575. 24 304 Continental Congress &'in the Hand Writing of Cortland Skinner Speaker of the Assembly who immediately upon this Discovery fled on Board of the Ship Dutchess of Gordon, those copied by Him were the Extract, the Paper from N England, the Notes and the Resignation, the Petition was in the Denl. 
Ellis's Hand. 2. A Letter from Cortland Skinner to his Bro r Wm. full of strong Toryism, some Letters were in the Packet directed to Mrs. Gage which Ld. Stirling opened and sent forward. 
After going thro other Business the Congress directed that the Presidt. shall write to Ld. Stirling to seize Cortland Skinner and to keep Him till further Order from hence and that he be examined before the Com ee . of Safety in N Jersey who are to have a Copy of his Letter and his Examin". is to be transmitted to this Congress. 
Nothing was done respecting Gov. Franklin. 3 The Com ee . of Claims reported some Acco ts . for Cartage of Powder, to Cambridge and Accounts of Abr m . Hunt and others which brought on a Discourse of the Extravagant Living of the Captive Officers at Trenton, a Motion was made that they be notifyed that it shall be at their own Expence which was committed to Wm. Livingston, Floyd and Dyer. 
The Report on Gen. Schuylers Letters was taken up, some of the Articles agreed to and some recommitted. 
Capt. 
Lamb of the Artillery was rewarded with the Rank of Major and to be allowed 50 Dollars per Month from the 1st. of January- Instant and to be Commandant of the Artillery in Canada, the PayMaster with Schuylers Army to be allowed Two Deputies. 
John MacPherson aidduCamp to Montg y promoted to be a Major, a Conductor of Artillery appointed, distinct from the Commandant, the Promotion of Arnold was again moved and deferred till Tomorrow. 
Wilson moved and was strongly supported that the Congress may expressly declare to their Constituents and the World their present Intentions respecting an Independency, observing that the Kings Speech directly charged Us with that Design, he was opposed but Friday was fixed for going into that Affair. 4 Several Members said that if a Foreign Force shall be sent here, they are willing to declare the Colonies in a State of Independent Sovereignity. 
M. Pliant [Pliarne] 5 one of the Two Frenchmen in Treaty with our Secret Com ee . offers to supply the Continent from France with all Sorts of Goods and Military Stores at the price common in France and hints that our Ships may trade to that Kingdom by Connivance and that they are willing to send their Bottoms here, he treats apparently in Behalf of a Company at Paris and he stays here till his Partner returns from thence
See also Franklin to Dartmouth, Jan. 8, ibid., p. 698. Cf. no. 444. post. * Cf. nos. 445. 455 (note 2), 465, 500, post. 
See also the address to the colonies as reported Feb. 13, the Journals, IV. 141. 5 See no. 426, ante, and cf. no. 465, post. 
January, 1776 305 434. josiah bartlett to the new hampshire convention or Committee of Safety. 1 Philadelphia Jany 9th 1776 Gen tn .... I Beg leave to inform the Colony that it will be necessary on many accounts that I should return to New hampshire as soon as Conviently may be — that there is no prospect that the Congress Can rise this winter. 
Whenever it rises they have resolved that a Committe Consisting of one Delegate from each Colony should Remain to transact Business in the recess.- I therefore hope that our Colony will appoint one or more Delegates immediately to repair here and that I may have leave to return to Newhampshire. 
I should be very glad to be informed what Cost our Colony is at for its own Defence as also what value in paper Bills they have emitted. 435. Samuel Adams to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, January 10, 1776 My dear Sir, I wrote to you the 7th Instant by Mr Anthony by the way of Providence, and should not so soon have troubled you with another Letter but to inform you, that upon looking over the Journals of Congress I find that the Recommendation of the 26th of October, to export Produce for a certain Purpose, is confind to the foreign West Indies ; and the Resolution to stop all Trade till the first of March is subsequent to it. 2 This last Resolution prevents your exporting your Merchantable Fish to Spain for the purpose mentiond, which I am satisfied was not intended, because I am very certain the Congress means to encourage the Importation of those necessary Articles under the Direction of proper Persons, from every Part of the World. 
I design to propose to my Colleagues to joyn with me in a Motion to extend the Recommendation so as to admit of exporting Fish to any place besides the foreign West Indies. 3 A few days ago, being one of a Committee to consider General Washington's last Letter to Congress, I proposed to the Committee and they readily consented to report the Inclosd Resolutions, which were unanimously agreed to in Congress. 
The Committee also reported that a certain Sum should be paid to Mr. Lovel out of the military Chest towards enabling him to remove himself and his Family from Boston, but the Precedent was objected to and the last Resolve was substituted in its stead.* The Gentlemen present however contributed and put into my hands Eighty-two Dollars for the Benefit of Mr. Lovell, which I shall remit either in Cash or a srood Bill fe'[434] 1 Library of Congress, N. H. Papers, III. 2 See the Journals, Dec. 13, 1775. [435] x Warren- Adams Letters, I. 203; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 254; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 2 See the Journals, July 15, Oct. 26, and Nov. 1, 1775 ; cf. ibid., Dec. 29. See also no. 441, post. 3 Cf. nos. 439, 44L post. 4 See thf Journals, Jan. 5, and no. 424, note 2, ante. 306 Continental Congress &'436. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to Philip Schuyler. 1 Philada. 
Jany 10th, 1776. To Genl. 
Schuyler Sir, I had the pleasure of transmitting you some Days ago a Letter of Thanks for your eminent Services in the Cause of your Country. 2 The several Letters you mention in your last
The Distresses of this Great Continent thrown into Convulsions by an unnatural War, the unprepared State we were in, when unjustly attacked, the Enemies that have arisen up against us in different Quarters, and the horrid Attempts of the Southern Governors to excite domestic Insurrections, and bring the Savages to desolate our Frontiers, the Necessity of providing armed Vessels, to prevent if possible, the Desolation threatened our Sea-Coast ; these and other Matters of the highest Importance, which you can easily conceive, must apologize for your Letters not having an earlier answer. 
Besides, the Congress flattered themselves from the Steps they had taken and from the Orders and Instructions given to their Committee, who were sent to confer with you, that your Army would have reinlisted, and your Difficulties, in other Respects, have been relieved. 
After the Return of their Committee, the Congress took into Consideration your several letters, and the Report of the Committee, and thereupon came to sundry Resolutions, which I have the honor to enclose. 4 Phelps has thrown in a Petition praying to be heard in his Justification; but as matters of higher Moment engage the Attention of the Congress, that is suffered to lie over. 5 .... The Conduct, Spirit, and resolution shewn both by the Officers and Men who have penetrated Canada, have induced the Congress in Testimony of the Approbation, to reserve the raising of two Regiments out of the Forces now there, for the Defence and Protection of that Country, which their Valour has rescued from Slavery. 6 .... 437. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Wednesday 10 Jany. the Votes of Yesterday read. 35,000 Dollars allowed to Thomas Lowrey the Jersey Commissary in Addition to what [436] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 32; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Hancock; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 619. 2 The letter of Nov. 30, 1775, ante. 3 The reference is to Schuyler's letter of Dec. 26, which was received Jan. 8, •whereas the letter of Dec. 31 was received Jan. 6. See the Journals, Jan. 6, 8, and cf. no. 427, note 4, ante. 4 See the Journals, Nov. 2, 8, 11, Dec. 23, 26, 1775; Jan. 8, 1776. Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1657; IV. 442-446. 5 Elisha Phelps, deputy commissary. 
See Schuyler's letter of Nov. 11, 1775, with enclosures, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1520-1529; also the Journals, Dec. 9, 11, 1775- 6 See the Journals, Jan. 8; cf. no. 431, ante, and no. 440, post. [437] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 307. January, 17 "j6 307 he has had, for fittingout Ld. Stirlings and Maxwells Troops, the Com"of Safety in Pennsa. desired to fit out with Necessaries their
A Third Battalion ordered to be raised in N Jersey on the same Terms with the other Two, this was on Motion of W. Livingston. 
Duane moved that
Delegates, Wilson in particular, contended strenuously for Col. Thompson but Major Gen. Fry of the Massachusetts was elected
The Field Officers of the 6th. Pennsa. 
Battalion were fixed, viz Wm. Irvin Col. Thos. 
Hartley Lt. Col. and James Dunlap Major, the Resolution for subduing the Tories on Queens County was now altered so that no Troops are to go from Connect
I sent the Dispatches to Col. Heard by Capt. 
Morris. 4 Hooper read Two Letters from North Carolina informing of Commotions there between the Whigs and the Tories of the back Parts. 5 Foreign Goods begin now to come in. I bought some Linnen from St. Eustatia at 4/ per yard. 
A Report passed concern'g the proper Necessaries for Maxwells Battalion about to march to Canada who are to have the same Pay, 50/ per Month for the Privates, as the Northern Forces, to commence from the Time they set off. the Com ee of Claims reported some Acco ts and among them Commissary Lowreys. 438. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Thursday 11 Jany. 
The Com ee of Claims settled the Acco 15 of the Commissioners of the Northern Department of Indians, the whole Expence of the late Treaty at Albany was about £3300. In Congress a Recommendation was directed to the New York Convention to release by Exchange Lieut. 
Tyler [Tilley] 2 of Connecticut now a Prisoner on Board
I am sorry for the occasion of this warmth, as the tories are ready to catch up every occasion against new England in order to promote a division, however, Coll : Thompson I think, and Doctor Mercer will very soon be appointed Brigadiers for the Southern or rather middle department, which probably may also be my destiny if at all to be concern'd." John Armstrong to Mrs. Armstrong, Feb. 6, 1776, Hist. 
Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Generals of Am. Rev., II. 36. See the Journals, Mar. 1. See also Washington to Reed, Mar. 7, and Reed to Washington, Mar. 15, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 106, 2 33- Frye resigned Mar. 18 (letter to Washington, ibid., V. 489), and his resignation was accepted Apr. 23. See no. 616, post. 4 Cf. nos. 420, 427, ante, 469, 482, 487, post. 5 The letters referred to have not been found. 
The conflict between the Whigs and Tories broke out activelv a short time afterward. 
Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 980-983, 1129, 1488; N. C. Col. Recs., X. 396, 406, 429, 441-444, 452. [438] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 308. 2 See nos. 424, note 6. ante, 439, post; al?o Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 788, 1029, 1044, 1046, 1061, where the name appears as Tylee. 308 Continental Congress 6'of the Asia. 
A Com ee was appointed to give proper Instructions to the Officers on the recruiting Service A Report from the Com ee on Paper Currency was ably argued for
Something was said about preventing Counterfeits. 439. The New York Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety. 1 Philadelphia, January 11, 1776. Gentlemeyi: We are honoured with your favour of 4th instant, requesting the permission of Congress to export a quantity of flaxseed to Ireland, for the purpose you mention. 2 However important the object, we are perfectly satisfied that it will be in vain to expect an indulgence so repugnant to the non-exportation system, and, particularly, to the motives of this article of our commercial restriction, which were thought to be very cogent. 
Not relying entirely on our own judgment, we have consulted several of the Members, and find them so averse to the proposition, that we despair of its being seconded by a single Colony. 
We think it bad policy, and an humiliation of our respectable constituents to ask, in their names, for what we foresee must be rejected. 
Upon these considerations, we shall take the liberty to defer any application till, informed of our apprehensions, we shall be favoured with your further commands. 
If you should still incline to hazard the attempt, we shall, most cheerfully, obey your directions. 3 .... James Duane, William Floyd, Henry Wisner. 3 Cf. no. 443. post. [439J 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1045; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 250, II. 141 ; X. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers. 
IV. 81. - The letter is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1021. In the Public Record Office, London (C. O. 5: 93. and C. O. 5 : 1107) are copies of a letter purporting to have been sent by the Continental Congress to the New York provincial congress, one of them dated Jan. 6, the other merely January. 
The letter is in substance that of Jan. 4 to the New York delegates, although with some modifications of meaning. ■ ; Cf. no. 435, note 3, ante, and no. 497, post. 
January, 1776 309 440. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the New York Convention. 1 Philadelphia, January 12, 1776. Gentlemen: The discoveries made of the designs of our enraged enemies, fully evince not only the propriety, but the absolute necessity of securing Canada, to prevent our frontiers from desolation and destruction. 
Providence has, hitherto, been pleased to crown our attempts with success. 
But from the steps taken by Governour Carleton, there is reason to apprehend our enemies, among their first attempts in the Spring, will endeavour to recover the possession of that country, as well to retrieve their honour, as to carry into execution their execrable designs against us. I need not mention the consequences that would ensue should they effect their purpose, and thereby be enabled to turn the force of that Province, as well as the Savages, against our defenceless frontiers. 
To counteract their designs, and prevent this calamity, the Congress have resolved to employ nine battalions, the present year, for the defence of Canada. 2 .... As the arrival of the troops in due time will greatly conduce to the preservation of that country, and baffling the designs of our enemies ; and, as the month of February, which is fast approaching, is the best, and, indeed, the only time before Summer, of crossing the Lakes, the Congress rely that you will, according to your usual zeal, exert your utmost endeavours to have the battalion from your Colony raised, and sent forward with all possible despatch. 441. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [January 12, 1776.] Friday 12. the Minutes read, the Com ee of Claims made some Reports of Accounts. 
Mr. Wm. Livingston made a Report on the Mode of maintaining the Captive Officers at Trenton which being amended was passed, they are to pay their own Expences, to be removed to some other Place and be allowed 15/ per Week which they are to repay already having had Leave to draw Bills of Exchange for their Subsistance. 2 In Grand Com ee Govr. 
Ward in the Chair, the Point was Whether to open Trade to Foreign Countries on the First of March next, wherein much Ability was displayed for several Hours and at last it was postponed for a Week, 3 then the Com ee went on the Affair of allowing the Sale of what Tea is on Hand which was strongly advocated by McKean and others and as strongly opposed by Dr. Franklin, Lynch etc and the result Delayed till Tomorrow. 4 [440] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1073; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 265, II. 140; N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, IV. 67. 2 See the Journals, Jan. 8, 9; cf. nos. 436, ante, 458, post, and Hancock to the New York convention, Jan. 20, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 783, 1074. [441] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 308. 2 Cf. nos. 421, 423, ante. 3 Cf. no. 435, note 2, ante, and see the Journals, Jan. 12, 15, 16, 17, Feb. 6, 14, 15, 16, 17, 26, 29, Mar. 4, Apr. 4, 6, 11 ; also nos. 451, 484, 502, 505, 509, 521, post. 4 See no. 424, note 5, ante, and nos. 444, 477, note 3, post. 310 Continental Congress 442. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 Philadelphia, Jan. 13th, 1776. My Dear, .... Saturday morning. 
I received a few days since, from before Quebec, two long letters from my brave friend, Col. Arnold, which I improved in his favor, and the other day he was unanimously chosen a Brigadier-General for the Army in Canada ; but I suppose this will be urged against me by some as a crime equal to my recommending Putnam on a former occasion. 2 .... 443. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Saturday 15 Jany. the Votes read and Letters from Gen Wash 11 , Governor Trumbull and others. 2 An Application from Connect
Debates Whether Bernard Romans shall be called in and examined about his Fortifications on Hudsons River were terminated in a Reference to
Franklin and Lieut. 
Col. Winds, they were on the Point of removing the Govr. to genteel Lodgings at Eliz a Town till the Pleasure of Congress is [442] 1 X. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 97. 2 See the Journals, Jan. 10; cf. nos. 228, 232, ante. [443] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 308. 2 See the Journals, Jan. 13, 15. Washington's letter of Jan. 4 is in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 312, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser.. IV. 567; cf. his letter to Reed, same date, ibid., p. 570. The letter from the New York committee of safety, Jan. 3, is ibid., p. 562. A letter from Gov. Trumbull, dated Jan. 6, was read Jan. 15. With two of the enclosures, it is ibid., p. 590. 3 Cf. nos. 492, 541. 543, 625, post. 4 Cf. no. 438, ante. 5 The committee reported Feb. 15. See the Journals. [444] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 309. 2 The Journals do not mention any letters of Montgomery and Arnold read this day. 
See, however, the Journals, Jan. 17, and no. 451, post. 
Washington's letter of Dec. 31. with sundry enclosures, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 485. 3 The Journals mention two letters of Stirling, Jan. 8, ri. They are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser.. IV. 596, 627. Two letters of Jan. 6 and one of Jan. 10 relate to the same subject. 
They are ibid., pp. 586, 621 (with enclosures). Cf. no. 433, ante. 
January, 1776 311 known, this Business was referred to Wm. Livingston and
Ward in the Chair, on the Permission to sell and use what Tea is in the Country, it was battled for divers Hours with much Heat and much Oratory and at length it was carried agt. granting any Permission by
Franklins and Cortland Skinners intercepted Letters, it was recommended to the Com ee of Safety of Pennsa. to discharge such Privates as they pleased that were lately cast away on Board of the Transport at Egg Harbor. 
In the Morning the Com ee of Claims settled several Acco 15 as Hiltzheimers for Expresses and others. 
Expences run very high. 445. Samuel Adams to John Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 15 January, 1776. .... A motion was made in Congress the other day, to the following purpose; " That, whereas we had been charged with aiming at independency, a committee should be appointed to explain to the people at large, the principles and grounds of our opposition," 2 etc. 
The motion alarmed me. I thought Congress had already been explicit enough, and was apprehensive that we might get ourselves upon dangerous ground. 
Some of us prevailed so far as to have the matter postponed, but could not prevent the assigning a day to consider it. I may perhaps have been wrong in opposing this motion; and I ought the rather to suspect it, because the majority of your colony, as well as of the Congress, were of a different opinion. 
I had lately some free conversation with an eminent gentleman, whom you well know, and whom your Portia in one of her letters admired, if I recollect right, for his expressive silence, 3 about a confederation, 4 a matter which our much valued friend Colonel W , 5 is very solicitous to have completed. 
We agreed that it must soon be brought on, and that if all the colonies could not come into it, it had better be done by those of them that inclined to it. I told him that I would endeavor to unite the New England colonies in confederating, if none of the rest would join in
See also the proceedings of the Baltimore committee, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV., 1692, 1695, 1724, 1741. [445] x Works, IX. 372; Adams MSS., Boston; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (draft) ; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 258. 2 The motion was made Jan. 9 by James Wilson of Pennsylvania. 
See no. 433, ante. 
Cf. nos. 455 (note 2), 465, 477, 506, post. 3 The allusion is to Franklin. 
The idea, though not the words, is found in Mrs. Adams's letter of Nov. 5, 1775, Letters (fourth ed.), p. 59; Familiar Letters, p. 122. 4 See no. 447, note 4, post. 5 Probably George Wythe. 
Cf. no. 430, ante, and see Gordon, History of the American War (London, 1788), II. 171, where the language of Adams is closely followed. !12 Continental Congress 5'it. He approved of it, and said, if I succeeded, he would cast in his lot among us. G Adieu. 1 6 January. 
As this express did not set off yesterday, according to my expectation, I have the opportunity of acquainting you, that Congress has just received a letter from General Washington, inclosing the copy of an application of our general assembly to him, to order payment to four companies stationed at Braintree, Weymouth, and Hingham. 
The General says they were never regimented, and he cannot comply with the request of the assembly, without the direction of Congress. 
A committee is appointed to consider the letter, of which I am one. 
I fear there will be a difficulty, and therefore I shall endeavor to prevent a report on this part of the letter, unless I shall see a prospect of justice being done to the colony, till I can receive from you authentic evidence of those companies having been actually employed by the continental officers, as I conceive they have been, in the service of the continent. 7 I wish you would inform me whether the two companies stationed at Chelsea and Maiden were paid out of the continent's chest. 
I suppose they were, and if so, I cannot see reason for any hesitation about the payment of these. 
I wish also to know how many men our colony is at the expense of maintaining for the defence of its sea-coasts. 
Pray let me have some intelligence from you of the colony which we represent. 
You are sensible of the danger it has frequently been in of suffering greatly for want of regular information. 446. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia Jany, 15th 1776. Dear Sr. .... I have hitherto Neglected making application to Congress for some further allowance for your services than your monthly Wages (which I believe all are Convinced are not Adequate) but before such application thot it proper to be possessd with the best Materials by which I might most likely Succeed in my application. 
I was advised that it would be of Consequence for you to procure some favorable representation and recommendation from Genii. 
Washington and other Genii. 
Officers which might be of great service. 2 .... the Congress are Augmenting their forces in every Quarter several Battalions are ordered for Canada, two or
Regiments are raising in every Province Southward, but we still fear for the Grand Army before Boston. 
The Congress having broke Up the New England plan of raising an Army there, I allways tho't would be attended with
Hist. 
Soc., Joseph Trumhull Papers. 2 Cf. nos. 410, 417, ante. 
January, 1776 313 Consequences the most unfavourable and would much Impede the raising an army there equal to our Wishes but hope I may be Mistaken. . . . [P. S.] Since I wrote this day our new Delegates arrived and I am myself happily relieved in a most important critical situation of Congress. 3 Colony a/c unseteled. 
E D 447. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Tuesday 16 January. 
Messrs. 
Walcott and Huntington from Connecticut took their Seats. 
A Report passed from the Com ee on Gen. Wash ns Letters, 2 to allow the Paymaster at Cambridge to draw upon the Continental Treasurers for any Sum not exceeding a Months Pay of that Army, to allow Him to reinlist the free Negroes, to continue Col Gridley as Chief Engineer, to appoint a Chaplain to every
A Tender was asked for and allowed our Naval Armament under Admiral Hopkins. 
Duane and E. Rutledge were desired to rectify a Mistake in the Journals now printing, as to the Date of the Bills of Credit. 
The Report was made from the Com ee on the Number of Troops necessary, they recommend
Dr. Franklin exerted Himself in Favor of the Confederation as did Hooper, Dickinson and other [s] agt. it. 4 Two Applications from French or other Foreigners for Employ in our Service, were referred to the Com ee for nominating fit persons for Officers. 5 a French Vessel just arrived here with Powder, it is reported that they are fitting out
Rev., I. 309. 2 See nos. 444, 445, ante, 449, post. 3 See the Journals, Jan. 19. 4 See nos. 430, 445, ante. 
There is no record in the Journals on the subject of confederation from July 21, 1775, when Franklin submitted his sketch of Articles of Confederation, until June 7. I776> except that in a committee report of Dec. 24, 1775 {Journals, III. 456), the subject is included in a list of items of unfinished business. 5 One such is mentioned in the Journals, that of Dohicky Arundel. 
See nos. 451, 486, post, and cf. the Journals, Feb. 5, 8. 6 See the Journals, Jan. 16, 17, 19, and no. 461, post; cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 69, 1307, 1457- 314 Continental Congress 6'Captain is to obtain hard Money. 7 the Secretary was desired to make out a List of all Committees and their Business and leave it on the Table. 
Col Kirkland
A Petition was presented from Benjamin Randolph of Chesnut Street praying Leave to raise a Troop of Light Horse for Continental Service, it was opposed by E. Rutledge and neglected or rejected. 448. Thomas Lynch to George Washington. 1 Philada. 
Jany 16, 1776 Dear Sir I am happy to be at last able to write you that every thing you desired me to get done is accomplished, for the present, our President asures me he has sent you the determination of Congress concerning the Trial of Captures. 2 Courts of Admiralty have been appointed in the Colony for that purpose. 
Colo. 
Frye has been appointed Brigadier in your Army (Mr. Arnold precedes him in that at Quebec) and I inclose Copies of the Resolutions for the direction of the Post Master relative to Letters of Officers and Soldiers in our Service. 
The delays in procuring the money has given me much concern, being sensible of the injury occasioned thereby to the Service, but the Calls for Money from every Quarter, so far outrun the diligence of the Signers, that my reiterated solicitations could get the sum no sooner. 
We have resolved to raise exclusive of your Army, in New Hampshire
See the proceedings of the Pennsylvania committee of safety, Jan. 17, 26, Pa. Col. Recs., X. 459, 469: Force. 
Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 517, 526; cf. the Journals, Feb. 9, 13 (petition of Stacey Hepburn). h Moses Kirkland. 
See Washington's letters to Congress, Dec. 18, 31, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 285, 305. See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 457, 746, 833, 1616, IV. 53, 199, 3H. 3i6, 336. 347. 486. Cf. the Journals, Mar. 28, Apr. 1, 9, 15, May 8, 10. Nov. 19, and Arch, of Md., XT. 424. 1448] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, VIII. 69; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 125; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 687. 2 The resolutions relative to captures were adopted Jan. 6. The promotions of Frye and Arnold were made Jan. 10. A resolution of Jan. 9 allowed free postage on letters to or from private soldiers in actual service. 
That the privilege was not accorded to officers at this time is evidenced by the report of a committee, Feb. 16, proposing that the franking privilege be granted to officers. 
Concerning certain complexities of which this report is part, see no. 513, note 3, post. 
Previously (Nov. 10, T 775)» free postage had been granted on letters to and from the commander-in-chief of the army and the " chief commander " in the northern department. 
Subsequently (Apr. 19) free postage was allowed on letters directed to any general in a separate department. 
P.efore the establishment of the Continental post (July 26, 1775) the Massachusetts provincial congress had allowed (July 8) free postage on all letters to or from any person belonging to the Continental army stationed in Massachusetts. 
Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., II. 1497. January, ijj6 315 62 or
I sincerely wish I had your sentiments on these heads. 
I shall propose them to the Consideration of Congress, as soon as the most urgent affairs are over. 
I think the[y] merit it. Congress has ordered you
I am just to acquaint you, it is expected when the paymaster general draws any bills on me he will observe to make them payable a few days after sight say
Cf. nos. 420, 42S, ante, and nos. 459, 527, 536, post. 
A paragraph of Lynch's letter omitted here discusses Lord Drummond's projects for conciliation. [449] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington. 
XC. 56; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 121; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 686. 2 This letter is, in fact, a continuation of the letter of Jan. 6. no. 426, ante. 
See note
The body of the letter is in the writing of Charles Thomson. 
See notes
The words "say
The Express arrived yesterday evening. 
The Congress I presume will take it up this morning. 7 [P. S.] Jany. 21st. The foregoing was design'd to have been forwarded by Express earlier but Congress directed a Delay, for further Resolutions, for which I Refer you to my other Letter by this Express. 8 450. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott. 1 Phelidelphia 17th Jany 1776 My Dear I arrived here the 15th. with Mr. Huntington Well and by the Blessing of God am so now. 
We had much delay by the Ferrys and found the Roads bad. 
We have put up at a House in third street, with one Mr Duncan : Mr. Sherman, who will soon come to live with us provided our Lodgings and I think they are good, and where We shall not have too much Company. 
I yesterday attended Congress, and perceive the Members have a hard service This goes by Col Dyer. 
Mr Dean will go soon. 
There is no probability of a Recess of Congress, at least not soon. 2 (in hast) My regards to my Friends. 451. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 IVednesday 1/ Jany. the Votes read, as was a Petition from Dr. Benjamin Church in Jail in Connecticut setting forth his piteous Situation asserting his Innocence and pray'g a Release, this was referred to a Com ee . 2 In Grand Com ee on the Propriety of opening Trade after
It is probable that in the letter-book copy, which Force doubtless used, the date was placed at the earlier point. 7 This paragraph varies considerably from the text in Force, Am. Arch. 
The latter text contains at the close of the paragraph a sentence not found in the original : " The result of their deliberations you will have in my next letter."8 This paragraph, which is entirely in Hancock's own writing and follows his superscription and signature, is not found in Force, Am. Arch. 
The " other letter "referred to is that of Jan. 20 (no. 461), post. [450] * Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc. Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. 
II., no. 1. 2 This letter was probably written before the arrival of the despatches announcing the loss of Quebec (see the Journals, Jan. 17). In a letter to his wife, Jan. 24, Wolcott says : "The News of a Repulse at Quebec seems to be unhappy, but perhaps needfull to give us a proper sense of our Dependence, and to stimulate us to make better Provision for that Department, than would otherwise have been done. 
One Battalion is ordered to be raised in Connecticut for that Service."(45i] 1 /??n. Hist. 
Rev., I. 493. 2 The petition, dated Jan. 1, 1776, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 531. See no. 325, ante, and no. 453, post ; also the Journals, Jan. 17, 18, May 13, 14, 1776. January, 1776 317 next it was concluded to trade to the Foreign West India Islands and to open the Trade tinder certain Regulations to be fixed by a Com ee now chosen. 3 While we were in the midst of this Business a Packet of Letters
Schuyler, Wooster and Arnold, Col. Donald Campbell and others with the unfortunate News that Gen. Montgomery had attempted before Day Break of the [31st] of Deer, to storm Quebec but this gallant Soldier and amiable Man was killed with the first Fire, Brig. 
Arnold wounded in the Leg and carried off to a Hospital whereby the Command devolved on Col. Campbell who retreated, not being able to make his Men advance. 
Major MacPherson Aid duCamp to Mr. Montgomery was killed with Capt. 
Cheeseman and a few more and on the other Side of the City, Arnolds Detachment to the Number of between
A Report from the Com ee about a French Artillery Officer who offers his Service and brought a Certificate from the Military School at Strasburgh and Two Commissions of Lieutenancy from the King of France, was referred to Dr. Franklin and Col. St. Clair to examine his Abilities. 5 400 Dollars were advanced to a Canadian Prisoner for his Maintenance, he to give his Draught upon the Kings Paymaster at Quebec. 6 a Petition was exhibited from sundry Captains, Lieuts. and Ensigns of Col Bull's Battalion charging their Colonel with Extortion and haughty Behavior and a Com ee was instituted to hear both Parties and report thereon. 7 the Commissions for these Gent" were ordered to be signed and delivered. 
A Com ee reported Instructions for the recruiting Officers which were accepted the pay of a Regimental Surgeon is 25 Dollars per Month. 452. Andrew Allen to the Chairman of the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety. 1 Jan'y 18th, 1776. Sr: The Congress having understood that there has been some Dispute about the classing the field-Officers of the Battalions lately raised, have determined to leave that matter altogether to the Comm'ee of Safety, and desired me to signify to them their Resolutions on that Head. 2 They
See nos. 447, ante, 486, post. 6 Maj. Regonville. 
See the Journals, Dec. 21, 1775 ; Jan. 17, Feb. 27, Sept. 13, 1776. Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 815, 816. 7 See the Journals, Jan. 17, 19, 20, 22. Cf. nos. 452, 454, 460, post. [452] x Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 702. 2 See the Journals, Jan. 3, 4, 11, 12, 16; Pa. Col. Rccs., X. 460; and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 517. 3 IS Continental Congress also desire that the Comm'ee would examine the Prisoners taking with Capt. 
Campbell, 3 and if there appear no material Reasons for detaining them in Prison that they may be discharged, as the Expence of maintaining them runs high. 
I would have attended the Board this morning for these Purposes, but am obliged to be present at an Examination of Col. Bull, upon some Charges exhibited agst him by his officers. 4 I am with Regard, Your most obedt Servt. 
And'w Allen. 
To John Nixon, Esq e ., Chairman of the Committee of Safety for Pennsylvania. 453. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Thursday 18 J any. the Proceedings read as usual. 
A Report was made on Dr. Church. 2 it was opposed and voted out and a Resolve passed that He shall be confined in a more convenient Room and have Liberty to ride out under a Guard. 
Dr. Smith an Associate to Connolley was brought in Prisoner from Maryland, some of Connolleys Letters written since his Confinement were found on Smith and read and the Prisoner consigned to the Com ee of Safety here. 3 myself and several of the New Members signed the Engagement, heretofore entered into while I was absent, not to divulge any Thing while under Consideration or any Thing the Congress agrees to keep secret, on Pain of Expulsion. 4 the Letters reed Yesterday concern'g the Storm of Quebec were again read and Mr. Antill, Son of the late Hon. Mr. Antill of N Jersey, who brought the Packet, was called in and examined for
Ward and others on the Ground that no Mourning is ever worn by any Courts on such Accounts and that the General is already embalmed in the Heart of every good American and that such Proceeding may cause too much alarm at such a critical Juncture, these Reasons had their intended Weight. 5 A Com ee of
Duncan Campbell. 
See the Journals, Oct. 25, 28, 1775, Jan. 22, Mar. 16, Apr. 6, 9, 1776; Pa. Col. Recs., X. 462, 466; and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 522, 525, 940 (Proceedings of the Pennsylvania committee of safety) ; also nos. 460, 479, 558, post. * See no. 451, ante. [453] * Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 493. 2 See no. 451, ante. 3 See nos. 379, 426, ante, 550, post. 4 The resolution of secrecy was adopted Nov. 9, 1775. See no. 363, note 2, ante. 6 See no. 466, post. 
January, 1776 319 Canada. 
Mr. Burr Son of the late President of Princeton Colledge behaved well, as they say, in the Affair at Quebec. 
Our Troops have made a Stand about
Antill recommends Capt. 
Hazen to command a Regiment of Canadians and says these are between Hawk and Buzzard but will generally join our Side if we send a strong Force there immediately. 454. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [January 19, 1776.] Friday 19. the Votes read a Report made from the Com ee on Canadian Affairs, it is Resolved to forward the new Levies immed'y and that Gen. Wash" be desired to send a Battalion from his Camp, that another Battal n be raised in Canada, and other Parts of the Report were recommitted after an Opinion of Mr. Antills on this Subject had been read, the Papers concerning the Complaint agt. 
Col Bull were laid on the Table by the Committee who declined making any Report, the Matter was argued and postponed till Tomorrow." The Col. John Haslett, and Lieut. 
Col. Gunning Bedford of the Lower Counties Battalion were elected. 
The Com ee of this Place are to be requested to assist Mr. Mease in getting Blankets by desiring the Housekeepers to spare each One or Two. Col. St. Clairs Battalion is destined for Canada when compleated. 3 A Motion that the new Troops be inlisted for
Rev., I. 494. - Cf. nos. 451, ante, 458, 459, post. 3 Cf. no. 459. post. 4 This motion is not recorded in the Journals. 
It was not until Sept. 16 that Congress decided upon enlistment for the war. 
Cf. a committee report in the Journals under Nov. 23, 1776. See also a letter of Robert Morris to Washington, Mar. 6, 1777, in the next volume of these Letters. [455] x Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS., XV. 60 (copy). 25 320 Continental Congress This I write in the Congress and Father Shurman is speaking. 22 Jany. attended
Colo. 
Dyer informs me that he sent Copies of the Resolves of Congress immediately after they were passed to you and to the Magistrates in the County of Northumberland." .... You will observe that the Assembly of Connecticut have shortened the western limit of Westmoreland. 
I would advise that no Jurisdiction be exercised over the Settlers under Pennsylvania with in the limits of P. Town
Colo. 
Dyer and Mr. Dean have left Congress the time they were appointed for being expired, and Oliver Wolcot and Samel. 
Huntington Esqrs. are now attending in their stead. 
You will observe that the Congress have recommended that all the effects taken and detained from any persons on the controverted lands be restored, it will be proper to apply to the Magistrates who took Cognizance of that matter for restitution or to the Sheriff who had the Goods in Custody, and if they are not restored that the Case be represented to the Congress and if any thing hath been taken from the people of Pennsylvania by the Connecticut people that the same be restored. 
I am sir with due regards
The Journals do not record precisely when he attended, but he was appointed on a committee Feb. 7. The following paragraph of a letter from Read to Caesar Rodney, written on the same day on which this letter of McKean was addressed to Read, indicates that it was Read's purpose to go to Philadelphia that day : "I have just reed, letters from Messrs. 
Andw Allen and Wm Hooper requesting your attendance and mine immediately at Congress as there is business of the last importance depending particularly a motion the general Tenor of which is to declare the Principles on which America has hitherto acted and those which they are disposed still to proceed on — they are extremely pressing and I totally unprovided as to my business here have determined to be at Philada this Evening and should be glad you would come up immediately." .... Henkels, Catalogue, No. 1236, item 42; Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS., XV. 33 (copy). In regard to the motion here alluded to, see nos. 433, 445, ante. 
Cf. nos. 465, 500, post. [456] * Collection of George C. Thomas, Philadelphia. 
Although this letter is signed by Sherman and is addressed : " To Zebulun Butler Esqr. at Wyoming ", it bears an endorsement in Sherman's writing: " Letter to Col. Butler Jan. 19, 1776." It is therefore probably a retained copy of the letter sent. 2 See especially the Journals, Dec. 18, 20, 23, 1775. Cf. no. 329, note 2, ante. 
The Connecticut act referred to is doubtless that passed in the session of the assembly held Dec. 14-28, 1775. This act is in Conn. 
Col. Pub. Recs.. XV. 197; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 273. 3 Pittston, probably. 
January, 1776 321 457. josiah bartlett to the new hampshire committee of Safety. 1 Philadelphia January 20th 1776 Gentlemen The Congress on the 8th Inst : voted to raise one Regiment in the western parts of our Province for the Service in Canada, the news of the misfortune at Quebeck arriving last thursday they have voted to give a Bounty of forty Shillings and advance one months pay to Encourage the Speedy inlisting and Sending forward Said Regiment. 
I hope you will do every thing in your power to hasten it as the taking and Securing Canada this winter and Spring before the arrival of Brittish troops will be of almost infinite advantage to this Continent but more Especially to New England and in particular to our Colony. 
One Regiment will begin their march from this place for Canada in a few Days and one Regiment from New Jersies in a week or ten Days, orders are given to raise as soon as possible for the same service one more Regiment in Pensylvania one Do New Jersey one [Do.] western parts of New York one Do Conecticut Beside that in our Colony.- it was moved yesterday and I Expect will be voted to Day to raise one Regiment in the Massachusetts for the same service. 3 No Cost or pains must be spared to Secure that important Province of Canada. 
I Beg Leave to renew my request that Delegates may be appointed and sent here as soon as may be as the Representing a Colony is "too weighty and important to be left to one man. 
I am Sure I find too much for me. In order to your Seeing the necessity of a larger Representation I would inform you that Beside Committees for Special purposes that are frequently Chosen there are
I have been here almost five months, great part of the time without a Colleague. 
I really find that I never knew what Confinement with Business was before and that I want more Exercise of the Body and less of the mind at least for some time, hope soon to see Delegates here from our Colony and that I may return to my family and with my Domestick affairs relax and unbend my fatigued mind Minutes of a Letter to the Committee of Safety N : Hampshire
Soc, Gilmor Papers, III. 5; N. H. State Papers, VII. 48; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 784. 2 See the Journals, Jan. 8. 19, 20; cf. nos. 448. ante, 458. 461, 462, post. 3 See the Journals, Jan. 29: and no. 473, post. 4 This draft varies only in minor particulars from the text in N. H. State Papers. o2'2 Continental Congress &'458. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to Philip Schuyler. 1 Philadelphia, January 20, 1776. Sir: On Wednesday evening, Mr. Antil arrived with your Dispatches of the 13th instant, which were immediately communicated. - The Congress sincerely condole with you on the Loss of your amiable Friend, their gallant and much esteemed General. 
Having conferred with Mr. Antil, and duely deliberated on the Situation of our Affairs in Canada, they have come to sundry Resolutions, which I have the Honor to enclose, and which you will please to communicate with the utmost dispatch to General Woorster, as far as they relate to the Defence of Canada, or are necessary for his Direction. 3 .... The Batallions from Pennsylvania and New Jersey, which were under marching Orders, will set forward the Beginning of next Week ; and dispatches are sent to Genl Washington, and to the Colonies of Connecticut and New Hampshire to hasten up Troops from thence. 4 .... 459. Thomas Lynch to Philip Schuyler. 1 Phila. 
Jany. 20, 1776 Dear Sir .... The Gentlemen who carry this will be able to inform you of the Steps taken for the Relief of Canada and to compleat it's reduction : at least what relates to their Canadian Battalions. 
Two Regiments under excellent and experienced Colonels go from hence, Sinclair and Dehaus, 2 who served all last War in America, the other Officers are said to be mostly Gentlemen I had before we heard of our Misfortune resolved to move for a Mode of Application for Peace, being assured by Ld Drummond that Ministry were very desirous of it on very generous Terms, such indeed as I woud have dictated had I them, as they wished to have us, that is at their Feet, it must wait a little [till?] we cool and let ourselves on a Footing in Canada. 3 I have not been able as yet to send you a Committee, as you wish. 4 I [458] * Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 43; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 783. 2 See the Journals, Jan. 17, and no. 451, note 3, ante. 3 See the Journals, Jan. 17, 18, 19; cf. nos. 451, 453, 454, ante. * Cf. nos. 457, ante, 459, 461, 467, post. [459I 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 1386. 2 The battalions ordered to join Schuyler immediately were Bull's and Maxwell's (Journals, Jan. 8) ; therefore Lynch must here be in error in stating that St. Clair's regiment (2d Pennsylvania) was ordered to march at once. 
Cf. nos. 454. 458, ante, 467, post, and see the Journals, Feb. 16. John Philip De Haas was elected colonel of the first Pennsylvania battalion Jan. 22, in place of Col. Bull. 3 See no. 448 and note 4. ante. * See the Journals, Feb. 15. January, 1776 323 will be at them 'till tis done, unless I have as bad Luck as I had on my repeated Motions for Supplies for poor Mongomery with which I as constantly attended Congress as ever Nurse did her Patient with a Bolus, till ab* a Month ago' when, in Dispair, I assured them I shoud never mention it more. 
Business no[w] goes on Swimmingly, for Why? my Colleague Gadsden is gone home, to Command our Troops, God save them 460. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Saturday 20 Jany. .... this Com ee [of Claims] reminded the Congress of Leonard Snowden who was imprisoned here for being concerned with Dr. Kearsley and others in traiterous Practices and he, Snowden, was ordered to be released.^ A Petition was brought in from Capt. 
Duncan Campbell praying to be discharged from Jail on his Parole, it was not attended to. 3 Some Powder was ordered for those Companies of Maxwell's who are ready to march to Canada and Tim : Matlack was directed to furnish them with Ball and Flints. 
Tim. is a Commissary and Clerk in Chief to our Com ee of Claims (this Person who it is said was once a Quaker Preacher is now Col. of the Battalion of Rifle Rangers at Philadelphia) 461. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia January 20th, 1776. Sir. In my former letter I mentioned the disagreeable news we received from Canada.' The Congress have taken that matter under consideration and having examined Mr. Antil and duly deliberated on the situation of our affairs in that quarter they have come to sundry resolutions which I have the honour to enclose. 
I would just observe that by Mr. Antil's examination it appears our loss is greater than what is set forth in the dispatches he brought, a copy of which was transmitted to you The Colony of South Carolina has been so fortunate as to oblige Lord W. Campbell with the armed Vessel to quit their harbour. 
Being earnestly desirous of providing for their defence they have resolved to fit out [460] x Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 494. 2 Concerning Dr. John Kearsley, Leonard Snowden, James Brooks, and Christopher Carter, see Pa. Col. Rccs., X. 358-385 (passim), 397, 403, 408, 455, 456, 467, 773; and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 174, 985, 1340, 1814, 1829 (passim), 1837, .1840, 1843, IV. 514, 515, 525; fifth ser., II. 97. The proceedings of the Pennsylvania committee of safety, Oct. 10, 14, 1775, indicate that the case of Kearsley and others was laid before Congress at that time and that no action was taken. 
Concerning Dr. Kearsley see also Moore, Diary of the Revolution, I. 148; Watson, Annals of Philadelphia (1830 ed.), p. 615; Read, Life of George Read, p. 135; Christopher Marshall's Diary, Sept. 6, 8, Oct. 6-9, 24. 3 See the Journals, Jan. 22; also no. 452 and note 3, ante. [461 J 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 58; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 129; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 781. 2 See no. 449, ante. 324 Continental Congress some armed vessels, but not having seamen among themselves they have despatched Capn. 
Cochran to the Northward to enlist a number of seamen for the service of that Colony. 
Lest the offers he was empowered to make might prejudice the service the Congress have chalked out a plan for him to go by as you will see in the enclosed extracts and I am directed to desire you will please to forward this service. 3 .... 462. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the New Hampshire Convention. 1 Philada. 
January 20th 1776. Gentlemen: .... The money for defraying the expence of the battalion will be forwarded by your delegate with all dispatch. 
The encouragement given to the men will, I hope, facilitate your business, and I trust your zeal will not be wanting in defence of our common liberties. 
Time will not permit me to enlarge, I must therefore beg leave for other matters to refer you to the enclosed extracts only reminding you that the battalion is to consist of eight companies, each company of a captain, two lieutenants, one ensign, four sergeants, four corporals, a drum and fife and 76 privates. 
The staff officers, a surgeon, a quarter master, an adjutant and a chaplain for every tzvo battalions with the pay of 33J dollars. 463. Silas Deane to Mrs. Deane. 1 Philadelphia, Jan. 21st, 1776. My Dear, .... I wrote yesterday by Col. Dyer, which you will probably not receive before this comes to hand. 
He set off in a violent hurry yesterday morning, and my boy with him, as far as Newark in my Phaeton, from whence he agreed to shift for himself. 2 I have not sat in Congress since last Tuesday, when, with pleasure, I gave place to my successor, of whom, as our neighbor says, I say nothing. 
But of my old colleague Sh — n, 3 suffice it to say, that if the order of the Jesuits is extinct their practices are not out of fashion, even among modern New Light Saints, or some of them, for I will never particularize any Sect The ostensible reason, [for not proceeding to Connecticut with Eliphalet Dyer] and a very good one too, is the necessity of my tarrying to close the Naval Accounts and assist in getting forward the preparations for the Fleet in the coming season
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 40. [463] » N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 98; Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 249. 2 Cf. nos. 417, 446, ante. 3 Roger Sherman. 
January, 1776 325 464. Oliver Wolcott to Philip Schuyler. 1 Philadelphia 22d Jany 1776. Sir .... Sundry Members call on Me for the Journal of our last Indian negotiation. 2 your busy attention to other matters, I can easily believe, occasion it not being Sent but Wish it might be forwarded to me so that it might be laid before Congress, as soon as conveniently might be, together with an Acc° of Expenditures. 
I suppose a Representation and Evidence how the Susquehannah Affair came to be introduced into the August Treaty will be Transmitted to Congress. 3 Whatever Commands you shall give me at Philadelphia shall cheerfully comply with [464] x N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 2517. 2 Wolcott was one of the commissioners of Indian affairs for the northern department (see nos. 226, 243, 249, 260, 262, ante). The negotiations to which he refers are those at German Flats and Albany, August-September, 1775. These proceedings are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser.. III. 473-496. They were sent to Congress by Schuyler Mar. 19. See ibid., V. 415, and the Journals, Mar 29; cf. ibid., Jan. 27. See also Schuyler to Washington, Dec. 9, 1775, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 225. Cf. ibid., IV. 818, 830, 898, 1 131 ; and see note 3, below. 3 The matter of the Susquehannah lands, then actively in dispute between Connecticut and Pennsylvania, had been brought into the negotiations at Albany in a speech of an Onondago sachem, Tiahogwando (Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 487), and the manner in which it was done was resented both by certain of the commissioners and by the Indians. 
Upon investigation it developed that the speech of Tiahogwando had been made at the instigation of Col. Turbutt Francis, one of the commissioners. 
These facts were set forth by the other commissioners, Schuyler, Wolcott, and Edwards, in a letter to Congress Dec. 14, 1775 {ibid., IV. 259). No mention of this letter is found in the Journals, although a letter of Schuyler of the same date (ibid., p. 260) was read in Congress Dec. 22. The letter of Wolcott. above, would indicate that the explanation had not yet been presented to Congress. 
Further evidence that this was the case is a letter from Francis to Schuyler and Douw, Apr. 23, 1776, insisting that the charges which the commissioners had made regarding his conduct in the Indian negotiations be brought before Congress. 
This letter is in the N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 671. A letter of Wolcott, undated and unaddressed, but probably written to the Connecticut delegates in Congress in the latter part of December, 1775, sheds some light on the Susquehannah matter : " Gentlemen, We are now about finishing our Treaty with the Six Nations, the particulars whereof will be laid before the Grand Congress so that it will be unnecessary as well as tedious to give you a Detail of it, and only observe that those Nations have adopted and confirmed the Union and appear to be well disposed towards us. I have enclosed their Testimony with Regard to their parting with the Susquehannah Lands, with our Reply. 
You will I conceive readily belive this to be a most insidious Manoeuvre to give a Byass and Prejudice against the Colony's Claim, for myself I cannot doupt of it and it was a Matter entirely foreign to the Negotiation, a Matter of which the Indians could make neither Claim nor Complaint. 
I have spoke my Mind freely respecting the Baseness of attempting to injure a Cause in this Manner, tho' I will not hazard, a conjecture of any one particular Person who has persuaded the Indians to do it. You are sensible this Matter must have been delivered without my having any previous Knowledge of it, and consequently it was not in my Power to do any thing to prevent it. it is said it was done without the Body of the Indians being advised with upon it and that many of them are much dissatisfied with it's being mentioned. 
I will avail myself of what Knowledge I can as to that particular, whatever Information I get shall communicate to you, for tho' in our present Situation of affairs, Matters of this Kind do not engage our attention as they once did, yet it is not possible not to Resent such an awfull Perversion of a Treaty. 
We have agreed to Recommend Mr Kirchland, and Mr Dean's Services during this Treaty to the consideration of the Congress. 
Mr Dean has it in Consideration whiether he will go up with the Indians, to interpret and Explain the Treaty in their Councills, and observe the Effects of it which I hope he will comply with, as I think Money laid out this Way, and for the encouragement of Missionarys, who are good men and freindly, are 32G Continental Congress &'465. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Wednesday 24 January. 
I was in Congress, a State of the late Action at Quebec was laid before the House and ordered to be published. 1000 Dollars advanced to Carpenter Wharton the Commissary who goes with the Troops to Albany. 
A Motion was made by Edwd. 
Rutledge to appoint a War Office and its Business defined, which was argued and a Com ee of
W. Livingston reported an Address to the Canadians which was agreed to with some Alteration and ordered to be translated into French and printed. 
Edwd Antill
Brig. 
Prescott being expected in Town to night an Order passed to keep Him under Guard till Tomorrow. 4 Col. De Haas who supplies the Place of Bull in the first Pennsa. 
Battalion made Return of what Arms are wanting for his Men whereupon it was recommended to the City Com ee to procure all the Arms they can for the Soldiers about to march to Canada. 
Govr Ward shewed me a Recommendatory Letter from a Canadian Seigneur, a Captive here, in Favor of the Govrs. 
Son now a Prisoner in Ouebec. 5 466. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Thursday 25 J any. the Votes of Yesterday read. 4000 Dollars ordered to be sent by the Return of Prescott's Guard, to the Com ee of Safety of our Colony for purchasing Arms for Maxwells Men. Letters were reed expenditures of the most profitable as well as frugal kind. 
Mr Kirkland and Mr Crosby have suffered much in these Commotions and their Cases deserve, I imagine, publick attention. 
Mr Crosbey's Circumstances I am indeed less informed of but I take it they are both Sufferers " Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, I. 125. Further light is cast on this affair by a letter of Wolcott to Edwards, Nov. 29, 1776, the pertinent part of which is printed under that date, post. 
One other fact requires mention here : On June
The committee made its report June 17, but the Journals give no more than a clue to the subject of the petition. 
The petition itself has not been found. [465] > Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 495. 2 See nos. 433, 445, ante, 477, 500, posl. 3 See no. 466, post, and cf. nos. 453, 454, 460, ante. 4 See no. 419, note 2, ante, and no. 466, note 4, post. 5 Samuel Ward, son of the delegate from Rhode Island, was a member of the ill-fated Canadian expedition. 
See Gammell, "Life of Samuel Ward", ch. VIII. in Sparks, Am. Biog., second ser., IX. [466J 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 495- January, iy/6 327 from Lancaster, Gen. Washington and others, 2 some of them committed to a Com ee . A Petition was read from Matthias Aspden for Permission to load a French Vessel with Produce, it was referred to a Com ee . 3 A Com ee was elected for and reported a Conference with Gen. Prescott and Capt. 
Chase relative to Prescotts Cruelty to Col. Ethan Allen and others, he pleads the Commands of Carlton his Superior Officer, the same Com ee enquired of Col. Antill who charges Prescott with great Malevolence and bad Behavior to our People, the Matter is to be further sifted. 4 A Com ee was appointed for and reported a Conversation with Col. Hazen about his Parole of not serving agt. the King, this from the Circumstances of it, was thot void and Hazen reappointed Col. and Edwd. 
Antill Lt. Col. of the 2d Battalion of Canadians. 5 James Mease was chosen a Commissary to the Troops raised and to be raised in Pennsa. for the Continental Service. 
Gen. Wash 11 inclosed some late English Newspapers in his Letter and informs of the British Troops meeting a Storm and putting back to Milford Haven, his own Army is much in Want of Money and Powder and other Military Stores. 10,000 Dollars voted on Account, to the Troops in North Carolina. 2 or
The Com ee of Safety in N Jersey are desired to forward the Captive Officers Baggage from Walpack to Lancaster. 
A Report from a Com ee was agreed to purporting that Dr. Franklin shall procure from France or elsewhere a Monument to the Value of £300, this Cur y ., for Gen. Montgomery and that Dr. Wm. Smith Provost of the College be desired to compose an Oration in Praise of the Gen. to be delivered in Presence of the Congress. 6 467. The President of Congress to William Maxwell. 1 Philadia. 
Jany 25th, 1776. To Col : Maxwell Sir When the Congress, on the 8th Inst, ordered your Batallion to march to Canada, they appointed a Com e to enquire what was wanting to fit them for the March. 
The Com e having taken Time to make the necessary Enquiry made Report on the 10th — " That before your Batallion could be fit to march the
The Lancaster letter with enclosure is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 801. The letters of Hamar and Huddleston are ibid., p. 814, that of Maxwell, ibid., p. 815. See also the letters of the Trenton committee, Jan. 23, 24, ibid., pp. 814, 815-817; cf. the Journals, Jan. 24, 25, 27. 3 Not mentioned in the Journals, Jan. 25. The committee reported Feb. 2. 4 See the Journals, Jan. 2, 22, 25, 29, 31, Feb. 1, 5. Cf. nos. 419 (note 2), .465, ante, 470, 474, 480, 481, 482, 486, post. 
See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 311 (Washington to Schuyler, Dec. 18), 581 (Schuyler to Washington, Jan. 5), 696 (Washington to Schuyler, Jan. 16), 814, 815, 850, 1 177, 1178. 5 See the Journals, Jan. 22, and erased entries, Jan. 25, 27, and passim ; cf. nos. 453, ante, 472, 474, 542, post. 6 See the Journals, Jan. 22, 25. A draft of the committee's report is printed under Jan. 25, no. 468, post. 
See also the Journals, Feb. 8, 19, Mar. 13. Cf. no. 453, ante, and nos. 478, 497, 499, 510, 514, 522, 564, 621, post. [467] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 47; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 850. 328 Continental Congress &'i following Articles ought to be provided viz 688 Haversacks, 688 Cartouch Boxes and Cross Belts, 688 Tomhawks, 64 pitching Axes, and nine Baggage Waggons." No Notice being taken of Arms, Blanketts, or Cloathing, it was presumed, your Troops were properly supplied with these Articles. 
In order therefore that the Articles wanting might be provided, they immediately ordered a very considerable Sum to be put into the Hands of Mr. Lowry, with Orders to purchase the same, and to pay the Men up to the first of February, deducting out of their Pay the Price of the Articles furnished the Men more than what was allowed in Lieu of Bounty. 
By these means, the Congress expected your Batallion would have been properly equipped, and that the first Company that could be got ready, would be immediately ordered to set out on their March. 
The Urgency of the Service requires that your Batallion should begin their march with all possible Expedition. 
It will be vain to send Men without Arms. 
But as the Com e of Trenton have informed Congress that Arms can be purchased, I have by this Opportunity transmitted to them by order of Congress 4000 Dollars for the Purchase of suitable Arms, and have desired them to take Measures for supplying you with Blanketts. 
I hope I need not use Arguments to stimulate you in this Matter. 2 I would only observe, and have you take Notice that it is the Desire of Congress that you would send forward the first Company that can be got ready; and that it be followed by the other Companies, one at a Time, as fast as they can be provided with Necessaries without waiting till the whole are equipped. 
I am etc., John Hancock, P l . 468. Committee of Congress, Report on Memorial for General Montgomery. 1 [January 25, 1776.] That it is the opinion of this committee
A letter of similar purport to the committee of Trenton is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 849. In that letter Hancock adds: "I would just observe, that in order to supply the battalion ordered to march from Pennsylvania, the Committee of Inspection of the City and Liberties of Philadelphia went round from house to house, and procured blankets from the inhabitants." See also Minutes of N. J. Prov. 
Cong, and Council of Safety, 1775-1776, pp. 341-343. [468] 1 burnished by courtesy of Mr. James H. Manning of Albany (draft, in the writing of William Hooper). 2 The committee was appointed Jan. 22 and consisted of William Livingston, Benjamin Franklin, and William Hooper. 3 Substituted for " scorn of danger and fearlessness of death ". January, ij "j6 329 Resolved that a Monument be procured from Paris or any other part of France, and erected in that Room of the State House in Philadelphia in which the Continental Congress now sit, and that it bear an Inscription sacred to the memory of Genl Richard Montgomery and best calculated to perpetuate his fame. 
And that the Continental Treasurer be directed to advance a Sum not exceeding 30o£ Stirling to the order of Doctor Franklin who shall be appointed and shall undertake to see this Resolution duly executed in order to pay the expence thereof Resolved that a funeral Oration be delivered by the Reverend Dr W Smith in honor of that deceased General and those officers and soldiers who so magnanimously fought and fell with him in maintaining the principles of American Liberty and from an heroick Love to their Country. 4 469. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Friday 26 J any. the Votes read. 1000 Dollars advanced to the Indian Commissioners of the Middle Department. 
A Com ee chosen to examine Commissary Lowrey and Mease's Fees of One and a Quarter per Cent it being suggested to be extravagant. 2 A Petition from some Citizens of Philada. praying that no Apprentices may be inlisted without Consent of the Masters was neglected. 3 A Letter was read from Gen. Lee Dated from Connect setting forth that he is on his Way for the Defence of N York and has gathered a large Body of Connecticut Militia and inclosing a Letter to him from the Com ee of Safety at N York disapproving of his Proceed gs . this occasioned a Motion from E. Rutledge and Duane that a Com ee may be appointed to repair for New York forthwith and agree with the Com ee of Safety there and with Gen. Lee upon the proper Measures of Defence, after an Argument of
Rev., I. 496. 2 The committee report has not been found. 3 See the Journals, Jan. 26, 27, 30, Feb. 14, 23, and nos. 472, 474, 480, post. 4 Lee's letter and its enclosure are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 805-808. The letter is also at p. 1062 (minutes of the New York committee of safety, Jan. 21). In a letter of Jan. 4 Washington had suggested to Congress the need of taking measures for the defense of New York, and Jan. 8 had given instructions to Gen. Lee to that end, meanwhile having consulted with John Adams and received his approval of the plan. 
Washington's letter to Adams, Jan. 7, Adams's reply, Jan. 8, and the instructions to Gen. Lee, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 595, 604. See also Washington's letter to Gov. Trumbull, Jan. 7, ibid., p. 595, to the New York committee of safety, Jan. 8, ibid., p. 604, to Congress, Jan. 11, ibid., p. 629, to Gen. Lee, Jan. 23, 30, ibid., pp. 831, 895, Lee to Washington, Jan. 5, 16, 24, ibid., pp. 582, 694, 839, to the New York committee of safety, Jan. 23, ibid., p. 830, Washington to Joseph Reed, Jan. 14, 31, Mar. 3, ibid., IV. 676, 899, V. 51. For the further history of the affair consult particularly the correspondence of Gen. Lee, ibid., IV. and V., passim. 
The principal of Washington's letters relating to the matter are in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 312, 324, 327, 332, 340, 364, 371, 393, 395. 435, 443- A number of the letters to him are in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 106, 112, 118, 124, 135, 139, 145, 156, 161. Cf. nos. 471, 485, 497, post. 
For the expedition of Col. Heard, which had some bearing upon Lee's undertaking, see nos. 420, 427, 437, ante, 482, 487, post. 5 The letter and enclosures from Fort Pitt have not been found. 330 Continental Congress &'470. William Livingston to the President of the New Jersey Committee of Safety (Samuel Tucker). 1 Phil. 27. Jany 1776 Dr Sir .... The Congress has voted the 4000 Dollars, and Mr Smith will send the Money by Capt. 
Scot. 
I am afraid Collo. 
Maxwell does not truly apprehend his marching Orders. 
It is not the Intention of the Congress that his Regiment shall be compleat before it marches to Canada by Companies, but that the first company that is ready shall march. 
And if the matter can be managed no otherwise, I think the Company that is best provided with arms should compleat themselves with the arms of another, and then march and so for the second, the Expedition to Quebec requires the utmost Dispatch, and if no Company is detached till the whole Battalion be compleatly equippd, it may take some weeks before any of them march. 2 A Committee of Congress waited on General Prescot, and examined him about some particulars respecting Allen's Confinement. 
He behavd very modestly, but his fate is not yet determined. 3 471. The New York Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety. 1 Gentlemen The Congress this day receiv'd a Letter from General Lee
As we perceiv'd it was General Lee's Intention immediately to proceed to your City ; and that you thought such a Measure dangerous to the Lives of the Inhabitants, and, in other Respects, unseasonable ; we thought it our Duty to apply for a Committee of Congress to examine into the Expediency of the Expedition, and to give such Directions as, upon Consulting you and the General, might appear most prudent and adviseable. 
Col. Harrison, Mr. Lynch, and Mr. Allen, are entrusted with this important business, a Choice which we approve, having the highest Sentiments of their Humanity, Patriotism and Judgement ! We are well satisfied that every mark of Respect will be shewn to them by your body, as well as by Individuals, not only on Account of their great Merit : but because the Employment in which they are now engaged immediately regards the Safety and Preservation of the Capital of our own Colony. 3 [470] > N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Continental Cong. 2 See the Journals, Jan. 19, 25. Cf. no. 467, note 2, ante. 3 Cf. no. 466, note 4, ante. [471] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, IV. 49 (writing of Duane) ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1091 ; J our. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 274, II. 138. 2 Lee's letter was received Jan 26. See the Journals, and no. 469, note 4, ante. 3 See the proceedings of the New York committee of safety, Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., II. 258-284 (passim) ; Force. 
Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1062-1109 (passim). A summary account of the episode is found in Sparks, Life of Gouvcrneur Morris, I. 74-83. See also the Connecticut proclamations, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 931- 935- Cf. nos. 469 (note 4), 470, ante, 473, 485, 494, 495, 497, 550, post. 
January, i//6 331 We acknowledge the Receipt of your Favour, this day, respecting the Scheme of protecting the navigation by Cruizers at the continental Expence. 
When you are made acquainted that this, and other Colonies, have engaged in a similar Plan at their own provincial Charge, you will perceive the proposition to be attended with difficulty, as proceeding from Us. The Deputation from Congress will however give you an opportunity of representing the Propriety of such a Measure, as calculated to prevent the supply of provisions to the Fleet and Army employd for the enslaving these Colonies : and the Necessity of Stationing some of the Continental cruizers in the places you may suggest. 
This will bring on the Enquiry where such Vessels can most conveniently be had? and your purposes may be answered very effectually, as we are confident that every thing which they recommend will have the greatest weight with the Congress. 4 The several matters communicated in your Letter by Mr Forster will be answered by that Gentleman, when he returns which will not be till the beginning of next week. 5 We have the Honour to be with great Respect Gentlemen Your most obedient humble Servants Jas. Duane Wm. Floyd Henry Wisner Philad. 27th Jany 1776. Honour
Letters from Gen. Washington Ld. Stirling and others. 2 my Lord has taken a Transport at Sandy Hook and
On Motion of Wilson (an Indian Commissioner for the Middle Department) One of the Indian Chiefs was constituted a Colonel and is to be presented with a Gorget, the Matter of inlisting Apprentices and small Debtors was committed to McKean, Paine and myself. 3 A Petition was produced from the Debtors in Philada. 
Goal praying that the several Colony Assemblies may be directed to devise Methods to free all Prisoners for Debt. this Petition was not read the President thinking it coram non Judice. a Pet n was read and committed, from Keppele and Steinmetz pray'g
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 261 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1066. 5 See Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 258; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1060. The letter, dated Jan. 20, is also ibid., p. 787. See also the letter of the New York delegates to the committee of safety, Jan 30, ibid., IV. 1097; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 278. [472] x Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 496. 2 See the Journals. 
The letter of Lord Stirling is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, IV. 837 ; that of the Trenton committee with Schuyler's letter of Nov. 1 to Capt. 
John Hulbert is ibid., IV. 815-817 (see no. 466, note 2, ante) ; the letter of Thomas Lowrey is ibid., IV. 85T. See the Journals, Jan. 31, and no. 480, post. 3 See nos. 469, ante, 480, post. 332. Continental Congress &'Recompense for a Ship and Cargo carried into Boston to the Value of £5000 and upwards. 4 Mr. Inge [ Juge] 5 of Maryland permitted to export Produce from that Colony in Return for Canvass imported. 
Duane from a Com ee reported on the Indian Treaty at Albany and it was adopted and the Secret Com ee directed to import a large Quantity of Indian Goods for that and the other Two Departments. 
The Indian Treaty at Pittsburg and Proceedings as returned by the Middle Commissioners were consigned to a Committee of 5. the Com ee of Claims reported a Settlement of Lt. Col. Wynkoops Accounts for bringing down Prisoners from Albany, it appearing that the Officers have lived very extravagantly, a Resolve passed that the Com ee at Kingston in Ulster County shall settle the Rates of maintaining the Captives there. 
McKean moved on Behalf of Col. Hazen that he may have the Rank of first Col. in Canada otherwise he declines the Service, this was opposed and a Com ee of 2. appointed to confer with Hazen on the Subject. 473. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia January 29th. 1776. Sir, .... The Congress have agreed to add the Massachusetts regiment to the forces they at first destined for Canada ; this is the more necessary as it is now uncertain whether two batallions as was expected, can be raised out of the troops in that country. 
But they do not by this mean to weaken your Army. 
They have therefore ordered that the three regiments you applied for from Massachusetts bay New Hampshire, and Connecticut shall be exclusive of the thirteen wanted for the army at Cambridge. 2 .... The Congress highly approve your sending general Lee to the assistance of New York as a measure judicious and necessary and have also appointed three of their body to Repair to New York and confer with General Lee and the committee of Safety of New York on the subject of putting that Colony in a posture of defence. 3 .... 474. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Monday 29 Jany. the Votes read and Two English Newspapers of the 8th of November, a Report was made on the Inlistment of Apprentices
Rev., I. 497. January, iy/6 333 and Debtors, objected to and recommitted. 2 Report made on Gen Prescott and that Gentleman ordered to be confined in the Common Jail of Philada. by a Vote of
Chase is to go out on his Parole. 3 Capt. 
Nelsons Comp'y of Riflemen from the back Parts of Pennsa. was taken into Pay and a Com ee of
Letters were reed, from Govr. 
Trumbull and others. 5 Com ee reported that Hazen accepts the Command as offered to Him and desires to be Recommended to the Generals in Canada. 6 A Petition presented from Dr. Wheelock for more Money for his Indian College at Dartmouth in New Hampshire referred to a Com ee . 7 475. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly. 1 Philadelphia, January 29th, 1776. Gentlemen, . . . . [P. S.] 2 Our Time of Delegation expires to morrow, as we have not had the honour of any Advice from you, we cannot presume to Set in Congress beyond that time. 
J any. 31. On moving to Congress our Scituation and my proposing to Resign in Consequence of the Expiration of our Authority from you, the Congress apprehending your intention to be that Massachusetts should be constantly Represented, and a Newspaper being produced wherein mention was made of a New Delegation they directed the paper to be put on File, and Desir'd us to attend as usual in Congress untill we could be honour'd With your further Directions. 3 476. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Purviance, jr. 1 Philadelphia 29th. Jany. 1776 Dear Sir I received your favour of the 20th instt. informing me of Mr. Lux's resignation, the Marine Comm ee met the day after your Letter got here, a majority of whom were of Opinion that a Letter should be wrote to Mr
Arch., CXCIV. 233. 2 What precedes this postscript is an official letter from the President of Congress to the Massachusetts assembly, chiefly paraphrasing the resolution of Jan. 29 relative to Washington's application to New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Connecticut to raise a regiment each for service in Canada. 
This official letter (without the postscript) isin the Hancock Letter-Book (IV. 49) in the Massachusetts Historical Society, and is printed in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 879. See the letter to Washington, same date. no. 473, ante. 3 See the Journals, Jan. 31, Feb. 9, and no. 480, post. 
Almost the identical language is used by Hancock in a letter of Feb. 1 to Thomas Cushing (Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, C81 H 38). [476] 1 Md. Hist. 
Soc, Portfolio no. VIII. (1) ; Purviance, Baltimore in the Revolution, p. 182. -3-')4 Continental Congress &'Lux to request him to act in his appointment and Mr. Morris was requested to write in behalf of the Committee to him on that Subject, they were also of Opinion in case Mr Lux should refuse, that the business should go on under the direction of yourself Mr. Chase and Mr. Stewart. 
I should have been very glad to have had your Brother put on that Service in Mr Lux's room, but the Comm ee in general thought it unnecessary to add another seeing two good Men had agreed to Join Mr Chase in the Service. as Mr Chase is entirely unacquainted with Ship Building I do not expect you will be much Assisted by him. 
I wish you had been mentioned at first on this business that no time might have been lost, however I make no doubt but that you will have your Ship ready before some of those that are building to the Northward 477. Robert Alexander to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Gent. 
You have inclosed two Resolutions of Congress one respecting the Collection of Gold and Silver for the Pay of the Troops in Canada, the other on the Case of Mr. Juge, referred to Congress by the Convention of your Province. 2 In Consequence of the Resolve of the Convention, We made Application to Congress to grant permission to consume the Tea imported before the 1st of Feby last. 
The Application was referred to a Committee of the whole House, where the Suoject was debated for two Days, and overruled by a Majority
Delaware and Maryland, and a Report made by the Chairman, that it was inexpedient to alter the Association, this Report now lies on the Table. 3 .... The Instructions of the Convention
I am much pleased with them, they intirely coincide with my Judgment and that Line of Conduct which I had determined to persue. the Farmer
Phila 30 Janry 1776 [477] 1 Md. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book, IV. 5; Arch, of Md., XI. 133; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 887. 2 Concerning Juge see the Journals, Jan. 27, and no 472, ante. 
The resolution respecting the collection of gold and silver is of Jan. 20. 3 See nos. 424, 441, 444, ante. 
The resolve of the Maryland convention, Dec. 23, 1775, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 723. Cf. nos. 484, 486, 488, 490, 500, 595, post, and the Journals, Feb. 13, Apr. 6, 13, 30. See also the letter of the South Carolina delegates, July 25, in the next volume of these Letters. 4 The Maryland convention's instructions of Jan. II, principally relating to the question of independence. 
It is not clear just when they were laid before Congress, although one item of the instructions was evidently presented in connection with the motion mentioned by John Adams in his letter to Samuel Chase, June 14, post, and in lti> autobiographical note given under Apr. 29, post. 
The instructions are found in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 653, 738; VI. 463. See also the council's letter of Jan. 23, ibid., IV. 813, and Arch, of Md., XI. 108. Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1587-1589, VI. 462-463, 1491 ; the Journals, May 24, July I, and nos. 622 (note 3), 649, 665. 709, post. ( '/. also nos. 433, 445, 455 (note 2), 465, ante, and no. 500, note 4, post. 5 John Dickinson. 
January, 1776 335 478. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Tuesday J any jo. A Petition was read from a Serjeant in Capt. (now Lt. Col.) Wm. Aliens Comp'y pray'g Pay or some Recompence from his Capt. it was ordered to lie on the Table." .... Dr. Wm. Smith had Leave to inspect the Letters relative to Gen. Montgom ys Death, the Dr. being to pronounce an Oration on the Occasion. 3 McKean informed Congress that 200 and odd Men in Tryon County are inlisted in the Kings Regiment of Royal Emigrants. 
Mr. McKean was desired to acquaint Gen Schuyler of it by Letter. 4 Dr. Franklin from a Com ee . reported inter alia in Favor of the Application from Dr. Huddleston for Release alledging the Custom of Armies to set free all Surgeons taken Prisoners, it was objected to and postponed. 5 A Bill of Exchange from Cambridge on the Continental Treasurers for 1000 Dollars, was ordered to be honored, the Report for granting a Bounty for Inlistment in the New England Army was agitated and postponed because Virginia and So. Carolina are not fully represented. 6 Morton reported on Capt. 
Nelsons Company of Riflemen which was agreed to. A Letter was reed, by the Jersey Delegates from Mr. Faesch offering to cast Cannon for the American Service. 7 Yesterday I went with some of the Delegates to view the Boom Chain, Fire Rafts
Wade of the Militia of this City, who is a relation of Sir John Johnston, so far [478] x Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 497. 2 Nothing further is known concerning this petition. 3 See no. 466, note 6, ante. 4 See no. 479, post. 5 See the Journals, Jan. 25, and no. 466, note 2, ante. 6 See the Journals, Feb. 22, and nos. 515, 516. post. 
Cf. the Journals, June 17, 26. 7 Cf. no. 504, post. 
In a letter to Congress July 23, 1776, Washington enclosed a letter from " Mr. Faesh " to Lord Stirling on the subject of a cannon furnace. 
See the Journals, July 24. Washington's letter is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 537. 8 See the letter of Daniel Joy, Jan. 16, in Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 698; cf. no. 286, note 2, ante. [479] * N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 1440. 2 See no. 452, ante. 26 336 Continental Congress &'forgot himself, as to mention to him that there were two hundred of that regiment in the neighbourhood of Sir John. 
These Soldiers are supposed to be the McDonalds and highlanders settled on the lands of Sir John. 
I am desired by the Congress to communicate this information to you, 3 that these Soldiers and their Officers may be apprehended and detained as prisoners of war and not considered merely as Tories. 
If they are Soldiers and can be secured, they may possibly be exchanged for the like number of our friends in Quebec. 480. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Wednesday Jany. 51. Votes read and Letters from Ld. Stirling Col. Maxwell and others.- Maxwell attend'g Paine and Wisner were named to confer with Him and they made a Report and we furnished the Col with Copies of that and a former Order. 3 Capt. 
Dempster of the Blue Mountain Valley lately taken by Ld. Stirling having a private Property on Board, the same was now restored to Him by Congress at the Request of his Lordship. 
Quaere Whether the Mates Adventure was not also allowed to Him. 4 Wyth reported on the Remainder of Wash ns Schuylers and Ld. Stirlings Letters, part of it about the Captive Officers travelling Expences was recommitted
McKean moved to reconsider the Resolution of Yesterday about small Debtors, Apprentices and Infants inlisting. he was oppugned and withdrew his Motion. 8 3 See no. 478, ante. 
Schuyler's expedition into Tryon County, New York, made about ten days before this letter was written, was not known to Congress until Feb. 2. See the Journals of that date and no. 482, post. [480] x Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 498. 2 See the Journals, and notes
St. Clair's letter is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 867. 3 Maxwell's letter and memorandum are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 867-868; the letter of the committee of Trenton, on the same subject, is ibid., IV. 888; cf. ibid., IV. 915-916. See nos. 458, 459, 467, 470, ante, and nos. 486, 487, 500, 504, 512, post. 4 Stirling's letter and the manifest of the cargo of the Blue Mountain Valley are in Force. 
Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 867-868. See ibid., IV. 837, 851, 913-916, 987- 989, 1063, 1067, 1085, 1199-1200, 1604, 1606, V. 55, 56, 1219: Minutes of N. J. Prov. 
Cong., etc., pp. 396, 399, 400; Jour. 
N. V. Prov. 
Cong.. I. 258-261, 271 ; and the Journals, Jan. 29, 31, Feb. 27, Mar. 19, 22; also no. 472, ante, and nos. 482, 488, 512, 523, post. 5 Not mentioned in the Journals. c See no. 475, ante. 7 See the Journals, Feb. I ; cf. ibid., Tan. 25. See also nos. 465, 466, 470, 474, ante, 481, 482, 486, post. 8 See nos. 469, 472, 474, ante. 
February, I//6 337 481. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Thursday
Gen : Prescott allowed a Servant and Physicians to see Him in Goal, after a Proposition to allow Him the Liberty of the Hall and Yard and to see his Friends had been voted out by a small Majority. 2 the Report taken up and spoken to about fixing the Price of Expresses and their Stages from hence to Cambridge it was postponed until Dr. Franklin the Postmaster has consulted his Deputies. 3 S. Adams was added to the Com ee for Stating Expences. having little business today the House broke up at
Second in Command on the Expedition to Queens County contain'g a Narrative of Col. Heards Transactions. 3 McKean, myself and Wisner appointed to make out a compleat List of the Captive Officers and privates with their Women and Children and where stationed. 4 Capt. 
Dempster ordered to be discharged. 5 Prescott allowed to receive Visits from his Bror. 
Officers and to have Pen Ink and Paper. 
Lewis informed of several Vessels returned to New York from unsuccessful Voyages for Arms and Ammun". a Com ee was chosen to deliberate upon some of the Letters reed, today. 6 E Rutledge reported the Substance of some Papers about the Southern Indians that they are disposed to live quietly and take no Part on either Side. 
Ward from a Com ee reported that the Petn. of Keppele and Steinmetz pray'g Compensation for their Ship and Cargo [481 J 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 498. 2 See nos. 466 (note 4). 4/0, 474, 480, ante, 482, 486, 550, post. 3 See the Journals, Dec. 2, 8, 23 (p. 455), 1775; also Washington to Congress, Feb. 9, 1776, in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 406, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 975. Cf. the Journals, June 5, July 5, Aug. 29, 30, Sept. 3, Oct. 31, Nov. 5, 30, 1776. [482] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 498. 2 See the Journals. 
Schuyler's letters, Jan. 22 and 22, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 802-805, 818-829; a letter of Jan. 25 with enclosures from Arnold, Wooster, and others is ibid., IV. 851-858. No letters of Washington or of Stirling have been identified as read this day. 
Wayne's letter has not been found, but cf. ibid., IV. 958, 1 172, and see the Journals, Feb. 2, 8, 12. Cf. no. 479, ante. 3 See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 858-861 ; cf. nos. 420, 427, 437, 469, ante, 487, post. 4 Cf. no. 559. Post. 5 Capt. 
James Hamilton Dempster of the Blue Mountain J'allcy. 
See no. 480, note 4, ante. 6 See the Journals, Feb. 5. 338 Continental Congress detained by Gen. Howe, ought not to be granted. 
A Memorial from the Indian Preacher Sampson Occum for establishing- Missionaries in the Indian Country was referred to a Committee. 7 adjorned till Monday Morn's:. £>• 483. The Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Phila 2d Feby 1776. Gent. .... With Respect to Cannon, so far as We can form any Opinion from the short Time to make the Enquiry, none can be had here, or from any of the Eastern Governments, they are very scarce thro' the whole Continent, a Committee of Congress of which Mr Rogers is a Member, have been appointed to make Enquiry into the Quantity of Cannon on Hand and what will be wanted and where and on what Terms they can be had ; no Report is yet made, but a Letter, from Mr Chase to Mr Paca, mentioning that Hughes, in Fred k , had contracted with Convention to supply our Province at £32.10, being communicated to Congress, the Members of the Committee were immediately very desirous to see Mr Hughes, and to know whether he would make the like Contract, for supplying the Demands of Congress; this will convince you that a Supply cannot be had from hence and that you must rely on your Resources, by casting them in the Province.- .... We are with respect Gent Yr huml servants. 
R. Alexander Wm Paca! [P. S.] . . . . 484. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman. 1 Philidelphia 3d. Febry. 1776 Sir .... The Congress have Resolved that after the first of next March they will carry on Trade with every Nation and People, except England, Ireland, the british West India ; etc. under the Regulation of the association, and Subject to such other Regulations as Congress shall Ordain who probably will not alter the Association but in some very few particulars.- The Ladys I hope will still make themselves Contented to live without Tea, for the good of their Country If you should ask
U^ZVUA. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book, IV. 7; Arch, of Md., XI. 134; Force, Am. Arch.. fourth ser., IV. 912. 2 See the Journals, Jan. 15. Feb. 16, 20. This letter is in reply to the council's letter of Jan. 20, Arch, of Md., XI. 101. The council's reply, Feb. 8, is ibid., XI. 142. The letters are also in Force, Am. . Irch., fourth ser., IV. 780, 956. [484] 1 Hist. 
Soc. of Pa., Sprague Coll., I. 444; Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, I. (copy). 2 The question of opening the ports had been under discussion since Jan. 12, and although certain permits had been given (see, for example, the Journals. 
Jan. 27, Feb. 2) no general resolutions had yet been passed. 
Cf. no. 509, post. 
See also nos. 441, 451, ante, 503, 505, 521, post. 
February, 1776 339 me how I like attending Congress, I must tell you I cannot answer that question yet. 
I hope I shall do my duty, and have satisfaction in doing it. I believe there will be no Recess of Congress till spring, and then it will depend upon circumstances The Union of the Colonies, I trust may be relied upon, but the establishment of those Colonies in peace and security will require great deliberation. 
But I know of no time which can be more necessary and seasonable than the present, to conclude this mighty affair. 
To give up any of our rights will never I hope be done; and I imagine Great Britain will never settle with us upon the terms of Enjoying them, what consequences those contrarient and fixed claims must produce, will be easily conceived 485. Thomas Xelson, jr., to Thomas Jefferson. 1 Philadelphia Feby 4th 1776 Dear Jefferson .... General Washington has sent Major General Lee [to] New York at the head of 1200 Volunteers from Connecticut to defend that Province against a detachment sent from Boston, which the General was informed by a deserter, was certainly intended for that place. 
The Deserter, I fancy, was mistaken, sufficient time having elaps'd since they sail'd for their arriving there, and we have no account of them. 
The Committee of safety of New York however sent a remonstrance to Lee setting forth the extreme danger the City would be in from the Men of War, should he enter it, and especially as they were apprehensive he intended to make an attack upon the Ships. 
Lee sent the remonstrance to Congress and wrote the President that he thought it his duty to carry his Orders into execution, which he was preparing to do with the first Division, the rest of the Troops being ready to support him. 
The Letter and remonstrance being read, a violent debate arose, on one side as to the propriety of an armed force from one province entering another without permission of the civil power of that province, or without express orders of Congress. 
It was alledged that this was setting up the Military above the Civil. 
On the other side was urged the absolute necessity of securing that province, the loss of which would cut off all communication between the Northern and Southern Colonies and which if effected wld ruin America. 
The debate ended in the appointment of a Committee of Congress to confer with Lee and the Committee of Safety. 2 .... You would be surprised to see with how much dispatch we have done business since Dyer and Gaddesden left us 486. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Monday
Dickinson acquainted Congress that Dr. Brian of Trenton a Surgeon on Halfpay had reed. 
Orders to repair to the Ministerial Army in Boston and desired Leave so to do. tin's was rejected by all but Dickinson (and perhaps was a Contrivance of [485] x Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second ser., LXIII. 1; N. E. Hist, and Gencal. 
Register, LVI. 54. - Cf. nos. 469, 471, ante. [486] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 499. 340 Continental Congress Bryan to save his Half-pay). 2 Wyth reported on Gen Schuylers Letters which was passed. 
Wyth reported on the Rev. Mr. Occum's Proposals. 
Fowler and Johnson Two Indians intended for Missionaries are to inform upon what Terms they will act in that Capacity. 
The Compan s from hence (Pennsylva) already marched to the Northward having very defective Arms. 
Gen. Schuyler is directed, after Opposition from Duane and others, to cause an Examination of them and supply the Deficiency with the Arms he lately seized in Tryon County. 
A Letter reed from Col. Maxwell giving Notice that he will march one Comp'y tomorrow and
Duane presented several Papers from the Convention of N York desiring to know Whether they may admit Two Delegates from Staten Island chosen since the Interdict was laid on that Island, they were canvassed and postponed. 4 A Petition from the City Com ee desiring to know the Determin"respecting Tea was postponed because Rob. Morris is not present. 5 Gen Schuylers Narrative of his Transactions with Sir John and the Tories was ord d to be published in the Newspapers. 
The Foreigner whom Dr. Franklin and St. Clair were to examine as to his Proficiency in the Knowledge of Artillery was now recommended to Gen Schuyler for Preferment, tho some members, Paine and Sherman in particular, did not approve of employing in our Service Foreign Papists. 6 Douglass is our Commodore on the Lakes. 7 487. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Tuesday
Col. Heard attending with 18 Tories from Queens County, Crane, McKean and E. Rutledge were named to take his Account of the Expedition, which being reported, the Prisoners are ordered under Guard to N York to be examined and secured by the Convention there who are to report thereon to Us." A Com ee of
See nos. 447, 451, ante, and the Journals, Feb. 5, 8; also no. 562, post. 7 Major, afterward Colonel. 
William Douglas. 
A sketch of him is in Ileitman, Historical Iiegistcr, and Appleton's Cyclo. of Am. Biog. 
See the Journals, Feb. 5, Mar. 26, May 2, and nos. 578, 628, post. 
See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 389, 437, 1 123, 1 188, 1378, 1397. M64, 1478. [487] x Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 499- 2 See the Journals, and cf. nos. 420, 427, 437, ante. 
The declaration and the oath subscribed by the inhabitants of Queens County are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 858, 860. 3 See the Journals, Feb. 6, 13, and no. 497, post. 
February, i?/6 341 Lowrey and others. 4 A Petition was presented from
Several Com ees . chosen. 
A Frenchman who had brought into this Port Ammunition now requested Leave to export Produce therefor, it was referred to the Secret Com ee . 5 Duane's Draught of a Resolution about the Deputies from Richmond County was canvassed, altered by Chase and forgot by the Interference of other Matters. 6 A Controversy Whether We have yet determined the Affair of Tea. 7 Some Regulations were presented by Lewis about Suttlers in the Northern Army. 8 4 See the Journals. 
The letter of the New York committee of safety (in the proceedings of Feb. 4) is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1107. Cf. a letter of Gen. Lee to Washington, Feb. 5, ibid., p. 942, also Chase to Jenifer, Feb. 6, ibid., p. 947. and Arch, of Md., XI. 139. A letter from the committee of Reading to the Pennsylvania delegates, dated Feb. 4, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 937. See the Journals, Feb. 7. The letter of Lowrey has not been found. 5 See nos. 490, 491, post. 
The allowance referred to is probably involved in a resolution of Jan. 17. [488] * Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 500. 2 Stirling's letter of Feb. 2 and enclosures are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 913-916. See no. 480, notes
The letter of Feb. 5 (with the date Feb. 4) is ibid., IV. 938. The Journals do not mention a letter from Benjamin Harrison or the committee sent to New York. 
See, however, Lynch to Washington, Feb. 5, ibid., IV. 943. Neither is there mention of a letter from the committee of Lancaster. 
Possibly the letter from the committee of Reading is meant. 
See the Journals, Feb. 6, 7. 3 It does not appear when this committee made its report. 
For similar committees, to report upon unfinished business, see the Journals, Dec. 22, 1775, and Jan. 16, 1776. 4 See the Journals, Feb. 2, 7, 8, and no. 492, post. 
Cf. the Journals, Jan. 22, 23 (committee report), Mar. 19, 20. 5 The Frenchman was Pierre Le Fargue. 
See the Journals, Feb. 7, 8. 6 See no. 486, ante, and nos. 489, 493, post. 7 See no. 486, note 5, ante ; cf. no. 490, post. s Cf. the Journals, Feb. 6, 17. See also the articles of war, in the Journals, Sept. 20 (p. 794), and ibid., Nov. 8, 9. 342 Continental Congress 489. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Thursday
A Cask of Powder allowed to Col. St. Clairs Riflemen to shoot at Marks. 
A Memorial was read from the Com ee of Safety in Pennsa. about Powder Mills and a Motion made by Alexander and others to desire them to manufacture 20 or 30 Ton of our Saltpetre immediately. 4 Duanes Motion was passed, to refer the Acceptance of the Staten Island Deputies and to take off the Interdict, to the N York Conventn. 5 490. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Friday
Wash 11 Schuyler Wooster and Arnold and from the N Jersey Convention and a Packet of intercepted Letters from England taken by Manley inclosing private Signals of the Men of War and Transports. 
J Copies of these Signals ordered to Admiral Hopkins and to the Delegates of each Colony, the Jersey Convention recommend Elias Dayton for Col., Anthony Waters White
Craig and
Rev., I. 500. 2 Cf. the case of Maj. Regonville, the Journals, Jan. 17. 3 This presumably refers to the petition of Murray, Sansom, and Company. 
See the Journals, Feb. 7, 8, 9; cf. ibid., Nov. 12, 15, 1775. 4 See the Journals, Feb. 8, 12, and nos. 490, 497, post; also the proceedings of the Pennsylvania committee of safety, Jan. 25, Feb. 8, 10, 16, in Pa. Col. Recs., X. 467, 479, 481, 488; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 526, 1567, 1569; cf. ibid., pp. 903, 904, 951, 1566, 1570, and Arch, of Md., XI. 129, 130, 142. 5 See nos. 486, 488, ante, 493, post. [490] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 500. 2 For the Washington letters see the Journals, p. 123, note 1, and no. 495, note 2, post. 
Schuyler's letters, Jan. 29, 31, Feb. 1, are in Force-. Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 880, 898, 906. Letters from Arnold to Congress, Jan. 11, 12. are ibid., TV. 627, 629. Trumbull's letter, Feb. 3, is ibid., IV. 930; his proclamations are ibid., IV. 931-935- The letter of Wooster referred to is probably that of Jan. 20, of which Schuyler gives extracts in his letter of Feb. 1. In a letter to Congress, Feb. 11 (read Mar. 4), Wooster transmits copies of some correspondence between him .and Schuyler, Jan. 14 to Feb. II. These letters are ibid.. IV. 1001-1008. The New Jersey letters, Feb. 6, are ibid., IV. 948. See also note 4, below. 
Concerning the exploits of Capt. 
Manley, see Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 863, 877, 878, 883, 892, 909, 910, 936; cf. no. 538, post. 
Concerning the captured signals, cf. no. 506, post. ■■ Anthony Walton White. 
Cf. no. 491, post. * See Minutes of N. J. Prov. 
Cong., i775-*776, pp. 35 I -354. and Force, Ant. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 948, 1584. see also no. 477, note 3, ante. 
February, ij/6 343 merly voted and the Rest left for Considn. 8 the Manufacture of the Saltpetre was put under the Direction of our Secret Com ee by a Vote
Com ee of Safety might have Charge of it. Maryland say they have no Gunpowder at present. 6 Mr. Gerry from Massac s . Bay took his Seat, adjorned till Monday. 491. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton. 1 New Brunswick, Feb. 6 [9?], 1776. 2 .... Notwithstanding the Opposition I gave, which was equal to my Abilities The Congress have apptd you to the Com d of the Battalion now raising. 
This gave me great pain for Mrs. Dayton. 
I remembered my promise to her and was faithful to my Engagem ts . The Congress have also apptd Mr. White Lieut. 
Colo, and Mr. Barber Major 492. Oliver Wolcott to Ezekiel Williams. 1 Philadelphia Febry 10, 1776 Sir, The Congress have decreted a List to be taken of all the Prisoners of War of the United Colonies and transmitted together with the Paroles of the Officers so as to have them lodged on File. 
You are therefore Sir, with the Committee requested to send Me the Names, Rank and Parole of every Officer in Connecticut, also the Number of Non Commission Officers, privates, Women and Children and to what Regiment they respectively belong, and the Name and Character of all other Prisoners. 
You will also inform in what Towns the Prisoners Reside, and what Number in each Town. 
I have enclosed a Copy of Parole approved of by Congress, which Mutatis Mutandis, (as this was adapted to the Condition of some officers in this City) may be well in future to use as a Model. 2 The Pay Table have been wrote to with Regard to their transmitting the proper Vouchers for their Expenditures, which I hope will be Authentically done, as such evidence will be required. 
Govr. 
Trumbull has wrote for a Quantity of Money, to be accounted for, but as this Requisition is but now reed, nothing has yet been done upon it. 3 Congress before I 5 See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 526, 947, 1152; Arch, of Md., XI. 139, 142, 160. 6 Cf. nos. 489, ante, 497, post. [491 p Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. 
V. Henkels of Philadelphia. 2 The date of this letter should no doubt be Feb. 9, as the elections are recorded in the Journals of that day. 
Cf. no. 490, ante. [492] 1 MSS. of the late William D. Ely of Providence, Declaration of Independence, III. 2 See the Journals, Feb. 2, 6, 7, 8, and no. 488, ante. 3 See Trumbull's letters to Congress, Jan. 20, Feb. 3, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 789, 930 (read Jan. 29 and Feb. 9) ; also letters to Washington, Feb. 2, 5, 12, ibid., IV. 917, 945, 1017. Tbe letters of Feb. 5 and 12 are in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 141, 143. The money was granted Mar. 7. 344 Continental Congress came here refused to advance any Thing to Rhode Island for the Bounties given by them to their Soldiers last Spring. 4 This I think a Very hard Case as We well know the Troops could not be raised without a Bounty. 
This is an ill omen upon our Colony, as our Cases are similar, but We shall try to have it allowed and I wish the Prospect of Success was fairer 493. The New York Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety. 1 Philadelphia, February 11, 1776. Gentlemen: Agreeably to your instructions, we have represented to Congress the case of the inhabitants of Richmond County. 
As our Convention might be embarrassed, while it seemed doubtful to you whether they ought, without the intervention of Congress, to decide on the propriety of admitting the Deputies elected for that County, it became our duty to press for a speedy decision on this subject. 
It was readily agreed that the Convention ought to be the sole judges of their own Members; and on this principle the resolution, which we have the honour to enclose, was grounded. 2 We have obtained a warrant on the Continental Treasury for twelve thousand dollars, to strengthen your hands in raising, within our Colony, the four battalions intended for its immediate protection and defence. 
The first opportunity which presents itself to you, or us, shall be embraced to forward the money We expect soon to have the honour of writing to you again on other subjects of your despatches, on some of which we think it probable you may have consulted the Deputies of Congress, who arrived this day from your city. 
We are, gentlemen, with great respect, your most obedient, humble servants, James Duane, John Alsop, William Floyd, Francis Lewis. 
To the Honourable the Committee of Safety, New York. 494. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston. 1 Philadelphia, nth Feb., 1776. 4 Dear Sir: .... The 13th .... The only pamphlet that has been published here for a long time I now send you ; it is a Curiosity ; we have not put up any to go by the Waggon, 4 See the Journals, Dec. 6, 1775. [493] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 263; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 299, II. 131 (dated Feb. 12). 2 See the Journals, Feb. 8, and nos. 486, 488, 489, ante. 
The instructions from the committee of safety here referred to are doubtless those contained in a letter of Dec. 21, 1775, supplemented by a letter of Jan. 31, 1776. Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 230, 276; cf. ibid., pp. 199, 203, 227, 229, 247, 263. See also Force, Jin. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1755, 1762, IV. 149, 372, 428, 434, 435, 1040, 1069, 1094. [494)1 N. C. Col. Recs., X. 445- February, 1776 345 not knowing how you might relish independency. 
The author is not known; some say Doctor Franklin had a hand in it, he denies it. 2 General Lee in a Letter to Congress received yesterday
His desire was immediately made known to the City, the Colonels of the four Battalions instantly applied to Congress for the command of the detachment should one be sent. 
The Pennsylvania Farmer Mr Dickinson, being the eldest Colonel, insisted on his right to command, and is to have it. 4 The four Battalions were this day drawn out when it was proposed that two companies from each should turn out for that service so as to make a compleat battalion from the whole ; they did it with great chearfullness ; it was diverting enough to see both officers and men soliciting to be employed in the service ; 3 some of the companies will march tomorrow, today I might have said for the watchmen are this moment crying past one o'Clock. the express calls on me at eight. 
Hooper being gone and Penn not very well I am obliged to write all 495. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia Febry 12th. 1776. Sir Your Letters of 24th and 30th ulto. have been duly Rec'd, and laid before the Congress, are now with their Severall Inclosures under the Consideration of a Committee, as soon as Report is made, I shall do myself the honour to Transmitt you the Result of Congress thereupon. 2 I yesterday morn g . Reed an Express from General Lee, requesting an Augmentation of Troops. 
Congress immediately directed one Battalion of Minute Men from New Jersey in Addition to Lord Stirling's Battalion, and one Battalion of Associators from this City to proceed to New York
John Adams says the work was also ascribed to him or to Samuel Adams. 
Commenting further upon Paine's production he says : " The third part of Common Sense, which relates wholly to the question of independence, was clearly written, and contained a tolerable summary of the arguments which I had been repeating again and again in Congress for nine months. 
But I am bold to say there is not a fact nor a reason stated in it, which had not been frequently urged in Congress." See his Autobiography in Works, II. 507- 510; also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 839, 899, 920, 1013, 1183, 1191, 1496, 1527. The pamphlet is reprinted ibid., IV. 1 541-1562. Cf. nos. 500, 502, post. 3 See the Journals, Feb. 12, 15. Lee's letter, dated Feb. 9, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 965; cf. ibid., IV. 1013, and'hos. 497, 500, 503, 504, post. 4 See nos. 495, 497, 500, 501, post. 
Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1569, 1570, 1571- . . 5 Cf. the Pennsylvania Gazette, Feb. 21. [495] 1 Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. 
II.. p. 149 (original). 2 See the Journals, Feb. 9, and no. 490. ante. 
Washington's letter of Jan. 24, with certain enclosures, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 840-846; that of Jan. 20, with enclosures, is ibid., IV. 890-895. See also the Journals, Feb. 16. 346 Continental Congress and be under the Command of General Lee, the latter Commanded by Coll. 
Dickinson who very chearfully step'd forth, and both Battalions will immediately March. 3 .... 496. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter. 1 Philadelphia Feb. 12, 1776 My dear Colonel .... We have not yet apply'd to Congress for yr. Genl. 
Officers, 2 nor do we know where they will be got ; those that are good for any thing seem to have their hands full to the North and Eastward. 
Whenever they are appointed, you may be assured I will not fail to put in a good word for my young friend Landon. 3 .... 497. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Monday 12 Feb. Our Com ee sent to N York made Report of their Proceedings. 
A Letter from Gen. Lee by Express, it appears that he will have soon above 5000 Troops and Militia at New York. 
Debates whether to send Him more Force and from whence. 2 A Motion by the Virginia Delegates for
In Consequence of Advertisements for that purpose from the Com ee of Safety here, Proposals have been made by
A Motion by McKean to put 250 Stand of Arms just
See Hancock's letters to the New Jersey Congress and to Gen. Lee, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1013. The march of the Associators was countermanded Feb. 15. The latter part of this letter is missing. [496] ! Va. Hist. 
Soc, Lee Papers, IV. 2 See the Journals, Feb. 13 ; cf. nos. 497, 498, 500, post. 3 The person addressed was Col. Landon Carter (1710-1785), of Sabine Hall in Richmond County, Virginia ; the person here alluded to was his grandson Landon, son of Robert Wormeley Carter. 
Col. Carter had asked F. L. Lee to have his grandson made an aide to whoever was made commanding general in the Southern department, but Lee found that the general appointed (Charles Lee) was keeping his former aides. 
Diary of Landon Carter, in William and Mary Hist. 
Mag., XVI. 258-259. [4Q7] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 501. 2 See the Journals, Feb. 12, 15, and cf. nos. 494, 495, ante, 500, 501, post. 3 See nos. 498, 500, post, and cf. no. 496, ante. * See the Journals, Feb. 6, 13, and no. 487, ante. 6 See nos. 489, 490, ante. 
The omitted part of Wolcott's letter of Feb. 10, ante, has a bearing on tbis question. 
February, 1776 347 arrived into the Hands of the Companies here and then they will be ready to march for Quebec, was thrust out of Notice by other interfering Matters. 
A Note was reed, from Dr. Smith about inviting the Gen. Assembly, Corporation, Associators etc. to hear the Oration next Monday, it was given to the Com ee on Gen. Montgomerys Monument. 6 498. Benjamin Harrison to Thomas Jefferson. 1 Philada. 
Feby 13th, 1776. Dear Sir .... We had to-Day a warm Debate in Congress about taking the whole Battalions raised in Virga. into Continental pay. the determination is put off till to-morrow so that you will not get the result by this Post, but I am inclined to think they will not take more than the six formerly Voted, your Delegates will leave no stone unturned to carry the Point, but I wish the Congress had been treated with more Delicacy, every Country has the same right to judge for themselves that Virginia has, and I really doubt if we should carry our point whether Virga. will not pay more money in the end than she will if we do not, as we must In justice take at least twelve thousand men from the Different Colonies into pay that have been hitherto refused. 2 .... 499. The Secretary of Congress to the President of the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety. 1 Sir, The Congress having directed an Oration to be delivered on Monday the 19th inst, at the Dutch Calvinist Church, in honor of the late General Montgomery and those who magnanimously fought and fell with him in an attack on Quebec, the Committee of Safety for Pennsylvania are invited to attend at the time and place aforementioned. 2 Chas. 
Thomson, Sec'y, of Congress. 
Feb'y 13, 1776. 500. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [February 13, 1776.] Tuesday 13. Votes read, the Question Whether the
Rev., I. 501. 348 Continental Congress General were asked for by the Virgians and a Com ee of
Wilson brought in the Draught of an Address to our Constituents which was very long, badly written and full against Independency (Wilson percieving the Majority did not relish his Address and Doctrine never thought fit to stir it again). 4 Chase gave Notice that he would move tomorrow for Orders to Admiral Hopkins to seize all Ships of Great Britain and to recommend to all the Colonies to fit out Privateers. 5 A Direction given that McKean should request the City Com ee to delay publishing the Sellers of Tea in the Papers till further Order. 6 Some Money advanced for Gen Lee's Troops in New York and for Col. John Dickinsons who goes on Thursday with a Detachment of Associators from hence to that City. 7 agreed to continue the Pay of Capt. 
Bernard Romans during his Stay in Philada. on public Business. 501. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 February [13], 2 1776. Lee is at York, and we have requested a battalion of Philadelphia associators, together with a regiment of Jersey minute men, to march to his assistance. 
Lord Sterling was there before with his regiment, so that there will be about a thousand men with Lee from Connecticut, about six hundred with Lord Sterling from the Jerseys, one battalion of about seven
Cong., etc., p. 360, and in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 986; that of Dayton and Barber, Feb. 12, is ibid., p. 1015. This entry in the Diary clears up the obscurity of the Journals as to which one of the Adamses was appointed on this committee. 
The committee reported Feb. 15. See the Journals. 4 Cf. nos. 433, 445, 455 (note 2), 465, 477 (note 4), ante, 524, 527, 593, 600, post. 
See also John Adams to James Warren, Feb. 14, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1 140, and his letter to Mrs. Adams, Feb. 18, Familiar Letters, p. 134. The address to the colonies, drawn by Wilson, is in the Journals, Feb. 13 (pp. 134-146). A memorandum of James Madison, quoted in the Journals (p. 146 n.) scarcely accords with the view here expressed by Richard Smith. 
Another member of the committee appointed to prepare the address was William Hooper (see the Journals, Jan. 24). In a letter to Samuel Johnston, Feb. 6, Hooper wrote: "My first wish is to be free; my second is to be reconciled to Great Britain. 
God grant that both may soon take place." (Jones, Defence of North Carolina, p. 320.) Cf. the close of the Wilson address. 
See also nos. 502, 549, post. 
Cf. the Journals, Dec. 22, 1775. Mar. 23, Apr. 2, 3, May 4. 8, 1776. 6 See the Journals, Feb. 13, Apr. 6, 13; also nos. 477 (note 3), 486, 488, 490, ante, 595, post. 7 See nos. 494, 497, ante, 504, post. 
Feb. 15 the march of the Associators was suspended. 
The item concerning "Col. Dickinson" in the Journals, Feb. 13, and also that under Aug. 12 are erroneously indexed under Philemon Dickinson. [501] 1 Familiar Letters, pp. 133-134- 2 The date of this letter is assumed to be Feb. 13 from the fact that Adams's statement that "this afternoon the four battalions of the militia were together" thus accords with the statement of Joseph Hewes, Feb. 13 (no. 494, ante) : "The four Battalions were this day drawn out."February, ij"j6 349 hundred and twenty minute men from Jersey, and one of the same number from Philadelphia. 3 We shall soon have four battalions more, raised in Pennsylvania, to march to the same place, and one more in the Jerseys. 
Mr. Dickinson being the first Colonel and Commander of the first battalion too, claimed it as his right to march upon this occasion. 4 Mr. Reed, formerly General Washington's Secretary, goes his lieutenant colonel. 
Mr. Dickinson's alacrity and spirit upon this occasion, which certainly becomes his character, and sets a fine example, is much talked of and applauded. 
This afternoon, the four battalions of the militia were together, and Mr. Dickinson mounted the rostrum to harangue them, which he did with great vehemence and pathos, as it is reported 502. John Penn to Thomas Person. 1 Philadelphia, Feby. 14th, 1776. Dear Sir, .... I have the pleasure to assure you that our Province stands high in the opinion of Congress. 
The readiness with which you marched to Virginia and South Carolina hath done you great credit. 
It will be necessary to keep up a certain number of Battalions in the Southern Colonies, to be ready to prevent our enemies from landing and penetrating into the Country. 
Those that are not raised in our Province, will be in Virginia, So. Carolina or Georgia. 
From our situation it is thought they could easier and sooner assist their Brethren than from any other part Could you raise four or five Battalions in the whole? If you can and approve of the measure let us know immediately, but in this matter exercise your own prudence; you are better judges than I can be. Our dispute with Britain grows serious indeed. 
Matters are drawing to a crisis. 
They seem determined to presevere and are forming alliances agt us. Must we not do something of the like nature ? Can we hope to carry on a war without having trade or commerce some where ? Can we ever pay any taxes without it? Will not our paper money depreciate if we go on emitting? These are serious things and require your consideration. 
The consequence of making alliances is perhaps a total separation with Britain and without something of that sort we may not be able to provide what is necessary for our defence. 
My first wish is that America may be free ; the second that we may be restored to peace and harmony with Britain upon Just and proper terms. 2 If you find it necessary that the convention should meet sooner than May let us know of it as I wish to return at that time. 
I have been very sick for two or three days but am getting well again. 
I beg you will remember me to my Friends and am Dear sir, Your mo : obt servant, John Penn. 
I send you a pamphlet called " Common Sense ", published here abt a month ago. i & v
See also no. 441, note 3, ante, and no. 505, note 2, post. ••'.•"'<> Continental Congress & 503. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Wednesday 14 Feb A Proposition was mentioned for sending Two of our Body to Canada with Charles Carrol Esqr. and John Carol a popish Priest both of Maryland with a View of confirming the Friendship and to induce a Coincidence with our Measures, most of the Day passed in Grand Com ee on Trade. 2 504. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [February 15, 1776.] Thursday 15. the Votes read. 
I reported on the Jersey Letters. 2 . . . . the Cannon Com ee required to procure what Brass can be collected for Casting Cannon which may be done at the Air Furnace in N York, at Faesch's Iron Works near Elizabeth Town and at other places. 3 5 Ton of Powder said to be arrived at Egg Harbor and gone thro Brunswick to Xew York, a Brimstone Mine is said to be at a Place called the Roundabout upon the Raritan between Amboy and Brunswick. 505. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Friday 16 Feb. After various Subjects were discussed and decided upon
Harrison offered some Propositions in Lieu of the Report heretofore delivered in from a Com ee on the necessary Regulations, Wyth also offered Propositions whereof the first was that the Colonies have a Right to contract Alliances with Foreign Powers, an Objection being offered that this was Independency there ensued much Argument upon that Ground, a leading Question was given Whether this Propos 11 shall be considered by the Com ee it was carried in the Afnmative
Rev., I. 502. 2 See no. 441, note 3, ante, nos. 505, 508, post. [504] * Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 502. 2 See no. 500, ante. 3 Cf. no. 478, ante. [505] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 502. 2 Cf. nos. 435, 441, note 3, 502, ante, 509, post. 
The following passage from John Adams's Autobiography, relating chiefly to the question of foreign alliances, is pertinent here : " At the appointed time, we returned to Philadelphia, and Congress were reassembled. 
Mr. Richard Penn had sailed for England, and carried the petition, from which Mr. Dickinson and his party expected relief. 
I expected none, and was wholly occupied in measures to support the army and the expedition into Canada. 
Every important step was opposed, and carried by bare majorities, which obliged me to be almost constantly engaged in debate ; but I was not content with all that was done, and almost every day I had something to say about advising the States to institute governments, to express my total despair of any good from the petition or any of those things which were called conciliatory measures. 
I constantly insisted that all such measures, instead of having any tendency to produce a reconciliation, would only be considered as proofs of our timidity and want of confidence in the ground we stood on, and would only encourage our enemies to greater exertions against us; that we should be driven to the necessity of declaring ourselves independent States, and that we ought now to be employed in preparing a plan of confederation for the Colonies, and treaties to be proposed to foreign powers, particularly to France and Spain ; that all these measures ought to be maturely considered and carefully prepared, together with a declaration of independence; that these three measures, independence, confederation, and negotiations with February, 1776 351 debated and postponed, afterwards the Regulations of the Trade were handled and finally whether it shall be opened or not and when, upon foreign powers, particularly France, ought to go hand in hand, and be adopted all together ; that foreign powers could not be expected to acknowledge us till we had acknowledged ourselves, and taken our station among them as a sovereign power and independent nation; that now we were distressed for want of artillery, arms, ammunition, clothing, and even for flints; that the people had no markets for their produce, wanted clothing and many other things, which foreign commerce alone could fully supply, and we could not expect commerce till we were independent ; that the people were wonderfully well united, and extremely ardent. 
There was no danger of our wanting support from them, if we did not discourage them by checking and quenching their zeal : that there was no doubt of our ability to defend the country, to support the war, and maintain our independence. 
We had men enough, our people were brave, and every day improving in all the exercises and discipline of war; that we ought immediately to give permission to our merchants to fit out privateers and make reprisals on the enemy; that Congress ought to arm ships, and commission officers, and lay the foundation of a navy; that immense advantages might be derived from this resource; that not only West India articles, in great abundance, and British manufactures, of all kinds, might be obtained, but artillery ammunitions and all kinds of supplies for the army; that a system of measures, taken with unanimity and pursued with resolution, would insure us the friendship and assistance of France. " Some gentlemen doubted of the sentiments of France ; thought she would frown upon us as rebels, and be afraid to countenance the example. 
I replied to those gentlemen, that I apprehended they had not attended to the relative situation of France and England ; that it was the unquestionable interest of France that the British Continental Colonies should be independent; that Britain, by the conquest of Canada and her naval triumphs during the last war, and by her vast possessions in America and the East Indies, was exalted to a height of power and preeminence that France must envy and could not endure. 
But there was much more than pride and jealousy in the case. 
Her rank, her consideration in Europe, and even her safety and independence, were at stake. 
The navy of Great Britain was now mistress of the seas, all over the globe. 
The navy of France almost annihilated. 
Its inferiority was so great and obvious, that all the dominions of France, in the West Indies and in the East Indies, lay at the mercy of Great Britain, and must remain so as long as North America belonged to Great Britain, and afforded them so many harbors abounding with naval stores and resources of all kinds, and so many men and seamen ready to assist them and man their ships ; that interest could not lie ; that the interest of France was so obvious, and her motives so cogent, that nothing but a judicial infatuation of her councils could restrain her from embracing us ; that our negotiations with France ought, however, to be conducted with great caution, and with all the foresight we could possibly obtain ; that we ought not to enter into any alliance with her, which should entangle us in any future wars in Europe ; that we ought to lay it down, as a first principle and a maxim never to be forgotten, to maintain an entire neutrality in all future European wars ; that it never could be our interest to unite with France in the destruction of England, or in any measures to break her spirit, or reduce her to a situation in which she could not support her independence. 
On the other hand, it could never be our duty to unite with Britain in too great a humiliation of France; that our real, if not our nominal, independence, would consist in our neutrality. 
If we united with either nation, in any future war, we must become too subordinate and dependent on that nation, and should be involved in all European wars, as we had been hitherto ; that foreign powers would find means to corrupt our people, to influence our councils, and, in fine, we should be little better than puppets, danced on the wires of the cabinets of Europe. 
We should be the sport of European intrigues and politics ; that, therefore, in preparing treaties to be proposed to foreign powers, and in the instructions to be given to our ministers, we ought to confine ourselves strictly to a treaty of commerce ; that such a treaty would be an ample compensation to France for all the aid we should want from her. 
The opening of American trade to her, would be a vast resource for her commerce and naval power, and a great assistance to her in protecting her East and West India possessions, as well as her fisheries ; but that the bare dismemberment of the British empire would be to her an incalculable security and benefit, worth more than all the exertions we should require of her, even if it should draw her into another eight or ten years' war. " When I first made these observations in Congress, I never saw a greater impression made upon that assembly or any other. 
Attention and approbation were marked upon every countenance. 
Several gentlemen came to me afterwards, to thank me for that 27 352 Continental Congress &'this Head Chase spoke largely against carrying on Trade at present and Harrison and E Rutledge vehemently for it. there was no Determination. 3 506. Robert Alexander to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Gent. 
I send you inclosed Copies of the Instructions and private Signals of the several Men of Warr and Transports on the American Station, as these may be of essential Service to the different armed Vessels now fitting out in America, Copies by order of Congress have been transmitted to the different Colonies, and I am ordered by Congress to acquaint you, that as they have bound themselves to Secresy, so it is expected that you will consider yourselves under the like Tie, and the Copy you deliver to speech, particularly Mr. Caesar Rodney, of Delaware, and Mr. Duane, of New York. 
I remember these two gentlemen in particular, because both of them said that I had considered the subject of foreign connections more maturely than any man they had ever heard in America; that I had perfectly digested the subject, and had removed, Mr. Rodney said, all, and Mr. Duane said, the greatest part of his objections to foreign negotiations. 
Even Mr. Dickinson said, to gentlemen out of doors, that I had thrown great light on the subject. " These and such as these, were my constant and daily topics, sometimes of reasoning and no doubt often of declamation, from the meeting of Congress in the autumn of 1775, through the whole winter and spring of 1776. " Many motions were made, and after tedious discussions, lost. 
I received little assistance from my colleagues in all these contests; three of them were either inclined to lean towards Mr. Dickinson's system, or at least chose to be silent, and the fourth spoke but rarely in Congress, and never entered into any extensive arguments, though, when he did speak, his sentiments were clear and pertinent and neatly expressed. 
Mr. Richard Henry Lee, of Virginia, Mr. Sherman, of Connecticut, and Mr. Gadsden, of South Carolina, were always on my side, and Mr. Chase, of Maryland, when he did speak at all, was always powerful, and generally with us. Mr. Johnson, of Maryland, was the most frequent speaker from that State, and, while he remained with us, was inclined to Mr. Dickinson for some time, but ere long he and all his State came cordially into our system. 
In the fall of 1776, his State appointed him General of militia, and he marched to the /elief of General Washington in the Jerseys. 
He was afterwards chosen Governor of Maryland, and he came no more to Congress." Works, II. 503-506. The editor of John Adams's Works quotes in this connection the following memorandum of Adams, which " gives in brief the system probably dilated upon in the speeches of the writer at this time ": " Mem. The confederation to be taken up in paragraphs. 
An alliance to be formed with France and Spain. 
Ambassadors to be sent to both courts. 
Government to be assumed in every Colony. 
Coin and currencies to be regulated. 
Forces to be raised and maintained in Canada and New York. 
St. Lawrence and Hudson Rivers to be secured. 
Hemp to be encouraged, and the manufacture of duck. 
Powder-mills to be built in every Colony, and fresh efforts to make saltpetre. 
An address to the inhabitants of the Colonies. 
The committee for lead and salt to be filled up, and sulphur added to their commission. 
Money to be sent to the paymaster, to pay our debts and fulfil our engagements. 
Taxes to be laid and leyied. 
Funds established. 
New notes to be given on interest for bills borrowed. 
Treaties of commerce with France, Spain, Holland, Denmark, etc." Ibid., p. 503 n. Cf. the resolutions introduced by Adams Feb. 16 (Notes of Debates, Journals, VI. 1072, Works, II. 486), and the Journals. 
Mar. 21. 3 See John Adams, Notes of Debates. 
Feb. 16, Mar. 1, 4 (Journals, VI., 1071, 1073-1074, Works, II. 485-489). Cf. Adams's Notes for October, 1775. passim (Journals, HI. 476-504, Works, II. 452-484). See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 470- 473. 779- [506]' Md. Hist. 
Soc, Red Rook, IV. 9; Arch, of Md., XI, 164. February, 1776 353 the Capt. of your armed Vessel, be under Seal inclosed, to be opened after his sailing. 2 .... Phila 16 Feby. 1776. 507. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Saturday 17 Feb. the Votes read. 
Wyth made a Report on the Letters from the several Generals which was gone thro. 2 .... (an Invitation was sent to the several Delegates to the Funeral of Mrs. John Cadwallader this Afternoon). Duane reported the State of the Treasury whereupon the follow'g Resolutions passed. 3 .... Four Millions of Dollars more voted unan'y to be struck under like Regulations with the former Six Millions and it was agreed to have one Million of them in small Bills Some Acco ts were reported by Mr. Willing Chairman of the Com ee of Claims. 
John Adams, Wyth and Sherman were chosen to prepare Instructions and a Commission for the Commissioners going to Canada. 4 A Report brought in for dividing the Colonies into
Felton to go to England on Acco* of Sickness was denied. 6 Mr. Lewis is engaged to procure Shoes for Part of the Army, he has had a Parcel made in Jersey because cheaper than elsewhere. 
In the Even'g I attended the Treasury Com ee at the City Tavern. 508. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Feby. 18, 1776 My dear Sir, We have at last hit upon a Plan which promises fair for Success. 
Dr. Franklin and Mr. Chase of Maryland and Mr. Charles Carroll of Carrollton are chosen a Committee to go to Canada. 
I must confess I have very great Confidence in the Abilities and Integrity the Political Principles and good Disposition of this Committee. 
Franklin's Character you know. 
His masterly Acquaintance with the French Language, his extensive Correspondence in France, his great Experience in Life, his Wisdom, Prudence, Caution; his engaging Address ; united to his unshaken Firmness in the present American System of Politicks and War, point him out as the fittest Character for this momentous Undertaking. 2 This refers, apparently, to the code of signals captured by Capt. 
Manley and sent to Congress by Washington. 
See the Journals, Feb. 9, and no. 490, ante. 
A code of signals provided for the American fleet is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1179. [507] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 503. 2 See the Journals, Feb. 9, 14, 15, 16, 17. 3 The passage here omitted is a transcript of a resolution in the Journals (p. 156), except that Smith omits one clause of the resolution, namely, that in regard to supplying gold and silver for the army in Canada. 4 See the Journals, Feb. 17, Mar. 9, 11, 12, 19, 20, 23, May 22; also nos. 503, ante, 517, 547, 563, 566, post. 5 See the Journals, Feb. 13, 17, 27. Cf. nos. 496, 497, 498, 500, ante, and no. 523, post. 6 Lieut. 
Jocelyn Feltham. 
See the Journals, Dec. 6, 1775, and Feb. 26, 1776. [508] x Warren-Adams Letters, I. 206. 354 Continental Congress Chase, is in younger Life, under forty; But deeply impressed with a sense of the Importance of securing Canada, very active, eloquent, Spirited, and capable. 
Carroll's Name and Character are equally unknown to you. 
I was introduced to him about Eighteen Months ago in this City and was much pleased with his Conversation. 
He has a Fortune as I am well informed which is computed to be worth Two hundred Thousand Pounds Sterling. 
He is a Native of Maryland, and his Father is still living. 
He had a liberal Education in France and is well acquainted with the f rench Nation. 
He speaks their Language as easily as ours; and what is perhaps of more Consequence than all the rest, he was educated in the Roman Catholic Religion and still continues to worship his Maker according to the Rites of that Church. 
In the Cause of American Liberty his Zeal Fortitude and Perseverance have been so conspicuous that he is said to be marked out for peculiar Vengeance by the Friends of Administration; But he continues to hazard his all, his immense Fortune, the largest in America, and his Life. 
This Gentleman's Character, if I foresee aright, will hereafter make a greater Figure in America. 
His abilities are very good, his Knowledge and Learning extensive. 
I have seen Writings of his which would convince you of this. 
You may perhaps hear before long more about them. 
These three gentlemen compose a Committee which I think promises great Things. 
But We have done more. 
We have empowered the Committee to take with them, another Gentleman of Maryland, Mr. John Carroll, a Roman Catholic Priest, and a Jesuit, a Gentleman of learning and Abilities. 
This Gentleman will administer Baptism to the Canadian Children and bestow Absolution upon Such as have been refused it by the toryfied Priests in Canada. 
The Anathema's of the Church so terrible to the Canadians having had a disagreeable Effect upon them. 2 In Addition to the whole General Lee is ordered into Canada to take upon him the Command of the whole Expedition. 
His Address, his Fluency in French, his Activity, his great Experience and Skill, We hope will Succeed. 3 I long to hear from N. England that the three Regiments are marched. 
It would damp me very much to hear that our People continue to hestitate about Bounties, and Trifles. 
The Unanimous Voice of the Continent is Canada must be ours ; Quebec must be taken. 
I think the most prudent Measures, have now been adopted and We must leave the Event. 
If We fail now, I shall be easy because I know of nothing more or better that We can do. I did not feel so well Satisfied after the News of the Failure at Quebec. 
It is true that We want Lee both at Cambridge and New York! But We cannot have him in three Armies at once, and Canada Seems to me, the most dangerous Post, and that there
Cf. Adams's letter to his wife, same date, Familiar Letters, p. 134. Charles Carroll's Journal of this expedition was published by the Maryland Historical Society in 1845 and reprinted in 1876. 8 See the Journals, Feb. 17. February, ijj6 355 is the greatest Necessity for him there. 
Schuyler is to command in N. York, with Ld Sterling under him, who is a very good officer. 
The Importance of Canada arises from this, and occasions our remarkable Unanimity at present in deciding the Affairs of it : In the Hands of our Enemies it would enable them to inflame all the Indians upon the Continent, and perhaps induce them to take up the Hatchet and commit their Robberies and Murders upon the Frontiers of all the southern Colonies, as well as to pour down Regulars, Canadians, and Indians, together upon the Borders of the Northern I am, my dear Sir, unfeignedly your Friend. [No signature. ] 509. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman. 1 Philadelphia 19. Feby 1776 Sir .... You hear it said in the prints, that the Port Bill, Fish Bill, and restraining act, are repealed, and that instead thereof, they have ordered all our shipping to be seized ; and that they are about to send over commissioners, to treat with the Congress. 
All this news, makes no impression on firm whigs. 
It is considered as an insidious manoeuvre. 2 Clinton has gone from N York, probably to Virginia. 
Our small fleet went out this river last sabbath, and will stand some chance of coming across him. 
Genl Lee ordered to Canada. 
Schyler, if his health permits, to N York. 
The ports, except such restraints as the Association laid, would of course open the first of March. 
I wrote you
You will easily perceive the business might very naturally involve in it many important Questions. 
But as no decisions have been passed, can say no more than I did before, that the ports will be open under some regulations. 4 The subject of no unde- [509] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, I. (copy). 2 Cf. nos. 549, 5SS, 560, 565, 567, 587, post. 
See also the resolve of the North Carolina provincial congress, Apr. 13, iV. C. Col. Recs., X. 513; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1323. 3 Feb. 3, ante. 4 Commenting upon the resolution of Feb. 17, relative to opening the ports, John Adams says in his Autobiography : " This measure, of opening the ports, etc., labored exceedingly, because it was considered as a bold step to independence. 
Indeed, I urged it expressly with that view, and as connected with the institution of government in all the States, and a declaration of national independence. 
The party against me had art and influence as yet, to evade, retard, and delay every motion that we made. 
Many motions were made, and argued at great length, and with great spirit on both sides, which are not to be found in the Journals. 
When motions were made and debates ensued in a committee of the whole House, no record of them was made by the secretary, unless the motion prevailed and was reported to Congress, and there adopted. 
This arrangement was convenient for the party in opposition to us, who by this means evaded the appearance, on the Journals, of any subject they disliked." Works, III. 29. See the Journals, Jan. 12, 15, 16, 17, Feb. 6, 14, 15, 16, 17, 26, 29, Mar. 4, Apr. 4, 6, II. Cf. nos. 435, 441, 45*, 484, 503, 505, ante, and nos. 521, 570 (note 4), 572, 574, 579, 590, 591, 594. 596, 607, post. 
See also Adams's Notes of Debates, Feb. 16, in the Journals, VI. 1071, Works, II. 485. For similar criticism of the method of keeping the Journals, see nos. 591 (note 2), 633 (note 3), post. 356 Continental Congress cided matter may be communicated — I mean a subject of discussion. 
Our difference with Great Britain has become very great and I imagine but little prospect of a speedy accomodation. 
The people of the Colonies, will give up no material point, and a foolish, wicked, Court are, (I believe) inflexibly determined, to support, (if possible) an unrighteous authority. 
What matters will issue in, I cannot say, but perhaps in a total disseverance from Great Britain. 
This, I perceive, has got to be a good deal of a popular expectation. 
I do not perceive but little intimidation, and our union I hope is firm 510. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Monday 19 Feb. some little Business being done, the Congress, attended by the Pennsa. 
Assembly and other invited Bodies with a vast Crowd of Spectators, proceeded in State to the Dutch Calvinist Church where Dr. Smith pronounced an Oration for Gen. Montgomery, the Band of vocal and Instrumental Music was good but played too low for the Place, the light Infantry and Rifle Rangers walked on both Sides of the Congress going and coming. 2 511. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to Charles Lee. 1 Philadelphia 19 Feby 1776. Sir .... You will readily perceive the necessity of Conferring with General Schuyler and with him consulting on the best Method of having necessaries convey'd to you across the Lakes. 
The Congress have a full Confidence that you will co-operate in securing the possession of the Lakes and mutually assisting each other as Occasion may Require, and as far as in your power give mutual Aid in supporting the Cause of Freedom and Liberty. 2 I expect the Deputies will in a short time be ready to proceed to Canada. 3 [P. S.] Your favor respecting the departure of the Ships from New York and your Conjectures as to their designs, is just come to hand and shall be laid before Congress. 4 [510] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 503. 2 " On Monday last the Rev. Dr. Smith delivered an animated and pathetic Oration in the German Calvinist Church, in Honour of the late General Montgomery, and the brave Officers who fell with him before Quebec, to a very crowded Assembly, consisting of the principal Ladies of the City, the Congress, General Assembly, Committees of Safety and Inspection, the Professors and Students of the College, and the four Battalions of City Militia. 
Several Pieces of solemn Music were performed before and after the Oration, which added much to its entertainment." Pennsylvania Gazette, Feb. 21, 1776. See nos. 453, 478, 497, 499, ante, and nos. 514, 522, 548, 564, 621, post, and the Journals, Mar. 13. See also "Bibliographical Notes", ibid., VI. 1117- 11 18. The oration is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1675. [511] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, VIII. 214 (copy); Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 52; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1197. 2 See the Journals, Feb. 17; cf. the letter to Schuyler, Feb. 20, post ; also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 297. 3 See the Journals, Feb. 15, and nos. 503, 508, ante. 4 See the Journals, Feb. 20. The letter, dated Feb. 17, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1179. February, iyj6 357 512. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [February 20, 1776.] Tuesday 20. Mr. Crane went Home and Mr. Sergeant attended in his Stead by Virtue of the new Appointment in these Words. 2 .... Chase drew a Form, which I altered, for disposing of the Ship Blue Mountain Valley and her Cargo, no Judge of the Admiralty being yet appointed in Jersey, this Matter was debated and the Necessity of taking the whole Government from the Kings Substitutes was descanted upon and postponed. 3 Reports of Acco ts settled by the Com ee of Claims were made. 
A Petition and sundry Papers on the Wyoming Dispute were read spoken to and deferred. 4 a few Arrns granted to compleat Maxwells Battalion. 
A Guard of the Soldiers destined for Canada was ordered to escort the Powder going there. 
Waynes Battalion was ordered for N York when properly armed. 5 Lewis, Alsop and P. Livingston were directed to forward to Gen Wash" at Cambridge the
Sir I have the Honor of inclosing you sundry Resolutions of Congress, to which Refer you. 
I must beg leave to inform you that the Congress hear with great Regret the precarious State of your health and the Return of your Disorder, they are fully apprized and Sensible of your Services and Abilities, and should have been very happy to have made use of them in Canada ; but knowing the importance of your Abilities, the influence and weight you have among the Indian Tribes, the Service you are capable of doing to the common Cause even in the present infirm state of your Health, and, at the same time being Apprehensive should you be Sent on so fatiguing a Service as that of Canada must be, especially at this inclement Season, your Country might be deprived of the advantage of your Services, which are so much wanted at this critical conjuncture, they have thought it best to Send General Lee to Canada, Reserving to you the Command of the Forces and the Conduct of Military operations in the Colony of New York. [512] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 504. 2 The credentials, here omitted, are in the Journals, Feb. 20, and Minutes of N. J. Prov. 
Cong., p. 367. 3 See no. 480, note 4, ante. 4 See the Journals, Feb. 20, Mar. 5, and nos. 514, 536, post. 
Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, IV. 1473. 5 The qualifying clause, " when properly armed ", does not appear in the resolve. 
Cf. the Journals, Feb. 22, Mar. 6, 7. See also a letter of Wayne to Congress, Feb. 17, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1172. L5 x 3l x Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 54; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1213. 358 Continental Congress &'Your known Zeal and warm Attachment to the cause of Liberty assure me that you will Concert with Genl Lee the best means of Securing the Communication of the Lakes, and of facilitating the Transportation of Necessaries for the use of the Army in Canada, and give him all the aid and assistance in your power, for accomplishing the great Ends we all have in view. 2 Your several Letters are now under the Consideration of a Committee of Congress, so soon as Report is made and a Determination had in Congress, I will Do myself the honour of Transmitting you their Result. 3 I send by this Express a number of the Articles of War translated into French which you will please to forward, for the use of the Canadian Regiments. 4 I most sincerely wish to hear the agreeable Tidings of your perfect Restoration to health, and am with the utmost Esteem Sir your most obedt servt. 
J. H. P. 514. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Wednesday 21 Feb. Letters from Gen. Schuyler and others read and committed to
These letters, together with letters of Washington, Jan. 24, 30, and some others were, on Feb. 9, referred to a committee comprising Chase, John Adams, Penn, Wythe, and Edward Rutledge. 
The committee made a report Feb. 16, which was laid on the table. 
Mar. 5 and 6, Washington's letters of Feb. 9, 14, and 26, which had been considered in committee of the whole, and Mar. 7 a letter of Stirling (Feb. 25), were referred to the same committee (see the Journals, Feb. 22, 23, 29, Mar. 1, 5, 6, 7; cf. Mar. 13). Mar. 19 the committee made a report, a part of which was recommitted. 
There is no mention however at this point in the Journals of Schuyler's letters, and no subsequent report of the committee can be located. 
Cf. nos. 448, ante, 514, 526, 539, post. 4 The articles of war were adopted June 30, 1775, and a revision of them Nov. 7 of that year (see also the Journals, Nov. 13, and the " Bibliographical Notes ", ibid., III. 508, 5n)- A further revision was adopted Sept. 20, 1776. See the Journals, Apr. 23, June 14, Aug. 7. 13, I9> Sept. 16, 20, and the "Bibliographical Notes", ibid., VI. 1125. [514] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 504. 2 Schuyler's letter of Feb. 10, enclosing a communication from John Fraser, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 000-993 (cfibid., pp. 1172, 1179) ; that of Feb. 13, with enclosures, is ibid., IV. 1131-1132. The letter from the Pennsylvania committee of safety, Feb. 20 (see the Journals) is ibid., IV. 1213. See the Journals, Feb. 28, Mar. 21, 29, Apr. 6, and no. 528, post. 3 This action is recorded in the Journals. 
Feb. 20. The missing name is Edward Rutledge. 
Cf. no. 512, ante. 
See also the Journals, Mar. 5, and no. 536, post. 
February, 1776 359 the others, an Office is to be established by the Com ee and Clerks employed and all Assemblies, Conventions Com ees of Safety, Paymasters and others who have reed. 
Public Money are to settle their Accounts at this Office etc. 
Duane was the Author of this Plan. 
Willing from the Com ee of Claims reported some Acco 13 . Wm. Livingston moved that the Thanks of the Congress be given to Dr. Smith for his Oration on Gen. Montgomery and that he be desired to make it public, this was objected to for several Reasons the chief was that the Dr. declared the Sentiments of the Congress to continue in a Dependency on G Britain which Doctrine this Congress cannot now approve. 
Principal Speakers for the Motion Duane, Wilson, Willing, against it Chase, John Adams, Wyth E Rutledge, Wolcott, Sherman at length Mr. Livingston withdrew his Motion. 4 515. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [February 22, 1776.] Thursday 22. the minutes read, An Application was made from the Jersey Convention to know Whether the Battalion of Minute Men under Col. Charles Stewart and Lt. Col. Mark Thompson which are getting ready for N York at the Requisition of Gen Lee, shall march or not? and if so, desiring some Arms for them, after Debate the Battalion was countermanded. 2 Letters from Gen. Washington Ld. Stirling and others were read and referred to a Com ee of the whole, Govr Ward in the Chair, the General complains that he cannot get Men or Arms enough, that at least 2000 Men in his Camp are with out Firelocks and the New England Men are averse to inlisting for a longer Term than One Year and not fond of serving under any but Officers of their own choosing. 
Harrison proposed that
Leave was given for the Colonels of several Regts. in Penna. to purchase Arms for their Corps and to draw for the Amount on the Com ee of Safety here which was on Mot n of Wilson. 
Paine and others wished a Com ee to be raised to consider of the speediest Methods of manufact'g Fire Arms in America, deferred. 4 4 See no. 510 and note 2, ante. [515] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 505. 2 See the Journals, Feb. 12, 22, 26, and the proceedings of the provincial congress, Feb. 14, 15, 26, in Minutes of N. J. Prov. 
Cong., 1775-1776, pp. 367, 369, 388, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1591, 1592, 1600. 3 Washington's letters of Feb. 9, with enclosures, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 974-979. Stirling's letter (Feb. 19) and enclosures are ibid., IV. 1199- 1201. See the Journals, and no. 513, note 3, ante. 
Cf. no. 516, post. 4 See the Journals, Feb. 23, Mar. 8, 19, May 23. 360 Continental Congress 516. James Duane, Notes of Debates. 1 [February 22, 1776.] 2 1. 2000 men unarmed. 2. Enlistments go on slowly. 3. Want of arms — no prospect of getting them. 3. Two Militia men are paid for one during every relief. 3. General Washington opinion that a bounty ought to be given, but can't say what will answer. 4. Obliged to borrow from Massachusetts. 5. Adams. 1. Never has been proposed to enlist soldiers during the war. never tried. 
Moves that we take into consideration the lengthening the time of enlistment. 
Paine — nothing. 
Geary. 1. Militia have no desire to be called in frequently. 2. Men must engage under officers from other Colonies which they dislike. 
Sherman. 1. Long enlistment is a state of slavery, there ought to be a rotation which is in favor of liberty. 2. Difficulty arises from enlistment being too long neglected by Congress. 3. Taking out of the hands of the Assemblies to nominate officers. 
Harrison. 1. for withdrawing our officers and soldiers and leaving it to the New England Governm ts . and giving them yearly 3,000,000 dollars. /. Adams. 1. If General means that none should enlist but during the war, he is against it, But (says) nothing against any enlisting in that maner who may choose it. 2. People in New England averse to giving large pay to officers. 3. No army but what is mercenary. 4. The high pay of officers only gives them an opportunity of extravagance. 5. People there can't be reconciled to the
Wilson. 1. Difficulties on every side — Question which the least. 2. No troops ever raised in a more glorious cause or more essential to themselves. 
Liberty, property and safety of their wives and children — [516] x N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Papers, II. 493 (copy). In the Bancroft copy these notes are headed: " Duane's Minutes of a debate on Enlistments I 7/6-" . . . 2 That this discussion took place on Feb. 22, is evident from Richard Smith's Diary, Feb. 22, ante. 
The immediate occasion of the discussion was a letter from Washington, Feb. 9. The letter is in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 406, (ed. Sparks), III. 278; Force. 
Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 975. 3 The remainder of the sentence is missing in the copy. 
February, ifj6 361 yet our troops the most expensive of any that were ever raised ; and not under these circumstances to be had to man the lines. 
Something then must be done. i. The General proposes the enlisting troops during the war. 
Objection. 
Dangerous to have standing army Obj n . to the giving N. E. a sum for their defence. i. may be too much or too little. 2. Suppose all the troops to land in N. E. sum would be too small. 3. If the troops land in the other Colonies the sum may be too little [large?]. 4. His expedient is this. [1] To fix the number of men during the campaign or war. 2. to (ascertain) ? the pay. at the lowest
In proportion of the colonies to the he would settle the quotas. 
Chase. 1. does not agree to give a particular sum to the New England Colonies. 2. The officers threaten to throw up their commiss ns unless the pay was advanced. 517. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Friday 23 Feb. the Votes read. 
Carter Braxton Esqr. from Virginia took his Seat. 
A Com ee of one from each Colony, Sergeant for N Jersey, was balloted for to superintend Saltpetre and Lead Matters and a Sett of Recommendations to all the Colonies on those Heads and to erect Powder Mills was passed, these were presented by John Adams and are ordered to be published. 
Ward Chairman of the Secret Com ee informed Congress that
J. Adams presented a Sett of Instructions for them which were recom d that some Matter may be added. 3 Debates about the several Powers of the Treasury Com ee and the Com ee of Claims and a Proposal for consolidating them took Rise from Duane's desiring Advice Whether the Public Acco ts shall be settled in the Several Colonies by able Accountants employed by the Treas'y Com ee or whether the Accounts shall be sent here, the Members inclined to the latter but it was postponed. 4 the Two Stoves in our Room (the Assembly Room in the State House) were ordered by general Consent to be taken down as affecting the Health and Eyesight of the Members, adjd. till Monday. [517] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 505. 2 Cf. the resolve in the Journals (p. 169). 3 See no. 507, note 4, ante. 4 Cf. the resolution in the Journals, Feb. 23 (p. 170), and see ibid., Apr. 1. 362 Continental Congress &* 518. James Duane to the New York Convention. 1 Gentlemen
I therefore beg leave to give you my Sentiments upon it. If anything further occurs, on a Consultation, it will be transmitted the next Conveyance. 
General Schuyler, some time since, proposed to Congress that our second, or Albany, Battalion, should be recruited for the Service of Canada and recommended the former Field Officers. 
Of this Congress appro vd; and 12500 Dollars were forwarded to you for the Dispatch of that Business. 3 The General in a subsequent Letter informed Congress that the money was sent to him, and seems to be uneasy that the care of raising the Battalion should be superadded to the other Burthens of his Command. 
He mentions his Intentions of applying to the Committee of Albany for Assistance on that Occasion ; 4 but what Progress has since been made we do not learn. 
The Congress have also declard their Intention of promoting Capt Henry Livingston, who came Express from General Montgomerie with the News of the Surrender of Montreal, when an Opportunity shoud offer ; but nothing has yet been done in his favour. 
A resolution has since passed for raising four Battalions in New York for its immediate protection and Defence, of which you have receivd a Copy. 
It was followed by another that in the Appointment of these officers such as behavd well during the last Campaign should be provid'd for, a Copy of which has likewise been forwarded for your Direction. 6 As New York was thought to be in a critical State, and no Recommendation had appeard from our Committee of Safety, 'of the officers for the four Battalions, it occasiond much Surprize and Uneaziness ; and the Apology I was able to make — viz — the Expectation of a meeting of the Convention and the Utility of their Advice; which indeed depended on my own Conjecture, did not prove satisfactory. 
It was said that while everything was done for New York at the publick Expense, that coud be wished or asked, they neglected their own Defence etc. 
This produced [5i8] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, III. 295; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 326, II. 124; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 312. 2 These letters are in Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 316, 319, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 296, 301. The latter, pertaining to the question of officering the New York battalions, is the one here discussed by Duane. 
See no. 552, post. 3 See Schuyler's letters of Dec. 8, 1775, Jan. 22, 29, 1776, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 219, 802, 880, and the Journals, Jan. 8, 17, 19, 20, Feb. 5. 4 See Schuyler's letter of Feb. 13, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1131; cf. ibid., pp. 1092, 1094, 1115. c See the Journals, Nov. 8 (p. 341) and Dec. 12, 22, 1775; cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 380. The reference is to Henry Beekman Livingston, sometimes confused with Henry Brockholst Livingston. 
See Heitman, Historical Register. c See the Journals, Jan. 19. See also Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 328 (proceedings, Feb. 28), and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 317. The letter to Congress, Feb. 28 (received Mar. 4) is ibid., IV. 1530. February, 1776 363 a Resolution that an Enquiry shoud be made into your Progress with respect to those Battalions. 7 These Circumstances, if my memory has not failed, are all that have happend on this Subject, and which will suffice to convince you that there is no Obstruction in the way of your nominating the Field Officers agreeable to the recommendation of Congress; you will doubtless see the propriety of dispatch both on account of your Security, and your Reputation — both of which no Man can have more sincerely at Heart than myself. 
Apprehensive that you might be distressed to maintain the Army now in our Capital, from the lowness of your Finances, we thought it advisable to obtain a warrant in your favour for 35000 Dollars; which Mr Lewis receiv'd and will deliver you. 8 I should do great Injustice to Congress, if I did not assure you that they are disposed to do everything which can be reasonably required for your Protection. 
I have the Honour to be with the utmost Regard Gent. 
Your most obedient and very humble Servant Jas. Duane Philad. 25. Feby 1776. 519. The Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Philadelphia 25th february 1776 Gent n . Mr. Alexander Ross, a Gentleman of our acquaintance, has applied to us to procure for him from Congress, a pasport to Lord Dunmore, upon whom he says he has a very considerable claim, which he hopes he shou'd be able to secure, cou'd he have an opportunity of making a personal demand. 
From the multiplicity of business now before the Congress an application of this kind wou'd be attended with great delay, and as a licence from your Honourable Board will be at least as effectual, we take the liberty of recommending him to your indulgence, being well persuaded he will religiously observe any injunctions you may think proper to lay him under. 2 We are, Gentlemen, Your most obedt Servants J. Rogers Robt. 
Alexander
Soc, Red Book, IV. 160 (copy). 2 See Arch, of Md., XI. 206, 207; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 95, 1542; and no. 603, post. 364 itincntal Congress 5_v>. Benjamin Franklin, Proposed Resolve. 1 [February 26. 1776?] 2 A Motion AV "hat from and after the 20th of July 1776 being one full Year after the Day appointed by a late Act of the Parliament of G. B. for restraining: the Trade of the Confederate Colonies, all the Custom Houses in the said Colonies shall be shut up and all the Officers of the same be ^charged from the Execution of their several Functions, and all the Ports of the said Colonies are hereby declared to be thenceforth open [to] the Ships of every stare in Europe that will admit our Commerce and protect it. who may bring in and expose to Sale free of all Duties, their respective Produce and Manufactures, and evenkind of Merchandize, excepting Teas, and the Merchandize of Great Britain, Ireland, and the British West India Islands. 
R :' That we will to the utmost of our Power, maintain and support this Freedom of Commerce for two Year's certain after its Commencement, and as much longer [as] the late Acts of Parliament for raining the Commerce and Fisher [ies], and altering the Laws and Chr.- ers t any of the Colonies shall continue unrepealed. [The following memoranda are also found on this document:] Ready to receive Irish Woolens whenever they shall ascertain Methods of sending them free of all Imposition. 
R Xot to treat separately. 
Resolve concerning the Power of Parliament to alter Constitutions. 
Difference has been whether we shall give our Money, or have it taken from us by Force, contrary to our Rights. 521. Richard Smith. 
Diary. 1 Monday 26 Feb. the Votes read, and a Letter from Gen Lee inform'g that he will set out for Canada in a few Days, and a Letter from the Jersey Convention desiring Two more Battalions and Two Companies of Artillery may be raised there for the immediate Defence of the Province, this was referred to the Com ee on the Gens. 
Letters.- 6000 Dollars advanced to Carpenter Wharton the Commissar}-. 22000 Dollars ordered to the Maryland Delegates to be exchanged for Gold and Silver in that Colony. £Sooo being there offered on Delivery of the Paper Money. 
An Order passed after long Debate that all the Shipping in the L'nited Colonies now bound to G Britain. 
Ireland or the British West Indies in Virtue or under Color of a former Resolve allowing Produce to be exported for importing Military Stores, shall be immed*y stopped till further Order and this Resolution to be published, and the further Consideration of that Subject [520] 1 Am. Phil. 
Soc.. Franklin Papers, vol. 
L. (II.), no. 45. 2 This resolution is assigned to this date on the basis of a statement in Richard th's Diary. 
Feb. 26, pc [521 J 1 Am. Hist. 
Rcz.. I. 506. : Lee's letter. 
Feb. -- in Force. 
Am. Arch., fourth ser.. IV. 1475. The New Jersey letter, dated Feb. 24, is ibid., TV. 1490, 1600: Minutes of N. J. Prov. 
Cong., 5, p. 386. See the Journals, Feb. 26, 28, Mar. 1, and nos. 526, 531, post. 
February, 1776 365 and whether the Custom Houses shall be shut up was referred to a Com ee of 5. 3 Agreed to pay a French Printers Expences and to give Him 25 Half Joes to remove Himself, his Family and Types to Canada and there set up a free Press. 4 A Bill from the Paymaster at Cambridge for 80,000 Dollars being presented for Acceptance was postponed. 522. Samuel Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philada, Feby 26, 1776. My dear .... I have nothing new to write to you. 
In one of your Letters you told me that Dr C 2 had requested that I would sometimes write you on the Politicks of this place, and that he might see my Letters of that kind. 
Pav my due Regards to the Doctor when you see him and tell him that I can scarsely find time to write you even a Love Letter. 
I will however for once give you a Political Anecdote. 
Dr Smith Provost of the College here, by the Invitation of the continental Congress, lately deliverd a funeral Oration on the gallant General Montgomery who fell at the Walls of Quebec. 
Certain political Principles were thought to be interwoven with every part of the Oration which were displeasing to the Auditory. 
It was remarkd that he could not even keep their Attention. 
A Circle of Ladies, who had seated themselves in a convenient place on purpose to see as well as hear the Orator, that they might take every Advantage for the Indulgence of Griefe on so melancholly an Occasion, were observd to look much disappointed and chagrind. 
The next day a Motion was made in Congress for requesting a Copy for the Press. 
The Motion was opposd from every Quarter, and with so many Reasons that the Gentleman who made the Motion desired Leave to withdraw it. Such was the fate of that Oration which is celebrated in the Newspapers of this City, perhaps by some one of the Orators Friends for I will not presume that he was privy to the Compliment paid to it, as " very animated and pathetick ". 3 .... 523. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [February 27, 1776.] Tuesday 27. A Motion by E. Rutledge to countermand Gen. Lee's Journey to Canada and send him to command the Southern Colonies was
The former resolves referred to are probably those of July 15, Oct. 26, Nov. 1, and Dec. 29, 1775. Cf. nos. 502, 505, 509, ante, and no. 527, post. 
See the Journals, Mar. 4. 4 Twenty-five half-Johannes (Portuguese coins) would be equivalent to 200 dollars, which is the sum recorded in the Journals. 
On the French printer here mentioned, who remained in Montreal, see R. W. McLachlan, " Fleury Mesplet, the First Printer of Montreal", in Trans. 
Royal Soc. Canada, second ser., XII., sect, ir., pp. 197- 310. For the pieces he printed for the Continental Congress, see Mr. Ford's " Bibliographical Notes", in the Journals, I. 129, III. 507, 512, VII. 11 17. [522] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 266. 2 Probably Dr. Samuel Cooper. 3 See no. 510 and note 2, ante. [523] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 506. 366 Continental Congress discussed and postponed till Tomorrow. 2 A Report from a Com ee was confirmed which divides the Country into
Delaware and Maryland in the Middle District and the Colonies South in the Southern District and it is understood that Canada composes a 4th or Northern District. 
Some N England Delegates urged to have N York in their District sed non Allocatur. 3 An Order passed request'g the Jersey Convention to secure the Ship and Cargo at Elizabeth Town till further Direction. 4 Rob. Morris produced Letters just reed from Bristol with a Copy of the Ministerial Bill for seizing all American Ships which were read. 
One Letter says their American Army will be about 25000 Strong, Part of it to be directed agt. the Southern Colonies Part agt. 
N. York, that the Whigs are under the Marquis of Rockingham and will desert Us if We aim at Independency, otherwise not, that Commissioners are certainly coming out to treat, that the Scotch Regiments in the Dutch Service are engaged to come here, the Bill is very long and cruel. 8 .... 524. Robert Alexander to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Phila 27 Feby 1776. Gent Your L re by the Post is received, and on Application to Congress, they have ordered 22000 Dollars equal to £8250 to be advanced, this money I shall receive and transmit you by the first safe Conveyance. 2 .... what Measures Congress may pursue in Consequence of this Act, 3 I know not with me every Idea of Reconciliation is precluded by the conduct of G. Britain, and the only Alternitave, absolute Slavery or Independancy. the latter I have often reprobated both in public and private, but am now almost convinced the Measure is right and can be justified by necessity. 4 .... I make no doubt you have heard Mr Chase is ordered to Canada. 5 he
Cong., pp. 396, 309. 400. 6 A substantial account of the way in which these letters were brought over is given in the letter of Robert Alexander to the Maryland council, Feb. 27, Arch, of Md., XI. 188. See the extracts in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 222, 223. Cf. ibid., pp. 287, 440, 1125-1128; Penn to Person, Feb. 14 (passage omitted, no. 502, ante), and no. =555. note 2. post. [524] 1 Md. Hist. 
Soc., Red Book, IV. 11 ; Arch, of Md., XI. 188; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1507. 2 See the Journals, Feb. 26. The letter of the Maryland council, Feb. 24, is in Arch., of Md., XI. 179; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1488. 3 Lord North's Conciliatory Act. The passage omitted is principally an account of the "manner in which a copy of this act and some private letters were brought to America. 
See no. 523, note 5, ante. 4 Cf. no. 500, note 4, ante. 6 Journals, Feb. 15; cf. no. 508, ante. 
February, 1776 367 sets off in a few Days. 
Mr Rogers has Leave of Absence. 
Should he leave Congress, Maryl d will be without Representation. 
I mention this, to shew the Necessity of your requesting Messrs. 
Johnson and Stone to attend. 
I wrote Mr Tilghman, but have not any Answer ; altho' my private Business requires my Presence in Maryland, I shall not leave this City until a Sufr? number of my Brethern arrive. 525. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Lebanon Febry 28th 1776. Sr .... Indeed the Appointment of Field Officers is not yet fully Setled by Congress. 
Many Colonys Claim to have and hold those Appointments within Themselves over the Troops raised in such Colonies tho on Continental request, the latest Practice of Congress is to receive at least a Recommendation from the Provincial Assemblys, Congress [e]s or Com tees , of more persons than one, out of which Number they Appoint." .... 526. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Wednesday 28 Feb. Votes read. 20,000 Dollars advanced to Commissary Mease. 
A Report was delivered in by J Adams that 5000 Troops be kept up at N York, that
Half a Ton of Powder and the rest of his Cargo in Molasses etc. for Leave to export Produce to the Amount of his whole Cargo was argued and the Prayer granted under the Conditions that several other Foreign Vessels have had. [525] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 2 Cf. the Journals, Oct. 10, 25, 30, Dec. 15, 1775. The immediate subject of discussion was the appointment of a colonel to fill the vacancy caused by Arnold's promotion. [526] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 506. 2 See no. 521, ante, and no. 531, post. 3 See the Journals, Feb. 21, 28, Mar. 21, 29, Apr. 6, and no. 514, note 2, ante. 
Cf. no. 513, note 3, ante. 4 See the Journals, Feb. 26, 28, Mar. 1 ; cf. no. 523, ante. 5 See the Journals, Feb. 21, 28; cf. ibid., Mar. 4. 6 Anthony Marmajou. 
For other instances, see the Journals, Jan. 27, Feb. 2, 9, Mar. 9. 28 368 Continental Congress 527. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [February 29, 1776.] Thursday 29. Mr. Whipple of New Hampshire took his Seat, the Minutes read as was a Letter from Gen. Washington inclosing a Letter from Lord John Drummond to Gen. Robertson wherein his Lordship of his own Accord, takes Steps for a Treaty and desires Passports for Commissioners on the Part of the Congress.- 4 Hours were spent in Grand [527] J Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 507. 2 Washington's letter (Feb. 14) is in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 419 (see also ibid., p. 420 n.), (ed. Sparks), III. 288 (see also ibid., III., app. xiii) ; and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1148. Drummond's letter to Gen. Robertson, dated Feb. 5, is ibid., PP- 943. IT 49- See also Lynch to Washington, Feb. 5, ibid., p. 943. Cf. nos. 420, 428, 448, 459, ante, 536, post, and see the Journals, Feb. 29, Mar. 1, 5, 6. 7. 13, 19. Writing years afterward, with the Journals before him, John Adams dilates thus upon this affair : " The very short sketch, which is here traced, is enough to show that postponement was the object of our antagonists; and the Journals for those days will show the frivolous importance of the business transacted in them, in comparison of the great concerns which were before the committees of the whole House. 
There was, however, still a majority of members who were either determined against all measures preparatory to independence, or yet too timorous and wavering to venture on any decisive steps. 
We therefore could do nothing but keep our eyes fixed on the great objects of free trade, new governments, and independence of the United States, and seize every opening opportunity of advancing step by step in our progress. 
Our opponents were not less vigilant in seizing on every excuse for delay; the letter from Lord Drummond, which seemed to derive importance from the transmission of it by General Washington, was a fine engine to play cold water on the fire of independence. 
They set it in operation with great zeal and activity. 
It was, indeed, a very airy phantom, and ought not to have been sent us by the General, who should only have referred Lord Drummond to Congress. 
But there were about head-quarters some who were as weak and wavering as our members ; and the General himself had chosen, for his private confidential correspondent, a member from Virginia, Harrison, who was still counted among the cold party. 
This was an indolent, luxurious, heavy gentleman, of no use in Congress or committee, but a great embarrassment to both. 
He was represented to be a kind of nexus utriusquc mundi, a corner stone in which the two walls of party met in Virginia. 
He was descended from one of the most ancient, wealthy, and respectable families in the ancient dominion, and seemed to be set up in opposition to Mr. Richard Henry Lee. Jealousies and divisions appeared among the delegates of no State more remarkably than among those of Virginia. 
Mr. Wythe told me that Thomas Lee, the elder brother of Richard Henry, was the delight of the eyes of Virginia, and by far the most popular man they had ; but Richard Henry was not. 
I asked the reason ; for .Mr. Lee appeared a scholar, a gentleman, a man of uncommon eloquence, and an agreeable man. 
Mr. Wythe said this was all true, but Mr. Lee had, when he was very young, and when he first came into the House of Burgesses, moved and urged on an inquiry into the state of the treasury, which was found deficient in large sums, which had been lent by the treasurer to many of the most influential families of the country, who found themselves exposed, and had never forgiven Mr. Lee. This, he said, had made him so many enemies, that he never had recovered his reputation, but was still heartily hated by great numbers. 
These feelings among the Virginia delegates were a great injury to us. Mr. Samuel Adams and myself were very intimate with Mr. Lee, and he agreed perfectly with us in the great system of our policy, and by his means we kept a majority of the delegates of Virginia with us; but Harrison, Pendleton, and some others, showed their jealousy of this intimacy plainly enough at times. 
Harrison consequently courted Mr. Hancock and some other of our colleagues; but we had now a majority, and gave ourselves no trouble about their little intrigues. 
This is all necessary to show the operation of Lord Drummond's communication. 
I have forgotten the particulars, but he pretended to have had conversation with Lord North ; talked warmly of Lord North's good will and desire of reconciliation, but had no authority to show, and no distinct proposition to make. 
In short, it was so flimsy a veil, that the purblind might see through it. But yet it was made instrumental of much delay and amusement to numbers." Works, III. 31. February, 1776 369 Com ee on Trade without any Conclusion, by a former Resolve Trade opens Tomorrow under the Restrictions of the Association, the Points now agitated were the Expediency and Probability of contractingforeign Commercial Alliances and chiefly with France and Spain, and the Advantages and Disadvantages of attempting to carry on Trade in our present Circumstances, much was said about declaring our Independency on G Britain when it appeared that
Your Lordship is accordingly appointed a Brigadier General for the middle Department comprehending New York New Jersey Pensylvania the lower Counties and Maryland. 
The Colonies to the Southward, the four Eastern Provinces; and Canada form the other three Departments. 2 It is now determind that General Lee shall command in the Southern Department, where an immediate attack is expected. 
The debates of this day did him singular Honour, and evincd the Confidence the Congress place in his Zeal and Abilities. 
He was given up to the Southern Colonies, as the most exposed, with great Reluctance. 3 General Schuyler with Brigadier General Thompson and yourself are destined for the middle Department. 
The Commander in Chief for Canada remains to be fixed upon, and is a Subject of some perplexity, as well as of very great Importance. 4 It was the anxious wish, and earnest advice, of our much lamented Friend Montgomerie that he shoud be succeded by General Lee, but the Situation of our affairs prevented it. General Schuyler's very precarious State of Health, and the Danger to which his native province is exposed, will, we suppose, make the disposition respecting him very
Relative to the question of independence see no. 500, note 4, ante. 4 No further trace of this petition has been found. [528] X N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Stirling Papers, IV.; Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, V. 37; N. J. Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 131. 2 See the Journals, Feb. 27 ; cf. no. 523, ante, and no. 529, post. 3 See nos. 523, 526, ante ; cf. no. 529, post. 
See also Stirling to Schu3'ler, Mar. 10, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 174. 4 Gen. Thomas was appointed to the Canadian command Mar. 6; cf. nos. 538, 539, post. 370 Continental Congress agreeable. 5 present my respectful Compliments to him and General Lee and believe me to be with great Regard My Lord your Lordships affect. 
Nephew
Philad. i st March 1776. 529. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to Lord Stirling. 1 Philadelphia March 1, 1776. My Lord I do myself the Honour of enclosing to you a Commission of Brigadier General in the Continental Army. 
From the high opinion the Congress entertain of your Zeal and Attachment to the American Cause, they flatter themselves, you will do every Thing in your Power to discharge your Duty to your Country on this important Occasion. 
I have it in Charge from Congress to direct, that you continue at New- York, until farther Orders. 2 530. The President of Congress to Charles Lee. 1 Philadelphia March 1st 1776. Dear Sir, After a warm contest occasion'd by the high Estimation the Members of Congress have of your worth and abilities, every one wishing to have you where he had most at stake, the Congress have at length determined to superceed the orders given you to proceed to Canada, and have this day come to a Resolution, that you shall take the Command of the Continental forces in the Southern Department, which Comprehends Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia. 2 The Congress have also appointed six new Brigadiers General, vizt. 
John Armstrong, William Thompson, Andrew Lewis, James Moore, Lord Stirling and Robert Howe Esqrs. four of whom are to command under you in the Southern Department, and two in the middle. 
By this conveyance I have forwarded the Commission for his Lordship. 
As soon as your Health and the Necessary orders you may think proper to give c See the Journals, Feb. 17. James Duane's wife was the daughter of Colonel Robert Livingston, brother to the wife of Lord Stirling. [529] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 8146; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter- Book, IV. 59; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 37; N. J. Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 130. 2 The order to Stirling to continue at New York is not in the Journals. 
It is doubtless implied in the absence of directions. 
Cf. no. 528, ante. [530] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 58; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 37 ; N. Y. I list. 
Soc, Collections: I^ee Papers, I. 342. 2 Cf. no. 528, ante; also Lee to Washington, Mar. 3, letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 161 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 50. March, 1776 371 for putting New York in a State of Defence will permit, I have it in Charge to Direct that you Repair to the Department put under your immediate Command. 
In Expectation of seeing you soon in this place
Servt. 
The Hon e Major General Lee at New York. 
J. H. Prest. 531. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Friday
A Chest full of Acco ts transmitted from the Assembly or Government of Mass
Rev., I. 507. 2 See the Journals, Mar. 1, 7, and the proceedings of the New Hampshire house of representatives, Jan. 5-27, N. H. State Papers, VIII. 1-67; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 2-22. The " form of government " assumed in New Hampshire, Jan. 5, is also ibid., IV. 583. See also the Journals, May 10, 13, 15- Cf. nos. 311, 333, 349. 352, 353, ante, and nos. 533. 537, 550 (note 4), 575, 590, 597, 655, 657, post. 3 See the Journals, Mar. 1 (p. 181, note 3) ; also Minutes of N. J. Prov. 
Cong., pp. 386, 404. Cf. nos. 521, 526, ante. 4 See the proceedings of the Massachusetts council, Dec. 8, 1775, and Jan. 15, 1776, and of the house of representatives, Dec. 8, Jan. 8, 9, 10, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1226, 1251, 1328, 1380, 1382, 1385-1386. Cf. no. 538, post. 5 See the Journals, Mar. 1, 13, 16, 18, 19, 23, Apr. 3, 4. Cf. nos. 543, 544., 548, 557, 56o, 562, 572, post. 
See also Reed to Washington, Mar. 7, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 100. . 6 There is in Smith's Diary of this day no mention of a discussion of the subjects indicated in John Adams's Notes of Debates bearing date of Mar. 1 {Journals, VI. 1073). It is probable indeed that Adams's notes both of Mar. 1 and Mar
Cf. no. 546, post. 372 Continental Congress &'532. The Secret Committee to Silas Deane. 1 Philadelphia, March 1, 1776. Sir, We deliver you herewith one part of a Contract made with the Secret Committee of Congress for exporting Produce of these Colonies to Europe [and] of importing from France certain articles suitable for the Indians. 
The first part of this business Ave have undertaken and shall accomplish as soon as possible by shipping cargoes to the markets they are best adapted for, and ordering the consignees to remit the proceeds to the following houses, viz. 
Messrs. 
Saml. and J. H. Delap in Bordeaux, Messrs. 
Geo. Clifford and Teysett in Amsterdam [and] Mr. John Hodgshon in Amsterdam. 
We think it prudent thus to divide the remittances that none of the Houses may know the extent of your commission, but each of them will have orders to account with you for the amount of what comes into their hands for this purpose and to hold the same subject to your drafts and orders. 
On your part you are to immediately repair to France for the execution of that part of this contract which by our private agreement you have undertaken. 
We deliver you herewith sundry letters of introduction to reputable Houses in France which we hope will place you in the respectable light you deserve to appear and put you on a footing to purchase the goods wanted, which has been inspected and approved by the Secret Committee. 
We hope you will readily and expeditiously procure every article wanted, and immediately shipped in such manner as you judge most likely to answer the purpose of getting them safe landed in some of the United Colonies of North America. 
You will transmit to the Secret Committee, Bills of lading and Invoices for every parcell of goods you remit, and as the Brig
Isherwood directing him to obey your orders. 
Therefore you can deliver it whenever you see proper to disclose yourself to him. 
The vessell is on monthly pay, therefore the sooner you dispatch her back the better; and you will give this Captain and all others suitable directions for approaching this coast on their return, with circumspection. - We are Sir Your hble Servants John Alsop for self and Philip Livingston Francis Lewis. 
Robert Morris. 
P. S. You'l 'please to supply Capt. 
Isherwood with money to pay the Brig
Soc, Collections: Dcanc Papers, T. 116. 2 This letter from the secret committee and those of March
That the sum of 200,000 Dollars, continental money now advanced and paid by the said Committee of Secresy to the said John Alsop, Francis Lewis, Philip Livingston, Silas Deane and Robert Morris, shall be laid out by them in the produce of these Colonies and shipped on board proper vessels, to be by them chartered for that purpose, to some proper port or ports in Europe (Great Britain and the British Isles excepted) and there disposed of on the best terms. 
And the neat proceeds of such cargoes laid out in such goods, wares or merchandise as the said Committee of Secrecy shall direct and shipped for the said United Colonies to be landed in some convenient harbor or place within the same and notice thereof given as soon as conveniently may be to the said Committee of Secrecy. 
For which the said John Alsop, Francis Lewis, Philip Livingston, Silas Deane and Robert Morris shall be allowed five per. ct. for purchasing the cargo here ; and also to such of said contractors as shall go personally to Europe to execute and superintend this business — exclusive of the charges of selling the produce and manufactures of these Colonies, to be exported as aforesaid, and for shipping the remittances, besides the duties, a clear commission of five per. ct. on the original cost of such remittances in Europe, the said United Colonies running the whole risk of the said adventure, being for their benefit and advantage, and also insuring such vessels against all British seizures and captures. secret committee (see the Journals, Jan. 27). In a letter to Washington, Mar. 15, Joseph Reed says : " Mr. Deane, of Connecticut, is gone to Europe ; his errand may be guessed, though little is said about it." (Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 233.) See also no. 589, post. 
In his Address to the Citizens of the United States (1784) Deane gives some account of the origin of his mission. 
The Address is reprinted in N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, vol. 
V. Deane's election as one of three commissioners to France (the other two being Franklin and Jefferson) was on Sept. 26, 1776. An account of Deane's activities in France is found in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., I. 559, et seq. 
Deane's letters at this time (Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, vol. 
II., N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, vol. 
I.) throw light on the origin of his mission. 
Extracts from numerous letters to Robert Morris, beginning April 2, 1776, are found in Stan. 
V. Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183. Cf. Samuel Adams to James Warren, Oct. II, 1778, in vol. 
III. of these Letters. 
It should be observed that, while the secret committee and the committee of secret correspondence were partly identical in membership, they were nevertheless distinct committees. 
The secret committee had its origin Sept. 18, 1775 (the committee was filled up Sept. 19) and the committee of secret correspondence on Nov. 29, 1775. The former afterward became the commercial committee and the latter the committee for foreign affairs. 
See the lists of standing committees, 1775-1777, in the Journals (ed. Ford), VI. 1063, IX. 1077. 374 Continental Congress Witness our hand this 19th day of February in the year of our Lord, one thousand, seven hundred and seventy six, at Philadelphia. 
Witness, John Legg. 
John Alsop for self and Philip Livingston Francis Lewis Robert Morris Silas Deane Samuel Ward Benjamin Franklin Thomas McKean Joseph Hewes Josiah Bartlett Robert Alexander. 533. William Whipple to the President of the New Hampshire Council (Meshech Weare). Philadelphia, March 2d, 1776. Sir, I arriv'd here the 28th Ulto. the Roads were so extreem bad it was impossible for me to get here sooner. 
The Papers which Capt. 
Long gave me sealed up and directed to the President, I delivered on my arrival ; they were yesterday read in Congress and referr'd to a Committee. 2 My Colleague talks of leaving in about a fortnight ; by that time I hope shall be able to forward the determination of Congress on the Petition for a Battalion. 3 .... 534. The Committee of Secret Correspodence to Silas Deane. 1 March 2, 1776. We, the underwritten, being the Committee of Congress for secret Correspondence, do hereby certify whom it may concern, that the Bearer, the Honorable Silas Deane Esquire, one of the Delegates from the Colony of Connecticut, is appointed by us to go into France, there to transact such Business, commercial and political, as we have committed to his Care, [533] x N- H. State Papers, VIII. 76; Force Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 43. 2 " Am glad to be informed of the spirited behaviour of our Colony in raising a regiment for Canada without waiting for the order of Congress. 
The several matters relative to our Colony affairs are, according to order, laid before Congress. 
As soon as a determination is had, I hope to be the bearer of them myself to you." Bartlett to the New Hampshire committee of safety, Mar. 2, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 44; N. H. State Papers, VIII. 76. See ibid., pp. 65-67, 71, 72, 75. Sundry enclosures with the communication to Congress are found, ibid., pp. 212-217. The principal of the documents are also in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV 096-1000. See the Journals. 
Mar. 1, and no. 531, note 2, ante. 3 See the Journals, May 14, and no. 646, post. 
I534] 1 N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 119. March, iyj6 375 in Behalf and by Authority of the Congress of the thirteen united Colonies. 
In Testimony whereof we have hereunto set our Hands and Seals at Philadelphia, the second Day of March, 1776. 2 B. Franklin Benj. 
Harrison John Dickinson John Jay Robt Morris 535. The Committee of Secret Correspondence to Silas Deane. 1 Philadelphia, March 3, 1776. On your arrival in France
This will give good countenance to your appearing in the character of a merchant, which we wish you continually to retain among the French in general, it being probable that the court of France may not like it should be known publicly that any agent from the Colonies is in that country. 
When you come to Paris, by delivering Dr. Franklin's letter to Monsieur LeRoy, at the Louvre, and M. Dubourg, 3 you will be introduced to a set of acquaintance, all friends to the Americans. 
By conversing with them you will have a good opportunity of acquiring Parisian French, and you will find in M. Dubourg a man prudent, faithful, secret, intelligent in affairs, and capable of giving you very sage advice. 
It is scarce necessary to pretend any other business at Paris than the gratifying of that curiosity, which draws numbers thither yearly, merely to see so famous a city. 
With the assistance of Monsieur Dubourg, who understands English, you will be able to make immediate application to Monsieur de Vergennes, ministre des affaires etrangeres, either personally or by letter, if M. Dubourg adopts that method, acquainting him that you are in France upon business of the American Congress, in the character of a merchant, having something to communicate to him that may be mutually beneficial to France and the North American Colonies; that you request an audience of him, and that he would be pleased to appoint the time and place. 
At this audience, if agreed to, it may be well to show him first your letter of credence, and then acquaint him that the Congress, finding that in the common course of commerce, it was not practicable to furnish the continent of America with the quantity of arms and ammunition necessary for its defense (the ministry of Great Britain having been extremely industrious to prevent it), you have been dispatched by their authority to apply to some European power
The signatures of the members are accompanied by their seals. [535] x Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., II. 78; Sparks, Dipl. 
Corr. 
Rev., I. 5; Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, II. 365 ; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 123 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, V. 48. 2 See nos. 532, 534, ante. 3 Concerning Dubourg see Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., I. 390. 376 Continental Congress &'for a supply. 
That France had been pitched on for the first application, from an opinion that if we should, as there is a great appearance we shall, come to a total separation from Great Britain, France would be looked upon as the power whose friendship it would be fittest for us to obtain and cultivate. 
That the commercial advantages Britain had enjoyed with the Colonies had contributed greatly to her late wealth and importance. 
That it is likely great part of our commerce will naturally fall to the share of France, especially if she favors us in this application, as that will be a means of gaining and securing the friendship of the Colonies; and that as our trade was rapidly increasing with our increase of people, and, in a greater proportion, her part of it will be extremely valuable. 
That the supply we at present want is clothing and arms for twenty-five thousand men, with a suitable quantity of ammunition, and one hundred field pieces. 
That we mean to pay for the same by remittances to France, or through Spain, Portugal, or the French Islands, as soon as our navigation can be protected by ourselves or friends; and that we, besides, want great quantities of linens and woolens, with other articles for the Indian trade, which you are now actually purchasing, and for which you ask no credit, and that the whole, if France should grant the other supplies, would make a cargo which it might be well to secure by a convoy of two or three ships of war. 
If you should find M. de Vergennes reserved, and not inclined to enter into free conversation with you, it may be well to shorten your visit, request him to consider what you have proposed, acquaint him with your place of lodging, that you may yet stay sometime at Paris, and that, knowing how precious his time is, you do not presume to ask another audience; but that, if he should have any commands for you, you will, upon the least notice, immediately wait upon him. 
If, at a future conference, he should be more free, and you find a disposition to favor the Colonies, it may be proper to acquaint him that they must necessarily be anxious to know the disposition of France on certain points, which, with his permission, you would mention, such as whether, if the Colonies should be forced to form themselves into an independdent State, France would probably acknowledge them as such, receive their embassadors, enter into any treaty or alliance with them, for commerce or defense, or both? If so, on what principal conditions? Intimating that you shall speedily have an opportunity of sending to America, if you do not immediately return, and that he may be assured of your fidelity and secrecy in transmitting carefully anything he would wish to convey to the Congress on that subject. 
In subsequent conversations you may as you find it convenient, enlarge on these topics that have been the subjects of our conferences with you, to which you may occasionally add the well-known substantial answers we usually give to the several calumnies thrown out against us. If these supplies on the credit of the Congress should be refused, you are to endeavor the obtaining a permission of purchasing those articles, or so much of them as you can find credit for. 
You will keep a daily journal of all your material transactions, and particularly of what passes in your conversation with great personages; March, 1776 377 and you will, by every safe opportunity, furnish us with such information as may be important. 
When your business in France admits of it, it may be well to go into Holland, and visit our agent there, M. Dumas, conferring with him on subjects that may promote our interest, and on the means of communication. 
You will endeavor to procure a meeting with Mr. Bancroft * by writing a letter to him, under cover to Mr. Griffiths, at Turnham Green, near London, and desiring him to come over to you in France or Holland, on the score of old acquaintance. 
From him you may obtain a good deal of information of what is now going forward in England, and settle a mode of continuing a correspondence. 
It may be well to remit a small bill to defray his expenses in coming to you, and avoid all political matters in your letter to him. 
You will also endeavor to correspond with Mr. Arthur Lee, agent of the Colonies in London. 
You will endeavor to obtain acquaintance with M. Gamier, late charge des affaires de France en Angleterre, if now in France, or, if returned to England, a correspondence with him, as a person extremely intelligent and friendly to our cause. 
From him you may learn many particulars occasionally, that will be useful to us. B. Franklin. 
Benj. 
Harrison. 
John Dickinson. 
Robert Morris. 
John Jay. 536. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Tuesday
Letters from Gens. 
Schuyler, Wooster and Ld. Stirling, - ' part of one of Schuylers was com d to 3. it was concerning a supposed Invitation from Govr Penn to the
Andrew Allen said he had made particular Inquiry into the Report and assured the Congress it was groundless. 3 the other Letters were referred to a former Com ee . 4 an Order passed to furnish the first and 3d Jersey Regts. with Medicine Chests, the Com ee on the Wyoming Papers recommended that they be referred to the Pennsa. 
Assembly which was done accordingly. 5 4 or
Wyth offered a Sett of Propos s import'g that no Public Bodies or private Persons other than the Congress or the People at large ought to treat
Corr., I. 621-641. [536] x Am, Hist. 
Rev., I. 508. 2 Schuyler's letter of Feb. 26, enclosing a letter from Wooster (Feb. 21) and one from James Deane (Feb. 24), is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1409; his letter of Feb. 27 is ibid., IV. 15 10. The letter from Stirling (not mentioned in the Journals) was possibly that of Mar. 3, ibid., V. 51. 3 This refers to the letter from James Deane. 
See note 2, above, and nos. 542, 561, post. 
Cf. the Journals, Apr. 25. 4 See no. 513, note 3, ante. 5 Cf. nos. 512, 514, ante. 378 Continental Congress for Peace etc which were negatived
Nothing more was done on it than the Letter ordered to remain with our Papers and the President desired to acquaint Gen. Wash n that the Congress agree in Sentiment with him on the Subject, the rest of the Gens. 
Letter was referred to a former Com ee . it appeared that Ld. Drummond had conversed with several Delegates as E. Rutledge, Wilson and Duane on the Subject of Pacification and, unauthorized by the Ministry, had thrown out his own Ideas of what the Ministry would concede and expect and had endeavored to draw from those Members what Congress would demand and accede to on their Part. 6 537. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia March
However as it was directed to the Congress, it was the next day publicly read together with the petition for a regt. to be stationed at Portsmouth ; the whole was committed to Dr Franklin, Mr Wythe and Mr Braxton, a new member from Virginia; what or when they will report is uncertain, but for the honor of the Province I wish it had been kept at home. 2 .... 537A. George Read to Caesar Rodney. 1 Mar. 6, 1776. .... The state of the publick business in Congress has been such that I cou'd not leave this place with Propriety for these two days past tho'6 See no. 527, note 2, ante, and no. 539, post. [537] 1 Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks Coll., no. 52, vol. 
II., p. 132 (copy); Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple. 
I. 97. 2 See nos. 53L 533. ante, and nos. 550 (note 4), 575, 590, 597, 655, 657, post. 
Cf. nos. 366, 367, ante. l537 a l L Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. 
V. Henkels of Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1236, item 43. March, iy/6 379 truly little has been done in them particularly the Marine Committee is so wanting in Attending Members that for
We have nothing new here save that the Assembly of this Province yesterday voted
Bullet of Virginia was made Dep Adjutant Gen. with the Rank of Lt. Col. Brig. 
Thomas was voted to command in Canada with the Rank of Major Gen. this was on Motion of E. Rutledge. 3 Hooper just returned from Boston says that Capt. 
Manley with
Walker and Mr. Price of Montreal before the House on the State of Canada, was opposed as unnecessary and dropt. 7 2 See the Journals, Mar. 6, 7, 8, and nos. 538, 541, post. [538] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 508. 2 The proceedings of the council of war, accompanying Washington's letter of Feb. 18 and 21, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, IV. 1192-1194. Cf. Washington to Reed, Feb. 26, ibid., p. 1502. 3 Cf. no. 528, ante. 4 See no. 490, note 2, ante. 5 See the Journals, Mar. 4, 7, 8, and nos. 542, 552, post. 
Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1530, V. 317. 6 Cf. no. 531, ante. 7 Concerning James Price and Thomas Walker, see Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 464, 668, 669, 674, 838, 853, 990, 1001, 1132, 1175, 1176, 1214, 1469, 1470; also nos 557, 5/6, 581, 583. Post, and the Journals, passim (index). 380 Continental Congress &• 539. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philada. 
March 6th. 1776. Sir, Since my last I have had the Honour of receiving your Letters of the 24th. and 30th. of January 9th. 14th. 18th. and 21st. and 26th. of February, which were communicated to Congress. 2 On the Settlements and adjustment of the Accounts, the Congress have not yet come to any Determination ; nor have they yet had Time to contrive Expedients for remedying the Inconveniences mentioned in that of the 9th. which is referred to, and will be taken up in a Committee of the whole. 
The Congress highly approve your Care and Attention in stopping Lord Drummond's Letter, and entirely concur with you in sentiment, with regard to his Lordship's officious and unwarrantable. 
Zeal. .... And that our Affairs in Canada may be under the Direction of an able Officer, and General Schuyler's Health not permitting him to go thither, or if he could, as his Presence is so necessary in New York, the Congress have promoted Brigadier General Thomas to the Rank of a Major General, and directed him to repair to Canada, and take the Command of the Continental Forces in that Quarter. 3 I have accordingly inclosed him his Commission, and am to desire you will give him Orders to repair, with all Expedition, to his Post. 
To enable him to execute the Purposes, Congress have in View in Canada, they have ordered twelve Battering Cannon to be sent from New York, and have forwarded ten Tons of Powder. 4 .... Besides this, in the Beginning of last Month, they ordered ten Tons of Salt Petre to be sent to Mr. Wisner's Powder Mill in the Colony of New York. 5 .... 540. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to Philip Schuyler. 1 Philadelphia 7th March 1776. Sir: Since my last I have had the honour to Receive your several Letters of the 10th 13th 15th 20th, 21st 23d 26th and 27th of Febry, which were immediately Communicated to Congress. 2 . . . . 1539] 1 Library of Congress. 
Letters to Washington, VIII. 210; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 83; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 164. 2 See the Journals, Feb. 9, 16, 22, 29, Mar. 5, 6, 7, 13; cf. no. 513, note 3, ante. 3 Cf. nos. 528, 538, ante. 4 See the Journals, Feb. 17, and Hancock to Lee, Feb. 19, and to the New York congress, Feb. 20, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1197, V. 297. r ' Several other orders relative to powder and saltpetre are mentioned by Hancock, but all except the one here given are recorded in the Journals (Feb. 12, 20, Mar. 4). Cf. the Journals, Jan. 13, Feb. 9, 23. [54oJ 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 64; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 99. 2 See the Journals, Feb. 21, Mar. 4, 5, 7. The letters are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 990, 1131, 1156, 1214, 1469, 1481, 1499, 1510. March, 1776 381 Your other Letters are under consideration, as soon as the Congress come to a Determination thereon, I shall do myself the honour to transmit to you. 3 .... .... With Regard to Canada, the Congress have superceeded the orders formerly given to Genl Lee, and Directed him to take the Command in the Southern Department, and have promoted Brigadr. 
General Thomas to the rank of a Major General, and ordered him to Repair to the Province of Canada and Take the Command of the Continental Forces there. 
But still they Rely greatly on your Efforts for perfecting the work so conspicuously begun, and so well Conducted under your orders last campaign. 4 The Supplies of provisions, Military Stores etc., for the Army in Canada must be procured in these Colonies and sent across the Lakes. 
On these Supplies being regularly sent will depend, not only the Success but the existence of the Army in Canada. 
For this Reason I am directed to inform you it is the Desire of Congress you should, for the present, or untill you receive further orders fix your Head-Quarters at Albany, there without being exposed to the fatigues of the Camp, untill your health is perfectly restor'd, you will be in a Situation to direct the proper arrangements for Supplying the Army in Canada, and to superintend the operation necessary for the Defence of New York and Hudson's River (the security of which is a matter of the last importance) and also the affairs of the whole middle Department. 
The Generals under you will Receive and Execute your orders, and in case of necessity you will be Ready to bring down to their aid the whole force of the Colony. 
I would just observe that it is the Desire of the Congress that the Soldiers be employ'd in erecting and throwing up the necessary works for Defence both in New York and on Hudson's River. 
The Commissioners will set out this week, they will Call on you in their way to Canada, and I Expect they will be invested with full powers not only to Settle the affairs of that province, but to adjust those matters that have given you uneasiness. 5 541. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Thursday
Harrison informed Congress that Major Isaac Melchior had grossly abused the President and
Rev., I. 509. 2 See the Journals. 
Washington's letter of Feb. 9, read this day (two other letters of that date were read Feb. 22), relates to the payment of Connecticut troops. 
It is printed, with the date Feb. 29, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1540. See the correspondence between Washington and Governor Trumbull, ibid., IV. 798, 839, 917, 945, 962, 1017, 1 157. See also ibid., pp. 365, 924, 927, 930. The proceedings of the Connecticut council of safety relative to the matter, Feb. 2, 12, are in Conn. 
Col. Pub. Recs., XV. 235, 238. Cf. no. 545, post. 
A letter of Schuyler, dated Feb. 23, read Mar. 4 (see the Journals), is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1481. A brief supplementary letter of the same date, concerning Isaac Melchior, is ibid., IV. 1483. 382 Continental Congress 6'damned Him and the Congress, the President had presented Him with a Captains Commission which was much below Melchiors Expectation (he went a Volunteer from Philada. to Cambridge and from thence with Arnold over to Quebec), after long Debates on the Power of the Congress to commit, and on a Motion made by Harrison to declare Him incapable of serving the Continent hereafter, a Resolution drawn by Johnson took Effect which after shortly stating the Offence charged, orders Him to appear before Congress to morrow Morn'g at
Ld. Stirling had seized Kearneys Shallop and made Use of Her in taking the Blue Mountain Valley the Shallop being afterwards taken by the Enemy, the Prayer is for Compensation out of the ship. 4 the Lt. Col of Thompsons Riflemen was promoted to the Regiment and the Eldest Capt. made Lt Col. 5 Lt. Col. Wm. Winds of Lord Stirling's was made Col and Matthias Ogden (who was at the Affair of Quebec) Lt. Col. these Two were vacant by their Cols, becoming Brigadiers. 6 Arms w r ere ordered for the Powder Guards. 100,000 Doll s advanced to Connecticut in Part of their Demand after much Fault found with them for not settling their Accounts. 7 Hooper says the Eastern Demands agt. 
Us are vastly great, that some Commissary there employs above Sixty Clerks at our Expence etc. 542. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [March 8, 1776.] Friday 8. the Minutes read by another Article [of a report on the army for Canada'] no Indian is to be employed in our Army without Leave of the Indian Nation in Council and witho* express Leave of Congress (this appeared to me a very absurd and impolitic Regulation), a long Altercation followed on the first Article of a Report made by John Adams for reconciling the Differences between the Generals Schuyler and Wooster. the Article was at last voted out and other Parts of the Report
Am. Arch., fourth ser. . IV. 1492. Cf. the Journals, Mar. 19, Apr. 9. Concerning the Blue Mountain J 'alley, see no. 480, note 4. ante. 5 Edward Hand and James Chambers. 
See the Journals. °That is, Thompson and Stirling. 
See the Journals, Mar. 1. See also, concerning Ogden, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 221, 403-404, and the Journals, Mar. 23, May 3. Cf. no. 627, post. 7 Cf. no. 543, post. [542] 1 Am. Jlist. 
Rev., I. 509. March, 1776 383 adopted. 2 An Application to make Mr. Price
Accounts transmitted from Canada by Col. Hazen of the Damages done to Him by our Soldiers who had destroyed or damaged his House at St. Johns and killed his Cattle etc. were referred to a Com ee of
Wyth, Ward, Sherman and S. Adams. 4 Letters read from Gen Lee and others. 5 E Rutledge reported That the Com ee had conferred with Govr Penn on the supposed Message to the
Sir I am Very sensible the Colony must have been distressed for Want of a Supply of Money. 
It has been unhappy our Troops did not take their pay, in the continental Way, which I understand they might have done. 
It would not only have prevented this Trouble, but those Jealousys which Gentlemen this Way, too readily entertain of Sinister Designs in those who go out of the Ordinary Course which they have tho't proper to point out. 
We have tho' with Dificulty obtained an advance of One hundred Thousand Dollars, 2 which will be transmitted by Mr. Sherman who intends next Week to make a short Visit to his Family
Hazen's letter, with his accounts, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1186, 1190. 5 Lee's letter, Mar. 5, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 74. A letter from Gov. Trumbull, Mar. 2, is ibid., V. 46. 6 See no. 536, ante. 7 To the committee for making muskets, etc. 
See the Journals. 8 Cf. no. 507, ante, and nos. 547, 563, 566, post. [543] x Furnished by the courtesy of Wolcott G. Lane, Esq., of New York City. 2 See the Journals, Mar. 7, Apr. 11, 1776; cf. no. 541, ante, and no. 625, post. 29 384 Continental Congress &'All the Bounties given by R Island to their Troops were refused Payment (as I understand) before I came here. 
Should the same Decision take Place with regard to Connecticut it will make a large Defaulkation from the Account. 3 Our Claim will be made, and as I fully believe it is just, I wish the Probability of obtaining it, was greater. 
The R Island Demand was I take it very generally rejected But as I have no Reason to doupt of the Prudence of the Colony Administration I believe a proper Attention will be had in these Times of Vast Expence to their own particular Circumstances, consistent with a Regard to the general Wellfare A Petition lies before Congress from a large Number of Merchants of this City requesting Letters of Mark and Reprisal, the matter has not yet been discussed. 4 The Business of Congress seems continually to encrease so that no Recess is tho't of at this Time 544. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott. 1 Phelidelphia [9?] March 1776 My Dear .... A Petition from a Considerable Number of Merchants of this City lys before Congress Asking for Letters of Marke and Reprizal. 2 Genl. 
Thomas is ordered to Canada. 
Genl. 
Lee Stands Ordered to the Southward if I should not be able to Write soon to Mr Lyman, present him my Compliments and tell him no part of our Army is or ever has been by any Resolution of Congress under a Provincial Direction and I cannot Guess how such a story should arise. 3 .... 545. The Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Phila. 
Sat. Ev. 9 Mar, 1776. Gent Immediately on Receipt of a Letter from Mr. Purviance by Express advising us of a Man-of-War being in your Bay, We applied to Congress for one Ton of Powder, which was readily granted. 2 the Delegates
Hist. 
Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. 
II., no. 6. 2 Cf. no. 543, note 4, ante. 3 See Trumhull to Washington, Feb. 5, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 945, and Gen. Charles Lee to Trumbull, Feb. 7, ibid., IV. 954; cf. Lee to Washington, Jan. 24, Feb. 5, ibid., IV. 839, 942. [545pMd. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book, IV. 18; Arch, of Md., XI. 229; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 145. 2 See the Journals, Mar. 9 (p. 196). Sundry documents. 
Mar. 5-15, pertaining to the appearance of this man-of-war, are in Arch, of Md., XI. 201-250, passim, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 71-231, passim. 
See also the proceedings of the Baltimore County committee, Mar. 6-15, ibid., V. 1507-1513. Cf. the letter of the Maryland delegates, Mar. 20, ibid., V. 430; Arch, of Md., XI. 271. March, 1776 385 of Virga had sent off one Ton in a Waggon, this without Sollicitation they offered us and We excepted and have sent their Order to the wagoner to proceed to Bait. 
We had an Order for 1875 pounds, due Maryland from Congress and this day Capt Tibbett arrived from Statia with about one Ton of Powder for our Province. 3 We have Dispatched the Powder to Chris Bridge
Town. 
We are, Gent your very affect Friends and Servts, Th Johnson Junr R. Alexander. 546. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [Half a page missing — Monday, March 11.] .... in the Negative. 
Letters from Ld. Stirling [and] Gen Lee, the latter being in Town desires to know how and when he may pay his Respects to Congress and recieve their Commands. 2 A Com ee of
Sherm[an re] ported an Inquiry into the Cau[se that] brings so many Indians (about .... different Tribes) at present to Philada. they only come, it seems, to see the Governor and receive Presents from him as usual. 
Our Secret Com ee of Correspondence, Harrison, Franklin and Dickinson were asked what they knew of the Disposition of France and other Foreign Powers and say they have not yet had Time to recieve Returns to their Dispatches. 4 547. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Tuesday 12 March. 
In Com ee of Claims we agreed to give Timothy Matlack and One Clerk employed by Him £6 per Week for their Services (there are more Clerks employed by the Com ee ) .... has had hitherto 15/ per Diem [for] attend'g the Com ee of Claims. 
In Congress the Votes were read. 20,000 Dollars advanced to Commissary Mease. 4 or
See J. F. Jameson, " St. Eustatius in the American Revolution ", Am. Hist. 
Rev., VIII. 683. 4 Christiana Bridge, near Newark, Delaware. [546] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 510. 2 Stirling's letter, Mar. 8, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 131 ; Lee's letter, Mar. 11, is ibid., V. 183 (cf. no. 530, ante). A letter, dated Mar. 7, from the provincial congress of New York to the New York delegates, read this day, is ibid., V. 101 ; Jour. 
N.^ Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 345. 3 The missing name is William Whipple. 
The committee's report is in the Journals, Mar. 14. 4 See John Adams's Notes of Debates, Mar. 1, 4 {Journals, VI. 1073, 1074; Works II. 487, 488). and cf. no. 531, note 6, ante. [S47J 1 -^*m. Hist. 
Rev., I. 510. 386 Continental Congress considered tomorrow. 2 Wyth made a Report on Hazens Demand referring the Facts to be ascertained by the Commissioners which was confirmed. 3 548. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [March 13, 1776.] Wednesday 13. the Votes read. 
On Motion of Chase a Com ee of 7, Duane at their Head, was chosen to consider of Ways and Means of raising Supplies. 2 R Morris informed Congress that a Tender was sent from New York to cruize at our Capes ; whereupon it was agreed that our Marine Com ee should purchase for the Continent a Maryland armed Brig now at Philada. and send her immed'y to fight the Tender and to keep this Matter secret for the present. 3 5 or
Com ee of Claims for paying the Music at Dr. Smiths late Oration. 5 from 12 oCloc till
Ward in the Chair. 6 on the Petitions for allowing Privateers to cruize agt. the English, Chase offered a Sett of Propositions and Wyth a Preamble. 
Willing and Johnson were the only Members who spoke directly and clearly agt. the Measure. 
Jay was for a War against such only of the British Nation as are our Enemies. 
E. Rutledge was agt. 
Privateering in any Case and for Letters of Marque in this Case, many Delegates were strongly for the Thing but the Determination was left till Tomorrow. 7 Dr. Franklin read some Extracts of Letters to Him from Paris giving a high Character of the Baron Woedtke late a Major Gen Oi Cavalry in the Prussian Service and Aid du Camp to that King but now in Philada. whither he came last from Paris. 8 2 See the Journals, and cf. nos. 507, 542, ante, 563, 566, post. 3 The report is in the Journals. 
Cf. no. 542, ante. [548] 1 ^w. Hist. 
Rev., I. 510. 2 The Journals place the name of Thomas Johnson first on the committee, that of Duane second. 3 The vessel ordered purchased was the Wild Duck (or Wild Dick, or Wicked Dick). See no. 545, ante, and no. 565, post; also Arch, of Md., XI. 246, 247, 248, 253, 277, 281, 317, 33i. 44i- 4 See the Journals. 
The New Jersey letter is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 101. The letter of Maj. John McPherson, Mar. 12, is ibid., V. 191. See further, the Journals, Mar. 30, June 4, July II, and McPherson's letters of Mar. 29 and May 31, ibid., V. 538, 632. Concerning the earlier stages of McPherson's project, see nos. 286, 308, 340, ante; cf. the Journals, Mar. 29. n Feb. 19. See no. 510, ante. 6 Concerning the discussion in the committee of the whole John Adams makes the following comment in his Autobiography: " Wednesday, March 13. Although the system had been so long pursued to postpone all the great political questions, and take up any other business of however trifling consequence, yet we were daily urging on the order of the day, and on this day we succeeded." IVorks, III. 33. 7 See no. 531. ante, and nos. 557, 562, 563, 572, post. 8 The documents are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 410-41 1. See nos. 555, 557. 559, 572, post. 
March, 1776 387 549. William Hooper to Joseph Trumbull. 1 My dear Sir .... In the packet which lately arrived at New York came passengx.* s Mr William Temple, late of New Hampshire, and Mr Francis Dana of Cambridge. 
By Mr Temple we learn that a 90 Gun Ship with 20 Commissioners on board, at the head of whom are Lord Howe and Genl Amherst, has sailed for the province of Virginia. 
It is said that they have instructions to bring about a negociation with the several assemblies of the provinces, nay to condescend to treat with Counties, Towns, particular associations, but to avoid if possible any Correspondence with the continental Congress, lest by any act of theirs they should recognize the legality of that body. 
We are told however that rather than return re infecta they are to make propositions to the Continental Congress. 
It is hinted that in the last instance their proffers will be liberal, and that if we resist the allurements which parade, persuasion, venality and Corruption may throw out, the day is our own and that Britain must hold forth by her Commissioners a Carte Blanche to her injured Sons in America. 
The King objected to treat with the Congress let the consequence be what it would, choosing rather to part with us than hold us upon what he calls an ignominious condition. 
He was told that matters were too far gone, to suffer punctilioes to delay the carrying their intended measures into Execution. 
The haughty monarch relented, and the matter and manner are left without limitations to these Ambassadors. 2 The Congress are employed upon the state of New York and the means necessary to be pursued for the defence of that City. 
Battalions are ordered from the Jerseys and one from the back of Pennsylvania to that place, and before we rise this day effectual measures, as far as such can be taken with the present scarcity of arms and warlike stores, will be pursued against the suspected designs of Gen. Howe and his Myrmidons. 3 .... February [March] 13th 1776 4 550. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Thursday 14 March, the Minutes read. 
R. H. Lee from a Com ee reported Gen Lees Opinion about fortifying New York which was considered, he recommends 8000 Troops to be kept there which was agreed [549] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 2 Cf. Hooper to Johnston, Mar. 13, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 200. In this letter Hooper says : " I most earnestly wish peace and reconciliation upon terms honourable to America. 
Heaven forbid that I should submit to any other." Cf. no. 500, note 2, ante. 
See also Reed to Washington, Mar. 15, ibid., V. 233, Washington to Reed, Apr. 1, ibid., V. 757, and nos. 509, ante, 555, 559, 560, 565, 567, 587, post. 3 See the Journals, Mar. 14, and no. 555, post. 4 This letter was evidently written in March, not in February, and is probably in reply to Trumbull's letter of Mar. 6, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 200; N. C. Col. Recs., X. 484. The latter was enclosed by Hooper in his letter to Samuel Johnston, Mar. 13 (see note 2, above). [550] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 511. 388 Continental Congress &'to and the foll'g BattaP destined to that City viz Winds's late Ld. Stirlings already there and Daytons from N Jersey Wayne's, Irwin's, Shee's and Magaws from Pennsa., with the
Prescot complain'g of a Breach of Capitulation in the Treatment of his Person and Effects, it was referred to the Com ee on Prisoners (myself One of them) to hear and examine the General and report to Congress, the Vote was taken to hear Him before the House but carried in the Negative. 5 551. The President of Congress to Colonels Shea, Magaw, Irvine, and Dayton. 1 Philadelphia March 14th. 1776. Sir: The state of New York Requiring an immediate Reinforcement, I have it in Command from Congress to direct you immediately to march your Battalion to New York, and put yourself under the Commanding
The order as to Wayne's battalion was passed Feb. 22. Winds was made colonel of Stirling's regiment Mar. 7. See also nos. 551, 552, 557 (note 2), post, and the Journals, Mar. 16. At the end of January a committee of Congress went to New York for a similar consultation. 
See the Journals, Jan. 26, and nos. 469 (note 4), 471 (note 3), ante. 3 See the Journals, Mar. 16. 4 See also the Journals, Mar. 20. * Thursday, March 14. The state of the country so obviously called for independent governments, and a total extinction of the royal authority, and we were so earnestly urging this measure from day to day, and the opposition to it was growing so unpopular, that a kind of evasion was contrived in the following resolution, which I considered as an important step, and therefore would not oppose it, though I urged, with several others, that we ought to make the resolution more general, and advise the people to assume all the powers of government. 
The proposition that passed was, — .... [The resolution for disarming disaffected persons, etc.] 'This resolution and order was indeed assuming the powers of government in a manner as offensive as the measures we proposed could have been ; but it left all the powers of government in the hands of Assemblies, Conventions, and Committees, which composed a scene of much confusion and injustice, the continuance of which was much dreaded by me, as tending to injure the morals of the people, and destroy their habits of order and attachment to regular government. 
However, I could do nothing but represent and remonstrate ; the vote as yet was against me." Autobiography of John Adams, Works, III. 33. Cf. no. 566, note 3, post. 5 See no. 563, post. 
The committee's report is in the Journals, Apr. 6; cf. ibid., Mar. 19, Apr. 9, 30. See also nos. 466, 480, 481, ante. 
Prescott's letter has not been found, but see a letter of John Smyth, Mar. 15, considered by the committee, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 236, and letters of MacDonald, Connolly, Cameron, and Smyth, ibid., V. 495, 1110-1122. This was John F. D. Smvth (see nos. 379 and note 2, 426, 453, ante, and no. 581, post). Chapters LXV.-LXVII. of his Tour in the United States of America contain an account of his experiences as a prisoner. 
ISSiI'Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 68; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 215. The original to Dayton is in Haverford College, Roberts Coll. 
March, 1J76 389 officer of the Continental Troops there. 
For Expediting your March, you are to send forward one or Two Companies at a time, and let the Rest follow at the Distance of one Day's March. 2 I am Sir your most obedt servt. 
J H Pr*. To Coll. 
John Shea of the 3d Batta 11 . of Pensyla. 
Troops, Phila. 
Coll. 
Robert Magaw of the 5th Ditto " " Philada. 
Coll. 
William Irvine of the 6th Ditto " " at Carlile Coll. 
Elias Dayton of the 3d. Batta 11 . New Jersey Troops, Eliz a Town. 552. The New York Delegates to the New York Convention. 1 Gentlemen We laid before Congress your Representation in favour of Mr. St. Clair, which met with their approbation, as you will observe by the Resolution which we have the honour to enclose. 2 General Lee informed Congress, by Letter, that he had imposed a Test upon the Inhabitants of our Colony, in order to ascertain their political Principles. 
However salutary such a Measure might be, when grounded on a legal and constitutional Basis, we were much alarmed that it shoud owe its Authority to any military Officer, however distinguished for his Zeal, his Rank, his accomplishments, and Services. 
We considered it as one of the most solemn and important Acts of Legislation, and a high Encroachment upon your Rights as the Representatives of a free People. 
We cou'd not, therefore, be silent upon so momentous a Point, tho' we were not favoured with your Sentiments or Instructions, nor informed of what, or whether any thing had passed between you and the General respecting the disaffected Inhabitants. 
We took up the Subject on general Principles. 
There can be no Liberty where the military is not subordinate to the civil power, in every thing not immediately connected with their Operations. 
Your House, the natural and proper Tribunal for all civil matters within the Circle of your own Jurisdiction, was assembled, and Congress itself within the General's reach, ready to enforce every reasonable Proposition for the publick safety. 
To one or other he ought to have applied. 
A similar Effort in Rhode-Island had passed over unnoticed; reiterated Precedents must become dangerous; we therefore conceived it to be our unquestionable Duty to assert the Independance and Superiority of the civil power, and to call the Attention of Congress to this unwarrantable Invasion of its Rights by one of their Officers. 
A Resolution passed in Consequence, on the 8th of March, 2 The marching instructions are not found in the Journals. [55 2 ] 1 Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. 
V. Henkels of Philadelphia; Jour. 
A'. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 379; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1391 (dated Mar. 1). 2 The letter from the New York convention concerning Patrick Sinclair, dated Mar. 7, is in Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 345 ; and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 101. Sinclair's application is ibid., p. 102. See the Journals, Mar. 11. 390 Continental Congress " that no Oath, by way of Test, be imposed upon, exacted or required of, any Inhabitant of these Colonies by any military Officer " ; and it was ordered to be immediately published. 
We flatter ourselves that our Conduct on this Occasion will meet with your Approbation. 3 This will be presented by Brigadier-General Thompson, who for the present will command in your Capital, General Schuyler's residence at Albany being deemed indispensable. 
General Thompson is a gallant Officer, and very much respected in this Province ; and we doubt not of your Endeavours to make his Command as agreeable to himself, and as Salutary to the Country, as possible ; to which nothing can contribute more essentially than Harmony and mutual Confidence between him and the civil Power. 
Congress were much perplexed in appointing the Officers to the four New York Battalions, not knowing whether a former Resolution, directing the english Troops who winterd in Canada to be formed into two battalions, had been carried into Effect. 
In that Case a Provision will be made for such of the Gentlemen in that Country as are entitled to Promotion. 
However it was not thought best to expose them to any Uncertainty. 
It is the Intention of Congress that if any of them should have been promoted in that Department they shall continue there and others be appointed for the new Battalions; if not, that they shall join those corpses [j/c]. 4 A Battalion was intended for Col. Ritzema; but some Objections having been suggested it is left vacant untill he can have an Opportunity of being heard, of which you will be pleased to inform him. 5 We have the Honour to be with the utmost Regard, Gentlemen, Your most obedient humble servants, Jas. Duane, John Jay, John Alsop, Lewis Morris. 
Philad. 15th March 1776. P. S. The following Battalions are assigned for the defence of New York, besides the four you are raising, viz : Pensylvanians — Waine's, Erwine's Shea's, and Magau's; New-Jersey — Lord Sterling's and Dayton's. These Troops are raised but not armed; the Want of Arms will. 3 See the Journals, Mar. 9. Lee's letter to Congress, Mar. 5, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 74; cf. his letters to the New York Provincial congress, Mar. 4, 6, ibtd., V. 334, 347 ; and Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 336, 340. See also a letter from Lee to Col. Isaac Sears, and a letter of Stirling to Samuel Tucker, president of the New Jersey convention, both dated Mar. 5, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 75, 133; and Sears to Lee, Mar. 7, ibid., V. 105. Lee's correspondence on the subject is also in N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, I. 344-352. Cf. nos. 573, 577, post. * See the Journals, Mar. 4, 7, 8, and nos. 518, 538, 542, ante. *Cf. no. 553, post. 
Ritzema was elected colonel Mar. 28. See no. 581, post. 
See the proceedings of the New York provincial congress, Feb. 27, 28, Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 325, 328; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 313, 317. Cf. ibid., IV. 869, 870, 1005, 1006, 1 1 13, 1 1 15, 1 123. March, 1776 391 it is thought, be in a great Degree remedied by executing the Resolution of Congress of the 14th Instant, a Copy of which goes with these dispatches. 
It is directed to be kept as secret as the Nature of the Service will admit. 6 For your immediate Defence the General in your Department is authorized to apply to the Governour of Connecticut, Your Convention, and the Committee of Safety of New Jersey, for so many of the Militia as he may judge necessary, who are to be paid by the Continent at
We took it for granted that it had been sent forward accordingly, till Mr. Lewis's Letter, to Mr. Alsop led to an Examination, when the Chairman of that Committee reported that it had been detaind for want of Carriages. 
A Copy of the order for the powder is enclosed. 
We shall be glad to know how far the Battalions of last year were compleated, as our Colony is reflected upon for a greater deficiency than we believe to be consistent with Truth. 
It has also been represented that recruiting for the present Service goes on very slowly, which considering your danger and distresses we scarce think credible. 8 Honour
Enclosed I send you the Commissions for the Field Officers. 
If any of them are provided for in Canada, they are to continue there, and others will be elected in their Room. 
Such of them as are in Canada, and unprovided for, have Orders immediately to repair to their respective Regiments. 2 Lest our Enemies should come upon you before the Continental Troops can be in Readiness to receive them; or in Case they should come with superiour Force, the Congress have thought proper, to empower the Continental Commander at New York, to call to his Assistance the Militia
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 69; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 232; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 370; N. Y. State Lib., Minutes of the Committee of Safety, V. 139 (copy). 2 Cf. no. 552, ante, and no. 554, post. 392 Continental Congress of your Colony, and that of Connecticut, and New Jersey, agreeably to the enclosed Resolve : and I have it in Command to request you, to hold your Militia in Readiness, to march in such Numbers, and at such Times, as he may desire. 
The Congress have ordered five Tons of Powder for the Use of the Troops employed in your Defence, which will be forwarded with the utmost Expedition. 
I have the Honour to be Gentlemen, Your very hble Sert John Hancock Presidt. 
The Col. of the 3d Battalion is not appointed, for Reasons that will be mentioned by your Delegates, to whose letters I beg Leave to refer you. 3 554. The President of Congress to Lord Stirling. 1 Philada. 
March 15th. 1776. My Lord: I had the honor of Receiving your Letters of the 12th and 13th which were immediately laid before Congress. 2 Whatever may be the Designs of General How, it appears from all the Intelligence Rec'd more than probable that the ministry will make an effort to gain possession of New York. 
It is therefore the Desire of Congress by all possible means to provide for the Defence of that place. 
They have the Satisfaction to find by the Report of a Committee appointed to Confer with General Lee on that Subject, that though the City of New York cannot easily be made Defensible against an Attack by Sea, yet it may be made an Advantageous field of Battle, and that by works thrown up in proper places, the Enemy may be prevented from gaining possession of it and making it a place of arms. 
It is therefore the Desire of Congress that you would Exert the utmost Diligence in erecting the works and perfecting the Defences agreeable to the plan he left you. 
By the Inclos'd Resolves, you will perceive the Congress have Voted Eight Thousand men for the Defence of the Colony of New York. 
Three Battalions and a Company of Rifle men from Pennsylvania, and one battalion from New Jersey are order'd to Join you with all Expedition. 
Colonel Irvine's Battalion and the Rifle Company are said to be compleatly arm 71. The rest are not so well provided as could be wish'd, But by the Resolve for taking the arms out of the hands of the Disaffected and Non Associators it is hoped they may be soon supplied. 
As the Tempest approaches and threatens to burst upon them, I flatter myself the Convention of New York will strain every nerve in speedily Raising and arming the four Battalions order'd to be rais'd there for the Defence of their Colony. 3 Cf. no. 552, ante. [554] x Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 70; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 232; Hist. 
Mag., III. 308. 2 Stirling's letters (Mar. 10 and 13) are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 175, 202. Cf. Stirling to Schuyler, Mar. 10-11, ibid., V. 174. See no. 557, note 2, post. 
March, 1776 393 Untill these Battalions can be got ready, the Congress approve your Calling some militia to your aid ; and I am Directed to Request the Governor of Connecticutt, the Conventions of New York and New Jersey, to hold their militia in Readiness to march in such numbers and at such times, as may be Desir'd by the Commander of the Forces at New York. 
This large power I have no Doubt will be Exercis'd with the greatest Discretion as the Exigence of affairs may Require. 3 The Congress have a just Sense of the importance of Defending New York. 
But as they Conceive this may be done by the means pointed out, they would not have the measures interrupted which are Taken for accomplishing their Views in Canada. 
I Have it therefore in Command, to Direct you to order the Troops Destin'd for Canada to proceed on their March agreeably to their former orders. 
I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship's most obedient humble servant, John Hancock, President. 
To the Right Honorable Lord Stirling, at New York. 
The enclosed Letter for Gov. Trumbull, I beg the favor you will immediately forward to him by a fresh Express, and return to me the man I send to you as soon as your Dispatches are ready. 4 555. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [March 15, 1776.] Friday 15. the Votes read and Letters from Gen Washington with a Packet of intercepted Letters, and Two Letters from Arthur Lee to Wm. Temple and brought by Him from England sewed in the Lining of his Cloaths. 2 our Troops have bombarded Boston with little Effect except that Howe and his Men are about to leave the Town, we burst
Lee's Letters say that the Ministry cannot get Russians France having influenced Sweden to interfere, nor can the King make his Force here 20000 Men this Summer by any Means whatever, that France declares if Foreign Troops are sent She cannot be an idle Spectator, and is really disposed to favor our Cause etc. 
A Letter from Lt. Col Wm. Allen
Washington's letter of Mar. 7, with a number of enclosures, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 106 et seq. 
Cf. Washington to Reed, Mar. 7, ibid., V. 105, Stirling to Congress, Mar. 10, ibid., V. 175, and Reed to Washington, Mar. 15, ibid., V. 233, and Stirling to Schuyler and to Congress, Mar. 10, ibid., V. 174, 175. Washington's letters are also in Writings (ed. Ford), III. 448, 460- Concerning the letters of Arthur Lee, cf. nos. 559, 565, 567, post. 
See also no. 549, note 2, ante. 
The Arthur Lee letters here mentioned are not known to be in existence, although the famous " Colden letters ", written about the same time, are of similar character. 
Concerning them, see Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., I. 521, II. 71-78, The letters (Feb. 13 and 14) are also in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1125-1128. Other letters read this day were one from Schuyler, Mar. 6, ibid., V. 91, and one from the New York convention, Mar. 12, ibid., V. 192. The latter is also in Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 354- 394 Continental Congress informingthat Ld. Stirling has detained his
The Congress in Com ee (Col Harrison in the Chair
Gen. and stationed at N York, this was reed, favorably but not now settled. 7 Agreed in Congress on motion of R H Lee that all General Officers travelling on the Public Service shall make a Charge of their Horses Keeping, the same Thing passed, on Motion of Harrison, some Days ago with respect to Aids du Camp. 8 Lee and Franklin were desired to wait on Gen. Lee and request Him to repair from hence forthwith to his Southern Department, the Massachusetts raised (as is said by one of their Delegates) 18000 Men in the Beginning of this War, whereof 16000 were taken into Continental Pay and Service, an Order took place for arming the Guard which sets off this Even'g with the Powder for Virginia. i t> j
The President, Mr. Hancock, had hitherto nominated Governor Ward, of Rhode Island, to that conspicuous distinction. 
Mr. Harrison had courted Mr. Hancock, and Mr. Hancock had courted Mr. Duane, Mr. Dickinson, and their party, and leaned so partially in their favor, that Mr. Samuel Adams had become very bitter against Mr. Hancock, and spoke of him with great asperity in private circles; and this alienation between them continued from this time till the year 1789, thirteen years, when they were again reconciled. 
Governor Ward was become extremely obnoxious to Mr. Hancock's party, by his zealous attachment to Mr. Samuel Adams and Mr. Richard Henry Lee. Such, I suppose, were the motives which excited Mr. Hancock to bring forward Mr. Harrison. " Although Harrison was another Sir John Falstaff, excepting in his larcenies and robberies, his conversation disgusting to every man of delicacy or decorum, yet, as I saw he was to be often nominated with us in business, 1 took no notice of his vices or follies, but treated him, and Mr. Hancock too, with uniform politeness. 
I was, however, too intimate with Mr. Lee, Mr. Adams, Mr. Ward, etc. to escape the jealousy and malignity of their adversaries. 
Hence, I suppose, the calumnies that were written or otherwise insinuated into the minds of the army, that I was an enemy to Washington, in favor of an annual election of a General, against enlisting troops during the war, etc. etc.; all utterly false and groundless." Autobiography of John Adams, Works, III. 34. Here and elsewhere in Adams's Autobiography, written many years after the events. large allowance must be made for political animus. 
The immediate if not the sole reason for Ward's displacement was his serious illness. 
He died ten days later. 
See nos. 578, 582, post. 
Harrison was not now chairman for the first time (see no. 536, ante). Capt. 
John Nelson of Reading. 
See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 244, and the Journals, passim (index). /. e., currency of Pennsylvania. 7 See no. 5^8, ante, and nos. 557, 559, 572, post. 8 See the Journals, Mar. 13, 15. March, 1776 395 556. Matthew Tilghman to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Philadelphia, March 16, 1776. Goit I Inclose you a resolution of Congress which I am directed to forward to you, and as I recollect was ordered not to be made public. 2 I am Gent Yr mo. obedt Servant, Mat. Tilghman 557. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Saturday 16 March, the Minutes read and sundry public Letters. 2 Wra. Livingston brought in the Draught of an Order for a General Fast which was agreed to and ordered to be published. 3 The Baron de Woedtke was unanim y elected a Brig. 
Gen. and ordered to N York for the present and to go with the Commissioners to Canada. 4 Congress resolved itself into a Com ee on authorizing Privateers. 
Jay offered his Propositions, he and others contended for discriminating Foes from Friends. 
Dr. Franklin thought a Declaration of War ought to precede this Business, there was no Determination. 5 A Note of Hand from Gen Wooster to Thos. 
Walker of Montreal Esqr. for 50 Half Joes with Interest, was presented for Payment. 
Chase and others objected to paying Interest as our Officers might run Us into an enormous Debt, it was postponed. 
The Accounts of Mr. Price of Montreal were offered for Adjustment and referred to the Com ee of Claims, this Gent n and his Partner Mr. Haywood have lent great Sums to our Army there. 6 Carpenter Wharton the Commissary was authorized to continue victualling the Penna. 
Troops after their Arrival in N York. 558. The President of Congress to Duncan Campbell. 1 Philada. 
March 16th. 1776. Sir: It having been represented to Congress, that Mrs. Campbell is arrived in this City, and so much indisposed as not to be able to pursue her Design [556] x Arch, of Md., XI. 256; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 244. 2 The resolution of Mar. 14 for disarming disaffected persons. 
Cf. no. 552, ante. 
See also the Journals, Mar. 20 (p. 220). [557] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 512. 2 A letter of Stirling, Mar. 14, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 217. It would appear from Hancock's reply, Mar. 15 (the second letter of that date, ibid., V. 233), that Stirling's letter was received and acted on in the afternoon of Mar. 15. 3 See no. 550, ante. 4 See the Journals, and cf. nos. 548, 555, ante, and nos. 559, 572, post. 
See also De Woedtke to Washington, Mar. 23, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 474. 5 Cf. no. 531, note 5, ante. 6 See no. 538, note 7, ante; also the Journals, passim (index "Haywood, Price and "). [558] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 75; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 244. 396 Continental Congress of visiting you at Reading - , and being desirous of seeing you, I am directed by the Congress to inform you, that you have their permission to repair to this City, and remain with Mrs. Campbell during the Continuance of her Illness, and until she is able to attend you on a Journey to Reading. 2 I am, sir, yours, etc. 
John Hancock, Prest. 
Captain Campbell. 559. Richard Smith to the President of the New Jersey Convention (Samuel Tucker). 1 Dr Sir This Morning I was favored with Yours of Yesterday, the Business of the Prisoners at Trenton and elsewhere rests with a Com ee . of which I am a Member, and I should be glad of your Opinion where we shall remove them and whether the County of Morris is not a cheap and proper Country. 2 .... An Express arrived Yesterday from General Washington with a Packet of intercepted Letters from England, and One Wm. Temple also came to Town with Letters to the Congress from a Person of Note in London whose Name I am not at Liberty to mention, the following Particulars, Part of these Dispatches, are supposed to be authentic viz. 
That France had instigated Sweden to interpose and thro this Channel had actually frustrated the Treaty for sending Russians to America. 3 the ostensible Reason given by Russia for Refusal was that no Cartel being settled here, all their Prisoners would be liable to be massacred by the Provincials — that the French Ambassador at St. James's had declared that his Master did not mean to interfere while British Subjects alone were concerned, but if Foreigners were employed he could not remain an idle Spectator — that all the Efforts of the Ministry cannot get 20,000 effective Men here this Summer and even the Highlanders were averse to the Service and inlisted slowly — that France secretly favors our Cause
Saturday March 16. 1776. [P. S.] . . . . 2 See the Journals, Mar. 16, Apr. 6, 9; cf. ibid., Jan. 22, and nos. 452, 460, 479, ante. f 559] J N- Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Continental Congress. 2 See no. 482, ante, and the Journals, Feb. 2, 7, and Mar. 20, and no. 566, post ; also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 473, 474. 8 See F. A. Golder, " Catherine II. and the American Revolution ", Am. Hist. 
Rev., XXI. 92-93. 4 Cf. no. 555. note 2, ante. 5 See no. 555, note 7, ante. 
March, 1776 397 560. Oliver Wolcott to Lyman. 1 Philadelphia 16th March 1776. Sir, .... What has been done of a public nature since my last is a Recommendation to the Assembly and conventions, to disarm all such as will not associate to defend the American rights by arms. 2 A petition lies before Congress from a number of merchants of this City requesting letters of mark against the British Trade. 
The report will doubtless be a general license for that purpose. 
By the late pirating act, the Colonies are entirely cast out of the Kings protection, in an explicit manner. 
It behoves us therefore to take care of ourselves. 3 As to commissioners coming over, I believe it is very certain that their powers are only to receive the submissions of the Colonies, and I am very confidant they will not therefore be ever able to execute their trust. 4 A proclamation for a fast has issued to be kept the 17th May, but no particular notice is taken of the British Court, but only as they fall under the general denomination of Enemies. 
As to matters of internal police, which you mention, they are not at present the objects of attention, but in the course of affairs they may become so. The business of Congress is very various and extensive. 
We have but a very little spare time, for the vast number of applications calls for a constant attention We have with difficulty obtained an advance of 30,000 pounds, which will be sent. 
R. Island was refused payment for the bounties they advanced to their Soldiers, before I came here, and I suppose Connecticut upon the same principle must share the same fate. 5 .... 561. Andrew Allen to Philip Schuyler. 1 Philada March 17th. 1776 My dear Sir, .... You have no doubt been informed by the Presidt according to Order of Congress that the Information transmitted to you by Mr. Dean and inclosed in yours to Congress respecting Mr. Penn's Inviting the Six Nations to a Treaty at Philada. has been reported void of Foundation by the Commee. 2 I well knew it was a scandalous falsehood before Inquiry made, as Mr. Penn never Entertained such an Idea and it would be preposterous in him if he meant such a Thing to propose Philada. as the Place of holding a Treaty directly under the Nose of the Congress. 
I can readily guess the Quiver from whence the Shaft came, and the Object it had in view. 
The Means were scandalous and the Cause dia- [560] x Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, I. (copy). 2 See the Journals, Mar. 15; cf. nos. 550, 552, 553, 556, ante. 3 See no. 531, note 5, ante. 4 Cf. nos. 509, 549, 555, 5S9, ante, and nos. 565, 567, 587, post. 5 Cf. no. 543, ante. [561] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 8. 2 See the Journals, Mar. 5, 8, and Apr. 25 ; cf. nos. 536, 542, ante. 
See also Deane to Schuyler, Mar. 10, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 768. 398 Continental Congress bolical. 
My long Friendship with you emboldens me to open my self and my Suspicions to you without Disguise. 
In short I have the greatest Reason to think it a deep laid Plot of your Eastern Neighbours directed to favor the Designs of the Colony of Connecticut in their Dispute with Mr. Penn, and also to blow up the Constitution and Government of this Province which has hitherto been a Barrier against their dark Designs. 
Shall I take the Liberty to intreat you to fathom this cursed Scheme (I suspect Dean) and endeavour to get this pretended Message of Mr. Penn's which if in Writing I am sure is a forgery into your Hands. 
Your Friendship and the sacred Regard I know you bear to the Honor of every Gentleman will excuse this Trouble, you will be intitled to the grateful Thanks of the Gentleman struck at and everlastingly oblige Your affectionate and obedient Friend and Servt. 
Andw. 
Allen 562. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Monday 18 March, the Votes read. 20,000 Dollars advanced to Commissary Mease, some Promotions made in One of the Virginia Regts. in Consequence of Col. Henry's Resignation. 2 the Congress was again in Com ee on the privateering Business, several Resoluts. were come to after an able Debate, by the first, Leave is to be given to commission Privateers and Letters of Marque to cruize on British Property, the Vote stood thus, For the Resolution New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, N York, Virginia and North Carolina, against it Pennsa. and Maryland, the other Colonies not sufficiently represented to vote. 
Ireland was excepted and the other British Domins. with the Consent of all but Chase and myself (it appearing to me very absurd to make War upon Part only of the Subjects and especially after the Irish Parlt. had declared decisively agt. 
Us). Leave for the Com ee to sit again on the same Affair. 3 R H Lee moved to take Monsr. 
Arundel and another Frenchman into the Southern Departmt. which was opposed by Dr. Franklin and referred to our Com ee for consider'g the Application of Foreigners. 4 563. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [March 19, 1776.] Tuesday 19. Minutes read Johnson threw out for Consideration the Propriety of establishing a Board of Treasury, a War Office, a [562] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 512. 2 See the Journals, Feb. 13, Mar. 18. Cf. Washington to Reed, Mar. 7, and Reed to Washington, Mar. 15. (See no. 555, note 2, ante.) 3 Cf. nos. 531, 548, 557, ante, and nos. 563, 572, post. 
See also the proceedings of the New York provincial congress, Mar. 13, Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 355; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 376. The action of the Irish Parliament is to be found in the Irish Commons Journals. 
IX. 220, Nov. 27, 1775; Lords Journals, IV. 803, Nov. 28. * See the Journals, Mar. 18, 19; cf. nos. 447, 451, 486, ante. 
It is not certain who the other Frenchman was. 
Possibly it was the Canadian, St. Aulaire. 
See the Journals, Mar. 21, Apr. 4. Cf. no. 569, post. 
I563] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 513. March, 1776 399 Board of Public Accounts and other Boards to consist of Gent n not Members of Congress. 2 The Draught of a Commission to Dr. Franklin, Chase and Carrol was brot. in and some additional Instructions. 
In the Even'g S. Adams, Wilson and myself spent an Hour with Gen Prescott at the new Tavern, he was open and free, endeavored to justify every Thing by the Commands of Carlton and explained at large his Complaints. 3 564. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott. 1 Phelidelphia, 19th March 1776. My Dear .... have sent to Oliver and Frederick Dr Smith's Oration on the Death of Genl Montgomery. 
Dr Smith has too much covertly introduced his own political Sentiments of the Times, and defamed Col Enos, 2 without any Authority. 
Dr. Smith's Character is not I take it the most unexceptionable, and being a Wioming Claimer is peculiarly inimical to our Colony and N England in general, he was desired by Congress to deliver this Oration, but has not Obtained their Thanks for so doing, neither is it printed of their Desire. 
There are Strokes in it of Sublime Oratory, but I think he meant rather to gratify himself than to do Honour to the Memory of any one — but this by the bye. 3 565. The Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Gent. 
Capt Tibbit in a Brig from Statia, purchased and loaded by Abram. 
Vanbebber for our Province, arrived here last Week, the Capt. applied to us for Orders agreeable to Directions, he had received for that purpose from Vanbebber; We ordered the Cargo to be landed and stored, and the Hands to be discharged — a few Days since Application was made to us, for the Sale of the Brig to the Congress, which we agreed to, and have delivered her up with the Guns, Stores etc. the acc ts relative to her, will be settled in a few Days, and shall be transmitted. 2 .... We make no doubt you have heard various reports relative to a Mr. Temple, who came Passenger in the packet and is now in this City, before his Arrival here it was asserted, that he was charged with Dispatches from the Minority to Congress, that Comrs were appointed with full powers, and that if on their Arrival in America, the different Assemblies refused to
Hist. 
Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. 
II., no. 5. 2 Lieut.-Col. Roger Enos. 
See Washington's letter to Congress, Nov. 19, 1775, Writings (ed. Ford), III. 225, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1608-1610. Cf. ibid., III. 1070, 1085, 1701, 1708-1711, 1721, IV. 183, 192, 237, 238, 768. 3 See nos. 453, 466, 478, 497, 499, 510, 514, 522, ante, and no. 621, post. 
I565] 1 Md. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book, IV. 21; Arch, of Md., XI. 266; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 409. 2 An endorsement on the letter reads : " relative to a Brig named Wicked Dick [Wild Duck?] sold to Congress, etc." See nos. 545, 548, ante. 30 400 Continental Congress treat, they were to treat with Congress ; Temple on his arrival, delivered his Budget, which was truly farsical, being only a Button of his Coat, in which was contained a -Scrawl from Arthur Lee informing Congress that Troops were to sail from Ireland and for other Particulars referring to Temple, who could give Information, as he Lee had acquainted him with the state of Affairs and the Designs of Administration. 
We have never seen Temple, it is said, he is sick, some say he is mad, from his conduct in taking this Journey to deliver such a trifling Letter, if this is his sole Business, the latter Opinion seems well founded. 3 .... We are with respect Gent Your Hble Servants, The Delegates of Maryland. 
Philada 19th March 1776. 566. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Wednesday 20 March, the Minutes of yesterday were read with Letters from Ld Stirling and others. 2 The Commission and Instructions to the Canada Commissioners were canvassed and finished. 3 by One Clause any Two of them are allowed to abate Fortifications and to construct any so as not to exceed 100,000 Dollars, some Com ees were filled up. Major Brixon [Wrixon] 4 lately from England being recommend d for the Service in Canada in Quality of an Engineer a Com ee was raised to consider the Application, several Acco ts allowed. 
E Rutledge moved that Magaws Regiment may be furnished with Pikes they having no Guns, it was desired also for several other Regts. the Matter was debated and left for further Consideration. 5 On like Motion Col Magaw was allowed 3000 Dollars on Acco* to purchase Arms with. 
S. Adams reported about the Prisoners at Trenton. 6 3 Cf. nos. 509, 549, 555, 559, 560, ante, and nos. 567, 587, post. [566] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 513. 2 Stirling's letter, dated Mar. 16, with an addition Mar. 17, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 247. 8 " Wednesday, March 20. Congress resumed the consideration of the instructions and commission to the deputies or commissioners going to Canada, and agreed to them as they appear in the Journals. 
In these we obtained one step more towards our great object — a general recommendation to the States to institute governments. 
Congress recommended to the people of Canada to set up such a form of government as will be most likely, in their judgment, to produce their happiness; and pressed them to have a complete representation of the people assembled in Convention, with all possible expedition, to deliberate concerning the establishment of a form of government, and a union with the United Colonies. 
It will readily be supposed that a great part of these instructions were opposed by our antagonists with great zeal; but they were supported on our side with equal ardor, and the acceptance of them afforded a strong proof of the real determination of a majority of Congress to go with us to the final consummation of our wishes." Autobiography of John Adams, Works, III. 36. Cf. no. 550, note 4, ante. * Elias Wrixon. 
See the Journals, Mar. 20, 30, Apr. 12, 29, and Wrixon's letter to Congress, Apr. 28, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 11 10; also nos. 576, 620, 630 (note 2), post. 6 Cf. the Journals, Mar. 20, 21. 6 Cf. nos. 482, 559, ante. 
March, 1776 401 567. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston. 1 Philadelphia 20th March 1776. Dear Sir, .... The act of Parliament prohibiting all Trade and Commerce between Great Britain and the Colonies has been lately brought here by a Mr. Temple from London, it makes all American property found on the Sea liable to Seizure and confiscation and I fear it will make the Breach between the two Countries so wide as never more to be reconciled, we have heard much talk of Commissioners to be sent to treat with us. I do not expect any. 2 the act of Parliament empowers the King
Doctor Franklin told me last evening he had a Letter from London dated the 25th December, no Commissioners were then appointed, parliament was prorogued to 25th of January. 
I see no prospect of a reconciliation, nothing is left now but to fight it out, and for this we are not well provided, having but little ammunition, no Arms no money, nor are we unanimous in our Councils, we do not treat each other with that decency and respect that was observed heretofore. 
Jealousies, ill natured observations and recriminations take place of reason and Argument, our Tempers are sound, some among us urge strongly for Independency and eternal separation, others wish to wait a little longer and to have the opinion of their Constituents on that subject, you must give us the sentiment of your province when your Convention meets. 4 Several Merchants and others have petitioned the Congress for leave to fit out privateers to Cruize against British Vessels, it was granted yesterday, the Restrictions are not yet completed or I would have sent you a copy of them. 5 I send you the last News paper enclosed to which refer for news. 
My Compliments to all. 568. The Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Gent. .... Powder is an article that cannot be purchased in this City. 
Mr. Johnson had a Sum of Money lodged in his Hands by Col Hollingsworth of Cecil County to purchase a small Q ty of powder for that County, the Money being raised by Subscription for that Purpose, this he could not accomplish ; and at the pressing Instance of that C ty , We procured from Congress
Soc, Red Book, IV. 22; Arch, of Md., XI. 271; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 430. 402 Continental Congress being very great, and our Magazine almost empty, prevents our making any further Application. 2 We are with Respect Gent, yr Hble Servts R. Alexander for self and Colleagues. 
Phila. 20 March 1776 *•&■ 569. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [March 21 , 1776.] Thursday 21. the Votes read. 2 Col Charles Stewart
Woolvertons Comp y who offer themselves for the Service and 600 Dollars were allowed the Col for their Use. 4 John Adams from a Com ee reported some Resolutions which were amended and passed recommending to the Colonies to encorage the Culture of Flax, Hemp, Cotton and the Increase of Wool, to form a Society in each Colony for the Encoragement of Arts, Manufactures Agriculture and Commerce etc these were ordered to be published, a Clause was erased for a standing Com ee of Congress to correspond with and assist these Societies. 5 A Com ee of
Brig. 
Gen Donald McDonald is taken Prisoner, Capt. 
Mac Leod and other Officers killed. 6 Harrison moved that Gen Washington do discharge all the unarmed Men in his Camp when he has used his Endeavors without Success to arm them, which was carried after some Opposition. 7 Monsr. le Chevalier de St. Hillaire
Rev., I. 513. 2 A letter of Schuyler, Mar. 7, with enclosures, read on this day, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 103-104. See no. 513, note 3, ante, and the Journals, Apr. 6. 3 Colonel of New Jersey militia; made commissary general of issues, June 18, 1777- 4 Capt. 
Thomas Wolverton (or Woolverton). See the Journals, Mar. 19, 21, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 473. 5 See the Journals, and the quotation from John Adams's Autobiography, no. 570, note 4, post. 6 See AT. C. Col. Recs., X. 441-444, 465-469, 475, 482, 483, 4^5, 486-493, XI. 276-290 (cf. pp. 293-298) ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1129, 1488, V. 59-65, 68, 170. Cf. nos. 575, 668, 681, post. 7 See a letter from the Massachusetts delegates to the president of the council, Apr. 3, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 774. * In the Journals (Mar. 21, Apr. 4) the name is St. Aulaire. 
Cf. no. 562, ante. 1 570]' Warren-Adams Letters, I. 212. 2 See the Journals, Mar. 23 ; cf. no. 574, post. 
March, ijj6 403 I hope, and believe it will not be long - before Trade will be open. 
Foreign Nations, all the World I hope, will be invited to come here, and our People permitted to go to all the World except the Dominions of him, who is adjudged to be Nerone Neronior. 3 I think the Utmost Encouragement must be given to Trade, and therefore W T e must lay no Duties at present upon Exports and Imports, nor attempt to confine our Trade to our own Bottoms or our own seamen. 
This for the present. 4 We have so much Work to do, by sea and Land, and so few Hands to do it, that We shall not be under any Necessity, nor will it be good Policy, I think, to attempt such Restrictions as yet 571. Charles Thomson, Note. 1 March 22 1776. Resolved That the rank of all such officers in the continental army as held similar commissions in that service before the term of their late appointment expired be settled by the dates of their former and not their present Commissions Extract from the minutes Cha Thomson secy N B. This passed to settle a dispute between officers of the same rank, where one who was prior by the date of his first commission was put posterior to another in the new appointment both still holding the same rank. 
But was not to have any affect in cases of promotion, Congress having reserved and exercised the power of promoting merit without regarding prior Rank. 2 572. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Friday 22 March. 
Votes read and Letters from Gen Wash n Ld. Stirling and others. 2 Dr. Franklin moved that 750 Doll s be advanced to the
Cf. Adams's Notes of Debates, Feb. 16 {Journals, VI. 1072; Works, II. 487) ; also nos. 509 (note 4), 569, ante, and nos. 572, 574, 579- 590, 591, 594, post. [571] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, X. 7; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., II. 412. 2 Cf. no. 573, post. 
On the following day a similar question was brought forward in a letter of Lord Stirling. 
See the Journals, Mar. 23, May 3, and no. 572, note 7, post. [572] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 514. 2 Washington's letter of Mar. 13, with the proceedings of the council of war, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 204 (see Hancock to Washington, Mar. 21, ibid., V. 446). Stirling's letter of Mar. 19 is (bid., V. 414. The letters referred to by Stirling are those of Washington to him and to Lee, Mar. 14, ibid., V. 223, 224. See Stirling to Schuyler and to Washington, Mar. 20, ibid., V. 436, 437. The Delaware recommendation (see the Journals, p. 226) is ibid., V. 431. 404 Continental Congress Baron de Woedtke out of his Pay and this was agreed to. he moved also to present the Baron with 250 Dollars to bear his Expences in coming over Sea and to buy Horses etc. 
Lee and others supported the Motion which was opposed by Duane et al. and carried in the Negative. 3 Wyth reported the preamble about Privateering, he and Lee moved an Amendt. wherein the King was made the Author of our Miseries instead of the Ministry, it was opposed on Supposition that this was effectually severing the King from us forever and ably debated for
Chief Speakers for the Amendt. 
Lee, Chase, Serjeant, Harrison, against it Jay, Wilson, Johnson. 4 Willing presented Heard's Accounts and asked Whether Congress would allow Pay to the Minute Men who went on the late Expedition to Queens County, this was denied and the Acco* amounting to £2300 and upwards docked to £800 and odd. the Feriages being above £60 were allowed. 
Willing moved for a Standing Rule that only Half Ferriage shall be hereafter taken for Soldiers, but other Business intervened. 5 A Petition from a Sufferer in the Disputes at Wyoming was committed to 3, after Objection that it was improper for our Cognizance. 6 Agreed to grant Commissions to Capt. 
Win. Shippen and his Officers who are about to cruize in a Privateer on or out of Chesapeak Bay, agreed also to sell Him lb 300 of Powder. 
Saturday. 
I was not present but inter alia 30,000 Dollars were advanced to Commissary Lowrey. 7 573. John Jay to Alexander McDougall. 1 Philadelphia, March 23, 1776. Dear Colonel: When the clerk of the Congress gave me the printed papers which I enclosed you, he told me they contained the navy establishment. 
Whatever deficiencies there may be in them as to that matter, will I hope be supplied by the extract now enclosed. 2 3 See nos. 548, 555, 557, 559, ante. * Cf. nos. 531, 548, 562, 563, ante, and nos. 572, 596, post, and the Journals, Mar. 23, Apr. 2, 3, 6. 5 See the Journals, Jan. 3, 10, 13, Feb. 6, Mar. 23, 30, Apr. 23; also nos. 420, 487, ante, and no. 583, post. c The petition of John Secord. 
See the Journals, Mar. 20, 22, Apr. 11, 15; also the proceedings of the Pennsylvania assembly, Mar. 21, 26, Apr. 4, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 687, 689, 695. 7 The letter of James Young (Mar. 22), read in Congress, Mar. 23, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 464; that of Stirling, Mar. 18, with enclosures, is ibid., V. 403-404. The committee on Stirling's letter reported May 3. Cf. no. 571, ante. [573I 1 Correspondence of John Jay (ed. Johnston), I. 49; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 471. 2 The " printed papers " referred to were probably the rules for the regulation of the navy adopted Nov. 28, 1775. The "extract" enclosed may have been the resolution concerning privateers, adopted Mar. 23, the day on which this letter was written. 
March, ijj6 405 As to Continental colours, the Congress have made no order as yet concerning them, and I believe the captains of their armed vessels have in that particular been directed by their own fancies and inclinations. 
I remember to have seen a flag designed for one of them, on which was extremely well painted a large rattlesnake, rearing his crest and shaking his rattles, with this motto, " Don't tread on me " , but whether this device was generally adopted by the fleet, I am not able to say, I rather think it was not. 3 .... I am happy to find that our intermeddling in the affair of the test is agreeable to you. 
For God's sake resist all such attempts for the future. 4 Your own discernment has pointed out to you the principle of Lord Stirling's advancement; had the age of a colonel's commission been a proper rule, it would have determined in favour of some colonel at Cambridge, many of whose commissions are prior in date to any in New York. 
The spirit you betray on this occasion becomes a soldier. 
The enclosed copy of a resolve of Congress will, I hope, settle all doubts relative to rank, which may arise, from your new commission. 5 The consequence you drew from that circumstance was more ingenious than solid, for I can assure you that the Congress were not disposed to do anything wrong or uncivil ; and I can also add, that your not having joined your regiment last summer has been explained to their satisfaction, as far as I am able to judge ; with respect to this, however, as well as some other matters, I shall defer particulars till we meet. 
In a word, with some men in these as in other times, a man must either be their tool and be despised, or act a firm disinterested part and be abused. 
The latter has in one or two matters been your fate, as well as that of many other good men. 574. John Adams to Horatio Gates. 1 Philadelphia March 23, 1776. Dear Sir .... I agree with you, that in Politicks the Middle way is none at all. 
If we finally fail in this great and glorious Contest, it will be by bewildering ourselves in groping after this middle way. 
We have hitherto conducted half a war, acted upon the Line of Defence, etc. etc. 
But you will
A similar inquiry had been made by the committee of safety in a letter to the delegates, Jan. 22. See the proceedings Dec. 20, 1775, and Jan. 22, 1776, in Jour. 
AT. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 228, 261; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 431, 1066. See also ibid., VI. 420. Cf. ibid., III. 1126, IV. 360, 570, 710, 964, V. 568, 1299. For an investigation of the history of the flag see Preble. 
History of the Flag of the United States of America, etc. (second ed., Boston, 1880). 4 See the Journals, Mar. 9, and nos. 552, ante, 577 (note 3), post. 5 See nos. 571, 572 (note 7), ante. [574] 1 N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Gates Papers, VI.; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 471. 406 Continental Congress see by tomorrow's Paper, that for the future we are likely to wage three Quarters of a war. 
The Continental ships-of-war, and Provincial shipsof-war, and Letters of Marke and Privateers are permitted to cruise upon British Property, wherever found on the ocean. 2 This is not Independency you know, nothing' like it. If a Post or two more, should bring you unlimited Latitude of Trade to all Nations, and a polite Invitation to all Nations to trade with you, 3 take care that you dont call it, or think it Independency. 
No such Matter. 
Independency is a Hobgoblin of so frightful Mien, that it would throw a delicate Person into Fits to look it in the Face. 4 I know not whether you have seen the Act of Parliament call'd the restraining Act, or prohibitory Act, or piratical Act, or plundering Act, or Act of Independency, for by all these titles is it called. 
I think the most apposite is the Act of Independency, for King Lords and Commons have united in sundering this country from that I think forever. 
It is a compleat Dismemberment of the British Empire. 
It throws thirteen Colonies out of the Royal Protection, levels all Distinctions, and makes us independent in spight of our supplications and entreaties. 
It may be fortunate that the Act of Independency should come from the British Parliament, rather than the American Congress; but it is very odd that Americans should hesitate at accepting such a gift from them. 
However, my dear friend Gates, all our Misfortunes arise from a single source — the Reluctance of the Southern Colonies to Republican Government. 
The success of this war depends on a skillful steerage of the political vessel. 
The Difficulty lies in forming Constitutions for particular Colonies, and a Continental Constitution for the whole, each Colony should establish its own Government, and then a League should be formed, between them all. 
This can be done only on popular Principles and Maxims which are so abhorrent to the Inclinations of the Barons of the South, and the Proprietary Interests in the Middle Colonies as well as to that avarice of Land, which has made upon this Continent so many votaries to Mammon, that I sometimes dread the Consequences. 
However Patience, Fortitude, and Perseverance, with the Help of Time will get us over these obstructions. 
Thirteen Colonies under such a Form of Government as that of Connecticutt, or one not quite so popular, leagued together in a faithfull Confederacy, might bid Defiance to all the Potentates of Europe, if united against them
See also the Journals, Apr. 3. 3 The resolutions concerning trade were passed Apr. 6. See also the Journals Apr. 4, 11. Lf. nos. 509 (note 4), 569, 5/0, 572, ante, and nos. 579, 590, 591, 594, post. 
As to declarations of independency, be patient. 
Read our privateering laws and our commercial laws. 
What signifies a word?" John Adams to Mrs. Adams Apr. 14, Familiar Letters, p. 153; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 931. Cf nos so? 000, post. 'March, 1776 407 575. William Whipple to Josiaii Bartlett. 1 Philadelphia 24th March 1776. Dear Sir .... We have gone on since you left much as Usual, have at last finish'd the Privateer Business after spending two clays on the Preamble, the whole was compleated Yesterday and order'd to be. printed. 2 I shall forward them to you as soon as they come from the press. 
Some pleasing acco ts from North Carolina have arrived since you left this place which you [will see] in the inclosed papers. 3 I have twice mov'd to have the N. Hampshire matter finish'd without success but hope shall get it done this weak. 4 The Brig : Lexington drops down to day. 
Gov : Ward is shockingly bad off. 
I believe he'll be thoroughly purg'd both of Original sin and actual Transgression. 
The Doc rs say he is not dangerous. 
The Canada Commissioners are to set out tomorrow, a schooner arriv'd Yesterday from France but have not yet heard what she brings, its a French Vessel. 
I suppose the Genl. 
Court is now setting. 
Please to give my respects to all friends and be sure write every weak and settel matters at home as soon as possible for I find I shall soon want you here, its my private opinion the grand Question B will soon be debated. 
The time I think cannot be far off. [P. S.] 10 o'Clock in the even g . I have just heard from Gov Ward he is extream 111. the Chance much against him. 6 576. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Monday 25 March. 
Votes read and Letters from Gen Wash". President Tucker and many more. 2 Howes Troops have abandoned Boston and our People are in Possession. 
John Adams moved that the Thanks of the Congress be given to the Officers there for their good Conduct and that a Gold Medal be struck with a proper Device and presented to Mr Washington, accordingly J Adams and
Mar. 28 Whipple again wrote to Bartlett: "Congress have not yet had time to take up the report on New Hampshire matters." (Hist. 
Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Signers, I. 40.) 5 The " grand question " was that of independence. 6 Ward died the following night. 
See no. 578, post. [576] x Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 514. 2 See the Journals. 
Washington's letter of Mar. 19, with general orders, etc., Mar. 14-19, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 420; that of Schuyler Mar. 12, with enclosures, is ibid., V. 194-196; that of Stirling, Mar. 21, is ibid., V. 448; and that of the New Jersey committee of safety, Mar. 23, is ibid., V. 474. 3 " On Monday, March 25th, I made a motion, and laid it in writing on the table, in these words." Adams's Autobiography, Works, III. 38. Cf. no. 586, post. 
See also the Journals, Apr. 2, Nov. 29. 408 Continental Congress this was objected to, by Allen particularly, and the Report recommitted. 4 R H. Lee moved that Gen Wash 11 , be directed to detach from his Army
Mr. Price
Johnson made a Report inter alia, that
The precedent alone they feared, when less judgment was used. 
They endeavored therefore to guard against pointing at you by directing their Resolve to future occasions. 6 As then there was no design to reflect on you, so we have concluded that the better way will be not to present the letter, but
See also Hancock to Washington, Mar. 25, Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, VIII. 265; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 175; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 496. 6 James Price. 
See nos. 538, 557, ante, and no. 583, post. 
Cf. Schuyler's letter of Feb. 20, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1469. 7 John Halstead. 
See the Journals, Feb. 17, and Arnold's letter of Jan. 24, Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, IV. 838. 8 See the Journals, July 17, and Nov. 8 (p. 340), 1775. 9 Cf. no. 540, ante. 10 Cf. no. 500, note 2, ante. [577] X N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, I. 362; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 171. 2 The letter to Richard Henry Lee has not been found ; the letter to Hancock, dated Mar. 21, is in N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, I. 360. Further remarks anent the decision not to present the letter to Congress are found in Richard Henry Lee's letter of Apr. 1 (no. 585, post), and Charles Lee's letter to him, Apr. 5, Lee Papers, I. 378; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 792. He had been ordered (March 15) to take command of the forces in the southern department and was at this time in Williamsburg, Virginia. 3 The resolve alluded to is that of Mar. 9, in regard to imposing a test. 
See nos. 552, 573, ante, and no. 585, post; also Charles Lee's letter to Hancock and a letter to Richard Henry Lee, Apr. 5, cited in note 2, above. 
March, 1776 409 content ourselves with informing Congress of your having taken the Engineers and getting their approbation. 4 .... I this day moved in Congress and succeeded, to send an order for four battalions to be detached for Canada from Gen. Washington's Army. 5 .... 578. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 [March 26, 1776.] Tuesday 26. a Com ee of
Ward
I refer you to Colonel Orne
This will not, in itself, satisfy you ; and I hope nothing will, short of a determination of America to hold her rank in the creation, and give law to herself. 3 I doubt not
Rev., I. 515. 2 " Have the pleasure to acquaint that Mr. Lynch is some better ; but alas ! the Worthy Govr Ward is gone. 
This morning about Two he died of the Small pox which he had Insensibly taken." Samuel Huntington to Joseph Trumbull, Mar. 26, Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 
Cf. no. 582, post. 3 See Bibliographical Notes, in the Journals, VI. 11 19. Rev. Samuel Stillman was minister of the First Baptist Church in Boston; see Sprague, Annals, VI. 71-79- 4 See no. 487, note 7, ante, and no. 628, post. [579] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 506. 2 Azor Orne, at this time a member of the Massachusetts house of representatives. 
He had recently (Feb. 8) been elected "second major-general" of the Massachusetts militia, the first and the third being John Hancock and Benjamin Lincoln, respectively. 
See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1294-1295. A brief sketch of Orne is in Appleton, Cyclop, of Am. Biog. 3 Cf. no. 574, ante, and no. 591, post; also Hawley to Gerry, Feb. 20, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1220. 410 Conti)ioital Congress this will soon take place; and am sure New England will not be satisfied with less, since not only the Government, but the people of Great Britain, are corrupt, and destitute of publick virtue. 
I sincerelv wish you would originate instructions, expressed with decency and firmness — your own style — and give your sentiments as a Court in favour of independency. 
I am certain it would turn many doubtful minds, and produce a reversal of the contrary instructions adopted by some Assemblies. 
Some timid minds are terrified at the word Independence. 
If you think caution in this respect good policy, change the name. 
America has gone such lengths she cannot recede ; and I am convinced that a few weeks, or months at farthest, will convince her of the fact; but the fruit must have time to ripen in some of the other Colonies. 
In New England, the hot-bed of sedition, (as North has impudently called Boston,) it has already come to maturity. 
Would it not be good policy for the New England Governments to think of the matter, and adopt similar measures ? Perhaps a circular letter, and the publication of your instructions, would accomplish much. 
Is it not curious that the British Ministry should know so little of our feelings or character, that, after seizing our property, burning our towns, and destroying their inhabitants, they should make an act to interdict our trade, and suppose that Towns, Counties, and Colonies will bury in oblivion all former abuses, and subscribe themselves slaves, in order to be rescued from the severities of this commercial tyranny? This is an instance of the wisdom and policy of the British Ministry ! Have they not yet ascertained that we know our rights, or, at least, that we think we know them? Have they not learned that we can defend them, too ? To James Warren, President of the Provincial Congress at Watertown. 580. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston. 1 Philadelphia 26 March 1776. Dear Sir .... if you mean to have your province represented in Congress you must add one to two more delegates so that they may take it by turns, no man can attend constantly, you know my Constitution and how it is affected by a constant attention to business, we set till four, some times five OClock and I attend some Committee every night and frequently in the morning before Congress meets. 
I find my self declining. 
I am willing to spend the last remains of life in Our Cause in any way I can be most usefully employed. 2 .... [580] Elaine Hist. 
Soc, Declaration of Independence, T. 2 In a letter to James Iredell written on the same day Hewes used nearly the same language (McRce, Life of Iredell, T. 274: Putnam, Lieutenant Joshua Hcwcs, p. 307). A fragmentary copy of a letter from Hewes to Johnston, dated Mar. 27, in the Charles E. Johnson letter-hook, Raleigh, contains these passages: "I ha[ve heen p]ut on so m[any] Committees, some of a Comm[ercia]l kind, that I | have] a much [har|der time of it than either of my hrethren If the Commissioners we have heard so much of [come] here I shall [send] off an express and you must, in that case send them hoth hack [i, c. Hooper and Perm], or some other in their stead. 
I must not in that case have the weight of the whole province] on my shoulders. 
Why cannot you come yourself."March, 1776 411 581. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Thursday 28 March the Votes read and Letters from Prest. 
Tucker and others. 2 our Colony has raised on their own Bottom
McKean informed Congress that the Tory Prisoners in Philada. 
Goal have attempted an Escape, and have provided Implements and a Ladder to escape this Night whereupon Mr McKean is to direct the Sheriff to confine Conolly Smith and Kirkland seperately and get a sufficient Guard from the Barracks. 3 20,000 Dollars advanced to Commissary Mease and 1000 to Fairlamb Commissary to Waynes Battalion. 
R. H. Lee moved sundry Resols. which were negatived as for a Dep. Commissary General to be established in Virginia and for Aids du Camp to the Brigadier (Armstrong) command
A Petition from Thos. 
Walker of Montreal setting forth his Sufferings from Prescott and Carlton and praying Redress was considered and left undetermined. 
Mr. Walker soon after returned to Montreal without Redress and his Case on Oath was published in Bradfords Paper about
I can think of nothing but fortifying Boston harbor [581] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 515. 2 The New Jersey letters, both dated Mar. 27, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, V. 517, and Hancock's reply, Mar. 28, is ibid., p. 533. The letters of Stirling and Thompson, Mar. 23, are ibid., V. 474-476, and the proceedings of the New Jersey committee of safety, Mar. 26, are ibid., V. 508. 3 See the Journals, Mar. 28, and Hancock to the keeper of the Philadelphia prison, Mar. 28, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 533. See also the Journals, Apr. 1, 15. Kirkland actually made his escape May 7. See the Journals, May 8, 10, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1235. Concerning Kirkland's imprisonment see no, 415, ante. 
Concerning Connolly and Smyth, see nos. 379 (note 2), 426, 453, 550, ante. 4 Cf. no. 577, ante, and no. 585, post ; also the Journals, Mar. 28, 30. 5 Jeremiah Dugan, the bearer of Schuyler's letter of Mar. 7, in which he is called "Colonel Dongan " (Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 103). See the Journals, Mar. 25, 28. 6 See no. 538, note 7, ante, and no. 583, post. 
A statement of Walker, dated Apr. 24, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 1176; cf. ibid., p. 1175. 7 Rudolphus Ritzema. 
He was nominated by the New York provincial congress Feb. 28. See no. 552, note 5, ante ; also the Journals, Mar. 4, 8, 25, 28. [582] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 147. 412 Continental Congress &'We have this week lost a very valuable friend of the colonies in Governor Ward, of Rhode Island, by the small pox in the natural way He was an amiable and a sensible man, a steadfast friend to his country upon very pure principles. 
His funeral was attended with the same solemnities as Mr. Randolph's. Mr. Stillman being the Anabaptist minister here, of which persuasion was the Governor, was desired by Congress to preach a sermon, which he did with great applause. 2 Remember me as you ought. 583. Richard Smith, Diary. 1 Friday 29 March. 
Votes read and Letters from the Com ee of Safety at New York, from Gen Schuyler, Gen Wooster and a Letter from Vice President Fisher of New Jersey praying Congress to reconsider Heards Acco 13 and grant Pay to his Minute Men. 2 On Motion of Lee a Report was taken up on Canadian Affairs and after Debate Mr. Price was elected Deputy Commissary with a Salary of 60 Dollars per Month. 3 Trumbull the Commissary General has 80 Dollars per Month. 
Mr. Price is to have the Canadian Department, 4 some Articles of the Report were expunged, (our Com ee of Safety have ordered £200 for the Use of their Delegates here), the Modes of supplying the Treasury were considered. 
Saturday 50 March. 
I was not present but among other Things ut audivi, Heards Acco
I went Home to Burlington on Sunday having suffered in my Health by a close Attendance on Congress. 584. Samuel Huntington to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia 30th March 1776 Dear Sir This day receivd. yours of the 26th Instt. and note the Contents ; some material occurrences that I am not at Liberty now to communicate I hope hereafter to relate in some social hour when I may have the pleasure to be honor'd with your Company; may only say at present that your favour of the 27th which was receivd before the above mentioned, came to hand most opportunely in a lucky moment and will I trust have beneficial effects. 2 .... 2 Cf. no. 578, ante. [583] 1 Am. Hist. 
Rev., I. 5J5- 2 See the Journals. 
Schuyler's letter of Mar. 19 (with continuation of the 20th) and Wooster's letters of Mar. 5 and 13, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 415- 417. The letter from the New York convention, Mar. 26, with enclosures, is ibid., V. 509. The New Jersey letter, Mar. 28, is ibid., V. 533. See the Journals, Mar. 29, 30, and no. 572, ante. 
A letter of Allan MacDonnell, dated Mar. 25, read this day, is ibid., V. 495 (see the Journals, Apr. 9) ; the letter of John McPherson, dated Mar. 29, is ibid., V. 538 (cf. no. 548, note 4, ante). z Cf. no. 576, ante. 
See, further, the Journals, Apr. 3, 15, 16, 19, 22, 24, 29, May 22. 4 See no. 538, note 7, ante ; cf. no. 606, post. [584] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Joseph Trumhull Papers. 2 There is no positive clue to the matters alluded to in this letter. 
April, 1776 413 585. Richard Henry Lee to Charles Lee. 1 Philadelphia, 1st April, 1776. My dear Friend, I hope my former reasons for not delivering your letter to the President will meet your approbation. 
Since I wrote you last, the Congress has appointed two Engineers
I should be very happy to have your Excellencys Sentiments concerning a proper one. 2 I have the Honour to be, with very great Respect, Sir, your most obedient and affectionate Servant John Adams General Washington 587. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, April 2d. 1776. Dear Sir, .... We continue still between Hawk and Buzzard. 
Some People yet expect Commissioners, to treat with Congress, and to offer a Chart blanc. 
All declare if they do not come impowered to treat with us, and grant us our Bill of Rights, in every Iota, they will hesitate no longer. 2 .... [58s] 1 N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, I. 367; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 174. 2 See nos. 577, 581, ante. 
Cf. Gen. Charles Lee to Richard Henry Lee, Apr. 12, N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 416. 3 See Arch, of Md., XL, passim. 
The name is given there as Felix Lewis Maussenbaugh. 
Cf. Gen. Charles Lee to Richard Henry Lee, Apr. 5, N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 378. [586] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, VIII. 280; Letters to Washing-'ton (ed. Sparks), I. 177; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 747. 2 See no. 576 and note 3, ante. 
In regard to the design for the medal, see John Adams's letter to his wife, Aug. 14, in the next volume. 
Washington's reply to this letter, Apr. 15, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 945; Writings (ed. Sparks), III. 356. See also ibid., pp. 530-534- l587] x Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Proceedings, first ser., X. 208. 2 Cf. nos. 509, 549, 555, 559, 560, 565, 567, 580 (note 2), ante, and no. 592, post. 
See also Adams to Mrs. Adams, Apr. 15, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 942, Familiar Letters, p. 158; to Mercy Warren, Apr. 16, Warren-Adams Letters, I. 221. 414 Continental Congress 588. Samuel Adams to Joseph Palmer. 1 Philad April
But then there was the less Room for Persons who were well worthy of Notice in the Colonies which had first raisd the Army. 
This was the Cause why many of our Friends were discontented who did not advert to it. 3 When the Quarter Master was appointed, I question whether any of your Friends knew, I am sure I did not, that the Gentleman I have referred to sustaind that office ; there was therefore no designd Neglect of him here. 
Mr Ms
You will therefore comply with this requisition immediately on his application. 2 I am, sir, your most obedient servant, John Hancock, President. 
To the Officer commanding the Continental Troops, or the Officer commanding where this letter shall be produced. [588] > N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (draft) ; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 271 ; N. E. Hist, and Gencal. 
Register, XXX. 310 (with variations). 2 See the Journals, June 14-22, July 18, 1775, and no. 187, note 7, ante. 
See also Joseph Hawley to John Adams, Nov. 14, 1775, Adams's Works, IX. 364, and Adams to Hawley, Nov. 25, 1775, no. 369, ante. 
Cf. nos. 366, 367, 368, 369, 373, ante. 3 The text printed in the N. E. Hist, and Geneal. 
Register reads here: "But then there was less Room for Persons belonging to the Colonies which had first raised the Army, who were well worthy of Notice. 
Many of our Friends were discontented who did not advert to this as the true Cause why they were not promoted."4 Mifflin's. [589] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 774; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, I. 131. 2 This order is not found in the Journals, but its object was evidently to furnish Deane a safe conduct to the vessel which was to take him to France. 
On Mar. 1 the committee had stated to Deane that the brigantine Rachell, Capt. 
Isherwood, had been engaged to convey him. 
See no. 532, ante. 
A letter of Henry Fisher, read this day, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 745. The proceedings of the Pennsylvania committee of safety, Apr. 3, are ibid., V. 734, 746, and Hancock's letter to the officer in Delaware is ibid., V. 774. See also a letter of Fisher, dated Apr. 5, ibid., V. 795. April, 1776 415 590. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett. 1 Philadelphia 5th Apl 1776 My Dear Sir I hope this days post will advise me of your arrival 'tho I don't fully depend on it but shall the next, by the time this reaches you I hope You'll be preparing to set out. have not yet got the New-Hampshire matters pass'd in Congress. 2 have been ever since your departure on the Privateering business, 3 and Regulation of Trade, the latter was finish'd Yesterday, shall send them to you next post. 4 I have given over all thot of hearing from anybody concerned in the Legislature of New-Hampshire. 
I have now been near two months from thence and have not received a single line 'tho the Genl. 
Court has been seting almost a month Josiah Bartlett, Esqr at Kingston, New Hampshire 591. Elbridge Gerry to the President of the Massachusetts Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia, April 6, 1776. Dear Sir: I have just time to send you by the post a newspaper, in which is inserted the resolves of Congress for opening of American Ports to all nations except such as are subject to the King of Great Britain. 
It is a matter of importance that these resolves should be published in all the papers, and sent to every part of Europe and the West-Indies not inimical to the Colonies. 2 I doubt not the Committee of Correspondence, or other suitable persons, will be desired by the honourable Court to attend to such a measure, and cause the same to be republished in the foreign papers. [590] 1 Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Correspondence, I. 2 Cf. nos. 533, 537, 575. ante, and nos. 597, 655, 657, post. 
Bartlett had left Philadelphia before Mar. 19 and returned May 17. See the Journals under those dates. 3 Cf. nos. 572, 575, ante, and no. 597, post. 4 The regulations were finished Apr. 4 in the committee of the whole but were not adopted until Apr. 6. See the Journals, Apr. 4 and 6; also nos. 509 (note 4), 521, 570, 572, 574, 579, ante, and nos. 591, 594. 596, 607, post. [591] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 802; Mass. 
Arch., CXCIV. 324. 2 The resolves were published in the Pennsylvania Ledger of April 6, the same day on which they were passed. 
They appeared also in the Pennsylvania Journal and the Pennsylvania Gazette of April 10. " These resolutions are on the Journals, and amount to something. 
They opened the ports, and set our commerce at liberty, but they were far short of what had been moved by members from Massachusetts, Maryland, and Virginia. 
There is one resolution I will not omit."" ' Resolved, That no slaves be imported into any of the thirteen Colonies.' "" I will not omit to remark here the manifest artifice in concealing in the Journals the motions which were made, and the names of the members who made them, in these daily committees of the whole. 
The spirit of a party, which has been before exposed, can alone account for this unfairness." John Adams, Autobiography, Works, III. 39. See no. 590, note 4, ante. 
For similar remarks concerning the deficiency in the official records of the proceedings of Congress see no. 509 (note 4), ante, and no. 633 (note 3), post. 3i 416 Continental Congress &'I hope by the next post to send some blank commissions and instructions for letters of marque, and the resolves of Congress relative thereto, they being now in the press. 
I remain, sir, respectfully, your very humble servant, Elbridge Gerry. 
To the Honourable James Warren, Esq., or, in his absence, William Cooper, Esq., Speaker of the honourable House of Representatives, Massachusetts-Bay. 592. Robert Morris to Horatio Gates. 1 Philada. 
April 6th. 1776 Dear Sir .... I suppose you know that Doctr Francklin chase and two Mr. Carrols are gone to Canada, 2 and I hope a sufficient Force, will be there to put Quebec under their direction for I jump
We are plagued for hard Money to support the Warr in that Country, and must by some Means or other bring them to take our paper. 4 .... Where the plague are these Commissioners, if they are to come what is it that detains them ; It is time we should be on a certainty and know positively whether the libertys of America can be established and secured by reconciliation, or whether we must totally renounce connection with Great Britain and fight our way to a total independence. 
Whilst we continue thus firmly united amongst ourselves theres no doubt but either of these points may be carried, but it seems to me we shall quarrell about which of these roads is best to pursue unless the Commissioners appear soon and lead us into the first path, therefore I wish them to come, dreading nothing so much as even an appearance of division amongst ourselves. 6 .... 593. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter. 1 Philadelphia April 9, 1776. Dear Colonel, The assurances of friendship in your letter of the 30th. of March, give me very great pleasure. 
I hope it will always continue, as a compensation for the many disquietudes unavoidable in this Life. 
Who in the name of Heaven, cou'd tell you, that Independency had been
Soc, Gates Papers, VI. 2 See the Journals, Feb. 15, Mar. 20. '■'■ A rather uncommon use of the word "jump" in the sense of "agree". 4 See, for example, the Journals, Mar. 8, Apr. 29, May 18, 22, and no. 624, post. 
Cf. no. 664, post. 5 See no. 587, note 2, ante. 
This paragraph, with another preceding it, is found in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 801. [593J 1 Va. Hist. 
Soc, Lee Transcripts, IV. (copy). April, 1776 417 thrown out of congress? You may be assured, the Question has never been before the Congress, 2 and it is probable they will wait till the people bring it before them : which event is not far off, from the best accounts from the different parts of the Continent; for your information with respect to the disposition of the Northern people is as erroneous as the other. 
Of this I am very confident having made it my business to be informed. 
It is not improbable, that even the Colony of N. York will step formost in this great Question. 
It makes me uneasy to find from yr Let r that licentiousness begins to prevail in Virginia : though I have always expected it, from the mismanagement of the Gentlemen. 3 The old Government being dissolved, and no new one being substituted in its stead. 
Anarchy must be the consequence. 
The Congress foresaw this, and therefore recommended it to Virga and the South d Colonies to establish such Government as wou'd best secure their peace and happiness. 
I anxiously hope this will be done, the next convention, or I dread the consequences. 
Rhode Island and Connecticut having governments of their own every thing has been carried on with order and quiet. 
New Hampshire and Massachusetts Bay, whose Governors and other officers were appointed by the Crown, were getting into the utmost disorder; but upon their assuming Government, by the advice of Congress, 4 they are restored to perfect harmony and regularity. 
The Southern Colonies by delaying the remedy, will I fear, have violent symptoms to encounter. 
I feel myself deeply interested in the security and happiness of America, compared with which, the interests of Britain, is as a feather in the scale : let us my dear friend do the best we can for the good of our country, and leave the event to fate 594. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston. 1 Philadelphia 9th April 1776. Dear Sir, .... A 44 gun ship lies in the bay nea[r] the Capes and has taken several vessels. 
Congress has agreed to open the Trade, As you will see by the enclosed paper. 
Some other Resolutions are preparing, I am told, by some members, respecting Trade, in which I expect, will be inserted nothing looking towards Independency.- As I have not seen them, I can say nothing further of them
See the resolution of the North Carolina provincial congress, Apr. 12, in N. C. Col. Recs., X. 512; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1322. 418 Continental Congress 595. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott. 1 Phelidelpa. 10th. April 1776. My Dear .... As to News inclose you a Paper in which the latest most material Resolves of Congress are inserted. 2 The Tea now in the Country will undouptedly in a Very few days (by Resolve of Congress) be permitted to be consumed. 3 .... 596. The President of Congress to the New Hampshire Assembly. 1 Philadelphia, April 12, 1776. Gentlemen : While the British Ministry are taking every step that cruelty and revenge can dictate for the destruction of American liberty, it is incumbent on these United Colonies to exert their utmost efforts to defeat them. 
Happily for our country, their military operations have not been attended with that success which they so sanguinely expected. 
This circumstance, however, far from abating their rage against us, has had the effect constantly produced by disappointed passions ; it has roused them to make new exertions of power against us ; and we now behold American property, by a late act of Parliament, made legal plunder. 
Such a train of rapine and violence can be equalled only by the spirit with which it is likely to be executed. 
Having authorized the seizure of vessels belonging to these Colonies wherever found upon the high seas, there is too much reason to apprehend the execution of the edict (which we may expect in its greatest extent) will, for a time, prove a severe clog to the trade of America. 
Under these circumstances, the Congress, in hopes of checking, in some degree, an evil which they cannot, at present, remove, and acting on the same principle of self-preservation and retaliation which they have hitherto adopted, have been induced to come into sundry resolutions relative to the fitting out letters of marque and reprisal. 
The trade of America is an object of so much consequence, and the protection of it so necessary, that I make no doubt of your giving all the encouragement in your power to any measures that may be deemed expedient for its security and existence. 
I herewith transmit bonds, commissions, and instructions, which the Congress has thought proper to request the several Assemblies, Conventions, and Committees of Safety, to make use of on the occasion. 2 1595] ' Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. 
II. No. 7. 2 The paper was doubtless the issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette of Apr. 10, containing the resolution of Apr. 6 concerning trade. 
See nos. 590 (note 4), 591, 594, ante, and nos. 596, 607, post. 3 See the Journals, Apr. 6, 13 ; cf. ibid., Apr. 30, and no. 609, post. 
See also nos. 424, 441, 444, 477, 484, 4<S8, 490, 500, ante, and the letter of the South Carolina delegates, July 25, in the next volume of these Letters. [ 596] • Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 864; id. to Rhode Island, R. I. Col. Recs., VII. 507. The letter was also sent to the assemblies of Massachusetts and Connecticut and to the convention of Virginia. 2 See the Journals, Mar. 23, Apr. 2, 3, 6, 11 ; also no. 590 (note 4), ante. 
April, 1776 419 I have the honour to be, gentlemen, your most obedient and very humble servant, John Hancock, President. 
To the Honourable Assembly of New-Hampshire. 597. William Whipple to the President of New Hampshire (Meshech Weare). 1 Philadelphia, 12th Apl, 1776. Sir, .... Congress have been so -exceeding ingaged I have not been able to call their attention to the Report of the Committee on the application of your Committee, but hope shall very soon be able to transmit their determination. 2 598. The Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Gentlemen, Yours of the 9th instant was delivered to us this day at twelve o'clock ; and we immediately handed the packet enclosed to the President. 
It contained the act of Parliament for restraining the trade of the Colonies, passed in December last, and which was received here in the beginning of February. 
Our friends in South-Carolina supposed we might not have received the act, and therefore sent the first copy they received. 2 There having been an Arrival of Powder lately on account of the Congress We (just before the rect. of your Letter) borrowed a Ton and shall send it to Chester Town to wait your Order in the distribution thereof. 
Every other Colony has been supplied from the Continental Magazine and this was spared to us without Hesitation. 3 We are Gentl. 
Yr most humb serts Th Johnson, Junr. 
T. Stone, Phila. 
April 12th. 1776. 9 OClock Night. '599. Thomas McKean to Philip Schuyler. 1 Philadelphia April 13th 1776. Sir, I had the pleasure of your Letter of the 21st. of February last, and have since made all the inquiry I could respecting the real situation of Allan McDonell and the Highlanders, but cannot arrive at perfect satisfaction. 
Mr. McDonell has been here these three weeks sollicking liberty [597] 1 N. H. State Papers, VIII. 121 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 865. 2 See nos 533, 537, 575, 590, ante. [598] x Md. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book, IV. 27; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 864; Arch, of Md., XL 328. 2 See the Journals, Apr. 12, first paragraph, and Arch, of Md., XI. 317. 3 See the Journals, Apr. 11 ; also Arch, of Md., XI. 290, 314, 335, 336; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 505. 795, 953- [599] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, No. 1441. 420 Continental Congress iS'to return, or that the families of the Scotch prisoners may be supported ; the latter he seems most desirous of, but upon the whole the Congress have directed the Committee on prisoners, of which I am one, to take your opinion, " whether the said Allen McDonell and the other hostages taken in Tryon county may, consistent with the public safety, be permitted to return to their respective homes on their parole." As the Continent has been at considerable expence for these people already, and must add to it by maintaining their respective families unless they return, the Congress expect your answer as soon as possible. 2 .... 600. Carter Braxton to Landon Carter. 1 Phila. 
April. 14, 1776. Dear Sir, .... Independency and total seperation from Great Britain are the interesting Subjects of all ranks of men and often agitate our Body. 
It is in truth a delusive Bait which men inconsiderately catch at, without knowing the hook to which it is affixed. 
It is an Object to be wished for by every American, when it can be obtained with Safety and Honor. 
That this is not the moment I will prove by Arguments that to me are decisive, and which exist with certainty. 
Your refined notion of our publick Honor being engaged to await the terms offered by Commissioners operates strongly with me and many others and makes the first reason I would offer. 
My next is that America is in too defenceless a State for the declaration, having no Alliance with a naval Power nor as yet any Fleet of consequence of her own to protect that trade which is so essential to the prosecution of the War, without which I know we cannot go on much longer. 
It is said by the Advocates for Seperation that France will undoubtedly assist us after we have asserted the State, and therefore they urge us to make the experiment. 
Would such a blind precipitate measure as this be justified by Prudence, first to throw off our connexion with G. Britain and then give ourselves up to the. 
Arms of France? Would not the Court so famous for Intrigues and Deception avail herself of our situation and from it exact much severer terms than if we were to treat with her (G. B.) before hand and settle the terms of any future Alliance. 
Surely she would, but the truth of the matter is, there are some who are affraid to await the Arrival of Commissioners, lest the dispute should be accomodated much agt their Will even upon the Admission of our own terms. 
For however strange it may appear I am satisfied that the eastern Colonies do not mean to have a Reconciliation and in this I am justified by publick and private Reasons. 
To illustrate my Opinion I will beg leave to mention them. 
Two of the New England Colonies enjoy a Government purely democratical the Nature and Principle of which both civil and religious are so totally incompatible
See nos. 668, 681, post. [600] J Va. Hist. 
Soc, Lee Transcripts, IV. April, 1776 421 with Monarchy, that they have ever lived in a restless state under it. The other two tho' not so popular in their frame bordered so near upon it that Monarchical Influence hung very heavy on them. 
The best opportunity in the World being now offered them to throw off all subjection and embrace their darling Democracy they are determined to accept it. 2 These are aided by those of a nrivate Nature, but not less cogent. 
The Colonies of Massachusetts, and Connecticut who rule the other two, have Claims on the Province of Pennsylvania in the whole for near one third of the Land within their Provincial Bounds and indeed the claim extended to its full extent comes within four miles of this City. 
This dispute was carried to the King and Council, and with them it now lies. 
The Eastern Colonies unwilling they should now be the Arbiter have asserted their Claims by force, and have at this time eight hundred men in arms upon the upper part of this Land called Wyoming, where they are peaceable at present only through the Influence of the Congress. 3 Then naturally, there arises a heart burning and jealousy between these people and they must have two very different Objects in View. 
The Province of New York is not without her Fears and apprehensions from the Temper of her Neighbors, their great swarms and small Territory. 
Even Virginia is not free from Claim on Pennsylvania nor Maryland from those on Virginia. 
Some of the Delegates from our Colony carry their Ideas of right to lands so far to the Eastward that the middle Colonies dread their being swallowed up between the Claims of them and those from the East. 
And yet without any Adjustment of those disputes and a variety of other matters, some are for Lugging us into Independence. 
But so long as these remain unsettled and men act upon the Principles they ever have done, you may rely, no such thing will be generally agreed on. Upon reviewing the secret movements of Men and things I am convinced the Assertion of Independence is far off. 
If it was to be now asserted, the Continent would be torn in pieces by Intestine Wars and Convulsions. 
Previous to Independence all disputes must be healed and Harmony prevail. 
A grand Continental league must be formed and a superintending Power also. 
When these necessary Steps are taken and I see a Coalition formed sufficient to withstand the Power of Britain, or any other, then am I for an independent State and all its Consequences, as then I think they will produce Happiness to America. 
It is a true saying of a Wit — We must hang together or separately. 
I will not beg your pardon for intruding this long letter upon your old Age w h I judged necessary in my situation and to conclude by assuring you I am with great regard Your affect Nephew
See also Deane to Mumford, Oct. 15, 1775, ante. 4 Carter Braxton was the son of George Braxton and Mary Carter, sister of Col. Landon Carter. 422 Continental Congress 6'601. Benjamin Franklin to Josiah Quincy. 1 Saratoga, April 15, 1776. Dear Sir: .... You ask, " When is the Continental Congress by general consent to be formed into a supreme legislature; alliances, defensive and offensive, formed ; our ports opened ; and a formidable naval force established at the public charge ? ' I can only answer at present, that nothing seems wanting but that " general consent." The novelty of the thing deters some, the doubts of success, others, the vain hope of reconciliation, many. 
But our enemies take continually every proper measure to remove these obstacles, and their endeavours are attended with success, since every day furnishes us with new causes of increasing enmity, and new reasons for wishing an eternal separation ; so that there is a rapid increase of the formerly small party, who were for an independent government. 2 .... 602. The President of Congress to Israel Putnam. 1 Philada. 
April 16th 1776. Sir: Congress, finding by Intelligence from General Washington that the greatest Part of the Troops that were before Boston, are either on their March to New York, or actually arrived there, judge it improper to keep a larger Body of Men together than is called for in that Place. 
I am therefore commanded by the Congress to direct that you dicharge the whole or such part of the Militia of New York and Connecticut now in the pay of the Continent as the public Service will permit, and also, that you discharge the whole of the Militia of New Jersey. 2 603. The President of Congress to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Philadelphia April 16th. 1776. Gentlemen, By the letters of Lord Germaine to your Governour, copies of which you have enclosed, it evidently appears, that Mr. Eden has been carrying on a dangerous Correspondence with the Ministry of Great Britain, who seem desperately bent on the Destruction of America. 
The Congress therefore have come to a Resolution that the Person and Papers of Governour Eden be immeditely seized, from which there is [601] 1 Writings of Franklin (ed. Smyth), VI. 445; Works (ed. Bigelow), VI. 10; Works (ed. Sparks), VIII. 180; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 947. 2 Cf. Washington to Reed, Apr. 15, and Washington to Adams, Apr. 15, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 945. See no. 633 (note 3), post. [602 J 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, VIII. 333; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 99; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 954. Addressed, "To Major Genl. 
Putnam at New York". 2 See the Journals, Apr. 11. Putnam's letter of Apr. 7 is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 811. See Washington's letters of Mar. 19, 24, 27, ibid., V. 420, 486, 522; also Washington to Carter and Washington to Reed, Mar. 25, ibid., V. 499, 500. The letters of Mar. [Q and 24 are in Washington's Writings (ed. Ford), III. 475, 487. |6o3]' Md Hist Soc, Red Book, I. 46; Arch, of Ma., XI. 334; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 954. April, i j j
I have the honour to be gentlemen, your most obedt hbl Ser. John Hancock Presidt The Honble The Committee of Safety of the Colony of Maryland at Annapolis 604. The President of Congress to the Baltimore Committee. 1 Phila 16 April 1776 Gentlemen I received and immediately communicated to Congress your Letter of the 14th Ulto with the Important Papers enclosed. 
In Consequence of which the Congress have Resolved, that the Person and Papers of Governour Eden be immediately siezed by the Committee of Safety, to whom I write by this Opportunity. 
The Person mentioned in the enclosed Resolution (Mr Alexander Ross) is represented as a dangerous Partizan of Administration, who has lately been with Lord Dunmore, and it is suggested, is on his way to the Indian Country to execute the execrable Designs of our Enemies. 
I have no Doubt, but you will exert your utmost Endeavours in seizing and securing him I am with Respect Gentn Yr most obedt Servt John Hancock Prest. 
To The Hon
Gen. Lee, who was stationed in Willamsburg, also wrote to Samuel Purviance of the Baltimore committee urging the arrest of Gov. Eden. 
Lee's letter is in the Arch, of Md., XL 315, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 800. See his letter to Richard Henry Lee, Apr. 5, ibid., V. 793, his letter to Congress, May 7, ibid., V. 1220, and his letter to Jenifer, May 6, ibid., V. 1222 (also Arch, of Md., XI. 410), and to Washington, May 10, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 405, Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 201. Lee's letters are also in the N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, I. See also no. 519, ante, and nos. 604, 608, 610, 613, 617, 618, 629, post. • 3 Concerning Alexander Ross see also the Journals, Apr. 16, 29, May 10, 16 (cf. Aug. 13, Sept. 7) ; Arch, of Md., XL 315, 332-393 (passim), 405, 410, 418, 429, 458, 459. 477, 483; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 800, 810, 928-930, 953, 954, 960-964, 969', 970, 971, 983, 984, 992, 1002, 1009, 1060-1067, 1090, 1146, 1220, 1222, 1517-1522, 1560-1567 (passim), 1581, 1586-1591, VI., 732-740, 806, 1544 (proceedings of the Virginia convention, May 31). [604] ^ Arch, of Md., XL 361; Md. Hist. 
Soc, Portfolio No. 8 (1). 2 See the Journals, Apr. 16. The letter of the Baltimore Committee, with a number of enclosures, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 928. See no. 603, ante, and nos. 608, 610, 613, 617, 618, 629, post. 424 Continental Congress &'605. John Adams to James Warren. 1 April 16, 1776 Dear Sir, — I agree with you in yours of 30 March
Am happy to learn that you have sent a Committee to view the Harbour of Boston and report the best Method of Securing it. When this Report is made I beg it may be transmitted to me. I wish you could transmit to me a good Plan of the Harbour at the same Time, for I want to convince this Congress that that Harbour may be made as strong and impregnable as Gibralter, that they may be induced to contribute somewhat to the Fortification of it Your Letter to the President I have shewn to My Friends Mr. Adams and Mr. Gerry. 
It has puzzled me a little what to do with it; but We are all of opinion upon the whole that it will be most for your Honour to deliver it, and indeed for your Interest, for there will be too much Risque in trusting this office to any one you can employ at a Distance from you. 3 .... You say the Sigh's for Independence are universal As to the Sighs, what are they after? Independence? Have We not been independent these twelve Months, wanting Three days ? Have you seen the Privateering- Resolves? Are not these Independence enough for my beloved Constituents? Have you seen the Resolves for opening our Ports to all Nations? Are these Independence enough? What more would you have ? 4 . . . . Why don't your Honours of the General Court, if you are so unanimous in this, give positive Instructions to your own Delegates, to promote Independency. 
Don't blame your Delegates untill they have disobeyed your Instructions in favour of Independency. 
The S[outhern] Colonies say you are afraid. [No signature.] 606. James Duane to Walter Livingston. 1 Dear Sir .... If General Schuyler and Price
See nos. 538 (note 7), 583, ante. 
April, 1776 425 as advancive of the publick Interest and Service, there can be no doubt but it will meet with the Approbation of Congress who mean to use Oeconomy in all their Conduct, and indeed there is sufficient Occasion for it. 3 My Colleagues write you by this Opportunity so that I need not be more particular. 
Mr Chace has misapprehended the Order of Congress authorizing the New York Convention to enter into a Contract for supplying the Troops with provisions, 4 if he supposed it extended to Canada : for it was certainly confined to the Army raised for the Defence of New York, there is the same Reason however for a Contract In every Quarter if it will be a Means of saving publick money Philad. 17th April 1776 607. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman. 1 Philadelphia, 17th April 1776. Sir, .... A new scene is opening — the regulations on trade which you by this time have likely seen, will of course together with other operating Causes, do away imperceptibly the material parts of the Association, and the prudence of Committees must necessarily lead them to observe the varying scene, but this to you and by the bye .... I believe no colony, but what means to maintain a colonial and separate jurisdiction. 
I certainly never shall consent to anything otherwise, and I believe not a single member of Congress intends anything else, when Government shall be set up anew in each Colony which must be the case, for I consider an accommodation with Great Britian [sic] upon former terms as being impossible." .... 608. Thomas Johnson, jr., to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Philadelphia 17 April 1776. Gentlemen. 
Yesterday morning just before the Meeting of Congress the Letters from Bait, which occasioned the Resolution of Yesterday came to the Hands of the President. 
By the same Express, and as I believe under the same Cover, came an Anonymous Letter referring to a copy therein inclosed from Genl Lee to Mr. Samuel Purviance. 
I saw and read the Copy which was in Purviance's Hand Writing. 
Lee strongly urged the
Hist. 
Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, I. (copy). 2 Cf. nos. 590 (note 4), 591, 594, 596, ante. [608] *Md. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book, I. 30; Arch, of Md., XL 347; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 965. 426 Continental Congress &'immediate seizing and securing of the Govr. 
After the Minutes of the preceding Day were read the President began reading the Anonymous Letter, but he had not proceeded far before he came to a part desiring that it might not be made, known to the Congress but, as I think, to such only as the President might think proper to trust with the contents. 
The President hesitated, for he had not before read the Letter, and seemed desirous of running his Eye over it but on being desired to read out he did so. From the Enclosure above mentioned as well as many Expressions in the Letter and Mr. Purviances being the Hero of the Tale which was told in the first Person I had not the least doubt but that Purviance was the Author and Mr. Andrew Allen who saw the Letter and is acquainted with Purviances Handwriting says it was his. 
The Letter informs that the writer of it had impressed on Genl Lee, in his way to Virga. an idea that the Council of Safety was timorous and inactive and represents the Council of Safety and Convention too as being afraid to execute the Duties of their stations, his own and the Conduct of the Convention on an Affair that you must remember he contrasts to the Disadvantage of the Latter whose inaction he imputes to want of Spirit. 
He speaks of the orders he gave Capt. 
Nicholson on the late Alarm and how the Council of Safety was alarmed and frightened at the Spirit and boldness of them — represents himself as an object against whom the Intentions of the Council of Safety are levelled and in Proof recites a conversation with, or saying of one of them to the Effect that he was a warm man or a hotheaded Man whose Power must be pulled down or he would throw things into Confusion. 
As I heard the Letter read but once I cannot undertake to repeat Expressions with exactness but I think I have preserved the Sentiments and have not exaggerated in anything and on the whole I esteem it a vile injurious Calumny calculated like his Conversation with Genl Lee to spread Suspicion and Distrust of the only executive in our Province. 
If I am not mistaken the Letter mentions further that some Gent were sent from Bait, or were by him proposed to be sent to Annapolis, who should engage the Officer commanding the Troops there to secrecy under Oath and then endeavour to get his assistance to execute what you are requested to do by the Resolution; this I suppose may be easily traced. 
As soon as the Letter was read a Motion was made to send the original or a Copy of it to you which was warmly supported but it was put off till today to make way for the Consideration of the Subject of the Express and in the mean Time all was ordered to be secret. 
Messrs. 
Stone and Alexander, who had been delayed in writing Letters for the post, came into the Congress in this stage of the Affair and are, as well as myself, privy to the after transactions^ I am Gent. 
Your mo. obedt. 
Servant Tn Johnson Jun To the Honble Council of Safety of Maryland
April, 1776 427 609. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott. 1 Phelidelpa. 17th. April 1776. My Dear .... Nothing Very special has occurred since my last. 
I have cut out of a News paper a Resolution, allowing the Consumption of India 1>a. The ideal Phantom of Commissioners Comeing over to settle our Disputes has almost Vanished — indeed I do not know any one could be serious in such an Expectation. 
A final Separation between the Countrys I consider as unavoidable." .... 610. The Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Gent. 
We moved yesterday in Congress, that the Letter referred to by Mr. Johnson, should be imediately transmitted to You that you might have an Opportunity of vindicating your Honour against the malicious Charges made by the Writer, this produced a Warm Debate which lasted for several hours. 
We insisted (and were supported by several gentlemen) that the Letter, containing the most severe reflections upon You as a publick Body, ought not to be concealed ; that it was absolutely necessary in the present State of our Affairs that the Dignity of the Executives of every Province should be supported if properly conducted, and if there rested a Suspicion that any publick Body either from Weakness or want of Integrity omitted or refused to execute the trust committed to them it ought to be made known to their Constituents that the power might be placed in more safe Hands, That the Exertions of the Letter Writer had already produced in part of the Council of Virginia distrust and suspicion of you, That We had the most convincing proofs upon all Occasions of your Integrity, Vigilance, and Activity in the Common Cause, And therefore esteemed it our Duty to insist that Justice might be done t to your injured Characters. 
It was argued against the Motion that the Letter was confidential, that it had raised no Suspicions in the Congress of your Zeal or Integrity, because they had reposed the highest Confidence in You immediately afterwards by the Recommendation sent by the Return of the Express, And that the mischief which would be produced by communicating the Letter would be greater than any Benefit which could be expected from it, And that the President was not obliged to produce the Letter for the Congress to take order thereon Altho it had been read in the House. 
Upon the Question whether the President should be requested to lay the letter before Congress five Colonies voted in the Neg. three in the affirm, and one divided. 
We conceived this Treatment to you and our Province to be cruel and ungenerous to the last degree, the Obligation to Secrecy expired yesterday [609] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. 
II., no. 8. 2 See no. 595, note 3, ante. [610] 1 Md. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book, I. 29; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 971; Arch. of Md., XL, 351. 428 Continental Congress and We immediately determined to give You such a State of this Transaction as our memories supply Us with; and Mr. Johnson committed to Writing what passed on the first Day. We this morning waited on Mr Hancock to demand the Letter, but he refused to see us. Thus the Affair rests at present, and as we cannot delay communicating it to You longer, We have ordered an Express immediately to set out for Annapolis and have not the least Doubt but what You will take the proper Steps to vindicate your Honour against the foul calumny of Mr Purviance who has dared to detract from your Patriotism and Spirit. 
We are determined at all hazards to support You, and tho very sorry for the Occasion hope you have complied with the Recommendation of Congress, by securing Mr Eden and his papers. 
If he has conducted himself fairly, an examination will do him credit if otherwise We ought to know it and guard against his unfriendly Endeavours. 2 We shall write you by the Post and are, gent. 
Yr most obt serts Th Johnson Jun T. Stone R. Alexander. 
Phila. 
Thursday 18. April 1776. 611. William Whipple to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia April 20th 1776 Dear Sir, .... The Committee determined last evening on the nomination of Agents " which will be reported to Congress to morrow. 
I expect my next will advise you of the appointment. 
I have got the nomination of officers for your ship put off; it is not now as it was when the other ships were fitting out — then there was a scarcity of officers, but now an abundance of applications ; as that is the case the Committee are very critical in exam[in]ing the characters. 3 .... 612. Richard Henry Lee to Charles Lee. 1 Philadelphia, 22nd April, 1776. My dear Friend, .... It was certainly the idea of Congress, and it is so expressed in their resolve, that you should raise a Company of Artillery for Monsr. 
Arundel, and the Convention or Committee of Safety to appoint the inferior Officers. 
Capt. 
Innis's company it was never proposed to affect
See the Journals, Apr. 17, 23, June 25, and nos. 622, 657, 669, 675, 676, 691, 693, 715, 716, 729, post. • See the Journals, Apr. 17, and nos. 669, 675, 676, 683, 691, post. [612] ' N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, I. 440; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 181. April, 1776 429 in any degree by this new raised Company.- You will hear more of this hereafter You ask me why we hesitate in Congress. 3 I'll tell you my friend, because we are heavily clogged with instructions from these shamefully interested Proprietary people, and this will continue until Virga sets the example of taking up Government, and sending peremptory Orders to their delegates to pursue the most effectual measures for the Security of America. 
It is most certain that the people in these Proprietary Colonies will then force the same measure, after which Adieu to Proprietary influence and timid senseless politics. 4 .... 613. Thomas Johnson, jr., to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer. 1 Phila. 23d. April 1776. Dr. Sr. Mr. Wallace and Mr. Green set off To morrow morning by one of them we intend to write you fully but as the post may possibly be in before these gent, we think it necessary to advise you that all your Deputies here from Maryland approve the Conduct of the Council of Safety and resolve to support it. the Letter to the President gave high Offence to some of the very hot Gent.- No Resolution is yet formed on it — but probably will today. 
R. A. and T. S. 3 join in Respects to you and yr Brethern. 
I am dr. sr. Your very affect Servt. 
Th Johnson Junr 614. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia April 23d. 1776. Sir. I am to acknowledge the Receipt of your Favour of the 19th. of April enclosing several Papers : all which were immediately laid before Congress. 
The important Intelligence they contain, makes it necessary that the most vigorous Measures should be adopted, as well to defend our Troops
Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, I. 416, 432, 477; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 863, 891, 1220. Captain James Innis of Virginia was promoted by Congress, Aug. 13, to be major. 
Nov. 13 following he was made by the state of Virginia lieutenant-colonel of the 15th Virginia regiment. 
See ibid., V. 695, and Heitman. 
Hist. 
Reg. 3 See Gen. Lee's letter to R. H. Lee, Apr. 5, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 794; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, I. 378. 4 Cf. no. 632, post. [SispMd. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book, I. 28; Arch, of Md., XL 372; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1036. 2 See nos. 603, 604, 608, 610, ante, and nos. 617, 618, 629, post. 
The letter from the Maryland council of safety to the President of Congress, dated Apr. 18, is in Arch. of Md., XL 349, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 970. See the Journals, Apr. 22. 3 Robert Alexander and Thomas Stone. [614] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, VIII. 353; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 188; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1036. 430 Continental Congress &'against the Canadians themselves, as to insure Success to the Expedition. 
The Congress being determined on the Reduction of Quebec and the Security of that Country, for Reasons too obvious to be mentioned, have left Nothing undone, which can any Ways contribute to that End. Whatever may be the Causes of the late Insurrection, good Policy requires that while we endeavour to prevent Everything of the Kind for the future, we should also make Provision, in Case it should happen. 
Accordingly Congress has come into sundry Resolutions calculated to quiet the Minds of the Canadians and to remove the Sources of their Uneasiness and discontent. 2 .... , 615. The President of Congress to Artemas Ward. 1 Philada. 
April 24th. 1776. Sir: I am commanded by Congress to acquaint you that your Letter of Resignation of the 12th Inst, was this Day laid before them, and that they have been pleased to accept of the same. 
The Motives which first induced the Congress to appoint you a Major Genl. in the Continental Service, would naturally make them regret your retiring from the Army. 
But when it is considered, that in the Course of your Duty in that high Rank, you have acquitted yourself with Honour and Reputation, I am persuaded the Reluctance they feel at your retiring is much encreased. 2 The Congress in a Letter to General Washington of the 2d Inst, have declared the Thanks of these United Colonies to be due to the brave Officers under his Command, and have requested him to communicate to them this distinguishing Mark of the Approbation of their Country. 
I mention this, as the Letter did not reach the General until he arrived at New York. 
With the sincerest Wishes for a Restoration of your Health, and for your future Happiness, I have the Honour to be Sir, your most obed. and very hble srt. 
J H Prest. 
Major Genl. 
Ward. 2 See the Journals, Apr. 22, 23. Washington's letter of Apr. 19 is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 985. Schuyler's letter to Congress, Apr. 12, and sundry enclosures are ibid., V. 868-871. The principal of these enclosures, despatched to Schuyler by Col. Moses Hazen from Montreal, Apr. 1, are also found at pp. 751-754. See Hancock to Hazen, Apr. 24, ibid., V. 1048; also Schuyler to Washington, Apr. 12, Washington to Schuyler, Apr. 19, and to Congress, Apr. 25, ibid., V. 871, 988, 1068. [6i5] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 107; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1048. 2 See the Journals, Apr. 23. Ward's original letter of resignation, dated Mar. 22, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 467; a similar letter to Washington of the same date is ibid., V. 489. His letter of Apr. 12 is ibid., V. 872. See Washington to Congress, Mar. 24, ibid., V. 486, Writings (ed. Ford), HI. 487. Ward was appointed major-general June 17, 1775. Despite the acceptance of his resignation by Congress Ward was not relieved of his command, although he made repeated requests to be relieved. 
See letters of Washington and Ward, May 11-July 7, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1193, VI. 423, 436, 507, 770, 930, 1000, 1041, 1196, fifth ser., I. 107. See especially Washington to Gen. Charles Lee, May [9], 1776, ibid., I. 97; and Gen. Lee to [Richard Henry Lee], July 19, ibid., I. 428. These two letters are also in N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, II. 146. See also Hancock's letter to Ward, Aug. 26, in the next volume of these Letters. 
April, 1776 431 616. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to Joseph Frye. 1 Philadelphia, April 24th. 1776. Sir: The Congress havingreceived your Letter of Resignation, I am commanded to acquaint you, that they have been pleased to accept the same. 
While they lament the cause that obliges you to retire, they cannot but acknowledge it to be a sufficient one. 
The Reputation and Honour with which you have conducted yourself on all Occasions, in the Continental Service, must always afford you the most pleasing Satisfaction.- .... 617. Thomas Stone to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer. 1 My dear Sir. Mr. Johnson wrote to You yesterday by Post and I wrote to Mr. Hall. 
Nothing is done since in Consequence of your Letter and Resolution to the Presidt. 1 ' We have been very much engaged for some days in attending to the affairs of Canada, having reed, late Intelligence from that Quarter. 3 I presume the Canada Department it's Conventions and Dependancies will ingross our Attention for a few days, and then some answ. will probably be given to your Letter, what it will be I can't guess, with any Degree of Certainty but I am inclined to think everything will be left to the Convention. 
We shall attend the Meeting of that Assembly. 
Govr Eden's letter is published in one of the papers here and various are the Comments on it. Independant of every thing else it is very suspicious, but taking Mr. Eden's conduct, the letters from his Brother, who must know his sentiments, into consideration, I think lessens greatly the charge which the intercepted letter would of itself import. 
If the Commissioners do not arrive shortly and conduct themselves with great Candor and Uprightness to effect a Reconciliation, a Separation will most undoubtedly take place and then all Governors and Officers must quit their Posts and New Men must be placed in the Saddle of Power. 
I wish to conduct affairs so that a just and honourable Reconciliation should take place, or that We should be pretty unanimous in a Resolution to fight it out for Independance. the proper Way to effect this is not to move too quick. 
But then we must take Care to do everything which is necessary for our Security, and Defence, not suffer ourselves to be lulled or wheedled by any deceptions, Declarations or givings out. [616] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 108; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1048. 2 See the Journals, Apr. 23. Frye's resignation, addressed to Washington, is dated Mar. 18, and is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 489. See Washington to Congress, Mar. 24, and to Gen. Charles Lee, May 9, mentioned ante, no. 615, note 3. Cf. nos. 294, 363, 437, ante. 
The part omitted above is identical with the second paragraph of the letter to Ward. [617]^^. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book, I. 27; Arch, of Md., XI. 383; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1047. 2 See nos. 603, 604, 608, 6io, 613, ante, and nos. 618, 629, post. 
Stone's letter to Hall has not been found. 
John Hall was a member of the Maryland council of safety. 3 See no. 614, ante. 32 432 Continental Congress &'You know my Heart wishes for peace upon terms of Security and Justice to America. 
But War, anything is preferable to a Surrender of our Rights. 
You may rely on my friendship on all Occasions. 4 .... Phila. 
April 24, 1776. Wednesday. 618. The Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Phila 25 April 1776. Gent We this day about 12 oClock reed your letter of the 22d by the return of our Express. 
No further proceeding in Congress on Mr Edens affair. 2 .... If Mr Rogers is able we wish his attendance here that as many of us as might be should be at the convention, we don't think the province ought to be left unrepresented here. 
We are Gent Your most obedt Servt Mat Tilghman T. Stone. 
Thos Johnson Junr 619. John Jay to the New York Committee of Safety. 1 Gentlemen The Congress having been informed of a very extraordinary oath ordered by Govr. 
Tryon to be administred to Passengers in the late Packet, whereby they bound themselves not to disclose any thing relative to american affairs except to the ministry, have appointed a Committee (of which I am one) to ascertain this Fact. 
I must therefore request of you Gentlemen, to appoint proper Persons to examine into this Matter, and if possible ascertain the Truth of the Report, by affidavits taken before the Mayor or one of the Judges of the Supr : Court. 2 I have the Honor to be Gentlemen Your most obedt Servt Philadelphia 27. April 1776 John Jay. The Hon'ble the Committee of Safety for the Colony of New York. 4 Cf. no. 600, note ?.. ante. 
See also Washington to John Augustine Washington, May 31, Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 105; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 631. I618J 1 Arch, of Md., XL 386; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1067. 2 The letter from the council is in Arch, of Md., XI. 368, and Force Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1009. See nos. 603, 604, 608, 610, 613, 617, ante, and no. 629. post. [619I 1 N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, III. 209; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 428, II. 115; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1092, 1482; Correspondence and Public Papers of John Jay (ed. Johnston), I. 51 (dated Apr. 7). 2 See the Journals, Apr. 11. The source of the report to Congress has not been discovered. 
The New York committee of safety referred the matter, May 1, to a committee for investigation (see Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 428), but no further action has been found recorded. 
April, 1776 433 620. John Adams to Horatio Gates. 1 Philadelphia, April 27, 1776 Dear Sir .... I think with you, that it requires a Faith, which can remove Mountains, to believe that Liberty and safety can ever be hereafter enjoyed by America, in any subjection to the Government of Great Britain. 
Dependance and subordination to Great Britain, always indeterminate and nonsensical Expressions, if they mean any Thing, must now mean, prepetual Animosity, Discord Civil war; Encroachment and Usurpation on one side, and Discontent, Mutiny, Sedition, Riot and Resistance, on the other. 
Unless it terminates in downright submission and that beyond all doubt would be followed with Persecution and Imprisonment, scorn and Insult, Blocks, Halters, Gibbets. 
Your opinion of Indians, and the best Policy in our Management of them, may be right for any Thing that I know : But as I know little of them, I always leave the Measures relating to them to Gentlemen who know a great deal. 
It is said they are very expensive and troublesome Confederates in war, besides the incivi[li]ty and Inhumanity of employing such Savages with their cruel, bloody dispositions, against any Enemy whatever. 
Nevertheless, such have been the Extravagancies of British Barbarity in prosecuting the war against us, that I think we need not be so delicate as to refuse the assistance of Indians, provided we cannot keep them neutral. 
I should not hesitate a Moment in this Case. 
That we have been a little tardy in providing for Canada is true — owing to innumerable Difficulties, however we have been roused at last, and I hope have done pretty well — if you think we have not, let me know it, and, whatever you may think further necessary, if it is not done it shall not be my Fault.- .... You ask me what you are to think of Robt. 
Morris? I will tell you what I think of him. 
I think he has a masterly Understanding, an open Temper and an honest Heart : and if he does not always vote for what you and I should think proper, it is because he thinks that a large Body of People remains, who are not yet of his Mind. 
He has vast designs in the mercantile way. 
And no doubt pursues mercantile ends, which are always gain ; but he is an excellent Member of our Body. 
Pray continue to write me, for a Letter from you Cures me of all anxiety and ill Humour, for two or three Days at least ; and besides that, leaves me better informed in many Things, and confirmed in my good Resolutions, for my whole Life. 
Yours without disguise John Adams. 
There is a Major Wrixon here, a fine sensible Fellow, a Field Officer in Germany last war, a Man of Letters, sense and spirit, the best Principles. 
I wish you were a Major General
Soc, Gates Papers, VI.; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1091. 2 Cf. Hancock to Schuyler, Apr. 26, and to the commissioners in Canada, same date, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1085, 1086. 3 Gates was made a major-general May 16. Concerning Wrixon, see nos. 566, 576, ante, and no. 630 (note 2), post. 434 Continental Congress 621. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 [Philadelphia] 28 April, 1776. .... You will see an account of the fleet in some of the papers I have sent you. 
I give you joy of the Admiral's success." I have vanity enough to take to myself a share in the merit of the American navy. 
It was always a measure that my heart was much engaged in, and I pursued it for a long time against the wind and tide, but at last obtained it. 3 .... The writer of " Common Sense " and the " Forrester " is the same person. 
His name is Paine, a gentleman about two years ago from England, a man who, General Lee says, has genius in his eyes. 
The writer of " Cassandra " is said to be Mr. James Cannon, a tutor in the Philadelphia college. " Cato " is reported here to be Doctor Smith — a match for Brattle. 4 The oration was an insolent performance. 5 A motion was made to thank the Orator, and ask a copy, but opposed with great spirit and vivacity from every part of the room, and at last withdrawn, lest it should be rejected, as it certainly would have been, with indignation. 
The Orator then printed it himself, after leaving out or altering some offensive passages. 
This is one of the many irregular and extravagant characters of the age. 
I never heard one single person speak well of anything about him, but his abilities, which are generally allowed to be good. 
The appointment of him to make the oration was a great oversight and mistake 622. William Whipple to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia 29th April 1776. Dear Sir, .... As to the Agency I wrote you that I had nominated you in Committee, where there was no objection, nor did I imagine there would be in Congress but I was mistaken, for when the nomination came before Congress, there was objections from every part of the room on account of your being a member : it was proposed to be put off which I did not object to, finding I should not be able to carry it at that time." There [621] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 165; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1110. 2 See the Journals, Apr. 16 (pp. 285, 289). The report of Adm. Hopkins, Apr. 9, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 823; Hancock's letter to Hopkins, Apr. 17, is ibid., V. 966. Cf. no. 630, note 2, post. 3 See nos. 316, note 3, 390, note 2, ante. 4 See Adams's remarks concerning Paine, Works, II. 506 et seq. 
Numerous papers of " Cassandra ", " Cato ", and " The Forester " are printed in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. and VI. In 1773 Adams had a controversy with Gen. William Brattle on the independence of the judiciary. (See Adams's Works, II. 315-317.) Adams's productions in the controversy are ibid., III. 511-574. Brief sketches of Brattle may be found in Sabine's or Stark's Loyalists. 
The reference is to the funeral oration of Dr. William Smith in honor of Gen. Montgomery. 
See nos. 510 (note 2), 522, ante. [622 1 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple; Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS, LIL, vol. 
II., f. 134 (dated Apr. 6). 2 See no. 611, note 2, ante. 
April, 1776 435 has since been a motion that no Member of Congress shall hold any lucrative office ; 3 if this should not obtain I shall make another attempt
In his Autobiography he makes similar statements and relates the incident circumstantially : " About the sixth of December, 1775, I obtained leave of Congress to visit my family, and returned home I expected to go no more to Congress, but to take my seat on the bench. 
But the General Court would not excuse me from again attending Congress, and again chose me a member, with all my former colleagues, except Mr. Cushing, who I believe declined, and in his room Mr. Gerry was chosen, who went with me to Philadelphia, and we took our seats in Congress on Friday, February gth, 1776. In this gentleman I found a faithful friend, and an ardent, persevering lover of his country, who never hesitated to promote, with all his abilities and industry, the boldest measures reconcilable with prudence. 
Mr. Samuel Adams, Mr. Gerry, and myself, now composed a majority of the Massachusetts delegation, and we were no longer vexed or enfeebled by divisions >among ourselves, or by indecision, or indolence. 
On the 29th of February, 1776, William Whipple, Esq. appeared as one of the delegates from New Hampshire, another excellent member in principle and disposition, as well as understanding. + " I returned to my daily routine of service in the board of war, and a punctual attendance in Congress, every day in all their hours. 
I returned, also, to my almost daily exhortations to the institution of Governments in the States, and a declaration of independence. 
I soon found there was a whispering among the partisans in opposition to independence, that I was interested ; that I held an office under the new government of Massachusetts; that I was afraid of losing it, if we did not declare independence; and that I consequently ought not to be attended to. This they circulated so successfully, that they got it insinuated among the members of the legislature in Maryland, where their friends were powerful enough to give an instruction to their delegates in Congress, warning them against listening to the advice of interested persons, and manifestly pointing me out to the understanding of every one. 
This instruction was read in Congress. 
It produced no other effect upon me than a laughing letter to my friend, Mr. Chase, who regarded it no more than I did. 
These chuckles I was informed of, and witnessed for many weeks, and at length they broke out in a very extraordinary manner. 
When I had been speaking one day on the subject of independence, or the institution of governments, which I always considered as the same thing, a gentleman of great fortune and high rank arose and said, he should move, that no person who held any office under a new government should be admitted to vote on any such question, as they were interested persons. 
I wondered at the simplicity of this motion, but knew very well what to do with it. I rose from my seat with great coolness and deliberation; so far from expressing or feeling any resentment, I really felt gay, though as it happened, I preserved an unusual gravity in my countenance and air, and said, ' Mr. President, I will second the gentleman's motion, and I recommend it to the honorable gentleman to second another which I should make, namely, that no gentleman who holds any office under the old or present government should be admitted to vote on any such question, as they were interested persons '. The moment when this was pronounced, it flew like an electric stroke through every countenance in the room, for the gentleman who made the motion held as high an office under the old government as I did under the new, and many other members present held offices under the royal government. 
My friends accordingly were delighted with my retaliation, and the friends of my antagonist were mortified at his indiscretion in exposing himself to such a retort. 
Finding the house in a good disposition to hear me, I added, I would go further, and cheerfully consent to a self-denying ordinance, that every member of Congress, before we proceeded to any question respecting independence, should take a solemn oath never to accept or hold any office of any kind in America after the revolution. 
Mr. Wythe, of Virginia, rose here, and said Congress had no right to exclude any of their members from voting on these questions ; their constituents only had a right to restrain them ; and that no member had a right to take, nor Congress to prescribe any engagement not to hold offices after the revolution or before. 
Again I replied, that whether the gentleman's opinion was well or ill founded, I had only said that I was willing to consent to such an arrangement. 
That I knew very well what these things meant. 
They were personal attacks upon me, and I was glad that at length they had been made publicly where I could defend myself. 
That I knew very 436 Continental Congress 623. Samuel Adams to John Scollay. 1 Philadelphia Apr 30 1776 My dear Sir .... I am greatly concernd at the present defenceless State of Boston, and indeed of the whole Eastern District which comprehends New England. 
We have applied for and obtaind a Committee of Congress to consider the State of that District.- .... well that they had been made secretly and circulated in whispers, not only in the city of Philadelphia and State of Pennsylvania, but in the neighboring States, particularly Maryland, and very probably in private letters throughout the Union. 
I now took the opportunity to declare in public, that it was very true, the unmerited and unsolicited, though unanimous good will of the Council of Massachusetts, had appointed me to an important office, that of Chief Justice; that as this office was a very conspicuous station, and consequently a dangerous one, I had not dared to refuse it, because it was a post of danger, though by the acceptance of it, I was obliged to relinquish another office — meaning my barrister's office — which was more than four times as profitable. 
That it was a sense of duty, and a full conviction of an honest cause, and not any motives of ambition, or hopes of honor, or profit, which had drawn me into my present course. 
That I had seen enough already in the course of my own experience to know that the American cause was not the most promising road to profits, honors, power, or pleasure. 
That on the contrary, a man must renounce all these, and devote himself to labor, danger and death, and very possibly to disgrace and infamy, before he was fit in my judgment, in the present state and future prospects of the country, for a seat in that Congress. 
This whole scene was a comedy to Charles Thomson, whose countenance was in raptures all the time. 
When all was over, he told me he had been highly delighted with it, because he had been witness to many of their conversations, in which they had endeavored to excite and propagate prejudices against me, on account of my office of Chief Justice. 
But he said I had cleared and explained the thing in such a manner that he would be bound I should never hear any more reflections on that head. 
No more, indeed, were made in my presence, but the party did not cease to abuse me in their secret circles on this account, as I was well informed. 
Not long afterwards, hearing that the Supreme Court in Massachusetts was organized and proceeding very well on the business of their circuits, I wrote my resignation of the office of Chief Justice, to the Council, very happy to get fairly rid of an office that I knew to be burdensome, and whose emoluments, with my small fortune, would not support my family." Works, III. 23. An editorial note in the Journals (ed. Ford), IV., 125-127, places this incident as probably on Feb. 9. The conclusion rests essentially, however, on an error or misapprehension. 
It is there stated that Adams's resignation of the office of chief justice of Massachusetts was on Feb. 10, 1776, whereas the resignation is dated Feb. 10, 1777 (see Adams's JVorks, III. 25). Further evidence, if any were needed, that Adams did not resign the office of chief justice in February, 1776, is found in his letter to Mrs. Adams, Aug. 18, 1776: "Nothing has ever given me more mortification than a suspicion that has been propagated of me, that I am actuated by private views, and have been aiming at high places. 
The office of chief justice has occasioned this jealousy, and it never will be allayed, until I resign it." Familiar Letters, p. 214. It is not necessary to suppose that Adams, writing his autobiography many years after the events, recollected even approximately their chronological order. 
For instance he says : " I returned to my daily routine of service in the board of war,"whereas the board of war was not established until June 12, 1776. Adams was appointed on this board June 13. The letter of June 14 to Chase not only speaks of the affair as of recent occurrence, but, presupposes Chase's absence at the time of the incident. 
Chase was in Congress in February, but was absent on the Canada mission from about Mar. 25 to June II, and then immediately left for Annapolis to attend the Maryland convention. 
Both in the letter and in the Autobiography Adams mentions that the delegate had presented an instruction from his state. 
Such an item is found in the instructions from the Maryland convention to the delegates of that state, Jan. 11 (see no. 477, ante). It is possible that the Purviance-Eden affair (see nos. 603, 604, 608, 610, 613, 617, 618, ante, and no. 629, post) may have had something to do with stirring up the Maryland delegate to make the motion. 
The letters of Whipple and Bartlett, June 17, post, indicate that the subject was probably under discussion about that time. 
Cf. John Mathews's " Self Denying Ordinance", Sept. 24, 1779, in vol. 
IV. [623] • Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 285; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (draft). 2 See the Journals, Apr. 26, and cf. no. 635, post. 
April, 1776 437 624. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the Massachusetts Council. 1 Philadelphia, April 30th. 1776. Gentlemen: In order to give Success to the Expedition into Canada, Nothing is so much wanted at this Juncture, as a Supply of Specie. 
General Schuyler says it is absolutely necessary, and the Congress have received from him the most pressing Letters on that Head." .... The unprepared State of the Colonies on the Commencement of the War, and the almost total Want of every Thing necessary to carry it on, are the true Sources from whence all our Difficulties have proceeded. 
The fact however furnishes a most striking Proof of the Weakness or Wickedness of those, who charge them with an original Intention of withdrawing from the Government of Great Britain, and erecting an independant Empire. 
Had such a Scheme been formed, the most warlike Preparations would have been necessary to effect it P. S. I inclose a Resolve just pass'd respect g the Vessels left in Boston, to which beg leave to Refer you. 625. James Duane to the New York Convention. 1 [April , 1776?] 2 Gentlemen We are really concern'd at the Contents of your favour of the 24th Instant. 
Ever since the Emission of Continental money we had it in our power to keep our Convention fully supplied with money to answer every service which might be requested from them by Congress. 
Nothing was expected, on their part, but to render their Accounts in reasonable periods ; and it is to be lamented that from their Extensiveness this difficulty has hitherto proved unsurmountable. 
The Congress conceive it an indispensable Duty to adjust the publick Accounts, and to call upon all who have been entrusted with the Expenditure of the continental money. 
Massachusetts and Connecticut have brought in their's but not till after a Neglect had been complaind of or rather become the Subject of Animadversion, on which occasion the Remisness of our own Colony was not forgotten. 
You are not however to ascribe such Reflections to a Spirit of Jealousy or Distrust ; but to a Desire that the publick Accounts may not run into Confusion, and a Settlement of them be attended with insuperable Difficulties. 
Under these Circumstances we dare not [624pMass. 
Arch., CXCIV. 361; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 119; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1139 (without the P. S.) ; id. to New Hampshire, N. H. State Papers, VIII. 122; id. to Rhode Island, R. I. Records, VII. 509. 2 See the Journals, Apr. 29, and no. 592, ante. [625]! N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Duane Papers, IV. 371 (draft). 2 This letter is placed conjecturally at the end of April because the references in it to accounts of Massachusetts and Connecticut accord in a measure with the entries in the Journals, Mar. 1, 7, and Apr. 11 (cf. no. 443, ante). The letter of the "24th instant " from the convention has not however been located. 438 Continental Congress venture to ask for a further Advance to our Convention untill we receive their Accounts of the past Expenditures : Especially as it is not long since that a similar Request in behalf of Connecticut was rejected, and the payment deferred till the Accounts were produced. .... 626. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, May 1, 1776. My dear Sir: .... I think it may be demonstrated that the Eastern District alone is able, of itself, to declare Independency. 
The Colony of South Carolina has behaved nobly in taking up Government, choosing a Governour, etc. ; '"' and the Convention of North Carolina have unanimously voted to follow their example. 3 Virginia is always to be depended upon; and so fine a spirit prevails among them that, unless you send some of your cool patriots among them, they may be for declaring Independency before Congress is ready. 4 I am glad you approve the proposal for instructions, and can with pleasure inform you that North Carolina has taken off from her Delegates the restriction relative to this matter, and, as I am informed, has left them at liberty to vote for a final separation from Great Britain. 5 To Mr. James Warren. 627. The President of Congress to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia May 4, 1776. Sir, A vacancy having happened in the first New Jersey batallion by the promotion of lieutenant Colonel Winds, the Congress thought proper to elect Mr. Ogden to supply his place. 
Lord Stirling in his letter of the 18th of March last, among other things, informed the Congress, that by this appointment Major De Hart and the batallion considered themselves " exceedingly hurt " and enclosing a [626] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1163. 2 The proceedings of the South Carolina provincial congress, Feb. i-Mar. 26, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 561-615; the proceedings of the general assembly, Mar. 26-Apr. 11, are ibid., pp. 615-656. The constitution, adopted Mar. 26, is ibid., pp. 609-614. Cf. the action of Georgia, Apr. 15, ibid., V. 1 107, VI. 718, 720, 903. See a passage in John Adams's letter to his wife, May 17, ibid., VI. 488; Familiar Letters, P- 173- 3 The proceedings of the North Carolina provincial congress are in N. C. Col. Recs., X. 499-590. See especially the resolutions of Apr. 12 and 13, ibid., pp. 512, 513. The proceedings are also in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1315-1368. The resolution of Apr. 12 is also ibid., p. 860. * The definitive resolutions of the Virginia convention were adopted May 15. The proceedings, May 6-July 5, arc in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1509-1616. See nos. 649, 650, 659, 660, 670, 682, post. e (jerry to Warren, May 28, Life of Gerry, I. 180; and Warren's reply, June 12, ibid., p. 181. The letters are also in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 606, 829. Cf. nos. 631, 649, 650, 669, 673, post. [627] ' Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, IX. 65; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1 1 89. May j 1776 439 memorial from Major de Hart and the officers of that regiment he strongly hinted and expressed a hope that the Congress would supersede Mr. Ogden and appoint Major de Hart or some other officer of the batallion in his stead. 
This letter with the memorials enclosed having been committed and a report made thereon, the Congress came to sundry resolutions which I have the honour to enclose,- and am, Sr. Your most Obedt Servt. 
John Hancock Presidt. 
His Excell cy General Washington. 
You will please to order Coll Ogden to Join his Regimt. 628. The New York Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety. 1 Gentlemen Agreeable to your Directions communicated in your Letter of the 23rd of March respecting the Command in the marine Department on the Lakes, we immediately introduced the Subject to Congress and a Resolution passed that Mr Douglass shoud forthwith repair to his Station. 
As this was in the military Line the Resolution was forwarded to General Schuyler : and we did not think it necessary to trouble you with a Copy. 
We again applied to Congress, on Receipt of your favour of the 29th. of April last from which we learn that Douglass had not yet proceeded to the Lakes. 
This occasioned the further Resolution of which we have the Honour to enclose you a Copy. 
It will bring the point to an immediate determination; and we hope fully answer your Expectations. - Major Tuthill is appointed to succeed Benedict. 
We sincerely wish for an Opportunity of promoting Mr Willet. 
His Merit is with us unquestionable : but as Major Tuthill sustains a good Character, and has the advantage of priority, Congress has given him the Preference. 
The Commission will be forwarded by the next Conveyance. 3 We have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect Gentlemen, Your most Obedt. hum e Servant Jas. Duane Lewis Morris Philad. 5 May 1776 Wm. Floyd P. S. We I \_sic~\ have obtaind and enclose the Commission for Major Tuthill. 
Hon le Committee of Safety of New York
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., II. 455 (dated 1777). 2 See the Journals, Feb. 5, Mar. 26, May 2, and nos. 487, 578, ante. 
The letter of Mar. 23 is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1397; that of Apr. 29 is ibid., V. 1123. The letters are also in the Jour. 
N. Y . Prov. 
Cong., I. 382, 425. 3 See the letter of the New York committee of safety, Apr. 29, cited above, and the Journals, May 4. 440 Continental Congress &'629. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Purviance, jr. 1 Philadelphia May 6th, 1776 Dear Sir, I received yesterday your favor of the 2d instant, and in answer to that part of it desiring to know if Mr. Hancock gave a copy of your letter to any person, I must say that I do not know whether or not, but I am inclined to think he has not. 
This business appears to me thus — when Mr. Hancock received the despatches from Baltimore, he proceeded to read the whole in Congress, and among others, a letter containing observations on the Council of Safety of Maryland, relative to the timidity of their councils; which it appears he had not previously read in private, because when he came to that part of it which mentioned its being written in confidence, he stopt, and observed it was private, and proposed it should be so considered; but as he read so much of it, he went on, but read no name at the bottom, and in the debate consequent upon it, 'twas supposed to be anonymous, and it was conjecture alone that fixed you as the Author. 
I should have certainly informed you of this, if I had then found myself at liberty to do it, and when I heard from you of your summons before the Council, it was too late for a letter to reach you, before your appearance at that board. 
But the idea of drawing from the mouth of a person accused bis own condemnation is reprobated by English jurisprudence, and is the practise only of inquisitorial or Star chamber tyranny. 
I should incline to think that this persecution will be carried no further, at least I am sure the time is quickly coming when violence from without will render absolutely necessary a perfect union within. 2 .... [629] 1 Md. Hist. 
Soc, Portfolio no. VIII. (1) ; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 187; Purviance, Baltimore in the Revolution, p. 195. 2 Cf. nos. 603, 604, 608, 610, 613, 617, 618, ante. 
Apropos of the resolution reported from the committee of the whole, May 6, relative to commissioners said to be coming from Great Britain to America, John Adams writes in his Autobiography: " It will be observed how long this trifling business had been depending, but it cannot be known from the Journal how much debate it had occasioned. 
It was one of those delusive contrivances, by which the party in opposition to us endeavored, by lulling the people with idle hopes of reconciliation into security, to turn their heads and thoughts from independence. 
They endeavored to insert in the resolution ideas of reconciliation ; we carried our point for inserting peace. 
They wanted powers to be given to the General to receive the commissioners in ceremony; we ordered nothing to be done till we were solicited for passports. 
Upon the whole, we avoided the snare, and brought the controversy to a close, with some dignity. 
But it will never be known bow much labor it cost us to accomplish it. 11 Then a committee of the whole, on the state of the colonies. 
Mr. Harrison reported sundry resolutions, which, as they stand on the Journal, will show the art and skill with which the General's letters, Indian affairs, revenue matters, naval arrangements, and twenty other things, many of them very trivial, were mixed, in those committees of the whole, with great subjects of government, independence, and commerce. 
Little things were designedly thrown in the way of great ones, and the time consumed upon trifles which ought to have been consecrated to higher interests. 
We could only harangue against the misapplication of time, and harangues consumed more time, so that we could only now and then snatch a transient glance at the promised land." JVorks, III. 42. Cf. nos. 548 (note 6), 555 (note 4), ante; also nos. 648, 649, 659, post. 
May, 1776 441 630. The President of Congress to Esek Hopkins. 1 [May 7, 1776.] Sir: The Congress having, by the foregoing Resolve, agreed to lend twenty of the heaviest cannon taken at Providence and carried to Rhode Island, to the Committee of Safety of Pennsylvania, for the defence of this city, I have to desire you will deliver the same to the person or persons whom the said Committee sent to receive and bring them hither. 2 I am your humble servant, John Hancock, President. 
To Commodore Eseck Hopkins, or, in his absence, to Daniel Tillinghast, Esq. 631. William Floyd to John McKesson. 1 Philadelphia, May 9th 1776. Dear Sir: .... The preparations which are making by our Enemies on the other side the water, from the Intelligence we have, appear to be very [630] * Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 409; Pa. Col. Records, X. 564. 2 The resolve referred to is in the Journals, May 7, to a copy of which this letter was appended. 
The letter was also accompanied by an order from the marine committee, dated May 10. By action of the Pennsylvania committee of safety, May 11, Levi Hollingsworth and Thomas Richardson were sent to obtain the cannon (Pa. Col. Records, X. 565; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 654). The order met with a protest in Rhode Island, gave rise to a controversy with Connecticut, and in its outcome became involved in the trial of Commodore Hopkins (see below). The memorial of a committee of the Rhode Island assembly, May 20, is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 75, and in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. _ 529 (dated May 29). See, further, Hollingsworth and Richardson to the Pennsylvania committee of safety, May 21, ibid., VI. 538; Hopkins to Nathaniel Shaw and to Gov. Trumbull, May 21, ibid., VI. 539-540; Hopkins to the President of Congress, May 22 (read in Congress June 7), ibid., VI. 551; Trumbull to Congress, May 27 (read in Congress June i), ibid., p. 600; Trumbull to Congress, June 17 (read in Congress June 27), ibid., p. 944; Richardson to Hopkins, June 18, ibid., p. 971; Hancock to Trumbull, June 19, ibid., p. 973; Trumbull to Congress, July 6, ibid., fifth ser., I. 45, to Nathaniel Shaw, July 9, ibid., I. 144, to Congress. 
July 13, ibid., I. 262. See also Jay to Rutledge, July 6, ibid., I. 40; Correspondence of Jay (ed. Johnston), I. 68. For the proceedings of Congress see the Journals, Apr. 16, May 4, 7, 8, 22, 29, 30, 31, June 7, 15, 27, July 20, particularly the resolve of May 30 and that of June 15. See also no. 749, post. 
The Rhode Island part of the episode was again the subject of discussion several months later. 
See Ellery to Cooke, Jan. 30, 1777, in the next volume of these Letters. " Wednesday, May
I never could discover any reason for the bitterness against Wooster, but his being a New Englandman; nor for that against Hopkins, but that he had done too much ; nor for that against Wrixon, but his being patronized by Mr. Samuel Adams and Mr. R. H. Lee. Be it as it may, these three consumed an immense quantity of time, and kept up the passions of the parties to a great height. 
One design was to divert us from our main object." John Adams, Autobiography, Works, IV. 44. The principal controversy concerning Wooster was a part of the Schuyler controversy. 
See, for instance, no. 542, note 2, ante. 
Concerning an earlier stage of the controversy, see nos. 198, 200, 228, 248, 250, ante, also John Adams to Samuel Adams, Aug. 18, 1776, in the next volume. 
In regard to Commodore Hopkins see the Journals, Apr. 16, May 4, 7, 8, 22, 31, June 7. 13, July 12, Aug. 2, 5, 9, 12, 15, 16, 19, 1776; Mar. 2 5, 2 6, 31, May 14, 1777; Jan. 2, July 30, 1778; cf. nos. 706, 707, post. 
See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 823, 824, 966, 1140, 1156, 1168, VI. 409, 551-553, 885, 950, 979, 999, fifth ser., I. 994, 1025, 1106, and passim. 
See also John Adams's letter of Aug. 18, 1776, referred to above. 
Concerning Maj. Elias Wrixon, see nos. 566, 576, 620, ante. 
Cf. Adams to Dana, Aug. 16, 1776, Works, IX. 429. [631] 1 Cal. of N. Y. Hist. 
MSS.: Rev. Papers, I. 303; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 395. 442 Continental Congress &'Considerable, which makes it necessary that all the Collonies should be in a situation best calculated to Exert its whole strength. 
I think it cannot be long before our Provencial Congress will think it necessary to take up some more stable form of Goverment than what is now Exercised in that provence. the two Carolinas have done it, and Virginea I expect will soon do the same. 
As to Commissioners coming to treat of peace we have little or no hopes of it, therefore we ought to be in a situation to preserve our Liberties another way," .... 632. Richard Henry Lee to Charles Lee. 1 Philadelphia nth May 1776. My dear Friend, .... I find a spirit prevailing here, which leads its possessors to regard with a jealous eye, every instance of deviation (in a Military or naval Commander) from the line of instructions, and every undertaking productive of expense which is not warranted by express order of Congress. 
Thus animated, I find some Gentlemen expressing dissatisfaction at your having promised forage and rations
You know, my friend, that the Spirit of Liberty is a jealous spirit, and that Senators
Such is the opinion entertained of you, that when you press a thing as necessary, if it is in the power of Congress, I am inclined to think a majority of that Body will readily adopt the measure. 
What I hear and see has induced me to say thus much. 
I am satisfied that verbum sapienti sat est The Proprietary Colonies do certainly obstruct and perplex the American Machine. 
Those who wish delay, and Avant nothing done, say, let the people in the Colonies begin, we must not go before them, Tho' they well know the language in the Country to be, Let the Congress advise. 
In fact, the other Colonies must do what is right, and on giving proper and positive orders to their Servants in Congress, the Proprietary men will be obliged to pursue the right road. 6 Before this reaches you I 2 Cf. no. 626, ante, and no. 669, post. [632] X N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, II. 24; Va. Hist. 
Soc, Lee Papers, I. 48 (draft) ; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 189. The text in Ballagh follows the draft. 
There are a few variations, the principal of which are pointed out below. 2 The words "and rations" are not in the draft. 3 Instead of " Senators " the draft reads " those appointed to guard it ". 4 The draft has " candid Counsellors ", but does not include the clause " but .... passions ". r ' The draft has " this consideration ". The remainder of the paragraph has been entirely rewritten. °Cf. the letter of Apr. 22, ante; also nos. 654, 661, 670, 672, 733, post. 
May, 1776 443 suppose the powder and medicines will be arrived, and the Blankets and shoes will quickly follow. 7 We have had 23 Tons of powder, and a good deal of Saltpetre arrived within these 10 days. 
Since writingthe above, a french Gentleman, 8 who appears sensible and clever, has been with us. His letter is enclosed. 
He has been bred to Cavalry, and wishes to serve in Virginia. 
As a Committee of Congress has already reported against having Continental Cavalry in North Carolina, 9 I suppose the same opinion will prevail respecting Virginia. 
But the measure is so wise and necessary for the defence of our Colony, that I wish and hope a few squadrons will be formed on Colonial expence, in which case, this Gentleman wd answer well as an Instructor and Commander. 633. James Duane to John Jay. 1 Philada. nth. 
May 1776. .... The Report you mention of the arrival of Commissioners is not founded on any authority nor credited. 2 A Resolution has passed a Committee of the whole Congress, recommending it to the Colonies to assume all the powers of government. 
It waits only for a preface and will then be ushered into the world. 
This in Confidence as res infecta. 3 7 See the Journals, Apr. 19, May 11 ; cf. no. 650, post. 8 Probably Caunier de la Berthaudure. 
See the Journals, May 11. 9 Probably May 7. See nos. 640, 734, post, and cf. the Journals, Nov. 29, Dec. 12, 27, 1776. [633] X N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Revolutionary Papers, I. 65 (copy). 2 Cf. no. 587, note 2, ante. 
See Washington's letter of Mar. 24 (read Apr. 2), Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 485, and his letter of May
Concerning this resolution Adams remarks in a letter to James Warren, May 12: "Congress have passed a Vote with remarkable Unanimity for assuming Government in all the Colonies, which remains only for a Preamble; you will see it in a few days." Warren-Adams Letters, I. 242. In his Autobiography he says :....'' It was brought before fhe Committee of the whole house, in concert between Mr. R. H. Lee and me, and I suppose General Washington was informed of it by Mr. Harrison, the chairman, or some other of his correspondents. 
But nothing of this appears upon the Journal. 
It is carefully concealed, like many other things relative to the greatest affairs of the nation, which were before Congress in that year. " This resolution I considered as an epocha, a decisive event. 
It was a measure, which I had invariably pursued for a whole year, and contended for, through a scene and a series of anxiety, labor, study, argument, and obloquy, which was then little known, and is now forgotten by all but Dr. Rush and a very few, who, like him, survive. 
Millions of curses were poured out upon me for these exertions and for these triumphs over them, by many, who, whatever their pretences may have been, have never forgotten, nor cordially forgiven me. By these I mean, not the Tories, for from them I received always more candor, but a class of people who thought proper and convenient to themselves to go along with the public opinion, in appearance, though in their hearts they detested it. Although they might think the public opinion was right, in general, in its difference with Great Britain, yet they secretly regretted the separation, and above all things the connection with France. 
Such a party has always existed, and was the final ruin of the federal administration, as will hereafter very plainly appear. " A committee of the whole again. 
Mr. Harrison reported no resolution. 
I mention these committees to show how all these great questions labored. 
Day after day consumed in debates without any conclusion." Works, III. 44. Cf. nos. 509 (note 4), 591 (note 2), ante. 
M4 Continental Congress A business of still greater moment is on the Carpet. 4 you may judge of my situation, when our representation is so slender. 
I hope my friend Bob B is on the way. 
I will do the best I can 634. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philada nth May 1776 Sir I Rec'd your favour, and have only time to inform you that the Intention of Congress is to have the whole Quantity of pork ordered to Genl. 
Schuyler Sent as fast as possible that you will please to pursue the purchases untill you have compleated the whole including the Two Thousand Barrels I lately sent you an order to purchase. 2 .... I want from Genl Putnam or from you a particular State of the Services perform'd by the Revd Mr. Leonard, I mean when he officiated for several Regiments previous to the Regular Establishment; when I am possess'd of that he will be recompensed. 3 Joseph Trumbull, Esq. 635. Samuel Adams to James Warren. 1 Philada., May 12, 1776 My dear Sir .... Yesterday the Congress resolved into a Committee of the whole, to take under Consideration the report of a former Committee, appointed to consider the state of the Eastern District, which comprehends New England. 
It was then agreed that the Troops in Boston should be augmented to 6000. The Question now lies before Congress and will be considered tomorrow. 
I am inclind to think the Vote will obtain. 2 .... 4 The question of independence. 5 Robert R. Livingston. 
He had arrived in Philadelphia before May 17. See his letter of that date to Jay, in Correspondence of Jay (ed. Johnston), I. 58. [634] 1 Conn. 
State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Coll., 124; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 409 (dated May 10). 2 See the Journals, Apr. 24, Hancock to Trumbull, Apr. 26, in Force, Am. Arch.. fourth ser., V. 1086, and Trumbull to Hancock, Apr. 28, ibid., V. 11 12. 3 It has not been discovered when the case of Rev. Abiel Leonard came before Congress. 
An entry in the Journals, Aug. 13, shows the previous existence of a committee, and an entry of Aug. 16 indicates that the matter came up in consequence of a letter of Gen. Putnam. 
Putnam's letter has not been found. 
Cf. the case of the Rev. Samuel Langdon, Journals, Apr. 18, 19. [63SI 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 244; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 288; N. Y. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 2 See the Journals, Apr. 26, May 10, 11, 13, 14, 16; cf. no. 623, ante, and nos. 637, 644, 646, post. 
May, i J J 6 445 636. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia May 13th. 1776. Sir, I have delivered in Charge to Captn. 
Lenox and Co. four Hundred Thousand Dollars, contained in six Boxes, for the Use of the Troops in New York, and Massachussetts Bay. The particular Disposition of it with Regard to the latter of these Colonies, I cannot at present ascertain. 
I will therefore lay the Matter before Congress this Day, and inform you by tomorrow's Post of the Result. 2 The Secret Committee have been so extremely engaged by a Multiplicity of Business, 3 that they have not yet furnished me with the State of the Powder sent to the Eastward. 4 In a few Days, I expect a Report will be made up on the whole of your Letters under the Consideration of Congress. 5 The Success of the Application to the Committee of Safety of this Colony for Arms, is still unknown, as no Report has been made. 6 .... 637. John Adams to James Warren. 1 May 15, 1776 This Day the Congress has passed the most important Resolution that ever was taken in America. 
It is as nearly as I can repeat it from Memory, in these Words Resolved — that it be recommended to the several Assemblies and Conventions to institute such Forms of Government as to them shall appear necessary, to promote the Happiness of the People. 2 [636] x Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, IX. 139; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 433. 2 See the Journals, May 10 ; cf. Hancock to William Palfrey, same date, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 433. If Hancock brought this matter before Congress the Journals make no record of it. Apparently the money was applied entirely to the New York department. 
See Palfrey to Hancock, May 19, June 3, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., pp. 508, 692; Ward to Washington, June 16, ibid., p. 931, and Washington's reply, June 23, ibid., p. 1040; also the Journals, June 10, 12, and nos. 694, 708, post. 3 See the Journals, May 10, 13. 4 Cf. Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 419. 5 The letters of Washington still under consideration were one of Apr. 25 and 26, two of May 5, and one of May 7. See the Journals, Apr. 29, May 7, 8, 10, II, 13, 14, 16. The letters of Washington, except that of May 7, are in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 44, 59, 64; all of them are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1068, 1195, 1201, 1228. See also Hancock to Washington, May 10, ibid., VI. 408. 6 See Washington's letter of May
An editorial note in the Warren-Adams Letters states : " Some verbal differences from the version in the 446 Continental Congress &'This Preamble and Resolution are ordered to be printed and you will see them immediately in all the News Papers upon the Continent. 
I shall make no Comments, upon this important and decisive Resolution. 
There remains, however, a great deal of Work to be done besides the Defence of the Country. 
A Confederation must be now pursued with all the Address, Assiduity, Prudence, Caution, and yet Fortitude and Perseverance, which those who think it necessary are possessed of. It is the most intricate, the most important, the most dangerous and delicate Business of all. 
It will require Time. 
We must be patient. 
Two or three days We have spent in Considering the state of the Massachusetts Bay. Congress have at last voted that the Five Battallions now in that Province be recruited to their full Complements and that three Battallions more be forthwith raised. 3 The Province has raised one, lately as I am informed. 
You will have nothing to do, but return the Names of the Field Officers to Congress and have continental Commissions for them. 
The other two Battallions may be raised in Mass. 
Bay, Connecticut and New Hampshire, in what Proportions is not determined. 
Congress have voted that a Major General and a Brigadier General be sent to Boston. 
Who they will be I know not — Gates and Mifflin, I hope, but cant promise.* This Letter you may communicate if you think it necessary. 
I am, sir, your Affectionate Friend [No signature.'] Journals may indicate that Adams used the preamble as originally written, before being amended in the Congress." Cf. no. 633, note 3, ante, and nos. 648, 660, 672, 678, 690, post. 
At two different points in his Autobiography John Adams emphasizes the part which he had in the preparation of this resolution: " I was incessantly employed through the whole fall, winter, and spring of 1775 and 1776, in Congress during their sittings, and on committees on mornings and evenings, and unquestionably did more business than any other member of that house. 
In the beginning of May, I procured the appointment of a committee, to prepare a resolution recommending to the people of the States to institute governments. 
The committee, of whom I was one, requested me to draught a resolve, which I did, and by their direction reported it. Opposition was made to it, and Mr. Duane called it a machine to fabricate independence, but on the 15th of May, 1776, it passed. 
It was indeed, on all hands, considered by men of understanding as equivalent to a declaration of independence, though a formal declaration of it was still opposed by Mr. Dickinson and his party." Works, II. 510. " Tuesday, May 14. William Ellery, Esq., appeared as a delegate from Rhode Island, in the place of Governor Ward, and being an excellent member, fully supplied his place. 
The Committee appointed to prepare a preamble, thought it not necessary to be very elaborate, and Mr. Lee and Mr. Rutledge desired me, as chairman, to draw something very short, which I did, and, with their approbation, on Wednesday, May 15th, reported the following, which was agreed to Mr. Duane called it to me, a machine for the fabrication of independence. 
I said, smiling, I thought it was independence itself, but we must have it with more formality yet." Works, III. 46. See also Adams to Mercy Warren, Aug. 17, 1807, in Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, fifth ser., IV. 465; Frothingham, Rise of the Republic, p. 116 (with the date Aug. 7). 8 See the Journals, May 14; cf. no. 635, ante, and nos. 644, 646, post. 4 See the Journals, May 14, 16; cf. nos. 643, 644, post. 
May, 1776 447 638. Stephen Hopkins to the Governor of Rhode Island (Nicholas Cooke). 1 Philadelphia, 15th May, 1776. Sir Your favour of the 7th May I have received, and the papers inclosed in it. I observe that you have avoided giving me a direct answer to my Queries concerning dependance or independance. however the copy of the Act of Assembly which you have sent me, together with our instructions leave me little room to doubt what is the opinion of the Colony I came from. 2 I suppose that it will not be long, before the Congress will throw off all connection as well in name as in Substance with Great Britain, as one thing after another seem gradually to lead them to such a step, they having, within a few days, past a resolve, earnestly to recommend to all the Colonies who, at present are not under a perfect form of Government to take up and form Such, each Colony for themselves, which I make no doubt most of them will very Soon do. 3 .... A letter from General Washington to Congress warmly recommending it to them to take this step respecting the Colony of Rhode island, had great influence in procuring it to be dope. 
I could therefore, wish the Colony in a handsome manner to acknowledge this favour, and to return thanks to the General for his good offices in their behalf. 4 The affair which you mention respecting Block island I shall take the first opportunity to lay before Congress and obtain their directions concerning it. 5 .... 639. Samuel Adams to George Washington. 1 Philada May 15 1776 Sir, It was not till the Beginning of this Month that I had the Honor of receiving your Favor of the 22d of March, respecting a Proposition of Coll. 
Baillie for opening a Road from Connecticutt River to Montreal. [638] x R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1776, p. 45; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 68; R. I. Records, VII. 527; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 467; Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS., LIX. 117 (copy). 2 The letter of Gov. Cooke is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 68. The act repealing the act of allegiance to Great Britain is ibid., pp. 66-67, R. I. Records, VII. 522; and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1215. The instructions to the delegates are ibid., pp. 71-72, and in the Journals, May 14. Hopkins's letter (Apr. 8) to the governor putting queries concerning independence, has not been found. 3 See nos. 633 (note 3), 637 (note 2), ante. 4 See the Journals, May 2, 11. Washington's letter to Congress, Apr. 30, is in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 57; the letter, accompanied by the Rhode Island memorial, Jan. 15, is also in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1147-1150. The correspondence between Washington and Cooke, Apr. 23, 28, May 6, 13, 20, will be found ibid., V. 1044, 1 1 13, 1214, VI. 436, 999. Cooke's letter to Washington, May 6, is also in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 192, and R. I. Records, VII. 545. See also Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., pp. 55-58, and no. 429, ante. 5 The reference is probably to the removal of the stock from Block Island. 
See the Journals, Dec. 5, 1775; cf. Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., pp. 51, 54, 57. [639] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 290. 33 448 Continental Congress The President, soon after, laid before Congress your Letter of the 5th, a Paragraph of which referrs to the same Subject. 
The Resolution of Congress thereon has, I presume, before this Time been transmitted to you by him; by which it appears that they have fully concurrd with you in Opinion of the Utility of the Measure proposd. 2 .... 640. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston. 1 Philadelphia 16th May 1776. Dear Sir, I have had the honor to receive your several favours of the 10th, 13th, 15th, and 17th ultimo enclosing sundry resolutions of your Congress. 
I took the earliest oppertunity to lay those papers before Congress and have now the pleasure to inform you they have taken your Six Regiments into Continental Service, appointed Nicholas Long Esqr deputy quarter master general with the rank of Colonel, ordered Twelve field pieces to be procured and sent to you, also Three Tons of Powder, Six Chests of Medicines, and one hundred weight of bark. 2 I urged the necessity of taking your light Horse into their service, but could not prevail on them to do it, no colonies having been yet allowed to raise any on Continental pay. it is said they are very expensive Troops and of little use in this Contest. 3 I am informed a Company or two were raised in South Carolina but being found by experience to be too expensive the Horses were discharged and the men turned into the ranks of foot Regiments. 
I had it not in charge from you to make application for any Powder or Medicines, but apprehending they would be wanted I took the liberty to apply for them. 
The three Tons of Powder in Twenty five barrels went of [f] yesterday in three Waggons for Halifax, the Medicines will be sent of[f] next week. 
I hope these matters will meet the approbation of your Congress, should you want Drums, Colours, Shoes, Stockings and Blankets for your Soldiers I believe some might be procured here. 
Cannon fitt for field pieces cannot be purchased at any price, before the resolution passed in Congress to procure and send Cannon, or I had received your Orders, I had done my utmost to get them
Comm.; N. C. Col. Recs., X. 604, XXII. 517, 068. 2 See the Journals, Apr. 27, May 2, 7. Johnston's letters of Apr. 10 and 13 to the delegates are in N. C. Col Recs., X. 494, 495. The letters of Apr. 15 and 17 have not been found. 
See the proceedings of the provincial congress of North Carolina, Apr. 6-17, ibid., X. 503-522; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1317-1328. 8 Cf. no. 632, ante, and no. 734, post. 
See the proceedings of the North Carolina provincial congress, Apr. 9. May, 1 7 7 6 449 641. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman. 1 Philidelpa. 16 May 1776. Sir, .... The News is inclosed. 
A Revolution in Goverment, you will perceive, is about to take Effect. 2 May God grant a happy Establishment of it, and secuerety to the Rights of the People. 
If this Recommendation takes effect which undouptedly it will, There will be an instance Real not implyed or Ideal of a Goverment founded in Compacet Express and Clear Made in its Principles by the People at large. 
A strange Infatuation has possessd the british Councills to drive Matters to the lengtth they have gone, every Thing convinces me that the Abilities of a Child might have governed this Country, so strong has been their Attachment to Britain. 
May the supreme Ruler of the Universe carry us thro the hardy Conflict to Liberty safety and Peace 642. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott. 1 Philadelpa. 1 6th. May 1776. My Dear .... By the Enclosed you will perceive that a Revolution in Goverment is recommended : — to swear allegiance and act under an Authority which had not only cast us out of its Protection but for so long a Time has been carrying on the Most cruel War against us, was tho't not only absurd but impious. 2 .... 643. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia May 16th. 1776. Sir, I do myself the Honour to enclose you several Resolutions passed by the Congress, to which I beg Leave to refer you. 
The Congress being of Opinion, that it is necessary, as well for your Health as the public Service, that you should embrace the earliest opportunity of coming to Philadelphia, have directed me to write to you, and request, that you will repair to Philada. as soon as you can conveniently, in order to consult with Congress, upon such Measures as may be necessary for the carrying on the ensuing Campaign. 2 .... [64i] 1 Hist. 
Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., Signers, p. 99. 2 See the Journals. 
May 10, 13, 15; cf. nos. 633, 637, ante, and no. 642, post. [642] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. 
II., no. 10 (extract). 2 Cf. no. 641, ante. [643] l Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 142; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 472. . 2 Washington's health is not given in the Journals (May 16) as one of the reasons for calling him to Philadelphia. 
The omitted passage is a personal invitation to Washington to lodge in Hancock's house during his stay in Philadelphia. 
Cf. his letter of May 21. Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 205; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 533. Washington replied May 20 (Writings, ed. Ford, IV. 88; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 523). Cf. his letters of May 18 and 19, ibid., VI. 500, 506; Writings, IV. 86, 88. See the Journals, May 21 ; also no. 668, post. 450 Continental Congress &• I am to inform you, that the Congress have this Day appointed Horatio Gates, Esqr a Major General, and Thomas Mifflin Esqr a Brigadier General in the Continental Army. 
A Commission for the former Gentleman, I transmit by this Opportunity. 3 I have delivered one to Mr. Mifflin here. 
I could wish, if consistent with the Service, it might be agreeable to you to direct these two Gentlemen to repair to Boston, but I would not urge a Matter, which entirely rests with you. 
I know however your Disposition will prompt you to make as agreeable an Arrangment as possible. 4 [P.S.] .... 644. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the Massachusetts Assembly. 1 Philadelphia May 16th. 1776. Gentlemen: By the best Intelligence from Europe it appears That the British Nation have proceeded to the last Extremity, and have actually taken into pay a Number of foreign Troops ; who in all Probability are on their Passage to America at this very Time. 
The Transactions of the Ministry are so much hid from View, that we are left to wander in the Field of Conjecture; and it is entirely to Accident we are indebted, for any little Information we may receive with regard to their Designs against us. This Uncertainty however, I hope will have the proper Effect. 
It should stimulate the Colonies to greater Diligence and Vigour in preparing to ward off the Blow, as our enemies may, for any Thing we know, be at our very Door. 
In this Situation of Affairs it is highly necessary, that the Town of Boston should receive a Reinforcement, to prevent it from falling again into the Hands of such Miscreants, as have just been driven out of it. The Congress therefore considering the small Number of Troops in that Place, and the Impossibility of detaching any from the Continental Army which has lately been much weakened by the two Brigades consisting of ten Regiments ordered into Canada, have come to the enclosed Resolutions, which I am commanded to transmit you, being fully assured that you will do every Thing in your Power to carry the same into Effect as speedily as possible. 2 I enclose to you also blank Commissions for the Captains and Subalterns of the two Regiments to be raised in Massachusetts Colony, to be filled up with the Names of the Persons you may please to appoint. 3 See no. 644, post. 4 That such was really the intention of Congress would appear from the fact that with the resolution to appoint a major-general and a brigadier-general is coupled a direction to Washington to send an officer of each rank to the eastern department. 
See the Journals, May 14; cf. ibid., May 10 (p. 345). See also no. 692, post. |644| 1 Mass. 
Arch., CXCIV. 400; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 131; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 473. 2 Cf. nos. 635, 637, ante, and no. 646, post. 
May, 1776 451 With Respect to the Field Officers, I have it in Command to request you will please to recommend to Congress as early as possible the Names of Persons you judge proper for those Offices, in Order that they may be appointed and commissioned by the Congress. 
As soon as I have the Honour to receive your Recommendations, I will lay them before Congress, and immediately upon their Determination transmit you the Commissions filled up accordingly. 3 .... P. S. The Congress have been pleased to appoint Horatio Gates Esqr. to be a Major General and Thomas Mifflin Esq. to be a Brigadr. 
General, in the Continental Army. 4 I have written to Genl Washington to request
This, however, was the prevailing practice. 
See nos. 653, 680, 715, post. 
See also Hancock to the New Hampshire convention and to the Connecticut assembly, May 16, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 474- 4 " May 16. Thursday I take notice of this appointment of Gates, because it had great influence on my future fortunes. 
It soon occasioned a competition between him and Schuyler, in which I always contended for Gates ; and the rivalry occasioned great animosities among the friends of the two Generals, the consequences of which are not yet spent. 
Indeed, they have affected the essential interests of the United States, and will influence their ultimate destiny. 
They effected an enmity between Gates and Mr. Jay, who always supported Schuyler, and a dislike in Gates of Hamilton, who married Schuyler's daughter, with which Mr. Burr wrought so skilfully, as, in 1800, to turn the elections in New York, not only against Hamilton but against the federalists. 
Gates's resentment against Jay, Schuyler, and Hamilton, made him turn, in 1799, against me, who had been the best friend and the most efficacious supporter he ever had in America. 
I had never in my life any personal prejudice or dislike against General Schuyler ; on the contrary, I knew him to be industrious, studious, and intelligent. 
But the New England officers, soldiers, and inhabitants, knew Gates in the camp at Cambridge. 
Schuyler was not known to many, and the few who had heard of him, were prejudiced against him from the former French war. 
The New England soldiers would not enlist to serve under him, and the militia would not turn out. 
I was, therefore, under a necessity of supporting Gates. 
Mr. Duane, Mr. Jay, Colonel Harrison, etc., supported Schuyler. "On this same May 16th, it was " ' Resolved, That it be recommended to the General Assemblies of Massachusetts Bay and Connecticut, to endeavor to have the battalions enlisted for two years, unless sooner discharged by Congress, in which case the men to be allowed on month's pay on their discharge; but if the men cannot be prevailed on to enlist for two years, that they be enlisted for one; and that they be ordered, as soon as raised and armed, to march immediately to Boston.'" Here it is proper for me to obviate some aspersions against me, which were not the less malicious for being silly. 
I will not here charge the authors with wilful falsehood, because I can readily believe, that among the correspondents with the army, and the connections of my opponents, they may have heard insinuations and misrepresentations that they too easily credited. 
The truth is, I never opposed the raising of men during the war. 
I was always willing the General might obtain as many men as he possibly could, to enlist during the war, or during the longest period they could be persuaded to enlist for, and I always declared myself so. But I contended that I knew the number to be obtained in this manner would be very small in New England, from whence almost the whole army was derived. 
A regiment might possibly be obtained, of the meanest, idlest, most intemperate and worthless, but no more. 
A regiment was no army to defend this country We must have tradesmen's sons, and farmers' sons, or we should be without defence ; and such men certainly would not enlist during the war, or for long periods, as yet. 
The service was too new; they had not yet become attached to it by habit. 
Was it credible that men who could get at home better living, more comfortable lodgings, more than double the wages, in safety, not exposed to the sicknesses of the camp, would bind themselves during the war? I knew it to be impossible. 
In the Middle States, where they imported, from Ireland and Germany, so many transported convicts and redemptioners, it was possible they might obtain some. 
Let them try. 
I had no objection. 
But I warned them against depending on so improbable a resource for the defence of the country. 
Congress confessed the unanswerable force of this reasoning. 
Mr. McKean, I remember, said in Congress, ' Mr. John 452 Continental Congress 6'him, if agreable, that those gentlemen may take the command in Boston 645. The Secret Committee to George Washington. 1 Philada. 
May 16th. 1776. Sir The enclosed letters will discover to your Excellency that the Congress have ordered Two hundred and forty four Muskets to be forwarded from Rhode Island to New York for the Continental Service and as it is probable you may think proper to give some directions about the mode of getting them safe down we trouble you with these open letters that you may have an opportunity of forwarding them and of adding thereto what you may think Necessary. 2 We have the honor to be Your Excellencys Obedt hble Servts. 
Robt Morris, Chair Man By Order of the Secret Committee His Excellency Genl Washington 646. William Whipple to the President of New Hampshire (Meshech Weare). 1 Philadelphia 16th. May 1776. Sir I have the pleasure to inclose you a Resolution of Congress for raising a Battn in New Hampshire, the design is that they are to be stationed at Portsm h , subject, however, to the Officer commanding in the Eastern department Its the wish of Congress that the men may be inlisted for three Years, 2 but if they cannot be prevailed on to engage for a longer time they may be inlisted for one year the Battalion to consist of 728 men including officers. 
Please to observe they are not to be in pay 'till arm'd Adams has convinced me that you will get no army upon such terms. 
Even in Pennsylvania, the most desperate of imported laborers cannot be obtained in any numbers upon such terms. 
Farmers and tradesmen give much more encouragement to laborers and journeymen.' Mr. McKean's opinion was well founded, and proved to be true in experience, for Pennsylvania never was able to obtain half the complement of New England in proportion." John Adams, Autobiography, Works, III. 46. Cf. nos. 637, 643, ante. [645] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, IX. 172; Force, Am. Arch,, fourth ser., VI. 475. 2 The order of Congress is not recorded in the Journals; neither has it been discovered what were the letters enclosed. 
Washington's reply, dated May 20, is in the Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 
See also Washington to Congress, June 9, enclosing a letter of Nicholas Brown, May 27, Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, VI. 767-768. Washington's letter is also in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 119. The numbers " fourteen " and " four " in the letter of Brown as printed should be corrected to 244 and 234 respectively. 
L646J 1 Library of Congress, N. H. Papers, III. 2 The recommendation of the committee (May 10) was three years, but the resolve as passed (May 16) specified two years. 
Cf. no. 644, note 4, ante. 
See also no. 653, post, and Hancock's letter to the New Hampshire assembly, May 16, N. H. State Papers, VIII. 124; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., Vl. 474. May, 1776 453 and accoutred. 3 The five Battalions that are at Boston are to be recruted to their full compliment and three new ones rais'd, two Battalions are also station'd for the Present at Road Island, in all Eleven Battalions in the Eastern department, two Genl Officers will be sent there. 4 .... 647. James Duane to John Jay. 1 [May 16, 1776.] Yesterday, my dear Friend, was an important day productive of the Resolutions of which I enclose you a copy. 
I shall not enter into particulars : the Resolution itself first passed and then a Committee was appointed to fit it with a preamble. 
Compare them with each other and it will probably lead you into Reflections which I dare not point out. 2 .... 648. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 [Philadelphia,] 17 May, 1776. .... Great Britain has at last driven America to the last step, a complete separation from her ; a total absolute independence, not only of her Parliament, but of her crown, for such is the amount of the resolve of the 15th. Confederation among ourselves, or alliances with foreign nations are not necessary to a perfect separation from Britain. 
That is effected by extinguishing all authority under the crown, Parliament, and nation, as the resolution for instituting governments has done, to all intents and purposes. 
Confederation will be necessary for our internal concord, and alliances may be so for our external defence. 
I have reasons to believe that no colony, which shall assume a government under the people, will give it up. There is something very unnatural and odious in a government a thousand leagues off. 
A whole government of our own choice, managed by persons whom we love, revere, and can confide in, has charms in it, for which men will fight. 2 .... 649. Carter Braxton to Landon Carter. 1 Phila\ May 17, 1776. Dr Sir, .... However he [Mr. Glasscock] has waited to convey you a very important declaration and recommendation from the Congress, which you will say falls little short of Independence. 
It was not so understood by
See also Duane to Jay, May 18, Correspondence of Jay, I. 61. [648] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 173; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 488. 2 Cf. no. 637, ante ; also nos. 660, 672, 678, 690, post. [649] x Maine Hist. 
Soc, Signers of the Declaration, I.; Va. Hist. 
Soc, Lee Transcripts, IV. 454 Continental Congress a* Congress but I find those out of doors on both sides the question construe it in that manner. 
The assumption of Governt. was necessary and to that resolution little objection was made, but when the Preamble was reported much heat and debate did ensue for two or three Days. 
At length, I think by
Maryland withdrew after having desired in vain a Copy of the proceedings and their dissent; and gave us to understand they should not return nor deem our farther Resolutions obligatory, until! they had transmitted an Acct. of their Proceedings to their Convention and had their Instructions how to act or conduct themselves upon, this alarming occasion. 2 This Event is waited for with Impatience and while it is in agitation the assembly of this Province will meet and it is not impossible but they may join in this extraordinary proceeding. 3 What then will be the consequence God only knows. 
It was seen and known that these and other colonies could not consistent with their Instructions come into this measure and all knew that they would be recalled if Commissioners did not soon arive or if when arrived their terms were not free and honourable. 4 In this case America with one united Voice would have joined hand in hand to repell the haughty Invaders and to have rejected with disdain their future superiority. 
But the wise Men of the East and some from the South thought it a reprehensible delay which might give a turn to their favourite plan and defeat those pursuits they had so nearly compleated and the plan for which they had so wisely and so long laid down in their own minds 650. Thomas Jefferson to John Page. 1 Philadelphia May 17, 1776. Dear Page .... as to the articles of salt, blankets etc
I hope ours is, and that they will tell us so. 3 .... 2 The proceedings of the Maryland convention, May 8-25, are in the Proceedings of the Convention of the Province of Maryland .... 1774, 1775, and 1776, pp. 125-162, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1579-1602. See especially the resolutions of May 21, also found ibid., VI. 462. See also nos. 477, 622, ante, and nos. 665, 701, 709, 710, post. 8 Cf. nos. 633, 637, 641, 647, 648, ante, and nos. 650, 657, 659, 660, 678, post. 4 See Washington to John Augustine Washington, May 31, Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 105; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 631. [650] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1631, Declaration of Independence. 2 Cf. no. 632, ante. 3 The desired step had already been taken in the resolutions of May 15. The resolutions are in the Proceedings of the Convention of Delegates held at ... . Williamsburg, in the Colony of Virginia, on Monday the 6th of May, 1776, p. 30; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 461, 857, 1364, 1524; and elsewhere. 
May, 1776 455 651. Joseph Hewes to James Iredell. 1 Philadelphia, 17th May, 1776. Dear Sir: This being a day of humiliation, fasting and prayer (or in vulgar language Congress Sunday) I mean to steal as much time from my private devotions as will serve, to acknowledge the receipt of your agreeable favour of the 29th ultimo, which has just reached me Much of our time is employed in raising men, making Cannon, muskets, and merely finding out ways and means of supplying our Troops with Cloathes, provisions and ammunition. 
We appear to have everything we want. 
We resolve to raise regiments, resolve to make Cannon, resolve to make and import muskets, powder and cloathing, but it is a melancholly fact that near half of our men, Cannon, muskets, powder, cloathes, etc., is to be found nowhere but on paper. 
We are not discouraged at this; if our situation was ten times worse I could not agree to give up our cause 652. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney. 1 Philadelphia May 17th 1776. Sir, Inclosed I have Sent you the printed Copy of the Resolution of Congress mentioned in my last. 
Most of those here who are termed the Cool Considerate Men think it amounts to a declaration of Independance. 
It Certainly savours of it, but you will see and Judge for Your Self. 2 . . . . 653. William Whipple to the President of New Hampshire (Meshech Weare). 1 Philadelphia, May 17, 1776. Sir: The enclosed resolution of Congress should have gone yesterday, but I had sent off my letter before I discovered the omission. 2 Congress have reserved to themselves the appointment of Field Officers, but they are nominated by the Assembly, Convention, or Committee of the Colony where the regiments are raised. 
It will therefore be necessary that the names of the Field Officers should be transmitted here, in order that the commissions may be filled up. The President will forward to you blank commissions for the other officers. 3 .... P. S. May 18. — Colonel Bartlett arrived last evening very much fatigued. [GsipiV. C. Col. Rccs., X. 457. A copy made in 1852 is in the custody of the North Carolina Historical Commission. [652] 1 MSS. of the late William D. Ely, Providence, Declaration of Independence, III. 2 See the instructions of the Delaware assembly to the delegates, June 14, in Read, Life of George Read, p. 164; cf. those of Mar. 22, ibid,, p. 149. See also nos. 699, 709, post. [653] 1 N. H. State Papers, VIII. 125; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 489. 2 See no. 646, ante. 3 See the Journals, Oct. 10, 11, 25, Nov. 4, 1775; cf. nos. 323, 344, 644, ante, and nos. 680, 715, post. 456 Continental Congress &'654. Richard Henry Lee to Charles Lee. 1 Philadelphia 18th. May 1776 My dear friend My last letter to you was founded on Conversations without doors, but you will see by the papers this express brings you, that Congress has complied with your desires as far as they can for the present, and I hope hereafter we may be enabled to do more. 2 .... 655. William Whipple to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia, May 18. 1776. My dear Sir: This only serves to tell you Colonel Bartlett arrived yesterday, and to enclose a resolution
You see how we come on. A Confederation, permanent and lasting, ought, in my opinion, to be the next thing, and I hope is not far off; if so, then the establishment of foreign agencies, I hope, will fill our ports with ships from all parts of the world. 
By the enclosed Evening Post you will see the effects of their resolution. 3 May it operate in the same manner through America. 
Your sincere friend, William Whipple [654] 1 Library of J. Pierpont Morgan, Signers of the Declaration (red volume), p. 116. 2 See no. 632, ante. 
The allusion is probably to the resolution of May 10, with the preamble of May 15, advising the colonies to institute their own governments. 
Cf. nos. 633, 637, 647, ante. 
In a letter dated June
The Rhode Island action was not of course a direct outie of the resolution of Congress. 
Steps were however being taken at this time in Philadelphia in immediate response to the resolution of Congress. 
See nos. 657, 658, 661, post. 
May, 1776 45 7 656. Joseph Hewes to William Tokeley. 1 Philadelphia 18th May 1776. Sir, I have received yours of the 2d and am very sorry you are in such a situation, as you describe. 
You must get men and proceed to sea soon as possible, apply to the Committee of Safety, and to Mr Harrison
I hope by the time this reaches you, that you will be again fully manned and ready to proceed to sea. pray leave nothing unattempted till you get your full complement and then desire Mr Harrison to give you sailing Orders, with which I hope you will strictly Comply. 4 • I am Sir, Your very hum e Serv Joseph Hewes [Addressed :] Captain William Tokeley of the Brigg Fanny Cumberland New Kent Virginia 657. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia, May 19, 1776. Dear Sir: Last Friday afternoon I arrived here, all well .... Hard money is very much wanted in Canada ; and unless considerable sums are forthwith sent there, our affairs will suffer very much on that account. 
You will receive directions from the Chairman of the Secret Committee relative to what you have in your hands. 2 The order of Congress concerning taking up Government under the people, which Colonel Whipple sent forward, has made a great noise in this [656] x Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. 
V. Henkels of Philadelphia. 2 Possibly Abner Harrison. 
See TV. C. State Recs., X. 474, 565, 961, 962, 976. 3 Presumably Robert Smith, the business partner of Hewes. 4 Cf. the Journals, July 15. See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 114, 118. [657] '•Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1021. 2 See the Journals, May 18, 22, 27. Cf. no. 664, post. 458 Continental Congress province. 
Enclosed I send you an address to the people of Pennsylvania, and an order for the meeting of the City and Liberties to-morrow : 3 what will be the consequence I know not, but think the Assembly will be dissolved and a Convention called. 
As to other affairs, I have had no time to be informed myself; and Colonel Whipple tells me he has written you from time to time fully. 
As to the agency affair, I shall make one more trial when that matter comes on. 4 . . . . May 21st One of the riflemen taken at Quebec last fall arrived in this city last evening. 
I am told he has brought letters, sewed up in his clothes, for the Congress; and that he left England the 24th of March last. 
I saw him last evening, when he first came in the coffee-house. 
I expect to know more at Congress, as the letters are sent to the President ; 5 but the post is now setting off, so must conclude, by assuring you I am your steady and sincere friend, Josiah Bartlett. 
P. S. Colonel Whipple has enclosed one of the addresses. 3 The address referred to is probably that of the committee of inspection for the county of Philadelphia to the general assembly, dated May 18, found in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VII. 498. It appeared in the Pennsylvania Evening Post of May 23, Pennsylvania Ledger of May 25, Pennsylvania Packet of May 27. See however the address " To the worthy Inhabitants of the Province of Pennsylvania ", in the Pennsylvania Packet, May 20, from the pen of "The Forester" (that is, Thomas Paine). The call, dated May 18, for the meeting of the City and Liberties on May 20 appears in the Pennsylvania Packet May 20. It was probably distributed as a handbill. 
See Passages from the Remembrancer of Christopher Marshall, May 16, 18. Accounts of the proceedings of the meeting appeared in the Pennsylvania Evening Post, May 21, Pennsylvania Gazette, May 22, Pennsylvania Journal, May 22, Pennsylvania Ledger, May 25, and Pennsylvania Packet, May 27. They are printed in Force,' Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 517-523. Cf. ibid., pp. 542, 560, 689, 755, 784-789. See also the proceedings of the Pennsylvania assembly May 20-June 24, ibid., VI. 845-866, and the proceedings of the provincial conference of the committees of Pennsylvania, June 18-25, ibid., VI. 951-968. The movement is treated at length in C. H. Lincoln, The Revolutionary Movement in Pennsylvania, ch. XIII. Cf. no. 655, ante, and nos. 658, 659, 660, 661, post. 
In the postscript of May 21 Bartlett gives some account of the Philadelphia meeting, as do also John Adams, in his letter to James Warren, May 20, and James Duane, in his letter to Jay, May 25 (see nos. 660, 665, post). 4 See nos. 611 (note 2), 622, ante, and nos. 669, 675, 676, 691, 693, 715, 716, 729, post. 5 See the Journals, May 21 ; cf. no. 662, post. 
The man who brought the despatches was George Merchant, and, strangely enough, it was John Langdon who sent him with the papers from Portsmouth to Gen. Washington, who in turn sent him to Congress. 
Without mentioning him by name Congress rewarded him with an allowance of pay from the time of his captivity to June 15 and a gratuity of one hundred dollars. 
See the Journals, May 21, 30. Langdon's letter to Washington, May 10, is in Force. 
Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 501. Washington's letter to Congress, May 18, is ibid., VI. 500. A newspaper extract concerning Merchant is ibid., p. 501 n. Some account of him, together with advices and despatches brought by him, appeared in the Pennsylvania Gazette, May 22, in the Pennsylvania Evening Post, May 23, in the Pennsylvania Ledger, May 25, and in a "Postscript" to the Pennsylvania Packet, May 27. The treaties with the Duke of Brunswick (Jan. 9), the Landgrave of Hesse Cassel (Jan. 15)1 and the Count of Hanau (Feb. 5) were published in a " Supplement " to the Pennsylvania Journal, May 24, and in a "Supplement" to the Pennsylvania Packet, May 27. They are found in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 271-277. The treaty with the Prince of Waldeck, Apr. 30 (not however included in these despatches) is ibid., VI. 356-358. See also no. 674, post. 
Cf. John Adams to Isaac Smith, June I, Works, IX. 382. Arthur Lee's mysterious letters of Feb. 13 and 14 appear to have been brought by the same person. 
See Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., II. 71-78, and no. 377, ante; also Washington's letter to Richard Henry Lee, May 18, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 500. Arthur Lee's letters arc also ibid., IV. 1125-1128. In regard to the authenticity of the British plans as set forth by Arthur Lee, see Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., I. 542 ct scq. 
May, 1776 459 658. William Whipple to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia, May 20, 1776. My dear Sir: .... I shall lay your proposals for purchasing the powder before the Committee this evening; shall also apply for cash: you don't mention the sum you shall want, but my application shall be be for the round sum of ten thousand ; if that should not be sufficient, let me know seasonably, and I will endeavour that you shall be supplied. 
May 21. — The foregoing was written last evening to save time. 
I have got an order for the sum above-mentioned, and shall send it forward in a few days. 2 Mr. Morris, Chairman of the Secret Committee, desires you will buy the powder, and your draft shall be duly paid, or the money sent you on the earliest notice. 3 No doubt you will buy it as cheap as you can; the highest price that has been given here is five shillings, this currency. 
I imagine provisions will be ordered from Cambridge, where a large quantity was left by the Army. 
I shall let you know more of that shortly. 
Colonel Bartlett arrived the 17th, afternoon; he writes to you this post. 
By the enclosed alarm you will see the effect the late resolve of Congress has had in this city; 4 no doubt it will have the same in some other places. 
By next post will endeavour to send you the forms you mention ; at present can only send you one. 659. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, May 20, 1776. I enclose you a Viriginia paper, just come in, by which you will see the spirit of another County in that Colony, exhibited in their instructions for Independency. 2 [658] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1022. 2 This money was for the naval service, and is distinct from the sum of 10,500 dollars obtained May 22 for the use of the New Hampshire battalion. 
See the Journals, and no. 670, post. 
See also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 708, 888, 1027, 1028. The money sent to Langdon appears to have been an appropriation made by the marine committee. 1 3 Cf. no. 716, post. 4 Cf. no. 657, note 3, ante. [659] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 517; Austin, Life of Gerry, I. 178. 2 This was probably the instructions to the delegates for Charlotte County in the Virginia convention, drawn up by a committee Apr. 23. They were printed in Purdie's Virginia Gazette, May 10, and may be found in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1034. The usual time required for the transmission of mails from Williamsburg to Philadelphia at this time seems to have been about eight or ten days. 
For instance, a letter of Gen. Lee, dated at Williamsburg May 10, was read in Congress May 20. The instructions of the freeholders of James City County to their delegates in the convention, dated Apr. 24 and printed in Purdie's Virginia Gazette, Apr. 26, had probably reached Philadelphia some time before May 20. These instructions are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1046. See also the instructions of the freeholders of Buckingham County (undated), ibid., V. 1206, VI. 458. The instructions from the committee of safety of Cumberland County to the county's delegates in the convention, adopted Apr. 22, were unqualifiedly for independence. " We therefore your Constituents instruct you positively to declare for an Independancy ; that you solemnly adjure and [any] Allegiance to his Britanick Majesty, and bid him a good Night forever." H. R. Mc- Ihvaine, Proceedings of the Committees of Safety of Cumberland and Isle of Wight Counties, p. 35 (bound with Fifteenth Annual Report of the Library Board of the Virginia State Library, 1917-1918). Cf. nos. 649, 650, ante, and no. 670, post. 4G0 Continental Congress In this Colony (Pennsylvania) the spirit of the people is great, if a judgment is to be formed by appearances. 
They are well convinced of the injury their Assembly has done to the. 
Continent, by their instructions to their Delegates. 3 It was these instructions which induced the Middle Colonies, and some of the Southern, to backward every measure which had the appearance of Independency. 
To them is owing the delay of Congress in agitating questions of the greatest importance, which long ere now must have terminated in a separation from Great Britain. 
To them is owing the disadvantages we now experience, for want of a full supply of every necessary for carrying on the war. 
Alliances might have been formed, and a diversion been given to the enemy's arms in Europe or the West-Indies, had these instructions never appeared. 
But they had their effect ; and while we endeavour to recover the Continent from the ill consequences of such feeble politicks, we ought to show the cause of such miserable policy. 
It appears to me that the eyes of every unbeliever are now open; that all are sensible of the perfidy of Great Britain, and are convinced there is no medium between unqualified submission and actual Independency. 
The Colonies are determined on the latter. 
A final declaration is approaching with great rapidity. 
May the all-wise Disposer of events so direct our affairs that they may terminate in the salvation of these afflicted Colonies. 4 .... 660. John Adams to James Warren. 1 May 20, 1776. My dear Sir, Every Post and every Day rolls in upon Us, Independence like a Torrent. 
The Delegates from Georgia made their Appearance this Day in Congress with unlimited Powers and these Gentlemen themselves are very firm. 
South Carolina, has erected her Government and given her Delegates ample Powers, and they are firm enough. 
North Carolina have given theirs full Powers, after repealing an Instruction given last August against Confederation and Independence. 
This Days Post, has brought a Multitude of Letters from Virginia, all of which breath the same Spirit. 
They agree they shall institute a Government — all are agreed in this they say. 2 Here are four Colonies to the Southward who are perfectly agreed
The instructions, Nov. 9, 1775, are in Votes and Proceedings of the House of Representatives cf the Province of Pennsylvania, vol. 
VI., p. 647, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 1792-1793. Cf. ibid.. III. 1408-1413; also nos. 660, 693, post. 4 See no. 626, ante, and nos. 660, 673, post. 
Cf. Hawley to Gerry, May 1, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1168; Austin, Life of Gerry, I. 175. [660] 1 Warren- Adams Letters, I. 249. 2 Gen. Charles Lee wrote the President of Congress from Williamsburg, May 10 Cletter read in Congress May 20) : "There is a noble spirit in this Province, pervading all orders of men; if the same shall become universal, we shall be saved."Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 403. To Washington, the same day, he wrote: "A noble spirit possesses the Convention. 
They are almost unanimous for independence, but differ in their sentiments about the mode; two days will decide it." Ibid., VI. 405; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 201. See also his letter to Richard Henry Lee, the same day, cited in note 2, no. 661, post. 
Cf. no. 659, ante. 
May, 1776 461 now with the four to the Northward. 
Five in the Middle are not yet quite so ripe ; but they are very near it. I expect that New York will come to a fresh Election of Delegates in the Course of this Week, give them full Powers, and determine to institute a Government. 
The Convention of New Jersey, is about Meeting and will assume a Government. 
Pennsylvania Assembly meets this Day and it is said will repeal their Instruction to their Delegates which has made them so exceedingly obnoxious to America in General, and their own Constituents in particular. 3 .... The Delaware Government, generally, is of the same Opinion with the best Americans, very orthodox in their Faith and very exemplary in their Practice. 
Maryland remains to be mentioned. 
That is so eccentric a Colony — sometimes so hot, sometimes so cold ; now so high, then so low — that I know not what to say about it or to expect from it. I have often wished it could exchange Places with Hallifax. 
When they get agoing I expect some wild extravagant Flight or other from it. To be sure, they must go beyond every body else when they begin to go. Thus I have rambled through the Continent, and you will perceive by this state of it, that We can't be very remote from the most decisive Measures and the most critical events. 4 What do you think must be my Sensations when I see the Congress now daily passing Resolutions, which I most earnestly pressed for against Wind and Tide Twelve Months ago ? and which I have not omitted to labour for a Month together from that Time to this? What do you think must be my Reflection, when I see the Farmer
The Resolve of Congress respecting government hath wrought a great change hereabouts, and very soon the Public affairs will wear a different aspect, and be directed with better
Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, II. 31; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 192. 462 Co)iti)icjital Congress &'spirit. 2 I expect an expedition to Detroit will be undertaken, Niagara will probably be suspended, as the Indians thereabout wish it to continue a place of trade yet awhile. 3 .... 662. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney. 1 Phila. 
May, the 22nd, 1776. Sir, .... One of our Rifle-men that travelled across the country with Arnold and taken prisoner while on sentry at Quebec was sent to England. 
A few days after he landed he was sent to London and put in Bridewell in irons. 
Sawbridge (the Lord Mayor) went to him, examined him and had him immediately discharged and sent down to Bristol where a number of Gentlemen pronounced [procured?] him a passage to Halifax. 
He left Bristol the 24th of March, arrived in this city the day before yesterday and tho' searched at Halifax
You will, therefore, abide here until you hear further from me. 2 I am, niadam, your very humble servant, John Hancock, President. 
To Mrs. Connolly. 2 Cf. nos. 612, 632, 654, 657, 658, 659, ante. 
See Gen. Lee's letter to Richard Henry Lee, May 10, N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, II. 20; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 407. 3 See the Journals, Apr. 10, 23, 29, May 3, 21, 25 (pp. 373, 394, 395) ; also Gen. Lee's letter of May 10 (note 2, above). [662] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Rodney. 2 See no. 657, ante, and no. 674, post. [663] r Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 554. 2 See the Journals, May 18; cf. ibid., May 13, June 11, July 8, 12; Sept. 9 (note). 'Mrs. Susannah (" Sukey ") Connolly was the wife of John Connolly, a prisoner in Philadelphia since December, 1775 (see no. 379, note 2, ante). She had but just come from Pittsburgh to visit her husband. 
See a letter from George Morgan to Lewis Morris, May 16, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 474. The refusal of this passport may have been due to the contemplated expedition to Detroit. 
See the Journals, May 21, 25, and no. 661, ante. 
The application here referred to has not been found, but see her letter to Congress, June 10 (Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 784), a letter to the Pennsylvania committee of safety, June 25 (Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 778), a letter to Congress, July
Should our troops retire before the enemy, and entirely evacuate that Province, it is not in human wisdom to foretell the consequences. 
In this case the loss of Canada will not be all; the whole frontiers of the New-England and New-York Governments will be exposed, not only to the ravages of the Indians, but also of the British forces, not less savage and barbarous in the prosecution of the present war. 
In this view of the matter, it is needless to employ arguments to excite you to the greatest vigour and diligence, on this occasion. 
The Congress having tried every method to collect hard money for the Army in Canada, without success, are determined not to relinquish the expedition or give it up. They have therefore resolved to supply our troops there with provisions and clothing from the other Colonies, if they cannot be had in that country; of which resolution I sent this morning an account to General Schuyler, accompanied with several other resolutions, with regard to the situation of affairs in that quarter. 
Upon the whole, it seems, from the latest intelligence, that nothing but the greatest exertions of capacity and vigour will ever retrieve our misfortunes in Canada. 
The eyes of the Continent are upon you. 
Display, therefore, I entreat you, for your own honour and the good of your country, those military qualities which you certainly possess. 
There are still laurels to be acquired in Canada, which I have the most pleasing hope are reserved for you, as the command of the expedition is now given to you. 2 I have nothing further to add, but that I am commanded by Congress to direct you will carry the enclosed resolves into execution as speedily as possible. 
I have the honour to be, sir, your most obedient and very humble servant, John Hancock, President. 
To Major-General Thomas, Canada. 665. James Duane to John Jay. 1 Philada. 25th. May 1776. .... You recollect the Maryland Instructions which, upon any Measure of Congress to this Effect required the Delegates of that Colony [664] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 558. 2 See the Journals, May 22, 24; cf. ibid., May 29, June 1, 3, 6. Cf. also Hancock to Schuyler, May 24, ibid., VI. 559, and Franklin to the Commissioners, May 27, N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1598; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., II. 94; Writings (ed. Bigelow), VI. 13, etc. 
See also nos. 682, 684, 686, post. 
The news which came to Congress from Canada on May 16 was discouraging ; that which came May 18 was alarming. 
See the letters of the commissioners, May 1, 6, 8, 10, Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, V. 1166, 1218, 1237, VI. 449, 450; also letters of Thomas, Arnold, Thompson, and Schuyler, ibid., VI. 448-455, 479-482, 490. [665] * N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Revolutionary Papers, I. 85 (copy). 34 464 Continental Congress to repair to their provincial Convention. 2 These Gent, accordingly declared that they should consider their Colorry as unrepresented until they received the directions of their principals who were then sitting at Annapolis. 
Yesterday the sense of that Convention was made publick; 3 they approve of the conduct of their delegates in dissenting from the preamble and the Resolution — they repeat and enforce their former Instructions — declare that they have not lost sight of a Reconciliation with Great Britain; and that they will adhere to the Common Cause and support it on the principles of the Union as explained at the time of entering on the War. So much for Maryland 666. The President of Congress to the Officer Commanding in Philadelphia. 1 Philada. 
May 25th. 1776. Sir: As the Congress have desired the Battalions of Associators in and near City and Liberties to have their Battalions drawn out as early as they can on Monday Morning, and propose with the Generals now in Town to attend the Review at
Jay's reply to this letter, May 29, is in his Correspondence (ed. Johnston), I. 63. 3 See the Journals, May 25. The resolutions are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 462-464. Cf. ibid., VI. 1491, 1506; also no. 649, ante, and nos. 701, 709, 710, post. 
Duane also gives some account of the situation in Pennsylvania and of the meeting in Philadelphia a few days before. 
See the Correspondence of Jay, I. 63 n., and nos. '..S7, ()(>o, mite. [666 1 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 145; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 567. 2 See the Journals, May 25. Cf. nos. 667, 668, post. [667l
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 146; Force, Am. Arch., fourth m r., VI. 577. May, 1776 465 Field in such order as not to Interfere with the Disposition of the City- Troops. 
I am Sir, Your most obed sert J H. Pt. To the Officer Commanding the Continental Troops in Philadelphia. 668. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston. 1 Philadelphia, 26th May, 1776. Dear Sir: The prisoners sent under the direction of Colonel Haynes arrived here yesterday morning. 
They are put into the jail of this city for the present. 2 .... The Generals Washington and Gates are now here. 
They were sent for in order that Congress might consult them on several matters respecting the present campaign, which is expected to be a very warm one in every part of the Continent. 3 A deputation of the Six Nations of Indians came to town a few days ago. 
They are to have an audience of Congress to-morrow, previous to which the city battalions are to be drawn out and reviewed by the Generals, in order to give those savages some idea of our strength and importance. 4 .... 669. William Whipple to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia, May 28, 1776. My dear Sir: .... I have still kept off the appointment of an agent, in hopes of fixing the appointment to your mind. 2 I have nominated the Captain, who is unanimously accepted by the Committee, but the sanction of Congress is still wanting, which I think there is no doubt of. 3 The attention of Congress has been taken up for some days in conference with General [668] 1 N. C. State Rccs., XXII. 969. 2 See the Journals, May 2, 24, 25, and the proceedings of the North Carolina provincial congress, Apr. 25, 27, 29, N. C. Col. Recs., X. 542, 544, 547; Force, Am. Arch,, fourth ser., V. 1339, 1340, 1342. See also ibid., V. 1005-1006, 1109, VI. 663; Arch, of Md., XL 403, 404, 421, 429, 430; Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 733-735; Pa- Col. Recs., X. 581. Cf. nos. 569, 599, ante, and no. 681, post. 3 See the Journals, May 16, 23, 24, 25. 29, 30 ; cf. no. 643, ante. 
Gates had been sent to Philadelphia by Washington before he received the direction of Congress to come himself. 
See Washington's letters of May 18, 19, and 20, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 500, 506, 523. Cf. Hancock's letters of May 16, 21, ibid., VI. 472, 533. See also Washington's letter to Gen. Putnam, May 28, to Gen. Ward, same date, and to John Augustine Washington, May 31, Force. 
Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 606, 631. 4 See the Journals, May 25, 27, and nos. 666, 667, ante; cf. nos. 669, 671, post. [669] * Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1023. 2 Cf. nos. 611, 622, 657, ante, and nos. 675, 676, 691, 715, 716, 729, post. 3 Capt. 
Thomas Thompson. 
May 20 Whipple wrote : " I shall nominate Captain Thompson the first opportunity." That is, as captain of the ship then building in New Hampshire. 
See the Journals. 
Apr. 17, also nos. 675, 676, 683, 691, post. 4G6 Continental Congress Washington, as to the plan of operations for this campaign ; so soon as that is finished, and the conference with the chiefs of the Six Nations, who are now here, naval matters will be attended to; 4 but I shall be glad of an answer to one of my letters wherein I wrote freely of those you proposed for officers, before I nominate them. 5 .... 670. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of New Hampshire. 1 Philadelphia 28th May 1776. Sir, We have obtained an order for 10,500 Dol. for defraying the expences of raising and advancing a months pay to the Regiment to be station'd at Portsm. which we only wait for an opportunity to send forward. 2 Flour and salt Provisions may be supplied from Boston where a much larger Quantity was left by the Commissary Genl. than will be wanted by the troops stationed there. 
We are extremely sorry that the Colony we have the Honour to represent, which has had so high a place in the esteem of the whole Continent for its forwardness, and great exertions, in the glorious Contest in which we are now engaged, sho'd be lessened by the delay of the Regiment ordered last winter into Canada. 3 our misfortune in that Country is imputed to
The Convention of Virginia have instructed their Delegates to use their endeavor that Congress sho'd declare the United Colonies a Free independent state. 5 North Carolina have signified the same desires, S. Carolina and Georgia will readily accede. 6 The Proprietary Govnts
It is probable the Proprietary Governments ", etc. 
See note 8, below. 7 Cf. nos. 632, 654, 661, ante, and nos. 672, 733, post. 
May, 1776 467 be the last to agree to this necessary step, the disafected in them are now exerting themselves but these exertions are no more than the last strugles of expiring faction, we hope in a few months Civil Governments will be established in all the United Colonies on a firm and permanent Basis, we sho'd be glad to know the sentiment of our Colony on the important subject of a total seperation from Great Britain, let our own opinions be what they may, we think ourselves in duty bound, to act aseeable to the sentiments of our constituents. 8 We are with great Respect Your Most Obt Serts. josiah bartlett Wm. Whipple Honbl Col. Weare 671. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney. 1 Phila. 
May, the 29th, 1776. Sir. The Presbyterian clergy who were here at the synod and 21 Indians of the Six Nations gave the Congress a war dance yesterday. 2 .... Mr. Jourdan informs me that McLain
Otherwise, he must decline the contract, which Congress absolutely refused, for that it would be interfering with the business of the Coll. that they never will interfere with his duty but when it shall evidently appear to them for the greater security and protection of the Govt. 6 .... 672. John Adams to Benjamin Hichborn. 1 Philadelphia, 29 May, 1776. .... You are " checked by accounts from the southward, of a disposition in a great majority to counteract independence." Read the proceedings of Georgia, South and North Carolina, and Virginia, and then judge. 
The middle colonies have never tasted the bitter cup; they have
See note 6, above. 
Cf. nos. 672, 685, post. [671] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Rodney. 2 See the Journals, May 25, 27; cf. no. 668, ante. 3 Probably Allan McLane, who had been a lieutenant in Caesar Rodney's regiment of Delaware militia. 
See Del. Hist. 
Soc. Papers, II. 64, and Appleton, Cyclo. of Am. Biog., IV. 138. 4 Col. John Haslet. 
He was killed in the battle of Princeton, Jan. 3, 1777. 5 George Evans. 
See the Journals, May 1. 6 No record of this application or its refusal is found in the Journals. [672]! Works, IX. 378. 468 Continental Congress &■ never smarted, and are therefore a little cooler ; but you will see that the colonies are united indissolubly. 
Maryland has passed a few eccentric resolves, but these are only flashes which will soon expire. 
The proprietary governments are not only encumbered with a large body of Quakers, but are embarrassed by a proprietary interest ; both together clog their operations a little, but these clogs are falling off, as you will soon see. 2 N. B. The petition from the independent corps in Boston, gave me great pleasure, and is much to their honor. 
I did my endeavor to get the prayer granted, but it is at last left to the General. 3 673. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Palmer. 1 Philadelphia May 31, 1776. Dear Sir, The Conviction which the late Measures of Administration have brot to the Minds of doubting Persons has such an Effect, that I think the Colonies cannot long remain an independent depending People, but that they will declare themselves as their Interest and Safety have long required, entirely separated from the prostituted Government of G Britain. 
Upon this Subject I have wrote to our Friend Col : Orne and beg leave to refer you thereto. 
The principal object of our attention at this important Time I think should be the Manufacturing Arms, Lead and Cloathing, obtaining Flints, for I suppose since the Measures adopted by North Carolina and Virginia that there cannot remain a Doubt with our Assembly of the propriety of declaring for Independency and therefore that our Tho'ts will be mostly directed to the Means for supporting it
See also Adams to Isaac Smith, June 1, Works, IX. 382. 8 See Washington to Congress, June 3, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 688. [673] l N. E. Hist, and Gcneal. 
Register, XXX. 312. 2 Cf. no. 659, ante ; also Gerry to Warren, May 28, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 606, Warren's reply, June 12, ibid., p. 829, and Hawley to Gerry, June 13, ibid., p. 844. See also Washington to John Augustine Washington, May 31, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 631. For the action in Massachusetts on the question of independence, see the resolution of the house of representatives, May 10, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 420. For the action in the several towns see ibid., VI., 532, 533, 540, 556, 602, 603, 649, 698-706; fifth ser., I. 147. [674] 1 Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. 
V. Henkels of Philadelphia; Va. Hist. 
Soc, Lee Transcripts, II.; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), 1. 197. 2 These treaties are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 271-277, 356-358. See nos. 657, note 5, 662, ante, and no. 676, post. 3 The reference is presumably to the motion for a suspension of arms, offered by the Duke of Grafton in the House of Lords, Mar. 14. See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 319-342. June, iyj6 469 leave not a doubt but that our enemies are determined upon the absolute conquest and subduction of N. America. 
It is not choice then but necessity that calls for Independence, as the only means by zvhich foreign Alliance can be obtained; and a proper Confederation by which internal peace and union may be secured. 
Contrary to our earnest, early, and repeated petitions for peace, liberty, and safety, our enemies press us with war, threaten us with danger and Slavery. 
And this, not with her single force, but with the aid of Foreigners. 
Now, altho' we might safely venture our strength, circumstanced as it is, against that of Great Britain only, yet we are certainly unequal to a Contest with her and her Allies without any Assistance from without, and this more especially, as we are incapable of profiting by our exports for want of Naval force. 
You seem to apprehend danger from our being aided by despotic States, but remember that France assisted Holland without injury to the latter. [Nor will] the help we desire, put it by any means [in] the power of France to hurt us, tho' she were so inclined. 
Supplies of Military Stores and Soldiers, clothing, Ships of War to cover our Trade and open our Ports, which would be an external assistance altogether, could never endanger our freedom by putting it in the power of our Ally to Master us, as has been the case where weak States have admitted powerful Armies for their Defenders. 4 .... 675. William Whipple to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia, June 2, 1776. My dear Sir: Your favour of the 20th ultimo came to hand yesterday. 
I think I mentioned to you in a former letter that I supposed there would be a considerable alteration in the wages of the officers in the naval service : the principal officers higher, and the warrant and petty officers considerably lower. 
As there is the greatest probability that these alterations will take place, you no doubt will be careful of the encouragement you give those you engage. 
I told you in my last
This business is not yet finished, nor do I think will be this week, and Congress have determined to do no other business till that is completed. 
So soon as that is done naval matters will be attended to ... . The agent is not yet appointed. 
I still intend to insist on my first proposal. 3 My regards to your friends, and accept the best wishes of your assured friend. 4 Cf. nos. 648, 650, 659, 660, 662, ante, and nos. 678, 687, 690, post; also a letter from Landon Carter to Washington, May 9, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 389. [675] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1024. 2 May 28, ante. 
Cf. nos. 676, 683, post. 3 See nos. 611, 622, 657, 669, ante, and nos. 676, 691, 693, 715, 716, 729, post. 470 Continental Congress 676. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia, June 3, 1776. My dear Sir: Yours of the 21st ultimo is come to hand. 
I hope you have had good luck in launching the ship. 
The circumstances of affairs in Canada, and the certainty of a large body of Hessians, etc., being hired and designed soon to attack the United Colonies, have so engrossed the attention of Congress to be prepared for them, that it is not possible to get them to attend to smaller matters. 2 The affair of the agency lies dormant. 3 Captain Thompson is nominated by the Marine Committee for the command of your ship, but not yet confirmed by Congress. 4 The Generals Washington. 
Gates, and Mifflin, are here, to consult on the operations of the war for this year. 
Congress have resolved that eight regiments of Militia, to consist of seven hundred and fifty men each, be forthwith raised and sent into Canada, till the 1st of December, one to be raised in the western part of Xew Hampshire, four in Massachusetts, two in Connecticut, and one in Xew York. 5 I expect twenty-five thousand men more will be ordered to be raised for the same time for the defence of the sea-coasts from Xew Hampshire to Maryland, inclusive. 6 In short, sir, this will be the trying year. and. if possible, they must be hindered from getting any foothold this season. 
If that can be done, I think the day will be our own. and we be forever delivered from British tyranny 677. The Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the Massachusetts Council. 1 Philadelphia June 3d 1776 Sir We received your favour of the 10th May with the Inclosures, and having communicated such a part thereof as was necessary to Congress, beg Leave thro you to inform the honourable assembly that the Sum of 30,000 Dollars is ordered to be sent them for the purpose of exchanging it for Specie. 
We inclose a Copy of the Resolve by which It will appear how the Latter is to be disposed off, and think it will be necessary to place to the account of the united states the sum mentioned in your Letter as delivered to Colo Portor, and any other sums of Money that may be [676] x Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, VI. 1025. 2 See nos. 657, 662, 664. ante. z Cf. nos. 611, 622, 657, 669, 675, ante, and nos. 691, 693, 715, 716, 729, post. 4 Cf. nos. 669, 675, ante, and nos. 683, 691, post. 5 See the Journals, May 29, June 1, 3. 6 "I believe we shall make provision for 70.000 men in the three departments, the northern, including Canada, the middle, and the southern." John Adams to Samuel Cooper, May 30, Works, IX. 381. [677]! Mass. 
Arch., CXCV. 27; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 688. June, 1776 471 delivered in Consequence of the Resolve aforesd. 
Since the colony is charged with the sum advanced by congress. 2 .... At the Desire and in behalf of the Deleg s of Massachus ts . Sign'd John Hancock
But I fear we cannot proceed systematically, and that we shall be obliged to declare ourselves independent States, before we confederate, and indeed before all the colonies have established their governments. 
It is now pretty clear that all these measures will follow one another in a rapid succession, and it may not perhaps be of much importance which is done first. 2 The importance of an immediate application to the French court, is clear ; 3 and I am very much obliged to you for your hint of the route by the Mississippi. 4 .... 679. The President of Congress to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia June 3d. 1776. Sir, I am extremely sorry it is not in my Power to wait on you in Person to execute the Commands of Congress, but being deprived of that Pleasure by a severe Fit of the Gout, I am under the Necessity of taking this method to acquaint you, that the Congress have directed me in their Name, to make the Thanks of that Body to you, for the unremitted Attention you have paid to your important Trust; and in particular for the Assistance they have derived from your military Knowledge and Experience, in adopting the best Plans for the Defence of the United Colonies. 2 See the Journals, May 2j ; cf. ibid., Apr. 29. The Massachusetts letter of May 10 is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 419. 3 The body of the letter is in the writing of Elbridge Gerry. 
The closing line, " At the Desire ", etc., is in -Hancock's writing. [678] 1 Works, IX. 387. 2 Cf. nos. 637, 648, 649, 659, 660, 674, ante, and nos. 687, 690, 725, 727, post. 3 See no. 674, note 4, ante, and nos. 687, 690, post. 4 See Henry's letter of May 20, in W. W. Henry, Life, Correspondence, and Speeches of Patrick Henry, I. 413. [679] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, IX. 279; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 688. 472 Continental Congress Tomorrow Morning I will do myself the Honour of sending you, all such Resolves of Congress, as any Ways relate to the operations of the ensuing Campaign. 2 Having therefore fully accomplished the views of Congress in requesting your Attendance in this City, I am commanded to inform you, that they submit to your Choice the Time of returning to Head Quarters; well knowing, you will repair thither, whenever the Exigency of Affairs shall render your Presence there necessary. 
With the most ardent Wishes, that you may be crowned with Success equal to your merit, and the Righteousness of our Cause, I have the honour to be, With the highest Esteem and Regard, sir your most obedt. and very hble servt. 
John Hancock Presidt. 
His Excellency Genl. 
Washington. 680. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of New Hampshire (Meshech Weare). 1 Philada 4th June, 1776. Sir, We wrote you 28th ulto. since which Congress have Resolved to send a farther Reinforcement into Canada. 750 men including officers will be required of our Colony, to serve as Militia until the 1st Deer, the officers to be commissioned by the Colony. 2 .... 681. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston. 1 Philadelphia 4th. June 1776. Dear Sir Your favor by Allen McDonald Esqr. 2 I have received, he and all those that came with him as prisoners are confined in the Jail of this City. 
I have not seen him or any of them, it is not in my power to do them any kind of service. 
Congress will not suffer them to go out on parole till they hear further from North Carolina or perhaps 'till the British Troops have left the Province. 
Many of our Prisoners have broke their parole and gone off which will make those poor devils you sent and all taken hereafter fare the worse, as I cannot serve them I do not visit
Cf. nos. 643, 668, ante. 
I680] 1 N. H. State Papers, VIII. 129, 147; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 708. 2 It is not expressly stated in the resolves that all officers were to he commissioned by the colonies. 
See the Journals, May 29, June 1, 3 (especially p. 414), and Sept. 16. Cf. ibid., July 18, 1775, and Joseph Hawley to John Adams, Nov. 14, 1775, Adams's Works, IX. 364. See also nos. 644, 653, ante, and no. 715, post. [681J 1 llavcrford College, Roberts Coll., no. 722. 2 J his "Allen McDonald" is the Allan McDonald of Kingsborough mentioned in the Journals, July 9. In the index to tbe Journals he has been confused with the Allan MacDonnell of Tryon county, N. Y. See nos. 599, 668, ante. 
June, 1776 473 them, to hear their complaints and have no power to relieve would be disagreeable. 3 " I shall write you again in a few days," you say. you told me the same when you enclosed me your Resolutions respecting your Officers and your Independance. not one line have I received on public matters from any part of the province since Hoopers Letter from Halifax of the 22d of April 'till yesterday I reed a Letter from Penn dated the 20th of May informing me your Congress had broke up, and postponed the forming a constitution till November Gen. Washington is now here, he has been confering with Congress on a general plan of defence 682. The President of Congress to the New Hampshire Convention. 1 Philada. 
June 4th. 1776. Gentlemen: Our affairs are hastening fast to a Crisis ; and the approaching Campaign will in all Probability, determine for ever the fate of America. 
Such is the unrelenting Spirit which possesses the Tyrant of Britain and his Parliament, that they have left no measure unessayed, that had a Tendency to accomplish our Destruction. 
Not satisfied with having lined our Coasts with Ships of War to starve us into a Surrender of our Liberties, and to prevent us from being supplied with arms and Ammunition, they are now about to pour in a Number of foreign Troops ; who from their Want of Connections and those Feelings of Sympathy which frequently bind together the different Parts of the same Empire, will be more likely to do the Business of their Masters without Remorse or Compunction. 
By the best Intelligence from Canada it appears, that our Affairs in that Quarter wear a melancholy Aspect. 
Should the Canadians and Indians take up Arms agt. us (which there is too much Reason to fear) we shall then have the whole Force of that Country to contend with, joined to that of Great Britain, and all her foreign Auxiliaries. 
In this situation, what steps must we pursue? Our Continental Troops alone, are unable to stem the Torrent ; nor is it possible at this day to raise and discipline Men ready to take the Field by the Time they will be wanted. 
From the Secrecy with which the Ministry carry on their Machinations, we neither know their Views, or how near our Enemies may be. Perhaps at this Moment they are landing on some Part of our Country. 3 A list of the North Carolina prisoners, accompanying a letter of Thomas Burke to Congress, Apr. 22, 1776, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1006. A slightly variant list is ibid., VI. 663. See no. 668, ante; also the Journals, May 2, 24, 25, July 29, Oct. 17, Dec. 20, 23, 1776, Jan. 9, 1777, and passim; and N. C. Col. Recs., X. 888. [682] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 151 ; Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, IX. 322 (copy). The same letter, mutatis mutandis, was sent to the governments of Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, and Maryland. 
The original to the Massachusetts assembly is in Mass. 
Arch., CXCV. 28. It is printed in N. H. State Papers, VIII. 128, 146; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 481; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 707 (to New Hampshire). 1377 (to New York). A briefer letter of the same general purport was addressed to the Pennsylvania assembly. 
It is ibid., VI. 708. 474 Continental Congress In this difficult and trying Situation of our Affairs, the Congress have come to the enclosed Resolves, which I have it in Command to transmit you by Express, containing Matters of the greatest Importance, and to which I beg leave to request your Attention. 
You will there find, the Congress have judged it necessary to call upon the Militia at this alarming Crisis. 2 Should the United Colonies be able to keep their Ground this Campaign, I am under no Apprehensions on Acct. of any future one. 
We have many Disadvantages at present to struggle with, which Time and Progress in the art of War will remove. 
But this Circumstance should rouse us to superior Exertions on the Occasion. 
The Militia of the United Colonies are a Body of Troops that may be depended upon. 
To their Virtue, their Delegates in Congress, now make the most solemn Appeal. 
They are called upon to say, whether they will live Slaves, or die Freemen — they are requested to step forth in Defence of their Wives, their Children, and Liberty, and every Thing they hold dear. 
The Cause is certainly a most glorious one, and I trust every Man in the Colony of New Hampshire is determined to see it gloriously ended, or perish in the Ruins of it. , In short on your Exertions at this Critical Period, together with those of the other Colonies, in the Common Cause, . the Salvation of America now evidently depends. 
Your Colony, I am persuaded, will not be behind hand. 
Exert therefore every Nerve to distinguish yourselves. 
Quicken your Preparations and stimulate the good People of your Govt. — and there is no Danger, notwithstanding the mighty Armament with which we are threatened, but you will be able to lead them to Victory, to Liberty, and to Happiness. 3 I have the Honour to be Gent., your most obedt and very hble Svt. J H. Prest. 
The Honble Convention of New Hampshire. 
The Honble Assembly of Massachusetts Bay. The Honble Govr Trumbull. 
Honble Convention of New York. 
Honble Convention of New Jersey. 
Honble Assembly of the Govt of New Castle Kent and Sussex on Delaware. 
Honble Convention of Maryland. 2 See the Journals, May 29, June 1, 3, and 4; cf. ibid., June 25. 3 The reply to this letter from the New York congress, dated June 7, and read in Congress June 10, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 793. See also ibid., VI. 1373, 1377-1383. The reply of Maryland, dated June 10, and read in Congress June 14, is ibid.. VI. 7X3. Cf. the Maryland council's letter to the delegates, June 10, ibid., VI. 782. The letters are in Arch, of Md., XI. 474-475. See also nos. 701, 710, post. 
The reply from Connecticut, dated June 10, and read in Congress June 15, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 797. Cf. ibid., VI. 865 et scq. 
The reply of the New Jersey convention, dated June 18, and read in Congress June 19, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 967. The proceedings of the convention upon the matter, June 11, 14, are ibid., VI. 1616-1617, 1619-1620. The reply from Massachusetts, dated June 26, and read in Congress July 2, is ibid., VI. 1087. Cf. Hancock's letter of July 16, in the next volume. 
For the action of Pennsylvania see the proceedings of the committee of safety, June 19, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1286, and the memorandum of Robert Morris, June 20, post. 
June, 1776 475 683. William Whipple to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia, June 5, 1776. Dear Sir: This goes by express early to-morrow morning. 
It is determined in Committee this evening to urge the appointment of the Captain for your ship to-morrow ; 2 there is no doubt but what Thompson will be the man ; if you and he will talk with such persons as you think proper for Lieutenant and Marine officers, and let me know who will accept, I will have them commissioned. 
It is idle to have the commissions filled up before we know whether they will be accepted or not 684. Samuel Adams to James Warren. 1 Philada., June 6, 1776. My dear sir, I have for some time past been expecting to visit my Friends in New England which has made me the less sollicitous of writing to them, but Business of the most interesting Importance has hitherto detaind me here. 
Our Affairs in Canada have of late worn a displeasing Aspect, but Measures have been adopted which I trust will repair Misfortunes and set Matters right in that Quarter. 
This will, in my Opinion, be an important Summer, productive of great Events which we must be prepard to meet. 
If America is virtuous She will vanquish her Enemies and establish her Liberty. 
You know my Temper. 
Perhaps I may be too impatient. 
I have long wishd for the Determination of some momentous Questions. 
If Delay shall prove mischeivous I shall have no Reason to reflect upon myself ; Every one here knows what my Sentiments have been. 
However, tomorrow a Motion will be made, and a Question I hope decided, the most important that was ever agitated in America. 2 I have no doubt but it will be decided to your satisfaction. 
This being done, Things will go on in the right Channel and our Country will be saved. 
The. Bearer waits. 
Adieu. 
S. A. [P. S.] 685. Josiah Bartlett to Nathaniel Folsom. 1 Philadelphia June 6th 1776. Dear Sir .... The affair of Declaring these Colonies Independant States and absolved from all allegience to the Crown of Brittain must soon be De^ cided whatever may be the opinion of the Delegates of Newhampshire [683] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1025. 2 See the Journals, June 6. Cf. nos. 611, 669, 675, 676, ante, and nos. 691, 693, 715, 716, 729, post. [684] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 255. 2 Richard Henry Lee's motion for independence. 
See the Journals, June 7, and nos. 685, 687, 688, 690, 697, 699, 701, 709, 710, 725, 726, 727, 728, post. [685] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1541, Declaration of Independence. 476 Continental Congress on that matter. 
They think it their Duty to act agreable to the minds of their Constituents and in an affair of that Magnitude Desire the Explicit Directions of the Legislature of the Colony and that it may be forwarded to us as soon as possible. 2 .... 686. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia June 7th. 1776. Sir, The enclosed Letter from the Commissioners in Canada, I am commanded by Congress to transmit to you. 
The Contents of it are truly alarming. 2 Our Army in that Quarter is almost ruined for Want of Discipline, and every Thing else necessary to constitute an Army, or to keep Troops together. 
The Congress, in this Situation of our Affairs, have resolved that Genl. 
Wooster be recalled from Canada. 
I am therefore to request, you will immediately order him to repair to Head Quarters at New York. 3 .... 687. Edward Rutledge to John Jay. 1 Saturday Evg. 10 o'clock [June 8, 1776.] The Congress sat till
The sensible part of the House opposed the Motion — they had no objection to forming a Scheme of a Treaty which they would send to France by proper Persons and uniting this Continent by a Confederacy ; they saw no Wisdom in a Declaration of Independence, nor any other Purpose to be enforced by it, but placing ourselves in the Power of those with whom we mean to treat, giving our Enemy Notice of our Intentions before we had taken any steps to execute them and thereby enabling them to counteract us in our Intentions and rendering ourselves ridiculous in the Eyes of foreign powers by attempting to bring them into an Union with us before we had united with each other. 
For daily experience evinces that the Inhabitants of every Colony consider themselves at liberty to do as they please upon almost every occasion. 
And a Man must have the Impu- 2 See the Journals, June 7. Cf. nos. 670, 684, ante, and nos. 687, 697, post. [686] l Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, IX. 303; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 740. 2 See the Journals, June 6, and nos. 664, 682, 684, ante. 
The letter from the commissioners in Canada, May 27 and 28, here referred to, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 580-592. Schuyler's letter to Congress, May 31, and his letter to Washington, of the same date, are ibid., VI. 639. 758; his letter of June
See the Journals, nos. 664, 682, 684, ante, and nos. 690, 693, 695, 702, 703, 712, 713, 7i8, 719. post. 8 See the commissioners' letter of May 27, and the Journals, June 6. See also Washington to Congress, June 17 and 20 (read in Congress June 20 and 24, respectively). Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 937, 992; Wooster's letter to Congress, June 26, ibid.. VI. 1081 ; and the Journals, June 14. 21, 26, and passim. [687PN. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Revolutionary Papers, I. 97 (copy). An extract is printed in the Corr. and Pub. Papers of Jay (ed. Johnston), I. 66. June, 1776 477 dence of a New Englander to propose in our present disjointed state any Treaty (honorable to us) to a Nation now at peace. 
No reason could be assigned for pressinginto this Measure, but the reason of every Madman, a shew of our spirit. 
The event, however, was that the Question was postponed ; it is to be renewed on Monday when I mean to move that it should be postponed for
In the mean Time the plan of Confederation and the Scheme of Treaty may go on. 2 I don't know whether I shall succeed in this Motion; I think not, it is at least Doubtful. 
However I must do what is right in my own Eyes, and Consequences must take Care of themselves. 
I wish you had been here, the whole Argument was sustained on one side by R. Livingston, Wilson, Dickerson and myself, and by the Power of all N. England, Virginia and Georgia at the other. 3 688. The New York Delegates to the President of the New York Convention. 1 Philadelphia 8th June 1776 Dear Sir Your Delegates here expect that the question of independence will very shortly be agitated in Congress. 
Some of us consider ourselves as bound by our instructions not to vote on that question, and all wish to have your sentiments thereon. 
The matter will admit of no delay. 
We have therefore sent an express who will wait your orders. 2 We are sir With the greatest respect Your Most Obt H Ie Servts William Floyd Henry Wisner Robt R Livingston Frans. 
Lewis To Nathaniel Woodhull Esquire President of the Hon le the Convention of New York
Concerning a foreign alliance see also the letters of Edward Rutledge, July 8, John Adams, July 9, 20, 29, Samuel Adams, July 15, Joseph Hewes, July 28, Jefferson, July 29, and Samuel Chase, July 30, in the next volume. 3 See the Journals, June 7, 8, 10; also Jefferson's Notes of Debates, Journals, VI. 1087, 1091 ; Writings (ed. Ford), I. 18-24. Cf. nos. 684, 685, ante, and nos. 688, 690, 697, 699, 701, 709, 710, 725, 726, 727, 728, post. 
See also John Adams to R. H. Lee (grandson of the Virginia delegate), Feb. 24, 1821 (Works, X. 395). In Botta's History of the War of the Independence of the United States of America (translation by G. A. Otis, Cooperstown, N. Y., 1848, I. 345-350), appears a speech said to have been delivered by Richard Henry Lee in Congress June
The biographer of Lee (R. H. Lee, Life and Correspondence of Richard Henry Lee, I. 171) speaks of the speech as a tradition. 
It is doubtless the combined product of tradition and the historian's imagination. 
Nevertheless parts of the speech, particularly the closing passages, have frequently been quoted as if genuine. 
It is reprinted in Niles, Principles of the Revolution (ed. 1876), p. 397. Concerning the speech of John Dickinson, July 1, which follows that of Lee in the pages of Botta, see no. 751, note 5, post. [688] 1 Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS., XXIX. 93 (copy) ; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers (copy); Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 488; Am. Hist. 
Register, I. 132; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1391. 2 The reply to this letter, dated June 11, was read in Congress July 1. See no. 714, note 3, post. 478 Continental Congress S"689. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia 8th June 1776 Dear Sir Since you left this Place you have probably reed a Confirmation of the unwelcome News which then arrived from Canada, since which Mr Moylan is appointed Quarter Master General and Colo Reed Adjutant General, General Whitcomb of Massa. and Colo Mercer of Connecticut Brigadiers and the appoint' of the Major Generals is suspended for the present. 
General Worcester is also ordered to Head Quarters. 2 I beleive we should have executed our Design of promoting you to Quarter Masr. 
General if it can be called a promotion, had not Congress been doubtful whether the place of so faithful a servant could be immediately supplyed and had it not been urged (with what real Grounds You can best Judge) that his Excell. the General had mentioned the Gentleman who is appointed for this office while Dependance was placed on you in the other more important one. for my own part I could Wish the alteration had taken Place as was proposed, but am doubtful whether Mr Livingston would not have obtained your Berth had you been appointed Q. M. General which I should have considered as an Unfortunate Exchange. 
With Respect to Rank there will probably be no Opposition made to your having that of Colonel Whenever proposed and I shall be glad to know your Sentiments on the same. 3 690. John Adams to William Cushing. 1 Philadelphia, 9 June, 1776. .... Objects of the most stupendous magnitude, and measures in which the lives and liberties of millions yet unborn are intimately interested, are now before us. We are in the very midst of a revolution, the most complete, unexpected, and remarkable, of any in the history of nations. 
A few important subjects must be despatched before I can return to my family. 
Every colony must be induced to institute a perfect government. 
All the colonies must confederate together in some solemn band of union. 
The Congress must declare the colonies free and independent States, and ambassadors must be sent abroad to foreign courts, to solicit their acknowledgment of us, as sovereign States, and to form with them, at least with some of them, commercial treaties of friendship and alliance. 
When these things are once completed, I shall think that I have answered the end of my creation, and sing my nunc dimittis, return to my farm, family, ride circuits, plead law, or judge causes, just which you please. 2 [689] x Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 2 See the Journals, June I, 5, 6, and no. 686, ante, and nos. 692, 746, post. 3 See the Journals, May 18, 24, and Trumbull's petition to Congress, May 18, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1673. Cf. Trumbull to Congress, June 9, Force, . Arch., fourth ser., VI. 790, and Washington to Congress, June 10, ibid., VI. 789. See also nos. 719, 720, 730, post, and the letter of Oct. 22, in the next volume. 
The Mr. Livingston referred to by Gerry was doubtless Walter Livingston, deputy commissary-general. [690"] • Works. 
IX. 390. 2 The allusion is to the motion for independence. 
Cf. nos. 678, 684, 685, 687, 688, ante, and nos. 697, 699, 701, 709, 710, 715, 727, 728, post. 
Concerning the matter of a foreign alliance see nos. 674, 678, 687, ante, and no. 744, post; also vol. 
II. of these Letters, Samuel Chase to Philip Schuyler, July 19, 1776. June, ijj6 479 The rumors you heard of a reinforcement in Canada, and those you must have heard before now, of many disasters there, are but too true. 
Canada has been neglected too much, to my infinite grief and regret, and against all the remonstrances which I could make, and many others. 
This has been owing to causes, which it would tire you to exDlain, if I was at liberty, which I am not. 
However, nothing on my part, or that of my colleagues, will be wanting to secure a reverse of fortune there. 3 .... 691. William Whipple to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia, June 10, 1776. My dear Sir: .... I have the pleasure to tell you that Captain Thompson's appointment is confirmed by Congress; his commission will be sent him very soon Congress never were so much engaged as at this time ; business presses on them exceedingly. 
We do not rise sometimes till six or seven o'clock. 
There are so many irons in the fire, I fear some of them will burn. 
I congratulate you on the success you have had in building and launching the Raleigh. 
I proposed her being called the New Hampshire, but could not obtain my wish ; however, I think this name will do very well — the name of every martyr to liberty ought to be perpetuated; and then this name is in some measure a compliment to Virginia, who, you know, is entitled to compliments from New England. 2 I have done everything in my power to forward the business of this ship, but I need not tell you how heavily business goes on here. 
The matter of agency I have not had an opportunity to urge with a prospect of success ; it therefore remains as it did, but hope it will not be long before there will be a fair opportunity ; I shall still persist in my first proposal. 3 The uncertainty of guns is the only reason you have not orders to ship men ; but as the Committee meet this evening, I will endeavour once more to know their minds on this subject Congress did not rise till seven o'clock, which prevented the Committee from meeting last evening. 4 .... 692. Samuel Adams to Horatio Gates. 1 Philade June 10 1776 My dear Sir Your Favor of the 8th Instant was brought to me by Express. 
I am exceedingly concernd that a General Officer is not yet fixed upon to take the Command of the Troops in Boston — ever since the Enemy abandond that place I have been apprehensive that a renewed attack would prob- 3 See nos. 664, 682, ante. 
Cf. nos. 703, 713, post. [691] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1026. 2 See the Journals, June
This paragraph was probably written June II. [692] x N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers, unbound; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), III. 291. 35 4S0 Continental Congress 6'ably be made on some part of Massachusetts Bay. Your Reasons clearly show that it will be the Interest of the Enemy to make a grand push there if they are not properly provided for a Defence. 
Congress judgd it necessary that a Major and Brigr Genl should be sent to Boston or they would not have orderd it three Weeks ago. 
The Wish of the Colony with regard to particular Gentlemen has been repeatedly urgd. and I thought that an appointment which has been made since you left us would have given a favorable Issue to our request. 
The Necessity of your taking the Command in the Eastern District immediately, has been in my mind most pressing since I have been informd by your Letter that your Intelligence in respect to the Attack on the Massachusetts is direct and positive. 2 It will be a great Disappointment to me if General Mifflin does not go with you to Boston. 
I believe that to prevent the apparent necessity for this, Genl Whitcomb was thrown into View. 3 He is indeed in many respects a good Man, but to the other I think the preference must be given. 693. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia, June 10, 1776. Dear Sir: .... I shall enclose you a paper containing the Bill of Rights drawn up by Virginia. 2 You have seen the Virginia resolves concerning Independence ; 3 I wish our Colony would give us instructions on that head, for, whatever may be our private opinions, instructions from the Colony, either requiring, or only authorizing us to vote in favour of it, if we should think it for the best, would carry great weight with it. 4 The Congress has been so taken up with very important business, that the affair of agency has not been mentioned since my arrival. 
When it does, shall not be wanting in seconding Colonel Whipple. 
By one of the enclosed papers, you will see that the Assembly of this Province have given new instructions to their Delegates. 5 2 See the Journals, May 14; cf. no. 645, ante, and nos. 702, 703, 712, 717, 718, 719. 731. post. 3 Cf. no. 689, ante, and no. 746, post. [693] 1 Force. 
Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1026. 2 The draft of the declaration of rights, reported in the Virginia convention May 27, was printed in Dixon and Hunter's Virginia Gazette, June 1. It also appeared in the Pennsylvania Evening Post, June 6, and in the Pennsylvania Gazette, June 12. The declaration as adopted June 12 appeared in a "Postscript" to Purdie's Virginia Gazette, June 14, and in Dixon and Hunter's Virginia Gazette, June 15. The proceedings of the convention, May 15-June 12, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1 523- 1 562. Cf. no. 626 (note 4), ante. 3 See nos. 664, 682, ante. 
Cf . 703, 713, post. * Cf. no. 670, ante, and no. 697, post. 5 See the proceedings of the Pennsylvania assemhly, June 5-14, Votes and Proceedings of the House of Representatives of the Province of Pennsylvania, vol. 
VI., PP- 735-/43 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 857-863. The instructions were adopted June H, but do not appear in the assembly's proceedings until June 14, when they were put into the form of a letter to the delegates and signed by the speaker. 
The instructions were printed in the Pennsylvania Evening Post, June 8, in the Pennsylvania Packet. 
June 10, and the Pennsylvania Gazette, June 12. Cf. nos. 659, 660, ante, and nos. 698, 728, 730, 747, post. 
June, 1776 481 nth. — By a letter just received from Canada, it appears that our men had neither provisions nor ammunition, and that was the cause of their surrendering. 694. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia June nth [io?], 2 1776 Sir, I am honoured with your Letters of 7th. 8th. and 9th. Instant. 
The two first I have read in Congress. 3 We have been two Days in a Committee of the Whole deliberating on three Capital Matters, 4 the most important in their Nature of any that have yet been before us ; and have sat till seven O'Clock in the Evening each Day. That not being finished I judge best to return the Express. 
I shall press Congress as soon as possible to determine upon the several Matters you wish to be ascertained, and immediately transmit you the Result. 
The Congress have agreed to settle the Mode of paying the Troops in the Eastern Department this Morning, and to proceed to the Appointment of a Deputy Paymaster General. 5 The particular Mode of establishing Expresses is now under the Consideration of a Committee, and as soon as agreed, you shall know the Issue. 6 Altho Congress have not acted upon your Queries respecting the Indians, 7 yet I will venture to give my opinion that Congress intended the Resolution of 25 May should be general and extend to the several Departments, and that the Resolution of the 3d June goes only to the Number which the General shall be empowered to employ in Canada. 
But I hope soon to give you a full answer to all your Queries, 8 and in future I will [694] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, IX. 317; Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, VI. 811 ; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 221. 2 There are several evidences that this letter was written June 10. Hancock says that Washington's letter of the 9th had not been read in Congress, and he does not mention the receipt of his letter of the 10th, whereas both these letters were read on the nth. 
See nos. 695, post. 
Hancock also says: "We have been two Days in Committee of the Whole." That was June
This resolution, according to the Journals, was on the 10th. Finally, this letter makes no mention of any of the resolves passed on the nth, and from the statement quoted above it is evident that the letter was not written on the nth before the assembling of Congress. 3 Washington's letter of June
See the Journals, June 7-12. Cf. no. 743, note 3, post. 5 See the Journals, June 10, 12, and Hancock to Ebenezer Hancock, June 13, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 834. Cf. no. 636, note 2, ante. 6 See the Journals, June 5, July 5. 7 See Washington's letter of June
I hope our xA.ffairs will soon be upon a more reputable footing 696. The President of Congress to the Massachusetts Assembly. 1 Philadelphia June nth, 1776. Gentlemen, The Congress have this Day received Advices, and are fully convinced, that it is the Design of Genl. 
Howe to make an Attack upon the City of New York as soon as possible. 2 The Attack, they have Reason to believe, will be made within ten Days. 
I am therefore most earnestly to request you, by Order of Congress, to call forth your Militia as requested in my Letter of the 4th Inst, and to forward them, with all Dispatch, to the City of New York ; and that you direct them to march in Companies, or in any other Way, that will hasten their Arrival there. 
The important Day is at Hand, that will decide, not only the Fate of the City of New York, but in all Probability, of the whole Province. 
On such an Occasion there is no necessity to use Arguments with Americans. 
Their Feelings, I well know, will prompt them to their Duty, and the Sacredness of the Cause, urge them to the Field. 
The greatest Exertions of Vigour and Expedition are requisite to prevent our Enemies from getting Possession of that Town. 
I must therefore again most earnestly request you, in the Name and by the Authority [695] l Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, IX. 319; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 812. 2 Washington's letter of June 10 is in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 129; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 789. See no. 694, note 2, ante. 1 696] x Mass. 
Arch., CXCV. 39; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 161; Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, IX. 321 (copy) ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 813. The same letter was sent to the assembly of Connecticut, the convention of New York, and the convention of New Jersey. 
That to New York is in the N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, V. 187. It is printed in Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., II. 201; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1401. That to New Jersey is in the N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1549. It is printed in Hist. 
Mag., XIV. 217. 2 See no. 695, ante, and Washington's letter of June 10 (cited in note 2, no. 695, ante), also Washington to Gov. Trumbull, June 10, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., Vl. 791. June, 1776 483 of Congress, [to employ every Mode in your Power] 3 to send forward the Militia agreeable to the Requisition of Congress; and that you will do it with all the Dispatch which the infinite Importance of the Cause demands. 
I have the Honour to be Gentlemen, Your most obedt. and very hble svt. 
John Hancock, Presid*. The Honble Assembly of Massachusetts Bay. 697. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of New Hampshire (Meshech Weare). 1 Philadelphia, nth June 1776 Sir, We some time ago signified our wish, to know the sentiments of our Colony respecting Independence, the ques". has been agitated in Congress, a resolution pass'd yesterday to chose a Committee to prepare and bring in a Declaration for that purpose, on the first of July, by which time it is expected that all the Delegates who have not already been instructed will receive ample Powers. 2 As this is a subject of the greatest importance, we beg we may be furnish'd with the Sentiments of our Constituents as we wish to act agreeable to them let our own be what they may. we shall be in full expectation of an answer by the return of post. 3 we have the Honour to be Your Most Obedt. 
Servts. 
Josiah Bartlett Wm. Whipple 698. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott. 1 Phelidelpa. 11 June 1776. My Dear .... A Requisition of the Militia has been made to our Colony, I think much too large and what I apprehend cannot be complyed with. 2 3 The clause " to employ .... power " is in the letter-book copy but is not in the letter sent to the Massachusetts assembly. [697] 1 Library of Congress, N. H. Papers; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 814. 2 Speaking of the committee appointed June 11 to prepare and bring in a declaration of independence John Adams says in his Autobiography : " Jefferson was chairman because he had most votes ; and he had most votes, because we united in him to the exclusion of R. H. Lee, and to keep out Harrison." Works, III. 52. For Adams's account of how the Declaration was produced in the committee see no. 743, note 3, post. 
See also Jefferson's Notes of Debates, Journals, VI. 1091-1093; Writings (ed. Ford), I. 24. 3 See nos. 670, 684, 685, 687, 690, ante. 
The reply, June 18, together with the assembly's action on the question, June 15, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1029-1030. See also N. H. State Papers, VIII. 149. [698] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. 
II., no. 14. 2 See the Journals, June 3. 484 Continental Congress &■ We seem at present to be in the Midst of a great Revolution, which I hope God will carry us safe thro with. 
Pensilvania Assembly last Saturday rescinded their Instructions to their Deligates, and they now say that they expect No Reconciliation. 3 .... 699. Elbridge Gerry to the President of the Massachusetts Provincial Congress (James Warren). 1 Philadelphia, June 11, 1776. My dear Sir: Yesterday, after a long debate, the question of Independence was postponed until the 1st of July, in order to give the Assemblies of the Middle Colonies an opportunity to take off their restrictions and let their Delegates unite in the measure. 
In the interim, will go on plans for Confederation and foreign alliance. 2 .... 700. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the New York Convention. 1 Philadelphia, June 11, 1776. Gentlemen Your favour by Mr. Gouverneur Morris I had the pleasure of receiving yesterday, and immediately laid the same before Congress. 2 By the enclosed Resolve, which I am commanded to transmit, you will perceive, they have come to a Resolution, that the Pay of the Troops in the Middle and Eastern Departments, shall hereafter be the same. 3 Altho it is much to be wished, that the Pay of the Eastern Troops could have been reduced, yet as that Measure would naturally give great and general Disgust, and might be attended with the worst Consequences in our present Situation ; the Congress chose rather to encrease the Pay of the other Troops, than to run the Risque of breaking up the Eastern Army. 
Every State or Government should punctually perform the Terms of Enlistment, on which the Soldier enters into Service. 
In this View of the Matter, it would have been neither honorable or equitable, to have abridged the Pay of the Eastern Troops, nor can any Reason be urged why the other Troops, who do the same Duty and are exposed to the same Dangers, should not also receive the same Pay. The particular mode of
For the action taken in Delaware, June 14, 15, see Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 884, and Read, Life of George Read, pp. 164, 243-246. Cf. no. 652, note 2. ante, and no. 709, post. [700] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, V. 191; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 160; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., II. 202; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 812. 2 The letter of the New York convention, dated June 7, is in Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 483, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 793. It relates to Hancock's letter of June 4, ante, and the resolves of Congress relative to the militia. 3 See the Journals, June 10. This action appears to have been taken primarily in response to the New York letter. 
See, however, Washington's letter of June 8, Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 115; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 757- June, 1776 485 enlisting the Pennsylvania and York troops originated with their and your Delegates; and as they moved it, Congress could not but gratify them. 4 .... 701. The Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety. 1 Gentlemen. .... We shall make Application for the Arms lent the Congress but We do not see any probability of obtaining them, none having been made or having arrived but what were immediately disposed of among the Continental Troops. 
It seems to be taken for granted that our Province will not be attacked, and upon this Supposition we presume it will be thought unnecessary to strengthen Us even by returning the Warlike Stores which We lent. 
When the Scheme for Marching the Militia was agitated We informed Congress of the Circumstances of our Province and of the Impossibility of marching the Militia out of the Province without their Consent, however our Quota for the flying Camp was struck at 3,400 as you will see by the Resolve inclosed by the President, but it was not understood that the Militia were to be drafted or compelled to march. 
And it is left altogether at large how they are to be collected. 
Some additions to the resolutions on that subject are talked of but not formally proposed. 2 .... The proposition from the Delegates of Virginia to declare Colonies independent was yesterday after much debate postponed for three Weeks, then to be resumed, And a Committee is appointed to draw up a Declaration to prevent loss of time, in Case the Congress should agree to the proposition at the day fixed for resuming it. This postpone [ment] was made to give an Opportunity to the Delegates from those Colonies which had not as yet given authority to adopt this decisive measure, to consult their Constituents. 3 It will be necessary that the Convention of Maryland should meet as soon as possible to give the explicit Sense of the Province on this Point. 
And We hope you will accordingly exercise your Power of convening them at such time as you think the Members can be brought together. 
We wish to have the fair and uninfluenced sense of the people we have the Honour to represent in this most important and interesting Affair, And think it would be well if the Delegates to Convention were desired to endeavour to collect the Opinion of the People at large, in some Manner or other previous to the Meeting of Convention. 
We shall attend the Convention whenever it meets if it is thought proper We should do so
Soc, Red Book, IV. 30 (in the writing of Thomas Stone); Arch, of Md., XL 477; Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, VI. 806; Scharf, Hist, of Md., II. 226 (extract). 2 See the Journals, May 29, June 1, 3, 4, 5, and no. 682, ante. 
See also the Maryland council to the delegates, June 8, 10, Arch, of Md., XI. 470, 474; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 754, 782. Cf. no. 710, post. 3 Cf. nos. 687 (note 3), 699, ante, and nos. 709, 728, post. 
See the council's reply to this letter, June 14, in Arch, of Md., XI. 490; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 883. -l s <'> Continental Congress 6'We wish we had any reason to suppose, there was any foundation for what Mr Smith Reports to have been told him by Capt Hammond and Ld. Dnnmore, but all Circumstances strongly oppose the Supposition of Commissioners, as Messengers of Peace. 
However, we know not more of this matter than you and the publick do, and it is impossible to speak certainly upon this or any other Subject without more full Information than we have. 4 .... Our hurry and necessary Attendance in Congress must apologise for this Scrawl. 
The Question of postponing the Declaration of Independence was carried by seven Colonies against five. 
We are with great Respect Gent, yr most obt. servts. 
Mat. Tilghman, T. Stone, J. Rogers. 
Phila. 
June nth. 1776. Tuesday. 702. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia 13th June 1776. Dear Sir, .... This day I sett off for Virginia, where, if I can be of any service to you, it will oblige to command me. It is more than probable that Congress will order our friend Gates to Canada. 2 His great abilities and virtue will be absolutely necessary to restore things there, and his recommendations will always be readily complied with. 
You will find that great powers are given to the Commander in that distant department. 
The system for Canada, adopted since the arrival of the Commissioners here, will, I hope, be of essential service to our affairs. 3 All good Men pray most heartily for your health, happiness, and success, and none more than, dear Sir, Your affectionate Friend and obedient Servant 703. Samuel Chase to Horatio Gates. 1 Philadelphia, June 13th, 1776. Thursday evening My dear Gates, I am compelled to leave this city early tomorrow. 
Mrs. Chase is extremely ill. 
We have laid before Congress the many and great abuses and mismanagements in Canada, and proposed such remedies as we thought most
Captain (afterward Sir) Andrew S. Hammond was commander of the frigate Roebuck. [702] 1 Lihrary of Congress, Letters to Washington, X. 13; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 201; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 834; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 224. 2 See the Journals, June 17 (p. 448). Cf. nos. 690, 692, ante, and nos. 703, 712, 717, 718, 719, 731, post. 3 See the Journals, May 25, 29, June I, 12, 13, 15, 17, 18. Cf. nos. 703, 717, 719, post. [703 ]' Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS., LX. 95 (copy). June, 1776 48 Y expedient in our present situation. 
A General is to be sent there with the powers of a Roman Dictator. 
Many of the Congress have cast their eyes upon you, and I doubt not, you will be appointed to this great, and important command. 
I am pleased with the reflection that you will now have an opportunity to render great services to America. 
Your inclination, and abilities will have room for exertion, and laurels are still to be reaped in Canada. 
You will have a respectable army and every measure we can suggest is taking to supply them with necessaries. 2 I cannot but recommend to you the most unreserved, and unlimited confidence in Gen. Schuyler. 
Be assured of his integrity, diligence, abilities, and address. 
I know him well, and will be answerable for that gentleman as for myself. 
I know he is injured, basely traduced. 
If you have not a constant and friendly intercourse with Gen. Schuyler, you will fail in Canada. 
In a word, inform him of every doubt or suspicion. 
He will show you his conduct, evidenced by his letters and orders. 
You may show him this letter, and say it was my request to you, as his and your friend and as one of those in whom America reposes some trust. 
Be attentive to this advice — more depends on it than I can explain in a letter 704. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to Charles Preston. 1 Philada. 13th. June 1776. Sir Your Letter of 3d Inst. 
I duly Rec'd, and immediately Sent to Capt Crawford the one you Inclos'd open for him. 
Capt Crawford will deliver you this, he agreeable to the Resolve of Congress proceeds to Reading to furnish the Officers and Men with Money and to Determine the Rations to Mr Franks. 2 I dare Say a strict attention to the Parole in other instances will, be observ'd by Capt Crawford, my Knowledge of and Reliance on your honour is such that I am Confident you will not suffer any Circumstances to take place that shall in the least Degree occasion an Alteration in the present Determination with respect to the Gentlemen who are prisoners 705. The President of Congress to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety. 1 Philada, June 14, 1776. Gentlemen, You will receive herewith from the commanding officer of the troops in the barracks, Mr. M'Lean, a prisoner who was sent hither by General
Cf. nos. 695, 702, ante, and nos. 717, 718, 719, post. [704] 1 Hist. 
Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., Old Congress, V. 74. 2 Maj. Charles Preston, of the 26th regiment (British), was in command at St. John's when it was surrendered to General Montgomery, Nov. 2, 1775. See no. 399, ante. 
His letter of June
See the Journals, Dec. 2, 1775; Feb. 7, 28, 1776. [705] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., IV. 773. 45 > Continental Congress &'Putnam in irons, for refusing to give his parole and for other misbehavior, the letter respecting him was referred to the committee appointed by Congress on prisoners, and the prisoner was committed to the charge of the Commanding officer in the barracks 'till the committee should report on his conduct, but as the troops are ordered from the barracks, I have it in command to request you to take charge of him, and have him safely kept agreeable to former resolutions of Congress, until the Congress shall take order concerning him. 2 I am, Gentlemen, Your obedt. humble servt, John Hancock, Presidt. 
To the Honble The Committee of Safety of Pennsylvania, at Philada. 706. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia June 14th. 1776. Sir, I am extremely happy to have it in my Power to assure you that the several Matters referred to Congress in your Letters, will receive a speedy Determination. 
With great Pleasure I shall transmit you the Result, as soon as I am ordered. 
I enclose to you, at this time, sundry important Resolves, to which I beg leave to refer your Attention. 2 .... The establishing a War Office is a new and great event in the History of America, and will doubtless be attended with essential Advantages when properly conducted and inspected. 
I hope the Committee will be ready, in a few days, to enter upon the Execution of their Duty. 
You will see the Outlines of this office in the enclosed Resolves. 
Some farther Regulations, it is more than probable, will be necessary in the Course of Time. 
The Congress have only laid a Foundation at present. 
It still remains, in a great Measure, to erect a System of Rules and Laws, that will enable us to carry on our military Operations with more Knowledge, Certainty, and Dispatch. 3 .... 2 Putnam's letter concerning Lieut. 
Neil McLean, dated June 2, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 683. Cf. ibid., VI. 633. See the Journals, June 5, 14, Aug. 3, Nov. 18. A letter from McLean to Robert Morris, Nov. 5, 1776, giving some account of his case, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 515. The resolve of June 14 does not mention McLean by name. 
See the minutes of the committee of safety, June 15, Pa. Col. Records, X. 603; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1283. [706I 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, X. 15; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 884. 2 See the Journals, June 14 (p. 442). The sundry resolutions adopted in the committee of the whole were " methodized " June 17, 18. The report of the committee " to whom the Report from the Committee of the whole House was recommitted " is printed in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1709-1711. 3 See the Journals, Jan. 24, Mar. 20, Apr. 18, June 12, 13, 14; also Washington's letters to Congress, June 13 and 20, Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 139, 164; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 837, 991. Cf. the letter of John Adams, July 15. in the next volume. 
John Adams in his Autobiography devotes several pages to culling from the Journals the numerous references to the board of war. "Wednesday, June 12 [1776]. .... In order to show the insupportable burden of business that was thrown upon me by this Congress, it is necessary to transcribe from the Journals an account of the June, 1776 489 The shameful Inactivity of our Fleet for some time past ; the frequent neglect or disobedience of Orders in Commodore Hopkins, 4 the numberless Complaints exhibited to the Marine Committee agt. him, and also against Captains Saltonstal and Whipple, have induced the Congress, in Consequence of a Representation from the Marine Committee, to order them to repair immediately to this City to answer for their Conduct. 
I have accordingly written them to set out on the Receipt of my Letters, and to repair here by Land as fast as possible. 5 I hope soon to have our Ships on a more respectable Footing. 
No Efforts of mine shall be wanting to accomplish so desirable an Event 707. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to Esek Hopkins. 1 Philada. 
June 14th. 1776. Sir: Notwithstanding the repeated Efforts and Solicitations of the Marine Board to put the Continental Ships upon a respectable Footing, and to have them employed in the Service for which they were originally designed, they are constrained to say that their Efforts and Solicitations have been frustrated and neglected in a Manner unaccountable to them ; and in Support of their own Reputation they have been under the Necessity of representing the State of their Navy to Congress, and have informed them that there has been a great Neglect in the Execution of their Orders ; and that many and daily Complaints are exhibited to them against some of the Officers of the Ships, and that great Numbers of Officers and Men have left the Ships in consequence of ill Usage, and have applied to the Marine Board for Redress. 
These, with many other Circumstances have induced the Congress to direct you to repair to this City. 
And in Consequence of their Authority to me, I hereby direct you, immediately on Receipt of this, to repair to the City of Philadelphia, and on your Arrival here to give Notice to me, as President of the Marine Board. 
The Command of the ships will of course devolve, in your Absence, upon the eldest Officer, to whom you will give the Command with this Direction however, that he take no Steps with Respect to the Ships till further Orders. 
And I further inform you, that by this Opportunity, I write to Captains Saltonstal and Whipple immediately to repair to this City. 2 constitution, powers, and duties of this board From this time, we find in almost every day's Journal references of various business to the board of war, or their reports upon such things as were referred to them." Works, III. 52, 53, 59. A committee, of which Adams was a member, was designated to revise the articles of war. 
See the letters of Edward Rutledge and John Adams, Aug. 19, in the next volume. 4 See the Journals, June 13, no. 630, note 3, ante, and no. 707, post. 5 The letter to Saltonstall and Whipple is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 886. Cf. ibid., VI. 552, 617, 999, and see the Journals, July 2, 11. [707] x Mass. 
Hist Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 175; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., Vl. 885. Addressed, " To Esek Hopkins, Esq., commanding the Continental Ships at Newport, or elsewhere ". 2 See nos. 630, 706, ante. 490 Continental Congress As your Conduct in many Instances requires Explanation, you will of Course be questioned with Respect to your whole Proceedings since you left this City. 
I give you this Notice that you may come prepared to answer for your general Conduct. 
You will bring with you all the instructions you have hitherto received from Naval or Marine Board, all Letters and Papers relative to the Fleet, and your Proceedings, Journals, State of all the Ships, those in and out of Port, State of the Stores of every Kind, Provisions, List of the effective and non-effective Men, and in short, every Thing relative to the Ships under your Command. 
As your Presence is immediately necessary here, I again repeat that on Receipt of this, and as soon as you can prepare, you proceed by Land to this City, there to wait the further Order of Congress. 708. The President of Congress to William Palfrey. 1 Philadelphia, June 14, 1776. Sir: I received your favour enclosing your weekly Return to the 8th of June. 2 The Congress having appointed Ebenezer Hancock, Esq., Deputy Paymaster-General for the Eastern Department, it will no doubt give you pleasure to find yourself relieved of so considerable a part of your burden. 
I forward to him by this opportunity one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, for the use of the troops in that department. 3 It is my opinion you had better hire a clerk immediately, and run the risk of Congress making an allowance for him. 
It is scarcely possible at this time to get them to determine the matter for you. 
A thousand objects infinitely more important press on them, and demand an immediate attention and decision. 
Thus much you may depend upon, I will do all in my power to prevail with them to make an adequate allowance for a clerk, if you choose to employ one. 
Should you incline to adopt my opinion on this matter, Mr. Winthrop, whom I expect every hour, will be as fit a person as you can find. 
I am, sir, your most obedient and very humble servant, John Hancock, President. 
To William Palfrey, Esq. 709. John Adams to Samuel Chase. 1 Philadelphia, 14 June, 1776. .... Mr. Adams ever was and ever will be glad to see Mr. Chase ; but Mr. Chase never was nor will be more welcome than if he should come [708]' Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 887. - William Palfrey was appointed paymaster-general of the army, Apr. 27. The letter here referred to has not been found, but see his letters to Congress, May 19, 27, June 3, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 508, 583, 692; also the Journals, May 21, 29, June 4, 17. Cf. nos. 636, 694, ante. 8 See the Journals, June 12. [709I 1 Works, IX. 397. June, 1776 491 next Monday or Tuesday fortnight, with the voice of Maryland in favor of independence and a foreign alliance. 2 .... I have one bone to pick with your colony ; I suspect they levelled one of their instructions at my head. 
This is a distinction of which you may suppose I am not very ambitious. 
One of your colleagues moved a resolution that no member of Congress should hold any office under any of the new governments, and produced an instruction to make him feel strong. 
I seconded the motion, with a trifling amendment, that the resolution should be, that no member of Congress should hold any office, civil or military, in the army or in the militia, under any government, old or new. 
This struck through the assembly like an electric shock, for every member was a governor, or general, or judge, or some mighty thing or other in the militia, or under the old government or some new one. 
This was so important a matter that it required consideration, and I have never heard another word about it. 3 The truth, as far as it respects myself, is this. 
The government of the Massachusetts, without my solicitation and much against my inclination, were pleased some time last summer to nominate me to an office. 
It was at a time when offices under new governments were not in much demand, being considered rather precarious. 
I did not refuse this office, although, by accepting it, I must resign another office, which I held under the old government, three times as profitable, because I was well informed, that, if I had refused it, no other man would have accepted it, and this would have greatly weakened, perhaps ruined the new constitution. 
This is the truth of fact. 
So that one of the most disinterested and intrepid actions of my whole life has been represented to the people of Maryland to my disadvantage. 
I told the gentlemen that I should be much obliged, if they would find me a man who would accept of my office, or by passing the resolution furnish me with a justification for refusing it. In either case, I would subscribe my renunciation of that office before I left that room. 
Nay, I would go further, I would vote with them that every member of this Congress should take an oath that he never would accept of any office during life, or procure any office for his father, his son, his brother, or his cousin. 
So much for egotism ! McKean has returned from the lower counties with full powers. 
Their instructions are in the same words with the. new ones to the delegates of Pennsylvania. 4 New Jersey has dethroned Franklin, 5 and in a letter, which is just come to my hand from indisputable authority, I am told
Concerning the motion of the Maryland delegate see no. 622, note 3, ante, and nos. 715, 716, post. 
See also John Mathews's " self-denying ordinance ", Sept. 24, 1779, in vol. 
IV. of these Letters. 4 See nos. 652, 657, 659, 660, 699, ante, and no. 728, post. 5 The proceedings of the New Jersey provincial congress in relation to Gov. William Franklin, June 14, 15, are in the Minutes of N. J. Prov. 
Cong., pp. 454-456. See also ibid., pp. 461, 462, 467, 470, 475, 489. The proceedings are also in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1620, et seq.; cf. ibid., VI. 626, 967-968, 1010, 1099, 1142. See the Journals, June 19, 24. 492 Continental Congress that the delegates from that colony " will vote plump ! " 6 Maryland now stands alone. 
I presume she will soon join company; if not, she must be left alone. 7 710. The Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety
Yours of the 10th Inst, was delivered to us yesterday, it has happened very well that you have called a Convention on the 20th tho for the purpose of complying with the resolve of Congress We think your own powers are fully adequate. 
It never was intended that any part of the Militia was compellable to march out of the Provinces; nor do We know of any Power in ours, even tho the Convention was sitting, to order the Militia upon Service out of the Province. 
It was intended that the flying Camp should be formed by voluntary Inlistments of the Militia, and it was supposed that the People of the respective Provinces would readily and voluntarily march to the head quarters of this flying Camp, which was ordered principally to defend the middle Colonies. 
It will be. necessary however to appoint officers and give directions to the body of Militia when raised, and this may be done by your council or the Convention. 2 We wrote you a few days ago
The Session will be a very important one and we wish to attend, tho we know not whether it will be agreable to our Constituents to leave the Province unrepresented in Congress, ■ it being a Matter of much Consequence to keep up the Representation at this and all other times. 
We shall wait to hear from you and them upon this head, indeed we can't quit the Congress without Leave which will not be given here unless our attendance in Convention is desired. 4 Mr. Tilghman left us yesterday, Mr. Paca is here. 
We have nothing new since we last had the Honour of addressing you. 
The Continental Proof of Can- 8 The letter referred to is from Jonathan D. Sergeant, and is dated June 15. It is in Adams's Works, III. 55 n. The matters related in this paragraph of Adams's letter could not have been written earlier than June 16. Cf. nos. 728, 730, post. 7 Cf. no. 733, post. [710] J Md. Hist. 
Soc., Red Book, IV. 32 (in the writing of Thomas Stone) ; Arch, of Md., XI. 492; Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, VI. 904. 2 See nos. 682, 701, ante, and the Journals, June 3, 5. The council's letter of June 10 is in Arch, of Md., XI. 474. See also ibid., XI. 470, 474, 475; and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 754, 782, 783. 8 June II, no. 701, ante. * Cf. no. 728, post. 
See the proceedings of the Maryland convention, June 21- July 6, Proceedings of the Convention of the Province of Maryland .... 1774, 1775, and 1776 (Baltimore, 1836), pp. 165-206; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1485-1510; especially the action June 25. June, 1776 493 non is two thirds of the Weight of a ball, of Powder, and two Balls, tho this is said to be less powder than is used for the purpose in England. 
We are Gent. with much respect Yr most Obt Sevts T. Stone. 
J. Rogers. 
Phila June 15, 1776. We have sent by the Stage
Every Thing is leading to the lasting Independancy of these Colonies 712. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 16 June, 1776. .... The rumor you heard of General Gates will prove premature. 
I endeavoured both here and with the General to have it so, and should have succeeded, if it had not been for the loss of General Thomas. 2 Cruel small pox ! worse than the sword ! But now, I fear we must part with Gates for the sake of Canada I send you all the news in the papers. 
Great things are on the tapis. 
These throes will usher in the birth of a fine boy. 
We have no thoughts of removing - from hence. 
There is no occasion for it. 3 *fc> 713. John Adams to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, June 16, 1776 Dear Sir, Your Favours of June 2d and 5th are now before me. 2 .... You suppose " it would not do to have the two Regiments you are now raising converted into continental Battalions." But why? Would the officers or Men have any objection? If they would not, Congress [7 ill
Hist. 
Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. 
II., no. 15. [712] 1 Familiar Letters, p. 183. 2 The Massachusetts delegates wished to have Gates sent to Boston. 
See nos. 692, 702, ante. 
The news of Gen. Thomas's death (June 2) reached Congress June 15 through Schuyler's letter of June 10, enclosed in Washington's letter to Congress, June 14. William Whipple wrote to John Langdon June 14 : " We have no news here except from Canada, which I suppose has reached you ere now. 
The Commissioners are returned from that country. 
It is expected that General Thomas is dead ere this ; if so, the command devolves on Sullivan ; but there will be another General Officer sent there; believe Gates will be the man." Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1028. Bartlett made the same prediction as to Gates in his letter to Langdon, June 17, post (passage omitted). See nos. 717, 718, 719, 731, post. 3 Cf. no. 295, ante. [713] x Warren-Adams Letters, I. 257. 2 These letters are in Warren- Adams Letters, I. 252, 254. 494 Continental Congress would have none. 
Indeed this was what I expected and intended when the Measure was in Agitation. 
Indeed I thought, that as our Battalions with their arms were carried to N. York and Canada in the Service of the United Colonies, the Town of Boston, and the Province ought to be guarded against Danger by the united Colonies. 3 .... We must maintain our Ground in Canada I believe it will not be long before all Property belonging to British Subjects, Whether in Europe, the W. Indies, or elsewhere will be made liable to Capture. 4 A few Weeks may possibly produce great Things. 
I am, etc. 714. The New York Delegates to the President of the New York Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia, June 17, 1776. Sir: We were honoured by your favours of the nth inst. 
A resolution of Congress has passed agreeable to your intention, restraining the exportation of salt beef and pork from any of these Colonies, under the limitations mentioned in your resolve. 2 We received great pleasure from knowing the sentiments of the honourable the Convention relative to the important subject on which we thought it our duty to ask their opinion. 
We are very happy in having it in our power to assure them that we have hitherto taken no steps inconsistent with their intention, as expressed in their letter, by which we shall be careful to regulate our future conduct. 3 We remain, sir, with the greatest respect, your and the Convention's most obedient and humble servants, Francis Lewis, William Floyd, R. R. Livingston, Henry Wisner. 
John Alsop, To the Honourable Nathaniel Woodhull, President of the Provincial Congress, New York. 3 See the Journals, May 14, 16, 22. 4 See the Journals, July 16, 19, 24. [714] » Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 934; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., II. 197; N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, V. 155. 2 See the Journals, June 13, 14. The New York letter of June 11, and enclosures which relate to the matter of this paragraph, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 815-816; cf. ibid., VI. 1393-1394, 1412-1413. and Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 489, 497. 3 The letter here referred to, also dated June 11, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 814. Cf. ibid., VI. 633, 1391, 1395, fifth ser., I. 1428-1429, 1431 ; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., 490. The letter was read in Congress July
See no. 688, ante, and nos. 747, 751, 752, post. 
June, iyj6 495 715. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia, June 17, 1776. 2 Dear Sir: .... As to Marine affairs, brother Whipple will write you. 
A Board of War is now appointed, consisting of Mr. J. Adams, Mr. Sherman, Colonel Harrison, Mr. Wilson, and E. Rutledge. 
I have taken every opportunity to mention to the members the affair of the agency, and am surprised to find all of them agreeing that no members of Congress ought to be appointed to any post of profit under the Congress ; so that as you are a member, I am sure it will not go down, and I am by no means willing you should resign your seat here. 3 As the affair of the ship
When you are here, you will be better able to determine on several affairs. 
The affair of a Confederation of the Colonies is now unanimously agreed on by all the members of all the Colonies. 
A Committee of one from each Colony are to draw up the Articles of Confederation, or a Continental Constitution, which, when agreed on by the Congress, will be sent to be confirmed by the Legislatures of the several Colonies. 
As it is a very important business, and some difficulties have arisen, I fear it will take some time before it will be finally settled. 5 The. affair of voting, whether by Colonies as at present, or Otherwise, is not decided, and causes some warm disputes. 
The appointments of the officers of Militia to be sent to Canada is with our Legislature, and also the nomination of the Field Officers for the regiment stationed in our Colony, so that, unless any objection is made, their nomination will be confirmed. 6 I hope the greatest care will be taken in the appointment to get bold, resolute, intrepid, and experienced persons. 
The affair of taking the sugar ships has so animated the people here that they are now fitting out five or six privateers more here. 
I should take great pleasure in recommending some active berth for you ; but while you continue a member of Congress it will not take effect. 
If you are absolutely determined to resign, and should do it, I make no doubt some place agreeable to you might be found ; and in that case you must [7 I 5l
The petition has not been found, but it probably related to an incident in the negotiations with the Indians at Albany in August and September, 1775. See under Jan. 22, ante. 3 See nos. 611, 622, 657, 669, 675, 676, 691, ante, and nos. 716, 729, post. 
In regard to the question whether a member of Congress should hold office, see nos. 622, 709, ante. 4 The frigate authorized to be built in New Hampshire, of which Thomas Thompson had been made captain. 
See the Journals, June 6, and no. 683, note 2, ante. 5 See the Journals, June 7, 11, 12, 28, July 12, and passim. 
Cf. nos. 678 (note 2), 687, 690, ante, and nos. 727, 743, post. 6 Cf. no. 680, note 2, ante. 
See also nos. 723, 732, 736, 737, 741, post. 36 496 Continental Congress see that another is appointed in your stead, to come here in about a month, to supply Colonel Whipple's place, who is determined then to return. 
But it is my opinion you had better come here yourself, at least once more. 
It is necessary, however, we should know your absolute determination as soon as possible. 
I am, sir, your real friend, Josiah Bartlett. 716. William Whipple to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia, June 17, 1776. My dear Sir: .... I some time ago mentioned to the Chairman of the Secret Committee what you propose respecting powder, and am in no doubt but you will be supplied in season with that article ; in short. 
I am not concerned about anything but guns and men. 
The Committee decline giving orders for shipping men, while the prospect of getting guns is at such a distance. 
I find there is no possibility of getting you appointed agent while you have a seat in Congress ; and if you are not appointed, I am apprehensive the present acting agent will be confirmed. 
I have already told many of the members that you intended to resign your seat here. 
It is Colonel Bartlett's opinion that you should come here ; I do not know but it would be right for you to come. 
I should be exceeding glad to be at home for a few months. 
If this plan is agreeable to you, I shall like to set out about the middle of July ; but as there will be time enough fo? you to answer this before I shall set out, shall let it rest entirely on your determination. 
If you determine to resign, shall have you appointed as soon as I know of your resignation. 
I must confess I am loath you should give up your seat; but if it is your choice I hope you will see that a proper person is appointed to supply your place. 
At all events it is probable I shall set out some time in July, and if I can get a companion shall take your carriage I hope your answer will be very explicit about your coming or resigning. 2 This day fortnight I expect the grand question will be determined in Congress, that being the day assigned to receive the report of a Committee who are preparing the Declaration. 
There is as great a change here since my arrival, as there was in New Hampshire between the time that the powder was taken from the fort and the battle of Bunker Hill 717. The President of Congress to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia June 18th, 1776. Sir, You will see, from the enclosed Resolves, which I do myself the Pleasure of forwarding in Obedience to the Commands of Congress, that they [716] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1027. 2 See no. 715, ante. [717] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, X. 45; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 225; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 948. June, 1776 497 have bent their whole Attention to our Affairs in Canada, and have adopted such Measures, as in their Opinion, are calculated to place them on a better and more reputable Footing for the future. 2 The most unfortunate Death of General Thomas having made a Vacancy in that Department, and the Service requiring an Officer of Experience and Distinction, the Congress have thought proper to appoint General Gates to succeed him. 3 .... My Opinion on the Resolve of the 25th. May was well founded; Congress having since determined, as you will find by a Resolve herewith transmitted, that you are to employ the Indians where ever you think their Services will contribute most to the Publick good. 4 I shall write to the Colonies of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut to request them to authorize you to call on their Militia if necessary. 
My Time will not permit me to do it now, as the Post will set out directly, and the enclosed Resolves were not passed till late yesterday Evening. 6 I have the Honour to be Sir, Your most obedt. and very hble svt, John Hancock Presidt. 
His Excellency Genl. 
Washington. 
P. S. A Muster Master Genl. in the Room of Mr. Moylan will be appointed this Day or tomorrow — and a Deputy will afterwards be sent into Canada. 6 .... 718. John Adams to Horatio Gates. 1 Philadelphia June 18, 1776 My dear General We have ordered you to the Post of Honour, and made you Dictator in Canada for Six Months, or at least untill the first of October We dont choose to trust you Generals, with too much Power, for too long Time. 2 .... 2 See the Journals, June 17; cf. no. 706, ante. 3 Cf. nos. 692, 702, 703, 712, ante, and nos. 718, 719, 731, post. 4 See the Journals, June 17, also no. 694, ante, and no. 734, post. 5 The letter (uniform for the three colonies), June 18, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 949. See ibid., pp. 868, 1032, 1422, 1424, 1426, 1626; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 501, 502, 505; Minutes of N. J. Prov. 
Cong., p. 468; Conn. 
Col. Records, XV. 416. 6 See the Journals, June 17 (p. 449) and 18 (p. 460). Stephen Moylan was appointed muster-master general by the commander-in-chief at Cambridge, Aug. 11, 1775. See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., III. 250. June 5, 1776, he was chosen quartermaster general by Congress. 
Gunning Bedford was elected deputy muster-master general, July 17, 1775, and muster-master general, June 18, 1776. [718] x N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Gates Papers, VI.; Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, I. 21. 2 See no. 712, ante, and the Journals, June 17 (p. 448) ; cf. nos. 728, 731, post. 498 Continental Congress yig. 
Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia June 18th 1776. Dear Sir I received your Favour of the 10th Inst., since which Mr Carol and Chace have arrived here and given to Congress a lengthy Detail of the confused State of Things in that Department, to rectifie Matters, General Gates to the Disapointment of the eastern District is Ordered to the Command there, with suitable Powers to organize where wanting and reduce to order the Army in that Country. 2 Congress see the Necessity of a full Enquiry into the Miscarriages that have taken place, and a Secrutiny will be made into the Causes of the Failure in the Levies ordered, as well as those of the Want of provisions Ammunition Cloathing and pay. the Conduct of the Officers will not pass unnoticed. 3 .... Nothing new here unless an intercepted Letter sent to Congress by the Convention of Virginia, whereby it appears that the Design of the Enemy is to land some Regulars at Florida and join the Cherokees etc. w th which they intend to attack the western Frontiers of Virginia, and the other Southern Colonies; but I hope their Vile Designs will be frustrated. 4 I hope the Difficulties in the Quarter Master's Office will cease, and that the Assistant which you mention will not be so regardless of the public Good as from a small Consideration to resign his Office. 5 .... & '720. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia 19th June 1776 Dear sir Since my last of the 17th Instant I reed yours of the same Date
State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Coll., no. 63. 2 Cf. nos. 692, 718, ante. 
Trumbull's letter to Gerry, June 10, has not been found. 3 Cf. nos. 702, 703, 718, ante, and the letter of William Williams, Aug. 7, in the next volume. 
The inquiry into the causes of the miscarriages in Canada was inaugurated June 24 and continued until October. 
See the Journals, passim (index). 4 The intercepted letter of Henry Stuart, British deputy superintendent of Indian affairs in the southern district, to the frontier inhabitants, dated May 19, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1229. An earlier letter of Stuart of similar purport is ibid., VI. 497. See also the proceedings of the Virginia convention June 7, ibid., VI. 1554. Concerning the outcome of the campaign see Gerry to Trumbull, Oct 8, in the next volume of these Letters. r " The assistant referred to was probably Walter Livingston. 
Cf. no. 689, ante, and nos. 720, 730, post. 
I720J 1 Conn. 
State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Coll., no. 64. 2 Gerry's letter to Trumbull here referred to is presumably that of June 18, ante. 
Trumbull's letter to Gerry, June 17, has not been found. 
A letter to Congress of that date (received June 18) is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 938. June, 1776 499 You have now the Direction of the Commissary's Department in Canada and I hope Things will be reduced to order in good Time. 3 With Respect to your order for Flower, It will undoubtedly be complied with, the office of Muster Master General is not yet filled.* your Brother shall be remembered. 5 .... 721. Robert Morris, Memorandum. 1 In Congress, June 20, 1776. Robert Morris, one of the Delegates from the Province of Pennsylvania, reminded the Congress that the Assembly of said Province had adjourned on the 14th instant, without having been able to carry into execution the Resolves of Congress of the 3d instant for raising six thousand Militia for establishing a Flying-Camp. 
And then informed the Congress that their said Resolve not being directed in terms to the Committee of Safety, but addressed to the Colony, the said Committee were in doubt whether it would be expected from them to execute the said Resolve, as they are in recess of Assembly the Executive body of this Province. 
He also alleged, that if the Congress expected the Committee to proceed in this business, it would be necessary or advisable that they should recommend it expressly to them; for, under the present circumstances of the Province, he much doubted if they would be obeyed, unless so authorized; and added, that if the Congress did not see proper to take further order in this matter, he hoped the Committee of Safety would always be held blameless, as they now gave Congress this necessary information for the express purpose of having an explicit declaration if they were expected to act in this important business, which they were ready to undertake if so desired. 
This application was made by Mr. Morris, as declared, by order of the Committee of Safety; and after a debate of considerable length, and two motions made and seconded, one was withdrawn and the other determined in the negative. 
In consequence whereof, I have made this memorandum immediately on the spot, to appear when it may be necessary, and to prevent blame being cast where it is not merited. 
Robert Morris. 
The above is a true state of facts. 
Joseph Hewes, Edward Rutledge, T. Hope [Stone]. Delegates in Congress. 2 3 See the Journals, May 29, June 17; cf. ibid., July 8, Sept. 12. See also no. 719, ante. 4 Gerry seems to have been in error. 
On June 18 Gunning Bedford was promoted to the rank of muster-master general. 
See, further, the Journals, Apr. 4, 9, 10, II, I777- 5 Cf. Gerry to Trumbull, Sept. 12, and Williams to Trumbull, Sept. 13, 1776, in the next volume. [721] 1 Pa. Col. Recs., X. 611 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1288. 2 This memorandum of Robert Morris appears in the records of the committee of safety of Pennsylvania of June 21, preceded by the following entry: " In consequence of a Resolve of the 19th instant. 
Robert Morris, Esquire, applied to Congress, and delivered the following memorandum to the Board, taken by him in Congress : "The resolve directing the inquiry is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1286. 500 Continental Congress &'[722] * N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1514, Declaration of Independence. [723] 1 Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 187; Force, Am. Arch., fourtb ser., VI. 1008. 2 See tbe Journals, May 10, June 21 ; cf. no. 733, post. 
See also Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 504; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1427. 3 See the Journals, June 21, 26. Cf. nos. 715, ante, 732, 736, 737, 741, post. [724]' From the collection of Mrs. Hess, Wayne, Pa., furnished by the courtesy of Mr. Worthington C. Ford. 2 Cf. the Journals, June 17. I 722. Benjamin Franklin to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia, June 21, 76. Dear Sir .... I am just recovering a severe Fit of the Gout, which has kept me from Congress and Company almost ever since you left us, so that I know little of what has pass'd there, except that a Declaration of Independence is preparing 723. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the New York Convention. 1 Philada. 
June 21. 1776. Gentlemen: I am directed by Congress to forward to you the enclosed Resolves, by which you will perceive it is their Desire that another Regiment should be raised in your Colony on the Continental Establishment. 
The many ill Consequences resulting from a short Enlistment of Troops, have induced the Congress to leave the Term of their Service indefinite. 
By this Means, there will be no Danger of losing their Services at a Time when their Discipline and Experience have qualified them to be of the greatest Use to their Country. 2 With Respect to the Field Officers, as soon as I have the Honour to receive your Recommendations, I will lay them before Congress, and immediately upon their Determination, transmit you the Commissions filled up accordingly. 
Major Dubois by his behaviour in Canada, has justly merited the Notice of his Country. 
I am therefore to request you will be pleased to return his Name as one of the Field Officers of the Regiment for the Approbation of Congress. 8 724. Elbridge Gerry to John Wendell. 1 Philadelphia 21st June 1776. Dear Sir .... I wrote You my Sentiments with respect to the Appointment of Vendue Master since which I find the Business is loosely conducted and that the Continental Agent under the Direction of the marine Board is to make sd Appointmt. 2 If Mr. Wendell thinks himself authorized as an Agent established by the Commander in cheif previous to the Continental Regulations of the Admiralty, to make a temporary provision in June, I//6 501 that office untill Congress shall confirm him Agent for the Colony or supersede him by a new Appointment, my Sentiments were that your Business or Intention of obtaining the Office would be best accomplished by applying to him and I am still of the same Opinion as I can see no Impropriety at present in the Measure, indeed Mr. Wendell may think himself unsafe in adopting this Method without consulting General Washington, and be thus referred to Congress, and in this Case an Agent must be first nominated by the New hamshire Delegates to the marine Board and appointed by Congress before the former can proceed to recommend to the Agent a suitable person as Vendue Master. 
When your Delegates shall have adopted this Measure I shall then mention You to the Members of the Board and press the Matter as far as it will be prudent to interfere in the affairs of a sister Colony 725. John Adams to Zabdiel Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 21 June, 1776. Your letter, Sir, gave me great pleasure, and deserves my most hearty thanks. 
I am fully with you in sentiment, that although the authority of the Congress, founded as it has been in reason, honor, and the love of liberty, has been sufficient to govern the colonies in a tolerable manner, for their defence and protection, yet that it is not prudent to continue very long in the same way; and that a permanent constitution should be formed, and foreign aid obtained. 
In these points, and thus far, the colonies and their representatives, the Congress, are extremely well united. 
But concerning a declaration of independency, there is some diversity of sentiment. 
Two arguments only are urged with any plausibility against such a measure. 
One is, that it will unite all the inhabitants of Great Britain against us; the other, that it will put us too much in the power of foreign States. 
The first has little weight in it, because the people of Great Britain are already as much united against us as they ever are in any thing, and the probability is, that such a declaration would excite still greater divisions and distractions among them. 
The second has less weight still ; for foreign powers already know that we are as obnoxious to the British court as we can be. Thev know that parliament have in effect declared us independent, and that we have acted these thirteen months to all intent and purposes as if we were so. 2 .... 726. John Adams to Benjamin Kent. 1 Philadelphia, 22 June, 1776. .... The Congress ordered Church
It was represented to them that his health was in [725] x Works, IX. 399. 2 Cf. nos. 678, 690, ante, and nos. 727, 743 (note 3), post. [726] 1 Works, IX. 401. 2 Dr. Benjamin Church. 
See the Journals, Oct. 14, 17, Nov. 7, 1775; Jan. 17, 18, May 13, 14, 1776. Cf. nos. 451, 453, ante. 502 Continental Congress a dangerous way, and it was thought he would not now have it in his power to do any mischief. 
Nobody knows what to do with him. 
There is no law to try him upon, and no court to try him. 
I am afraid he deserves more punishment than he will ever meet 727. John Adams to John Winthrop. 1 Philadelphia, 23 June, 1776. Your favor of June 1st is before me. It is now universally acknowledged that we are and must be independent. 
But still, objections are made to a declaration of it. It is said that such a declaration will arouse and unite Great Britain. 
But are they not already aroused and united, as much as they will be ? Will not such a declaration arouse and unite, the friends of liberty, the few who are left, in opposition to the present system ? It is also said that such a declaration will put us in the power of foreign States ; that France will take advantage of us when they see we cannot recede, and demand severe terms of us ; that she, and Spain too, will rejoice to see Britain and America wasting each other. 
But this reasoning has no weight with me, because I am not for soliciting any political connection, or military assistance, or indeed naval, from France. 
I wish for nothing but commerce, a mere marine treaty with them. 2 And this they will never grant until we make the declaration, and this, I think, they cannot refuse, after we have made it. The advantages which will result from such a declaration, are, in my opinion, very numerous and very great. 
After that event the colonies will hesitate no longer to complete their governments. 
They will establish tests, and ascertain the criminality of toryism. 
The presses will produce no more seditious or traitorous speculations. 
Slanders upon public men and measures will be lessened. 
The legislatures of the. colonies will exert themselves to manufacture salpetre, sulphur, powder, arms, cannon, mortars, clothing, and every thing necessary for the support of life. 
Our civil governments will feel a vigor hitherto unknown. 
Our military operations by sea and land will be conducted with greater spirit. 
Privateers will swarm in vast numbers. 
Foreigners will then exert themselves to supply us with what we want. 
A foreign court will not disdain to treat with us upon equal terms. 
Nay farther, in my opinion, such a declaration, instead of uniting the people of Great Britain against us, will raise such a storm against the measures of administration as will obstruct the war, and throw the kingdom into confusion. 
A committee is appointed to prepare a confederation of the colonies, ascertaining the terms and ends of the compact, and the limits of the Continental Constitution; and another committee is appointed to draw up a declaration that these colonies are free and independent States. 
And other committees are appointed for other purposes, as important. 
These committees will report in a week or two, and then the last finishing strokes will be given to the politics of this revolution. 
Nothing after that will remain but war. 3 .... [727] 1 Works, IX. 409; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, fifth ser., IV. 308. 2 Cf. nos. 690, 725, ante, and no. 743 (note 3), post. 3 Cf. nos. 678, 690, ante. 
June, 1776 503 728. John Adams to Samuel Chase. 1 Philadelphia, 24 June, 1776. .... Gates is gone to Canada, and we have done every thing that you recommended, and more, to support him. 
But for my own part, I confess my mind is impressed with other objects, the neglect of which appears to me to have been the source of all our misfortunes in Canada and everywhere else. 
Make the tree good, and the fruit will be good. 
A declaration of independence, confederation, and foreign alliances, in season, would have put a stop to that embarrassing opposition in Congress, which has occasioned us to do the work of the Lord deceitfully in Canada and elsewhere. 2 A resolution of your Convention was read in Congress this morning, 3 and the question was put whether your delegates should have leave to go home, and whether those great questions should be postponed beyond the. 1st of July. 
The determination was in the negative. 
We should have been happy to have obliged your Convention and your delegates. 
But it is now become public in the colonies that those questions are to be brought on the 1st of July. 4 The lower counties have instructed their members, as the Assembly of Pennsylvania have. 
Jersey has chosen five new members, all independent souls, and instructed them to vote on the 1st of July for independence. 5 .... I hope that before Monday morning next we shall receive from Maryland instructions to do right. 6 Pray send me your circular letter, 7 and believe me, etc. 729. William Whipple to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia, June 24, 1776. Dear Sir: .... I am just come from the Committee, and have once more got their unanimous consent to nominate you for agent. 
I think there is no [728] 1 Works, IX. 412. 2 C/. nos. 678, 690, 725, 727, 743 (note 3), post. 3 Evidently the resolution of June 21. See Proceedings of Md. Convention, p. 166, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1485. Cf. nos. 701, 710, ante. 4 See the Journals, June 10, and nos. 697, 699, 701, 709, ante. 
Cf. no. 750, post. 5 See the proceedings of the New Jersey convention, June 22, Minutes of N. J. Prov. 
Cong., p. 473; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1628. See also ibid., VI. 788. Concerning Delaware and Pennsylvania see nos. 693, 698, 709, ante. 
Cf. nos. 730, 743, 747, post. 6 The Maryland instructions permitting the delegates to vote for independence were passed June 28 and read in Congress July 1. See the Journals of that date; also Proceedings of Md. Convention, p. 176, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1491. Cf. nos. 747, 751. post. 7 In the note (June 21) to which Adams is replying Chase says: "I am almost resolved not to inform you, that a general dissatisfaction prevails here with our Convention. 
Read the papers, and be assured Frederick speaks the sense of many counties. 
I have not been idle. 
I have appealed in writing to the people. 
County after county is instructing Shall I send you my circular letter?" (Adams's Works, IX. 412 n.) Chase's reply to this letter of Adams, June 28, is ibid., III. 56, in facsimile. 
Cf. no. 744, post. [729] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1050. 504 Continental Congress doubt but you will be appointed, but believe it will be in expectation that you resign your seat in Congress, which I have assured all the members that I have mentioned the matter to, that you were determined on. 2 In return for my exertions in this matter, I think I have a right to expect that you will use your endeavours to get a good man appointed in your stead to come here. 
I suppose a list of the officers are on the way here. 
I shall despatch them as soon as they arrive The middle Colonies are getting in a good way. 
Next Monday being the i st of July, the grand question is to be debated, and I believe determined unanimously. 
May God unite our hearts in all things that tend to the well-being of the rising empire. [P. S.] Colonel Bartlett desires his regards, but is too lazy to write. 730. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull. 1 Philadelphia June 25, 1776. Dear sir .... You are greatly misinformed with respect to your being ill used in Congress and out, by some who want to transfer the Office to other Hands. 
What is done out of Doors I know not, but your Conduct in Congress has been highly approved as any Officer's in the Service. 
With Respect to Mr. L. 2 perhaps he is stung with Disapointment, but I assure you whatever may be his Desires relative to supplanting you It will never be effected; and by your ozvn Resignation, which he may hope to bring about by such Detestable Conduct as you mention, can he alone effect his Purpose Application has been lately made by Mr Wharton who supplyed the Troops while in this City, for the Commissaryship
He offers to furnish the provissions at 8^ d per Ration and it has been said in Congress that this is much cheaper than the rate at which the Army is now supplyed, but without sufficient Evidence to support the Assertion, upon the Whole the Matter is deferred until the General's Opinion can be obtained, for two Reasons : first because many Members are doubtful whether the Affairs of the Army will go on as smoothly in a complicated Way of supplying as when the Whole (excepting what respects the Southern District) is under the Direction of the Commissary General, and in the next Place the Oeconomy of this proposal does not clearly appear and remains to be ascertained by the General and the Commissary, pray attend to the Matter and give me your Sentiments as soon as possible, and also the Generals. 4 2 See the Journals, June 25. Cf. nos. 611, 622, 657, 669, 675, 676, 691, 715, 716, ante ; also no. 738, post, and Bartlett's letter of July 15 in the next volume. [730] 1 Conn. 
State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Coll., no. 65. 2 Walter Livingston. 
Cf. nos. 689, 719, ante, and letters of Sept. 12, 13, 26, in the next volume. 3 Gerry first wrote " for a contract ". 4 See the Journals, June 20, 24, July 6. Hancock, in his letter of June 25, asked Washington to state the cost of a ration, and Washington replied, June 28, discussing at length the whole question. 
The letter is in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 184, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 11 17. Cf. letters of Sept. 7, 13, 26, Oct. 7, 17, 22, 1776, in the next volume. 
June, 1776 505 I have been sometime attentive to the article, of Cloathing, and think the Mode adopted will answer the purpose, especially since it is intended to pursue the plan hinted in the late Conference of Appointing regimental paymasters, who are to receive the Cloathing as well as Moneys etc. that shall be advanced to their respective Regiments and see that the proper Stoppages are made from the Muster Rolls. 5 .... A Number of Tents purchased for and paid for by the Colony of Massachusetts Bay have been illegally detained at New York ; this is a Mode of proceeding which I did not expect, and it will never be submitted to by any Colony on the Continent. 
Congress have ordered a Letter to be wrote to the Quarter Master directing him to deliver them packed as he received them without Delay ; I hope never to see an Instance of the Kind again in an American Army established to defend the Liberties of the Country, had they not been in the utmost Need of them at Massachus. and proper application had been made they would have been spared, but neither of these is the Case at present and they must go on at All Events. 6 I remain sir with true regards to all Friends your Friend and hum Svt. Elbridge Gerry. 
The Jersies have appointed five new Delegates and high charged them with Instructions for Independance. 7 pray inform me how the Troops come in ; the Confer ce of Comm s are attentive to the Pennsylvania Forces. 8 731. Elbridge Gerry to Horatio Gates. 1 Philadelphia, June 25, 1776. Dear General: Since I had the pleasure of seeing you in this place, the affairs of Canada having been evidently suffering from want of an experienced officer to take the command, your appointment to that department is considered as a happy circumstance, notwithstanding the Eastern Colonies greatly need your assistance. 2 .... The Conference Committee, among other things, reported the expediency of appointing to each regiment a Paymaster, whose duty, they said, you would take an opportunity of describing and communicating to Congress. 
The matter has since lain on the table, and only waits your sentiments thereon, to be carried into execution. 
I am very fond of the measure, and it will save an infinitude of trouble, by opening a channel through which all payments to the soldiers will regularly pass, whether consisting of money paid out of the chest, clothing, arms, accoutrements, or sutling
Further, when the Paymaster-General discharges himself, it will appear what sums the Regimental Paymasters have received, and these, together with the amount of clothing beforementioned, must be deducted from the pay rolls, whether paid immediately to the men or other persons in their behalf; and the commanding officer, without any further trouble than an occasional warrant, can always be sure of having his men punctually paid and well supplied with necessaries, which is the life of an army, 3 I think we are in a fair way to a speedy Declaration of Independency, confederations, and other measures that depend on secrecy for success; and Congress having yesterday passed resolves for capitally punishing spies that shall be found in or about any of the camps or fortifications of the United Colonies, and recommended to the Assemblies to make provision for punishing all inhabitants and other persons receiving protection in any of the Colonies, who shall be found affording aid or comfort to the King of Great Britain, or other enemies of the United States of America, it appears to me that little will remain to be done, but an attention to the supplies, appointments, and discipline of the Army, — all of which are of the utmost importance Discipline is the last, but not the least, important object of attention, and I shall be glad of your explicit sentiments on the same. 
I cannot conceive why we may not, by setting out right, soon make soldiers equal to any that the world affords. 
For surely men inspired with the principles of liberty, and enthusiastically engaged in its defence, afford as good materials as can anywhere be found for this purpose. 
And in the first place, I put it down as a settled, fixed principle, that they must be inlisted for the war, let the necessary encouragement be what it may, which I am happy to find the Generals agreed in, and I think most of the members of Congress. 4 .... 732. George Clinton to John McKesson. 1 Dear Sir: On [Friday] last the Congress pass'd a Resolve for raising a Regiment of Continental Troops in our Colony and altho the Augmentation of the Army appeared necessary, yet the raising a whole Regiment in the Colony of N York at this Time might not (perhaps) have been ordered were it not with a view of providing for those Officers who have much Merrit from re-engaging in the Service of their Country last Fall after the Surrender of Montreal and continuing thro a most Fateiguing and dangerous Campaign in Canada during the Winter. 2 Major Du Bois is highly recommended to Congress as well by the General Officers as the
June, i J 7 6 507 Committee who lately returned from Canada (as I am informed) and I doubt not but he will be appointed Colo, of the Regiment especially as Rank as well as Merrit entitles him to it. 3 The Congress having heretofore left the Appointment or Recommendation of the Officers of new Levies with the Provincial Congress in which the same are raised and being therefore loath now to break thro' this rule is (I am informed) the only reason why the Officers to this Regiment are not appointed here. 
It will be wise therefore to take special Care, to make the Appointments so as to give no just Cause of Complaint by appointing the Officers according to the Rank they Bear in the Arangement made by General Montgomery at Montreal on their re-ingaging in the Service 'til the 15th of April Ultimo except where real and extraordinary Merit or the Contrary may warrant a deviation from this general Rule. 
Inclosed I send you the Arangemt. made by Genl. 
Montgomery of the Officers [of] my Brothers Regiment ; 4 and have noted such as are already provided for in the Regiment to be recruited in Canada by Colo. 
Nicholson. 
I also inclose you a List of the Officers in Colo. 
Nicholson's Regiment as those who are already provided for by Appointment in that Regiment can have no Pretentions to any Appointment or Promotion in this, they having been provided for while it was uncertain whether any more Troops would have been raised. 
General Montgomerys Faith to his Officers who Re-ingaged in the Service at Montreal will not be kep[t] unless the Appointments in this Regiment are made agreable to the Arangement as thereby many Officers acquired new and higher Rank in their respective Regiments than what they had by the printed Arangement made by Congress last Summer. 
My Reason for mentioning this is because your Congress may not have heard of such new Arangement and by taking up the old one might do Injustice to those who the Congress have in view more particularly to provide for. 5 .... We have just received the Disagreable intelligence from Canada of the Defeat of Part of our Army under Genl. 
Thompson and of his being taken etc. which you must have had before it reached us. 6 .... Philad. 25th June 1776. [P. S.] 3 Maj. Lewis Dubois. 
See the Journals, June 14, 21. The letter of May 16 from the commissioners in Canada there referred to is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 482. Cf. the Journals, June 21, 25, 26, July 23, Aug. 1, and Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 393. See also John Jay to the President of Congress, July 6, ibid., I. 40, and Correspondence of Jay, I. 70. 4 James Clinton had been colonel of the 3d New York regiment. 5 It is not clear what is meant by the printed arrangement referred to. The arrangement made by Gen. Montgomery, said to have been enclosed, is probably the lists found in Cal. N. Y. Hist. 
MSS.: Rev. Papers, II. 30, 31. Cf. ibid., p. 37. See the Journals, June 25, 26, and cf. nos. 715, 723, ante, and nos. 736, 737, 741, post. 6 Cf. John Rogers to the Maryland convention, June 25, Force, Am. Arch.. fourth ser., VI. 1064. The news of Thompson's defeat and capture came to Congress, June 25, through Washington's letter of June 23, with letters from Sullivan (June 8-12) and Arnold (June 3) to Schuyler, and from Schuyler (June 19, 20) to Washington and Sullivan. 
Washington's letter is in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 169, and (with the letters of Sullivan and Arnold) in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1035-1039. Schuyler's letter to Washington, June 19 and 20, with a letter of Arnold (June 10), is ibid., VI. 974-977. Schuyler's letter to Sullivan, June 20, is ibid., VI. 997. See also letters of Schuyler, Arnold, and Sullivan, June 24, 25, and July 1, 2, with enclosures, ibid., VI. 1057, 1071, 1102-1108, 1 199-1202, 1219-1222. 50S Continental Congress 6'733. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, June 25, 1776. My dear Sir: I am favoured with your very agreeable letter of the 10th of June, and am in hopes Congress will soon render it unnecessary to take further measures preparatory to the Declaration of Independence. 2 New Jersey has appointed five new Delegates, and instructed them to vote in favour of the question; and it appears to me there is not even a doubt of any Colony on the continent, except New York and Maryland. 
These will not impede us a moment. 
I do not affirm that either of these are of the neuter gender ; but on the other hand am persuaded the people are in favour of a total and final separation, and will support the measure, even if the Conventions and Delegates of those Colonies vote against it. 3 Since my first arrival in this city, the New England Delegates have been in a continual war with the advocates of Proprietary interest in Congress and this Colony. 
These are they who are most in the way of the measures we have proposed; but I think the contest is pretty nearly at an end, and am persuaded that the people of this and the middle Colonies have a clearer view of their interests, and will use their endeavours to eradicate the Ministerial influence of Governours, Proprietors, and Jacobites, and that they now more confide in the politicks of the New England Colonies than they ever did in those of their hitherto unequal Governments. 4 Yours, as ever, Elbridge Gerry. 734. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia June 25th 1775 [1776]. Sir, Your Favour of the 21st. inst. by Mr. Bennet
Altho the Commissioners have undoubtedly mistaken the Intention of Congress, yet the Terms, in which the Resolve is conceived, viz. " That the General be empowered to employ in Canada a Number of Indians not exceeding two thousand," may at first View seem to confine their Employment to the Limits of that Provence, and to give a Latitude of Construction as to the Place in which they are to be raised. 
And in this Sense [733 1 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1067; Austin, Life of Gerry, I. 194. 2 See Warren to Gerry, June 12, Life of Gerry, I. 181 ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 829. 3 Cf. no. 709, ante, and nos. 723, 743, post. * Cf. nos. 632, 654, 661, 670, ante. [734] J Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 185; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1065; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 235. 2 Elija Bennett was an express. 
See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 837, 838, 939, and the Journals, July 25. June, 1776 509 they must have been understood by Genl. "Schuyler and the other Commissioners. 
I am however to request, you will give Orders to have a Stop put to raising the Mohickan and Stockbridge Indians as soon as possible. 3 I shall write Governor Trumbull to the same Purpose. 4 The Conduct of the Quarter Master General in detaining the Tents sent from this Place to Massachtts Bay, is a Stretch of Office which however well meant, is certainly a very extraordinary one. 
You will therefore be pleased to order them to be delivered up and forwarded to the Massachusetts Bay, as soon as possible. 5 .... The several Matters in your Letters are before a Committee. 
The Proposal respecting a Troop of Horse is liked ; and as soon as the Committee bring in their Report, and it is considered, you shall be made acquainted with the Result. 6 735. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Purviance, jr. 1 Philadelphia 25th June 1776. Sir, — Your favour of the 21st I laid before the Marine Committee last Evening and in answer thereto I have now to inform you, that when Congress appointed the Captains for the Frigates it was agreed that the Rank should be settled hereafter and that the Captains should only at present be Certified of their appointment. 
Captain Nicholson has been strongly recommended, and Congress has a high opinion of his abilities and merits John Stewart, Captain, ~] Thos. 
Pownal, 1st Lieut. ^Marines. 
Rich'd Harrison, 2d do. J N. B. Those gentlemen were strongly recommended by the delegates of your province, and I hope they will be agreeable to all. 2 To Samuel Purviance, Jr. Esq., Baltimore. 3 See the Journals, June 24, and Washington's letter of June 21, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. ion; also Washington to Schuyler, June 13, ibid., VI. 837, Schuyler's letters to Washington, June 15, 17, ibid., VI. 910, 939, and the proceedings of the commissioners for Indian affairs in the northern department, June 13, ibid., VI. 914. See also nos. 694, 717, ante. 4 In the letter to Gov. Trumbull of the same date (Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1065) Hancock adds: "and that no Proceedings be had by the Commissioners till the further direction of Congress."5 See the Journals, June 24, and cf. no. 730, ante. 6 See nos. 632, 640, ante, Washington's letter of June 21 (note 2, above) and his letters to Congress, July 22, and Aug. 12, Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 282, 337; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 499, 910; also Gen. Charles Lee to Washington, July 2, ibid., I. 435. Cf. the Journals, Nov. 29, Dec. 12, 27. [735] 1 Md. Hist. 
Soc, Portfolio no. 8 (1) ; Purviance, Baltimore in the Revolution, p. 200. 2 See the Journals, Apr. 17, June 6, 25. 510 Continental Congress «s'736. The President of Congress to the New York Convention. 1 Philadelphia, June 26th 1776. Gentlemen, You will preceive, from the enclosed Resolves, which I do myself the Honour of transmitting in Obedience to the Commands of Congress, that they have appointed not only the Field Officers in the Regiment to be raised in your Colony, but likewise a Number of the Subalterns. 
The Reasons that induced Congress to take this Step, as it is a Deviation from Rule, should be particularly mentioned. 
I am therefore directed to inform you, that in Consequence of their being furnished with a List of the Officers, who had served in Canada [and the Rank to which they were entitled]," they have been enabled to appoint, and in fact have only appointed, such as were originally recommended and appointed by the Provincial Congress of your Colony, and have served faithfully, both the last Summer Campaign, and thro' the Winter. 
It is apprehended therefore, the Congress have only prevented you in their Appointments, and that the same Gentlemen would have met with your Approbation for their Services to their Country. 
Added to this, the last Intelligence from Canada, shewing our Affairs to be in the most imminent Danger, rendered the utmost Dispatch necessary, that not a Moment's time might be lost. 
The other Officers of the Battalion, I am to request you will be pleased to appoint, and to exert every Nerve to equip the Battalion as soon as possible. 
As an additional Encouragement, the Congress have resolved that a bounty of ten Dollars be given to every Soldier who shall enlist for three Years. 3 I have the Honour to be Gentlemen, your most obedt. and very hble Sevt. 
John Hancock, Presidt. 
Honble Convention of New York. 737. George Clinton to John McKesson. 1 Philadelphia 26th June 1776. Dear Sir The inclosed I wrote Yesterday Morning since which the Board of War reported the Necessity of sending more Troops into Canada to reinforce our Army there and among other Things the Necessity of immediately appointing the Officers in the Regiment ordered to be raised in N I736] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, VI. 169; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc., Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 201; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1081, 1438; lour. 
N. Y. J'rov. 
Cong., I. 510; II. 246. - The clause " and .... entitled " is in the Letter-Book copy but not in the letter sent. 3 See the Journals, June 26, and cf. nos. 715, 723, 732, ante, and nos. 7^7, 741, post. [737] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Tapers, VI. 101 (A. L. S.) ; Public Papers of Clinton, 1. 241; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1080. June, 1776 511 York that they might immediately set about recruiting the Regiment and at the. same Time reported a List of the Officers taking them in Rank as aranged by General Montgomery at Montreal, which Report the Congress have confirmed and made the Appointments accordingly. 
I should have had no Objections to this had it been done before the Resolve of last Friday directing your Congress to recommend the Officers for this new Regiment as in that Case it might have saved you from Troublesome Applications and blame ; but as that Resolve was transmitted to your Congress some Time ago (at least three Days) and you may have proceeded to the Appointment of the. 
Officers as thereby directed, I coud not approve of this new Step; especially as I cant think it will much hasten the recruiting the Regiment ; and at any rate I think the Recruits yet to be. raised cant be got ready in Time to save Canada. 
However I did not chuse streniously to oppose a Measure which many thought esentially necessary. 
If it is wrong we are not to blame. 2 I have not Time to add any Thing further nor have I any thing new worth communicating. 
Yours Affectionately Geo. Clinton. 738. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon. 1 Dated Philadelphia June 26th, 1776. I know not whether to congratulate or condole with you on your appointment to the Agency, as your acceptance of that office must vacate your seat in Congress, and tho' I did what was in my power to procure that Birth for you, as I knew it was your desire, and that you would perform the business well, yet I must confess it gave me no pleasure, when I knew on what Conditions only you must have it; — resigning your seat here. 2 739. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia June 26th. 1776. Sir, You will perceive by the enclosed Resolves, which I do myself the Honour of transmitting in Obedience to the Commands of Congress, and to which I beg Leave to request your Attention, that they have come to a Resolution to augment the Number of Troops, destined for the Northern Department, four Thousand. 2 It is scarcely necessary to mention the Motives on which they acted, or to explain the Propriety of the Measure. 
The Arrival of Genl. 
Burgoyne with a large Reinforcement, the known Character of that Officer for
Lib., Sparks MSS., no. LII., vol. 
II., p. 141 l A (extract). 2 See the Journals, June 25, and no. 729, ante. [739] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, X. 91; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1081. 2 See the Journals, June 25. 37 512 Continental Congress &'Action and Enterprize, the defeat of General Thompson with the Troops under his Command, and his being" made Prisoner, 3 are so many Circumstances, that point out the absolute Necessity of being more expeditious in our Preparations for the Defence of that Province, and of increasing our Force there. 
In this Light I have represented the Matter to the Convention of New Hampshire, and the Assemblies of Massachusetts Bay and Connecticut, to whom I have wrote by this express, in the most pressing language, urging them to send forward their Militia. 4 .... 740. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 Philadelphia, 26 June,. 1776. .... The Congress have been pleased to give me more business than I am qualified for. and more than, I fear, I can go through with safety to my health. 
They have established a board of war and ordnance, and made me President of it, 2 an honor to which I never aspired, a trust to which I feel myself vastly unequal. 
But I am determined to do as well as I can, and make industry supply, in some degree, the place of abilities and experience. 
The Board sits every morning and every evening. 
This with constant attendance in Congress will so entirely engross my time, that I fear, I shall not be able to write you so often as I have. 
But I will steal time to write to you 741. The New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia 27th June 1776. Gentlemen We doubt not but before this you have received our Presidents Letter informing you that this Congress have appointed the Officers for the Regiment directed to be raised in our Colony by the Resolve passed on Friday last and then transmitted to you ; 2 But as we conceive the Appoint- 3 See no. 732, note 6, ante. 4 The letter is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1066; N. H\ State Papers, VIII. 166. The text in Am. Arch., taken from the letter-book copy, contains a closing sentence not found in the text in A''. H. State Papers: "Forgive this passionate language, I am unable to restrain it, it is the language of the heart.'' The latter, on the other hand, contains some words of postscript not in the former. 
The original to the Massachusetts assembly is in Mass. 
Arch., CXCV. 52. It is dated June 25, but was probably written June 26 as here indicated, for it mentions the resolve relative to giving a bounty, which was passed on the 26th. Cf. a letter of the New Hampshire delegates to Gov. Weare, June 26, in Mag. of Am. Hist., VIII. 372, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1081. [740T Familiar Letters, p. 188; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1083. 2 " Besides his position on the Committee, appointed on the nth of June, to draught a Declaration of Independence, Mr. Adams had been chosen on the next day, one of a Committee to prepare a plan of treaties to be proposed to foreign powers, and on the day after that, Chairman of the board of war." [Note by the editor of familiar Letters.] See the Journals, June II, 12, 13. Cf. no. 706, note 3, ante, and no. 743, note 3, post. 
I741PN. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, VI. 97 (in the writing of George Clinton) ; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., II. 238; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1098; Public Papers of Clinton. 
I. 236 (draft), 242. 2 Sec the Journals, June 21, 25, 26, and nos. 715, 723, 732, 736, 737, ante. 
June, 1776 513 ment of Officers by this Congress for new Levies to be raised in a particular Colony is contrary to the ordinary Practice and may therefore be considered as (in some Measure) infringing on the Rights of the Colony; we beg Leave (as far as we are able) to explain the Reasons of Congress for taking this Step and our conduct thereon. 
On receiving the late Intelligence from Canada respecting the Repulse of the Detachment of our Army commanded by Genl Thompson at Three Rivers etc. 
The Dispatches containing this Account, with the state of our Army in Canada were referred to the Board of War; who the same Day reported the necessity of reinforcing our Army there with four Regiments etc. 
That to be raised in our Colony to be one. 
To expedite the raising of which an Arangement of the Officers was also reported and agreed to by Congress. 
We objected to this Measure and thought it our Duty to withhold our Assent not only because it was (as we conceived) introducing a new Precedent which might give Offence but might interfere with Appointments which you might probably have made for the same Regiment in Consequence of the former Resolve. 
The pressing occassion and necessity of Dispatch were urged to support the Measure ; and it was alledged that as these Appointments were made of particular Persons who had merrited by former Service it interfered with no former Rule; And even shoud the Appointments be continued to the Provinceal Congress it would in this Case only create unnecessary Delay as the same Persons must be appointed by them to answer the Design and Meaning of this Congress expressed in their former Resolve. 
We were persuaded, nay we are morrally certain Considering the Buisy Season of the. 
Year which will enhance the Wages of Laborours and the Numbers of Militia now in the Service, that this Regimt. cannot possibly be raised in Time to Answer the End for which it is more particularly designed : And should our Affairs in Canada grow worse as we have reason to apprehend from present Appearances We feared lest Delay (tho' unavoidable) and every Missfortune which may befal our Army in Canada for want of a proper Reinforcement might by some be imputed to our Colony notwithstanding your utmost Exertions to carry In Execution this impracticable and (as we conceive) inefectual Measure. 
We judged it therefore most prudent Only to mention our Reasons for withholding our Assent, without making a more pointed and strenious Opposition to the Measure thereby leaving the Colony in such a Situation as not to incur any Blame on this Occassion. 
We are Gentlemen with the highest Respect your Most Obedt Servts Geo : Clinton Fras. 
Lewis Wm. Floyd Henry Wisner John Alsop To the Honorable the Provinceal Congress of New York. 514 Continental Congress 742. Joseph Hewes to James Iredell. 1 Philadelphia, June 28th, 1776. Dear Sir: — .... On Monday the great question of independency and total separation from all political intercourse with Great Britain will come on. It will be carried, I expect, by a great majority, and then, I suppose we shall take upon us a new name. 2 .... 743. John Penn to [Thomas Person?]. 1 Philada. 
June 28th., 1776. Dear Sir .... The first day of July will be an era of great importance as that is the day for debating the great and important question of Independance and from what I have seen there is no doubt but a total seperation between Britain and her Colonies, that were, will take place as all the Provinces but Maryland are for it, and the Inhabitants there are coming over fast. 
I wish things may answer our expectation after we are independant. 
I fear most people are too sanguine relative to commerce, however it is a measure our enemies have forced upon us. I don't doubt but we shall have spirit enough to act like men. indeed it could no longer be delayed. 2 in haste I remain with great respect, Dear Sir your mo' obt. servt. 
John Penn. eleven o'clock at night, should anything happen your way do write as I wish to hear as often as I can. 
Yrs, J. P. 3 [742] * McRee, Life of Iredell, I. 325; Putnam, Lieut. 
Joshua Hewes, p. 308. 2 See the letter of John Adams to William Plumer, Mar. 28, 1813, quoted under July 4, post. [7431 1 N. C. Hist. 
Comm. ; A r . C. Col. Recs., X. 616. Thomas Person was a member of the North Carolina council of safety. 2 Nearly the same language was used by Penn in a letter of the same date to Samuel Johnston (Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 11 16). 3 June 28 the committee appointed to prepare and bring in a declaration of independence made its report. 
See the Journals; also Jefferson's Notes of Debates, in the Journals, VI. 1091-1092; and in Writings (ed. Ford), I. 24. Cf. no. 742, ante. 
The following from John Adams's Autobiography gives his recollections of the work of the committee: " Not long after this, the three greatest measures of all were carried. 
Three committees were appointed, one for preparing a declaration of independence, another for reporting a plan of a treaty to be proposed to France, and a third to digest a system of articles of confederation to be proposed to the States. 
I was appointed on the committee of independence, and on that for preparing the form of a treaty with France. 
On the committee of confederation Mr. Samuel Adams was appointed. 
The committee of independence were Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Roger Sherman, and Robert R. Livingston. 
Mr. Jefferson had been now about a year a member of Congress, but had attended his duty in the house a very small part of the time, when there, had never spoken in public. 
During the whole time I sat with him in Congress, 1 never heard him utter three sentences together. 
It will naturally be inquired how it happened that he was appointed on a committee of such importance. 
June, 1776 515 There were more reasons than one. 
Mr. Jefferson had the reputation of a masterly pen; he had been chosen a delegate in Virginia, in consequence of a very handsome public paper which he had written for the House of Burgesses, which had given him the character of a fine writer. 
Another reason was, that Mr. Richard Henry Lee was not beloved by the most of his colleagues from Virginia, and Mr. Jefferson was set up to rival and supplant him. 
This could be done only by the pen, for Mr. Jefferson could stand no competition with him or any one else in elocution and public debate. " The committee had several meetings, in which were proposed the articles of which the declaration was to consist, and minutes made of them. 
The committee then appointed Mr. Jefferson and me to draw them up in form, and clothe them in a proper dress. 
The sub-committee met, and considered the minutes, making such observations on them as then occurred, when Mr. Jefferson desired me to take them to my lodgings, and make the draught. 
This I declined, and gave several reasons for declining. 1. That he was a Virginian, and I a Massachusettensian. 2. That he was a southern man, and I a northern one. 3. That I had been so obnoxious for my early and constant zeal in promoting the measure, that any draught of mine would undergo a more severe scrutiny and criticism in Congress, than one of his composition. 4. And lastly, and that would be reason enough if there were no other, I had a great opinion of the elegance of his pen, and none at all of my own. 
I therefore insisted that no hesitation should be made on his part. 
He accordingly took the minutes, and in a day or two produced to me his draught. 
Whether I made or suggested any correction, I remember not. 
The report was made to the committee of five, by them examined, but whether altered or corrected in any thing, I cannot recollect. 
But, in substance at least, it was reported to Congress, where, after a severe criticism, and striking out several of the most oratorical paragraphs, it was adopted on the fourth of July, 1776, and published to the world." Works, II. 510. In a letter to Timothy Pickering, Aug. 22, 1822 {Works, II. 512), Adams gives a more elaborate account of the committee and its proceedings : " You inquire why so young a man as Mr. Jefferson was placed at the head of the Committee for preparing a Declaration of Independence? I answer; It was the Frankfort advice, to place Virginia at the head of every thing. 
Mr. Richard Henry Lee might be gone to Virginia, to his sick family, for aught I know, but that was not the reason of Mr. Jefferson's appointment. 
There were three committees appointed at the same time. 
One for the Declaration of Independence, another for preparing articles of Confederation, and another for preparing a treaty to be proposed to France. 
Mr. Lee was chosen for the Committee of Confederation, and it was not thought convenient that the same person should be upon both. 
Mr. Jefferson came into Congress, in June, 1775, and brought with him a reputation for literature, science, and a happy talent of composition. 
Writings of his were handed about, remarkable for the peculiar felicity of expression. 
Though a silent member in Congress, he was so prompt, frank, explicit, and decisive upon committees and in conversation, not even Samuel Adams was more so, that he soon seized upon my heart ; and upon this occasion I gave him my vote, and did all in my power to procure the votes of others. 
I think he had one more vote than any other, and that placed him at the head of the committee. 
I had the next highest number, and that placed me the second. 
The committee met, discussed the subject, and then appointed Mr. Jefferson and me to make the draught, I suppose because we were the two first on the list. " The sub-committee met. 
Jefferson proposed to me to make the draught. 
I said, 'I will not.' 'You should do it.' 'Oh! no.' 'Why will you not? You ought to do it.' ' I will not.' 'Why?' ' Reasons enough.' ' What can be your reasons? ' 'Reason first — You are a Virginian, and a Virginian ought to appear at the head of this business. 
Reason second — I am obnoxious, suspected, and unpopular. 
You are very much otherwise. 
Reason third — You can write ten times better than I can.' ' Well,' said Jefferson, ' if you are decided, I will do as well as I can '. ' Very well. 
When you have drawn it up, we will have a meeting.'" A meeting we accordingly had, and conned the paper over. 
I was delighted with its high tone and the flights of oratory with which it abounded, especially that concerning negro slavery, which, though I knew his Southern brethren would never suffer to pass in Congress, I certainly never would oppose. 
There were other expressions which I would not have inserted, if I had drawn it up, particularly that which called the King tyrant. 
I thought this too personal ; for I never believed George to be a tyrant in disposition and in nature ; I always believed him to be deceived by his courtiers on both sides of the Atlantic, and in his official capacity only, cruel. 
I thought the expression too passionate, and too much like scolding, for so grave and solemn a document ; but as Franklin and Sherman were to inspect it afterwards, I thought it would not become me to strike it out. 
I consented to report it, and do not remember that I made or suggested a single alteration. 51 G Continental Congress 744. Richard Henry Lee to Charles Lee. 1 Williamsbg 29th June, 1776. My dear Friend, .... I have not the least doubt but that Independence will, in a few days, be publicly announced by the General Congress. 
All restraining instructions are now removed except from Maryland, and there, the people were up, and instructions sending from all parts to their Convention, which met 10 days ago, expressly directing to rescind their instructions " We reported it to the committee of five. 
It was read, and I do not remember that Franklin or Sherman criticized any thing. 
We were all in haste. 
Congress was impatient, and the instrument was reported, as I believe, in Jefferson's handwriting, as he first drew it. .Congress cut off about a quarter of it, as I expected they would ; but they obliterated some of the best of it, and left all that was exceptionable, if any thing in it was. 
I have long wondered that the original draught has not been published. 
I suppose the reason is, the vehement philippic against negro slavery. "As you justly observe, there is not an idea in it but what had been hackneyed in Congress for two years before. 
The substance of it is contained in the declaration of rights and the violation of those rights, in the Journals of Congress, in 1774. Indeed, the essence of it is contained in a pamphlet, voted and printed by the town of Boston, before the first Congress met, composed by James Otis, as I suppose, in one of his lucid intervals, and pruned and polished by Samuel Adams."The quotation of this letter in an address by Pickering on the fourth of July fol- . lowing stirred Jefferson to write to Madison (August 30, 1823) a letter of which the following is the most pertinent part: " You have doubtless seen Timothy Pickering's 4th of July observations on the Declaration of Independance. if his principles and prejudices personal and political, gave us no reason to doubt whether he had truly quoted the information he alledges to have received from Mr. Adams, I should then say that, in some of the particulars, mr Adams's memory has led him into unquestionable error, at the age of 88, and 47 years after the transactions of Independance, this is not wonderful, nor should I, at the age of 80, on the small advantage of that difference only, venture to oppose my memory to his, were it not supported by written notes, taken by myself at the moment and on the spot, he says ' the committee (of 5, to wit. 
Dr. Franklin, Sherman, Livingston and ourselves) met, discussed the subject, and then appointed him and myself to make the draught: that we, as a subcommittee met, and after the urgencies of each on the other, I consented to undertake the task ; that the draught being made, we, the subcommittee, met, and conned the paper over, and he does not remember that he made or suggested a single alteration '. now these details are quite incorrect, the committee of
I consented ; I drew it ; but before I reported it to the committee, I communicated it separately to Dr. Franklin and mr Adams requesting their corrections; because they were the two members of whose judgments and amendments I wished most to have the benefit before presenting it to the Committee; and you have seen the original paper now in my hands, with the corrections of Doctor Franklin and mr Adams interlined in their own handwritings, their alterations were two or three only, and merely verbal. 
I then wrote a fair copy, reported it to the Committee, and from them, unaltered to Congress, this personal communication and consultation with mr Adams he has misremembered into the meetings of a sub-committee Whether also the sentiments of independance, and the reasons for declaring it which make so great a portion of the instrument had been hacknied in Congress for two years before the 4th of July 76, or this dictum also of mr Adams be another slip of memory, let history say. this however I will say for mr Adams, that he supported the declaration with zeal and ability, fighting fearlessly for every word of it. as to myself, I thought it a duty to be, on that occasion, a passive auditor of the opinions of others, more impartial judges than I could be, of it's merits or demerits, during the debate I was sitting by Dr. Franklin, and he observed that I was writhing a little under the acrimonious criticisms on some of it's parts ; and it was on that occasion that, by way of comfort, he told me the story of John Thompson, the Hatter, and his new sign." .... (Jefferson's Writings, X. 266. For the story of John Thompson, the hatter, see Jefferson to Robert Walsh, Dec. 4, 1818, ibid., X. 118 n.) I744] 1 N. Y. Hist Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, II. 97'. Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 203. June, 1776 517 and pursue a different line of political conduct. 2 I incline to think therefore that Independence will carry it nem. con. and Foreign Alliance immediately sought. 
The business of Confederation will also then be set on foot 745. Edward Rutledge to John Jay. 1 Philada. 
June 29th, 1776. My Dear Jay: I write this for the express Purpose of requesting that if possible you will give your Attendance in Congress on Monday next. 2 I know full well that your Presence must be highly
A Declaration of Independence, the Form of a Confederation of these Colonies, and a Scheme for a treaty with foreign Powers will be laid before the House on Monday. 
Whether we shall be able effectually to oppose the first and infuse Wisdom into the others will depend in a great measure upon the exertions of the honest
I trust you will contribute in a considerable degree to effect the Business and therefore I wish you to be with us. 4 Recollect the manner in which your Colony is at this time represented. 
Clinton has Abilities but is silent in general and wants (when he does speak) that Influence to which he is intitled. 
Floyd, Wisner, Lewis and Alsop tho' good men, never quit their chairs. 
You must know the Importance of these Questions too well not to wish to [be] present whilst they are debating and therefore I shall say no more upon the Subject. 
I have been much engaged lately upon a plan of a Confederation which Dickenson has drawn ; 5 it has the Vice of all his Productions to a considerable Degree ; I mean the Vice of Refining too much. 
Unless it's greatly curtailed it never can pass, as it is to be submitted to Men in the respective Provinces who will not be led or rather driven into Measures which may lay the Foundation of their Ruin. 
If the Plan now proposed should be adopted nothing less than Ruin to some Colonies will be the Consequence of it. The Idea of destroying all Provincial Distinctions and making every thing of the most minute kind bend to what they call the good of the whole, is in other Terms to say that these Colonies must be subject to the Government of the Eastern Provinces. 
The Force of their Arms I hold exceeding Cheap, but I confess I dread their over- 2 Instructions authorizing the delegates to vote for independence had already been adopted by the convention of Maryland the day before this letter was written. 
See no. 747, post; cf. no. 728, ante; also Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1017-1021, 1091- 1098, n 30. [745PN. Y. Tub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Revolutionary Papers, I. 105 (copy); Corr. and Pub. Papers of Jay (ed. Johnston), I. 66. 2 July 1. 3 Lacunae in the text as printed in the Corresp. and Pub. Papers of John Jay have been supplied from the Bancroft copy. 4 See Jefferson's Notes of Debates, Journals, VI. 1092 ; also nos. 747, 752, post. 5 See the Journals, July 12. 518 Continental Congress ruling Influence in Council. 
I dread their low Cunning, and those levelling
I am resolved to vest the Congress with no more Power than that is absolutely necessary, and to use a familiar Expression, to keep the Staff in our own Hands ; for I am confident if surrendered into the Hands of others a most pernicious use will be made of it. If you can't come let me hear from you by the Return of the Post. 
Compliments to Livingston and G. Morris. 
God bless you. 
With Esteem and affection Yrs, E. RUTLEDGE. 746. The President of Congress to George Washington. 1 Philadelphia June 29th, 1776. Sir, .... Your Favour of the 27th Inst, with its several Enclosures, came to Hand yesterday. 
As the Congress will not sit this Day, I shall take the earliest oportunity, on Monday, of laying their important Contents before them. 2 .... I am to request, you will please to order Colonel Stephenson, and one other Field Officer of that corps, to repair to this City, to confer with the Delegates of Virginia and Maryland on the most proper Steps to fill up the Companies, as expeditiously as possible. 
If there are any Subaltern officers of that Corps, whom you can recommend, it is the desire of Congress, they should be promoted, in Preference to those now to be taken into Pay. 3 I have the Honour to be sir, your most obedt. hble Serv. 
John Hancock Presidt Genl. 
Washington. 
II oClock I have this moment Rec'd your favr. of 28th. which shall be laid before Congress. 4 I have also Rec'd by Post a Letter from Brigadr. [746] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 192; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1 132. 2 See the Journals, July I. Washington's letter of June 27 here referred to is in Writings fed. 
Ford), IV. 181. The letter and enclosures (except the letter from Gen. Ward) are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1101-1108. Ward's letter (June 20) is ibid., VI. 1000. The other letter from Washington, dated June 27, relating to Maj. Rogers (see nos. 289, 296, ante), is ibid., VI. 1108. 3 The instructions in this paragraph are not found in the Journals. 
They relate however to certain resolutions of June 27, passed in accordance with a report by the board of war upon a paragraph of a letter from Washington to a member of Congress which was referred to the board June 26. Cf. the Journals, July 9, 11. See also Washington to Congress, June 30, July 4, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1142, 1272. The letter of June 30 is also in Writings fed. 
Ford), IV. 196. 4 This letter is in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 184. The letter and its enclosures are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1117-1122. July, 1776 519 General Whitcomb Returning his Commission, and desiring to be Excus'd on Acco*. of Age and a Diffidence of not being able to Answer the Expectation of Congress. 5 The Inclosed Copy of a Letter came to my hands, which I thought best to transmit you. 6 I am yours, J Hancock Pt. 747. Francis Lightfoot Lee to [Richard Henry Lee?]. 1 Philadelphia June 30th, 1776. Dear Brother. .... July 1st. This day the resolve for independency was consider'd and agreed to, in Com tee . of the whole — two dissentients S. Carolina and Pensylvania. 
N. York did not vote, not being empowered, tomorrow it will pass the house with the concurrence of S. Carolina. 2 the Pensylvania delegates indulge their own wishes, tho they acknowlege, what indeed everybody knows that they vote contrary to the earnest desires of the people. 3 This morning a unanimous vote of the Maryland Convention was brot to Congress ; empowering their delegates to concur in all points with Congress. 4 All the Colonies have declared their sense, except N. York, whose new convention now chusing, is to do the business. 5 .... We are disputing about Government and independence, my best respects to all friends, and believe me upon all occasions your most afft. friend and bro r . Francis Lightfoot Lee. 748. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon. 1 Philadelphia July 1st 1776. Dear Sir, .... The affair of Independency has been this day determined in a Committee of the whole House; by next Post, I expect you will receive
See the Journals, June 6, and Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 723. Cf. nos. 689, 692, ante. 
See also Ward to Washington, June 23, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1041. 6 The enclosure has not been identified. 
The postscript of this letter is entirely in Hancock's writing. [747] 1 Va. Hist. 
Soc, Lee Papers, I. 45. 2 See nos. 743, 745, ante, and no. 752, post. 3 See nos. 693, 698, 709, 728, ante. 4 The resolution of the Maryland convention, June 28, is printed in the Journals, July 1. See also nos. 728, 743, 744, ante, and no. 751, post. 5 See nos. 688, 714, ante, and nos. 751, 752, post; also the letters of Gerry, July 5, and Hewes, July 8, in the next volume. 
See also the resolution of the New York convention, July 9, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 205. [748] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1195. 520 Continental Congress a formal declaration with the reasons; the Declaration before Congress is, I think, a pretty good one. 
I hope it will not be spoiled by canvassing in Congress 749. Oliver Wolcott to the Deputy Governor of Connecticut (Matthew Griswold). 1 New York, i July, 1776. Sir j Your Honours favour of the 17th last, have received, and think the requisition for men of our Colony ~ unreasonable and can assign no other reason for its being done, only that favours are apt to be asked of those who are supposed to be well inclined to grant them. 
What exertions may be necessary, no one can say, in the present uncertainty of affairs. 
You will Sir be informed by the papers of the arrival of a large Fleet last Saturday at the Hook off this City. 
The taking the cannon from N. London is unhappy and founded in a mistake of the Congress. 3 Commodore Hopkins said he left 36 heavy cannon which were supposed to be 13 pounders and upward at N. London. 
Mr Collins from Newport said the same. 4 The Congress said that if 14 were, ordered from there, 22 heavy cannon would be left, which was as much as could be spared for that Harbour and would be sufficient; but by Gov. Trumbulls letter to Congress this account is contradicted. 5 The result is a request to Gov. Trumbull to make a return of the number and size of the cannon there, which implies and was intended as a suspension of the order in case the Congress had been misinformed. 6 The Committee of Congress have reported that N. London harbour ought to be fortified with 22 heavy cannon at a Continental charge still going on the same idea. 
This report, I suppose will be accepted. 7 Mr Hopkins I think is an odd man. 
I met him and Capt Saltonstall on Saturday going to the Congress, who had sent for them. 8 Mr Hopkins affected to be ignorant, or did not really know what kind of cannon had been left at New London. 
He never had made any regular return of the cannon he had taken, and is thought to have been very deficient in many parts of his duty 750. John Adams to Archibald Bulloch. 1 Philadelphia, i July, 1776. Dear Sir: Two days ago I received your favor of May 1st. I was greatly disappointed. 
Sir, in the information you gave me, that you should be pre- 1749] 1 Conn. 
Hist. 
Soc. Oliver Wolcott Papers, I. (copy). 2 See the Journals, June i, 3. 3 See the Journals, May 7, 30, June 15; also no. 630, ante. * See Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 529-531, 538-540, 55*. 5 Trumbull's letter, June 17, is ibid., VI. 944. See also his letter of May 27, ibid., VI. 600. Cf. ibid., VI. 654, 670, 973. See the Journals, June 27, July 20, and Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 45, 144, 262. 7 See the Journals, June 24. Apparently the report was not taken up again. 8 See the Journals, June 13, and no. 630, note 2, ante. [750] J Works, IX. 414; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1193; Niles, Principles of the J<cvolution, p. 103. July, i J J 6 521 vented from revisiting Philadelphia. 
I had flattered myself with hopes of your joining us soon, and not only affording us the additional strength of your abilities and fortitude, but enjoying the satisfaction of seeing a temper and conduct here somewhat more agreeable to your wishes than those which prevailed when you were here, before. 
But I have since been informed that your countrymen have done themselves the justice to place you at the head of their affairs, a station in which you may perhaps render more essential service to them and to America than you could here. 2 There seems to have been a great change in the sentiments of the colonies since you left us, and I hope that a few months will bring us all to the same way of thinking. 
This morning is assigned for the greatest debate of all. 
A declaration, that these colonies are free and independent States, has been reported by a committee appointed some weeks ago for that purpose, and this day or to-morrow is to determine its fate. 
May Heaven prosper the new-born republic, and make it more glorious than any former republics have been ! . . . . Your colleagues, Hall and Gwinnett, are here in good health and spirits, and as firm as you yourself could wish them. 
Present my compliments to Mr. Houston. 3 Tell him the colonies will have republics for their government, let us lawyers and your divine
Both had been again chosen delegates in February, 1776, and Houstoun was chosen again in October ; but neither attended. 4 The reference is to Zubly. "I made it a point in every company to contradict and oppose every hint of a desire of independence or of breaking our connection with Great Britain " A separation from the Parent State I w" dread as one of the greatest evils and should it ever be proposed write pray and fight against it. Some good men may desire it but good men do not always know what they are about. 
I have more than a little thought on this matter, and being borned and bred in a commonwealth should not be unacquainted with republican Govt, but wish never to see the day when the Qn [question] whether we ought to Separate sh
You will doubtless reach home before me tho You should not depart these ten days, in Case of my first Arrival I think not to make any report to our Council of Safety till we are all present."For accounts of Zubly's defection see Stevens, History of Georgia, II. 119; Jones, History of Georgia, II. 203; Biographical Sketches, p. 203. See also p. xliv, ante. [751] 1 Works, IX. 415; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1194; Scharf, Hist, of Md., II. 231 ; Niles, Principles of the Revolution , p. 327. 2 A facsimile copy of Chase's letter, dated June 28, is in Adams's Works, III. 56. 522 Continental Congress It was brought into Congress this morning, just as we were entering on the great debate. 
That debate took up the most of the day, but it was an idle mispence of time, for nothing was said but what had been repeated and hackneyed in that room before, a hundred times, for six months past. 3 In the committee of the whole, the question was carried in the affirmative and reported to the house. 
A colony desired it to be postponed until to-morrow. 4 Then it will pass by a great majority; perhaps with almost unanimity. 
Yet I cannot promise this. 
Because one or two gentlemen may possibly be found, who will vote point-blank against the known and declared sense of their constitutents. 
Maryland, however, I have the pleasure to inform you, behaved well. 
Paca, generously and nobly. 5 .... 3 Cf. no. 728, ante, and see note 5, below. 4 Rutledge of South Carolina. 
See Jefferson's Notes of Debates, Journals, VI. 1092. Cf. nos. 745, 747, ante, no. 754, post, and Gerry to Warren, July 5, in the next volume. 5 The following passage in John Adams's Autobiography records some of his recollections of the debate on this day : " Monday, July
The subject had been in contemplation for more than a year, and frequent discussions had been had concerning it. At one time and another all the arguments for it and against it had been exhausted, and were become familiar. 
I expected no more would be said in public, but that the question would be put and decided. 
Mr. Dickinson, however, was determined to bear his testimony against it with more formality. 
He had prepared himself apparently with great labor and ardent zeal, and in a speech of great length, and with all his eloquence, he combined together all that had before been written in pamphlets and newspapers, and all that had from time to time been said in Congress by himself and others. 
He conducted the debate not only with great ingenuity and eloquence, but with equal politeness and candor, and was answered in the same spirit. " No member rose to answer him, and after waiting some time, in hopes that some one less obnoxious than myself, who had been all along for a year before, and still was, represented and believed to be the author of all the mischief, would move, I determined to speak. " It has been said, by some of our historians, that I began by an invocation to the god of eloquence. 
This is a misrepresentation. 
Nothing so puerile as this fell from me. I began, by saying that this was the first time of my life that I had ever wished for the talents and eloquence of the ancient orators of Greece and Rome, for I was very sure that none of them ever had before him a question of more importance to his country and to the world. 
They would probably, upon less occasions than this, have begun by solemn invocations to their divinities for assistance; but the question before me appeared so simple, that I had confidence enough in the plain understanding and common sense that had been given me, to believe that I could answer, to the satisfaction of the House, all the arguments which had been produced, notwithstanding the abilities which had been displayed, and the eloquence with which they had been enforced. 
Mr. Dickinson, some years afterwards, published his speech. 
I had made no preparation beforehand, and never committed any minutes of mine to writing. 
But if I had a copy of Mr. Dickinson's before me, I would now, after nine and twenty years have elapsed, endeavor to recollect mine. " Before the final question was put, the new delegates from New Jersey came in, and Mr. Stockton, Dr. Witherspoon, and Mr. Hopkinson, very respectable characters, expressed a great desire to hear the arguments. 
All was silence; no one would speak; all eyes were turned upon me. Mr. Edward Rutledge came to me and said, laughing, ' Nobody will speak but you upon this subject. 
You have all the topics so ready, that you must satisfy the gentlemen from New Jersey.' I answered him. 
Laughing, that it had so much the air of exhibiting like an actor or gladiator, for the entertainment of the audience, that I was ashamed to repeat what I had said twenty times before, and I thought nothing new could be advanced by me. The New Jersey gentlemen, however, July, iyj6 523 If you imagine that I expect this declaration will ward off calamities from this country, you are much mistaken. 
A bloody conflict we are destined to endure. 
This has been my opinion from the beginning. 
You will certainly remember my declared opinion was, at the first Congress, when we found that we could not agree upon an immediate non-exportation, that the contest would not be settled without bloodshed ; and that if still insisting on hearing at least a recapitulation of the arguments, and no other gentleman being willing to speak, I summed up the reasons, objections, and answers, in as concise a manner as I could, till at length the Jersey gentlemen said they were fully satisfied and ready for the question, which was then put, and determined in the affirmative. " Mr. Jay, Mr. Duane, and Mr. William Livingston of New Jersey, were not present. 
But they all acquiesced in the declaration, and steadily supported it ever afterwards."Works, III. 53. Cf. Jefferson's Notes of Debates, Journals, VI. 1092 ; Writings (ed. Ford), I. 24-28. Adams's statement above that Dickinson published the speech which he made on this occasion seems to be incorrect. 
In Botta's History of the War of the Independence of the United States of America (G. A. Otis edition, I. 350355) appears a speech said to have been made by Dickinson on this occasion ; but it is no doubt largely supposititious. 
At least it does not appear that Dickinson ever acknowledged its authenticity. 
In a letter, July 30, 1815, to Thomas McKean, Adams reiterates the statement : " Mr. Dickinson printed a speech,, which he said he made in Congress against the declaration of independence ; but it appeared to me very different from that which you and I heard" {Works, X. 171). Adams may have had in mind Dickinson's "Vindication"of his course in the Revolution, published in Freeman's Journal, Jan. 1, 1783. It is from this " Vindication " that George Bancroft derives the speech of Dickinson given in his History of the United States (Author's Last Revision, IV. 437-439)- In the edition of i860 (VIII. 452-456) Bancroft prefaces the speech with these words : " It is from the report made by himself, that I abridge his elaborate discourse, using no words but his own." See Stille, Life and Times of John Dickinson, pp. 192-196. The supposed speech of Dickinson, reprinted from Botta's History, is found in Niles, Principles of the Revolution (ed. 1876), p. 400. The "Vindication" is reprinted in Stille, Life and Times of Dickinson, pp. 364-414. The essential part of it is printed in Hazelton, Declaration of Independence, pp. 353-359. An account similar to that in his autobiography, but with some variations, is given by Adams in a letter to Mercy Warren, Aug. 17, 1807: " In the previous multiplied debates which we had upon the subject of Independence, the Delegates from New Jersey had voted against us, their Constituents were informed of it and recalled them and sent us a new sett on purpose to vote for Independence. 
Among those were Chief Justice Stockton and Dr. Witherspoon. 
In a [the] morning when Congress met we expected the question would be put and carried without any further Debate; because we knew we had a Majority and thought that argument had been exhausted on both sides as indeed it was, for nothing new was ever afterwards advanced on either side. 
But the Jersey Delegates appearing for the first time, desired that the question might be discussed. 
We observed to them that the Question was so public and had been so long disputed in Pamphlets News Papers and every Fireside, that they could not be uninformed and must have made up their minds. 
They said it was true they had not been inattentive to what had been passing abroad, but they had not heard the arguments in Congress, and did not incline to give their opinions untill they should hear the sentiments of Members there. 
Judge Stockton was most particularly importunate, till the members began to say let the Gentlemen be gratifi'd and the Eyes of the assembly were turned upon me and several other of them said come Mr. Adams you have had the subject at heart longer than any of us, and you must recapitulate the arguments. 
I was somewhat confused at this personal application to me and would have been very glad to be excused ; but as no other person arose after some time I said, ' This is the first time of my life when I seriously wished for the genius and Eloquence of the celebrated Orators of Athens and Rome. 
Called in this unexpected and unprepared manner, to exhibit all the arguments in favour of a measure the most important, in my judgment, that ever had been discussed in civil or political society, I had no art or Oratory to exhibit, and could produce nothing but simple reason and plain Common sence. 
I felt myself oppressed by the weight of the subject: and I believed if Demosthenes or Cicero had ever been called to deliberate on so great 524 Continental Congress hostilities should once commence, they would terminate in an incurable animosity between the two countries. 
Every political event since the nineteenth of April, 1775, has confirmed me in this opinion. 
If you imagine that I flatter myself with happiness and halcyon days after a separation from Great Britain, you are mistaken again. 
I do not expect that our new government will be so quiet as I could wish, nor that happy harmony, confidence, and affection between the colonies, that every good American ought to study, labor, and pray for, for a long time 752. The New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia 2d July 1776. Gentlemen The important Question of Indepency [sic] was. agitated yesterday in a Committee of the whole Congress, and this Day will be finally determined in the House. 
We know the Line of our Conduct on this Occassion ; we have your Instructions, and will faithfully pursue them. 
New Doubts and Difficulties however will arise should Independency be declared ; and that it will not, we have not the least Reason to expect nor do we believe that (if any) more than one Colony (and the Delegates of that divided) will vote against the Question; every Colony (ours only excepted) having withdrawn their former Instructions, and either positively instructed their a question, neither would have relied on his own Talents without a supplication to Minerva and a Sacrifice to Mercury or the God of Eloquence.' All this to be sure was but a flourish ; and not as I conceive a very bright Exordium: but I felt awkwardly, but nothing that I said had the most remote resemblance to an ' invocation of the God of Eloquence ' I wish someone had remembered the speech, for it is almost the only one I ever made that I wish was literally preserved. 
The Delegates of New Jersey declared themselves perfectly satisfied .... 'Que n'ai je recu le Genie et L'Eloquence des celebres orateurs d'Athens et de Rome ' . . . . are all the true words of my speech that have ever appeared in Print." Mass Hist. 
Soc, Collections, fifth ser., IV. 465; Frothingham, Rise of the Republic, p. 516 (with the date " Quincy, 1807"); Hazelton, Declaration of Independence, p. 159 (extract, with date August 7, l8 °7>- Some testimonies concerning Adams's speech are given in Hazelton, Declaration of Independence, pp. 161-162; cf. ibid., pp. 424, 468; and an editorial note in Adams's Works, II. 55-58. The great speech attributed to Witherspoon on this occasion is even more apochryphal than those of Adams, Dickinson, and Lee. See Graydon, Memoirs, p. 307 n. ; cf. Adams to McKean, July 30, 1815 (Works, X. 171), and Jefferson to Adams, August 10, 1815 (Jefferson's Writings, IX. 526). See also Hazelton, Declaration of Independence, pp. 466, 467, 486. Concerning the speech attributed by Botta to Richard Henry Lee, see no. 687, note 3, ante. 
For other statements concerning the proceedings of July
Hist. 
Soc, Proceedings, XLVIII. 507; A'lams's Works, X. 35) ; Thomas McKean to John Adams, Jan. 27, 1814 (Hist. 
Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers; Adams's Works, X. 87) ; Adams to McKean, July 30, 1815 (ibid., X. 171) ; McKean to Adams, Nov. 20, 1815 (ibid., X. 176) ; Adams to Pickering, Aug. 22, 1822 (ibid., II. 512) ; Jefferson to Adams, Aug. 10, 1815 (Jefferson's Writings, IX. 526) ; Jefferson to Madison, Aug. 30, 1823 (ibid., X. 266) ; also the letters of McKean cited under July 4, post. 
The principal existing evidences concerning the proceedings of July
N. Y, Prov. 
Cong., II. 236. July, iy/6 525 Delegates to vote for Independency ; or concur in such Vote if they shall judge it expedient. 
What Part are we to act after this Event takes Place ; every Act we join in may then be considered as in some Measure acceding to the Vote of Independency, and binding our Colony on that Score. 
Indeed many matters in this new Situation may turn up in which the Propriety of our voting may be very doubtful ; tho we conceive (considering the critical Situation of Public Affairs and as they respect our Colony in particular invaded or soon likely to be by Powerful Armies in different Quarters) it is our Duty nay it is absolutely necessary that we shoud not only concur with but exert ourselves in forwarding our Millitary Operations. 
The immediate safety of the Colony calls for and will warrant us in this. 
Our Situation is singular and delicate No other Colony being similarly circumstanced with whom we can consult. 
We wish therefore for your earliest Advice and Instructions whether we are to consider our Colony bound by the Vote of the Majority in Favour of Indepency and vote at large on such Questions as may arise in Consequence thereof or only concur in such Measures as may be absolutely necessary for the Common safety and defence of America exclusive of the Idea of Indepency. 
We fear it will be difficult to draw the Line ; but once possessd of your Instructions we will use our best Endeavours to follow them. 2 We are with the greatest Respect your Most Obedt Servts. 
Geo Clinton. 
Henry Wisner. 
John Alsop. 
Wm. Floyd. 
Fras. 
Lewis. 
To the Honble The Provinceal Congress of New York 753. Henry Wisner to the New York Provincial Congress. 1 Philadelphia July 2d 1776. Gentlemen Since Writeing the inclosed the question of independance has Been put in Congress and Carried in the afirmative without one desenting vote. 
I therefore Beg your answer as quick as posable to the inclosed. 2 I am with Due Regard your Humble Servant Henry Wisner
The action of the New York convention, July 9, is recorded in the Journals, July 15. See Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 516-518; also Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 1387-1391. 1753] 1 N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, VI. 85; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1212 ; Jour. 
N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., II. 236. 2 The letter of the New York delegates, July 2, no. 752, ante. 3 McKean states in his letter of Sept. 26, 1796, to A. J. Dallas, and in his letter of January, 1814, to John Adams, that Henry Wisner voted for independence (see no. 757, note 2, post). That Wisner was in favor of independence seems clear, but McKean's recollection was probably in error in supposing that he cast his vote for independence, as the New York delegates were not at that time authorized to vote on the question. 526 Continental Congress 754. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren. 1 Philadelphia, July 2, 1776. Dear Sir: I have only time to inform you that yesterday was agitated in Congress the great question of Independency ; and as the facts are as well known at the Coffee-House of the city as in Congress, I may go on to inform you that, in a Committee of the whole House, it was carried by nine Colonies. 2 I remain, sir, with due regard, your assured friend and humble servant, Elbridge Gerry. 
To Colonel Warren. 755. John Adams to Mrs. Adams. 1 3 July, 1776. 2 .... Yesterday, the greatest question was decided, which ever was debated in America, and a greater, perhaps, never was nor will be decided among men. 
A resolution was passed without one dissenting Colony, 3 " that these United Colonies are, and of right ought to be, free and independent States, and as such they have, and of right ought to have, full, power to make war, conclude peace, establish commerce, and to do all other acts and things which other States may rightfully do." You will see, in a few days, a Declaration setting forth the causes which have impelled us to this mighty revolution, and the reasons which will justify it in the sight of God and man. 
A plan of confederation will be taken up in a few days 756. The President of Congress to the Maryland Convention. 1 Philada. 
July 4th. 1776. Gentlemen: The Congress have this Day received Intelligence which renders it absolutely necessary that the greatest Exertions should be made to save [754] l Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1212. 2 Cf. no. 751, note 4, ante. [7551 1 Familiar Letters, p. 190; Works, IX. 417; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1232; Niles, Principles of the Revolution, p. 105. 2 Another letter to Mrs. Adams bearing the same date is printed in conjunction with this letter in the works named. 
In a letter to Judge Thomas Dawes, Feb. 16, 1819 (Niles, Principles, p. 104), Adams explains that one letter (that from which the extract above is taken) was written in the morning, the other in the evening. -The evening letter sets forth some advantages that might have been obtained by an earlier declaration ; but at the same time suggests some possible advantages gained by the delay. 
One paragraph of the letter possesses a peculiar interest: ' The second day of July, 1776, will be the most memorable epocha in the history of America. 
I am apt to believe that it will be celebrated by succeeding generations as the great anniversary Festival. 
It ought to be commemorated, as the day of deliverance, by solemn acts of devotion to God Almighty. 
It ought to be solemnized with pomp and parade, with shows, games, sports, guns, bells, bonfires, and illuminations, from one end of this continent to the other, from this time forward, forevermore."3 Cf. nos. 751, 753, 754, ante. hsGPMass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 210; Md. Hist. 
Soc, Portfolio, no. 8 (1) ; Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1258. July, 1776 527 our Country from being desolated by the Hand of Tyranny. 
General Howe having taken Possession of Staten Island, and the Jerseys being drained of their Militia for the Defence of New York, I am directed by Congress to request you will proceed immediately to embody your Militia for the Establishment of the flying Camp, and march them with all possible Expedition, either by Battalions, Detachments of Battalions, or by Companies, to the City of Philadelphia. 2 The present Campaign, I have no Doubt, if we exert ourselves properly, will secure the Enjoyment of our Liberties for ever. 
All Accounts agree that Great Britain will make her greatest effort this Summer. 
Should we therefore be able to keep our Ground, we shall afterwards have little to apprehend from her. 
I do therefore most ardently beseech and request you, in the Name and by the Authority of Congress, as you regard your own Freedom, and as you stand engaged by the most solemn Ties of Honour to support the Common Cause, to strain every Nerve to send forward your Militia. 
This is a Step of such infinite Moment, that, in all human Probability, your speedy Compliance will prove the Salvation of your Country. 
It is impossible we can have any higher Motives to induce us to act. — We should reflect too, that the Loss of this Campaign will inevitably protract the. 
War; and that in order to gain it, we have only to exert ourselves, and to make Use of the Means which God and Nature have given us to defend ourselves. 
I must therefore again repeat to you that the Congress most anxiously expect and request, you will not lose a Moment in carrying into Effect this Requisition with all the Zeal, Spirit, and Dispatch which are so indispensably required by the critical Situation of our Affairs. 
I have the Honour to be Gentlemen your most obed. and very hble svt. 
John Hancock, President. 
To The Honble Convention of Maryland. 
To the Assembly of Delaware Government. 757. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton. 1 Phila. 
July 4th, 1776. My Dear friend, Our Seeming bad success in Canada, I dare say gives you great uneasiness. 
In Times of danger, and under misfortunes true Courage and Magnanimity can only be ascertained. 
In the Course of Such a War we must expect some Losses. 
We are told a Panick Seized the Army. 
If so it hath not reached the Senate. 
At the Time our Forces in Canada were retreating before a Victorious Army, while Genl. 
Howe with a Large
Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Signers, I. 112. Facsimiles are in Brotherhead, Book of the Signers (1861), p. 39; Smith, Am. Hist, and Lit. Curiosities, second ser., pi. LXI. The letter is addressed: "To Elias Dayton Esqr. 
Colonel of the third battalion of N. Jersey Forces, — at Johns Town Mohawk River, or Crown point, to be forwarded to their Station from Albany. 
Free Abra : Clark."38 528 Continental Congress Armament is advancing towards N. York, Our Congress Resolved to Declare the United Colonies Free and independent States, a Declaration for this Purpose, I expect, will this day pass Congress, it is nearly gone through, after which it will be Proclaimed with all the State and Solemnity circumstances will admit. 
It is gone so far that we must now be a free independent State, or a Conquered Country. 2 .... I am among a Consistory of Kings as our Enemy says. 
I assure you Sir, Our Congress is an August Assembly, and can they Support the Declaration now on the Anvil, they will be the greatest Assemblv on Earth. 
I am Dr Sir, Yours and Mr Caldwells most Obedient and Hum Servt. 
Abra: Clark 758. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney. 1 Philada. 
July the 4th 1776. Sir — .... I arrived in Congress (tho detained by thunder and Rain) time Enough to give my Voice in the matter of Independence. 2 It is determined by the Thirteen United Colonies, without even one decenting Colony. 
We have now Got through with the Whole of the declaration, and Ordered it to be printed, so that you will soon have the pleasure of seeing it. Hand-bills of it will be printed, and sent to the Armies, Cities, County Towns etc. 
To be published or rather proclaimed in form. 
Don't Neglect to Attend Closely and Carefully to my Harvest and You'l oblige Yours etc. 
Caesar Rodney The appearance of the Declaration of Independence in the printed Journals under July 4, with the names of the signers appended, naturally gives the impression that the instrument was signed on that day by those whose names are attached to it. Attention however to the complete journals and to other easily demonstrable facts shows that this could not have been the case. 
Considering first the journals note must be taken of certain entries which are not found in the Journals as originally printed but which are essential for the history of the signing of the Declaration. 
On July
In a letter to Dayton, Aug. 6, Clark says : " As to my title, I know not yet whether it will be honourable or dishonourable : the issue of the war must settle it. Perhaps our Congress will be exalted on a high gallows. 
We were truly brought to the case of the three lepers: If we continued in the state we were in, it was evident we must perish; if we declared Independence we might be saved — we could but perish." Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 785. [758] 1 Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1236, item 86 (facsimile opposite page 1). 2 See McKean's letters to Dallas and to Caesar A. Rodney, nos. 759, 760, post. 
In the first of these McKean says that the fourth of July was a rainy day. 
July, iy/6 529 (This entry is found only in the " rough " journal of Congress. 
Its omission in the " corrected " journal, and consequently in the earlier printed Journals, was probably due to oversight.) The printed copies of the Declaration sent forth at this time were authenticated by the president and secretary, as other acts of Congress were authenticated. 
The Declaration in the rough journal consists of such a printed copy. 
A facsimile of this page of the rough journal, including the broadside of the Declaration pasted in, may be found in Hazelton, The Declaration of Independence, p. 170. In the corrected journal the Declaration bears no signatures whatever. 
On July 19, after the accession of New York on the 15th, it was '''Resolved, That the Declaration passed on the 4th, be fairly engrossed on parchment, with the title and stile of ' The unanimous declaration of the thirteen United States of America', and that the same, when engrossed, be signed by every member of Congress."In the journals for August
The words " by the members " are found only in the secret journals. 
They were not made public until the secret journals were published in 1821.) It seems evident from the last quoted entry in the journals that those members who were in Congress on August
It is necessary to take note of one other entry in the journals : On January 18, 1777, it was " Ordered, That an authenticated copy of the Declaration of Independency, with the names of the members of Congress subscribing the same, be sent to each of the United States, and that they be desired to have the same put upon record."A few of the copies of the Declaration sent forth in accordance with this order (see the circular letter of Jan. 31, 1777, in the next volume) still exist. (One of them is reproduced in the Historical Magazine, second ser., IV. 209.) They contain the names of the signers as found on the engrossed parchment, except the name of Thomas McKean. (McKean's case is discussed below.) When later in the year the journals came to be printed it was doubtless one of these printed copies of the Declaration that was used in making up the text of the printed Journals. 
It is to be observed that in two particulars the engrossed copy of the Declaration is not in strict conformity with the actual proceedings of Congress : The statement, " The foregoing declaration was, by order of Congress engrossed, and signed by the following members," is not a part of the proceedings of July 4, but summarizes, without any reference to dates, the order of Congress of July 19 and the signing by the members on August
Strictly speaking also it was not the " unanimous " declaration of the states until the adherence of New York, July 15. Not only are the true journals clear evidence that the Declaration was not signed on July 4, but certain collateral evidences point definitely to the same 530 Continental Congress conclusion. 
Samuel Chase, who had left Congress in June for the purpose of bringing Maryland into line for independence, wrote to John Adams July
I think We ought to have the privilege when necessarily absent of voting and signing by proxy."If there had been an opportunity of signing the Declaration at any time between July
Jefferson states in a letter to S. A. Wells, May 12, 1819 {Writings, X. 127) that while the question of independence was under consideration he had taken written notes, in his seat, of what was passing, and had reduced them to form on the final conclusion. 
These notes (see the Journals, ed. Ford, VI. 1 087-1 093 ; also Jefferson's Writings, I, 18-29) , it will be observed, cover in a somewhat summary fashion the proceedings from June
The pertinent sentence in the notes is : " the debates having taken up the greater parts of the 2d, 3d and 4th days of July, were, in the evening of the last, closed ; the declaration was reported by the commee, agreed to by the house; and signed by every member except mr. Dickinson."It might well be questioned whether this statement was originally intended to convey the meaning that the Declaration had been signed by every member except Mr. Dickinson " in the evening of the last," that is, on July 4, or only meant to say that ultimately every member except Mr. Dickinson signed it. At all events it was the former interpretation that Jefferson himself afterwards placed upon his contemporary statement. (See also Jefferson's letter to Wells, June 23, 1819, in Writings, X. 132). On August 6, 1822, more than three years after the letter to Wells had been written, Jefferson added a postscript to his copy of the letter stating that he had just received the volume of the secret Journals and had observed the resolution of July 19, that the Declaration be engrossed on parchment and signed by the members, and the entry of August 2, that being engrossed the declaration was compared at the table and signed by the members : and then explains that the comparison was with the original signed on paper. 
An addition to the same effect was about the same time made to his notes. (See Hazelton, pp. 203, 297.) This is the first mention of an "original signed on paper."It is evident that Jefferson had hitherto forgotten the proceedings of July 19 and August 2, which now clearly prove to him that the declaration on parchment was not signed prior to August 2. Accordingly he now makes July, 1776 531 a distinction between the declaration on parchment and the " original signed on paper ". If there had been such a copy of the declaration signed on July
It is also to be observed that had such a signing taken place on July
To mention a single instance : Charles Carroll of Carrollton did not take his seat in Congress until July 18, 1776. In a letter to C. H. Wharton, July 19, 1826, he wrote : " I was not in Congress when the vote of Independence was taken. 
As soon as I took my seat I signed that important declaration." (Rowland, Life of Carroll, II. 340) . (For details see Friedenwald. 
The Declaration of Independence, ch. VII ; and Hazelton, The Declaration of Independence, ch. IX.) So far as Jefferson is concerned, taking his earlier and later testimony as a whole, it seems to be primarily a question of his recollection; and that his recollection was colored by the printed Journals, as was the case with others of the participants in those events, there is every reason to believe. 
Such would seem to be the proper interpretation to put upon Jefferson's letter to the editor of the Journal de Paris, August 29, 1787 (Writings, IV. 439), where he says, " Look into the Journal of that day, Sir, and you will see the instrument, and the names of the signers, and that Mr. Dickinson's name is not among them." It is true that both Franklin and John Adams afterward spoke incidentally of the signing as having been done on July 4, but in the face of clear evidence to the contrary these statements may be explained on the same ground, namely, blurred recollections confused by the incorrect printed Journals. (See Franklin to Jane Mecom, July 4, 1786, Writings, ed. Smyth, IX. 522; Adams to William Plumer, Mar. 28, 1813. Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Proceedings, XLVIII. 507 ; Works, X. 35 ; Adams to Mercy Warren, Feb. 2. 1814, Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, fifth ser., IV. 505 ; Adams to C. A. Rodney, Apr. 30, 1823, Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1236, item 193.) The first public statement that the Journals as printed did not correctly represent the facts came from Thomas McKean in a letter to A. J. Dallas, dated September 26, 1796 (no. 759, post). Extracts from the letter are printed in the Laws of Pennsylvania, published by Dallas in 1797 (vol. 
I., appendix, p. 54), and parts of the letter are found in Sanderson, Lives of the Signers, VI. 281. What is endorsed by McKean as the " original draft"of the letter is among the McKean papers in the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. 
It is from this draft that the extracts printed below are taken. 
There is a " rough draft " of the letter, dated August 4, in the New York Public Library, Emmet Collection, no. 1537, which varies in some particulars from the finished draft. 
The latter is printed in Hazelton, Declaration of Independence, pp. 299-301. Some later letters of McKean upon the subject, while making some additions to his letter of 1796, for the most part reiterate his earlier statements. 
One of these is a letter to C. A. Rodney, dated August 22, 1813 (probably however written in September). Inasmuch as it is in respect to some matters a fuller statement than that of 1796 it is printed below (no. 760). Another is a letter to John Adams, written in January, 1814. McKean's draft of this letter, in the Historical Society of Pennsylvania, has " 27th " in McKean's writing, inserted in the date line. 
The letter is printed in Adams's Works, IX. 87, dated " January, 1814 " ; and in the Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Collections, fifth ser., IV. 506. with the date " January 7, 1814." The pertinent part of the letter is also found in Hazelton, p. 193. This letter uses much the same language as the letter of 181 3 to Rodney. 
Finally, on June 16, 181 7, eight days before McKean's death, he addressed a letter to William McCorkle 532 Continental Congress and Son, publishers of Freeman's Journal and Columbian Chronicle, setting forth once more his recollections of the proceedings relative to independence, and quoting hitherto published extracts of his letter of 1796. This letter was published in the issue of the newspaper mentioned for June 20, 1817; was reprinted in Niles' Weekly Register of June 28; and in the Portfolio for September, 1817. It is also found in the appendix to Christopher Marshall's Remembrancer ( 1839), an d in Hazelton, Declaration of Independence, p. 303. McKean has without doubt confused the proceedings of July
Touching the question of the date when McKean himself signed the Declaration his own statements lack something in definiteness. 
In his draft of August 4, 1796, he says: " I had not heard that the Instrument had been engrossed on parchment and signed until some weeks after I returned from camp, and (I believe) until I returned from Newcastle .... but I subscribed my name to it in the presence of the Congress sometime in the year 1776." In the finished draft of September 26 this statement reads: " but I must have subscribed my name to it not long after." This change in the form of statement seems to indicate that McKean was not quite positive in his recollection of the time and circumstances of his signing. 
In 1796 McKean also seemed to be in some doubt whether he signed the Declaration before going to Newcastle to take part in the constitutional convention or after his return. 
In the letter to Rodney in 1813 he is positive upon this point : " When the associators were discharged I returned to Philadelphia, took my seat in Congress and then signed the declaration on parchment. 
Two days after I went to Newcastle," etc. 
It will be observed that in the letter of September 26, 1796, McKean speaks of his return from Newcastle in October. 
The Delaware convention opened August 27 and closed September 21. The journals of Congress indicate that McKean was present at the end of September, for he is appointed on committees on September 25 and 27. There is no other record of his attendance in the autumn of 1776, and from December 2, 1776, to January 30, 1778, he was not a member of Congress. 
If he actually signed the declaration in the autumn of 1776, a point on which he seems to be positive, it is still unaccountable why his name should not have appeared on the signed Declaration distributed in January, 1777, since all the other names appear there, even that of Matthew Thornton, who signed in November. 
The statement found in Bancroft, History of the United States (Last Revision, V. 15-16), in Friedenwald, Declaration of Independence (p. 146), and in Chamberlain, " Authentication of the Declaration ", in his John Adams, pp. 124, 129, that McKean did not sign until 17&1, is due no doubt to a misinterpretation of a sentence in McKean's letter of June 16, 18 17. He was speaking not of the signing, but of the absence of his name from among the signers found on the printed declaration, and adds : " The error remained uncorrected 'till the year 1781, when I was appointed to publish the laws of Pennsylvania, to which I prefixed the Declaration of Independence, and inserted my own name, with the names of my colleagues." See, besides the works already mentioned. 
Robcrdeau Buchanan, Life of Thomas McKean. 
Following are the letters of McKean and Jefferson which constitute the principal statements of a positive character relative to the signing. 
To these is added the letter of John Adams to William Plumcr to which reference has also been made. 
September, 1796 533 [759]. Thomas McKean to Alexander James Dallas. 1 Philadelphia, Septemr. 26th, 1796. Sir, Your favor of the 19th. instant, respecting the declaration of Independence, should not have remained so long unanswered, if the duties of my office of Chief Justice had not engrossed my whole attention while the court was sitting. 
For several years past I have been taught to think less unfavorably of scepticism than formerly. 
So many things have been misrepresented, mistated and erroneously printed (with seeming authenticity) 'under my own Eye, as in my opinion to render those who doubt of everything not altogether inexcusable. 
The publication of the Declaration of Independence on the 4th day of July 1776, as printed in the Journals of Congress, Vol. 2. pa. 241 etc. and also in the Acts of most public Bodies since, so far as respects the names of the Delegates or Deputies who made that Declaration, has led to the above reflection. 
By the printed publications referred to it would appear as if the fifty-five Gentlemen, whose names are there printed and none other, were on that day personally present in Congress and assenting the declaration : Whereas the truth is otherwise. 
The following Gentlemen were not Members of Congress on the 4th. day of July, 1776, namely, Matthew Thornton, Benjamin Rush, George Clymer, James Smith, George Taylor and George Ross : The five last named were not chosen Delegates until the 20th day of that Month, the first not until the
The Journals of Congress, Vol. 2. pa. 277 and 442, as well as those of the Assembly of the State of Pennsylvania pa. 53, and of the General Assembly of New-Hampshire establish these facts. 
Altho' the six Gentlemen named had been very active in the American cause, and some of them to my own knowledge warmly in favor of it's Independence previous to the day on which it was declared, yet I personally know, that none of them were in Congress on that day. 
Modesty should not rob any man of his just honor, when by that honor his modesty cannot be offended. 
My name is not in the printed Journals of Congress as a party to the declaration of Independence, and this, like an error in the first concoction, has vitiated most of the subsequent publications ; and yet the fact is, that I was then a member of Congress for the State of Delaware, was personally present in Congress and voted in favor of independence on the 4th day of July 1776, and signed the declaration after it had been engrossed on parchment, where my name in my own hand writing still appears. 
Henry Wisner of the State of New- York Esquire was also in Congress and voted for independence I well remember, that on Monday, the first day of July 1776, the Congress, in a Committee of the whole, voted in favor of Independence, all the States concurring except Pennsylvania, which voted in the negative, and Delaware, which was divided. 
The Delegates for Pennsylvania, who voted in the negative, were John Dickinson, Robert Morris, Charles [759l
Soc. of Pa., Mc'Kean Papers, III. 10 (draft). 534 Continental Congress &'Humphries and Thomas Willing Esquires ; those in the affirmative were John Morton, Benjamin Franklin and James Wilson Esquires. 
For Delaware, my vote was for Independence ; my Colleague George Read Esquire, voted against it. On the 4th (which was a rainy day) Messrs. 
Dickinson and Morris were absent ; in consequence of which the vote for Pennsylvania on that day was in favor of the measure; and Caesar Rodney Esquire, the other Delegate for Delaware (having been written to by me for the purpose) attended and voted likewise in the affirmative; so that on that day there was an unanimous vote of the thirteen Colonies for Independence. 
I had not heard, that the Instrument had been engrossed on parchment and signed, until after my return from Camp, and I rather think until I returned in October from New Castle, where I had been exployed some weeks as a member of the Convention chosen to form a new Government for that State : but I must have suscribed my name to it not long after. 2 .... [760.] Thomas McKean to Caesar A. Rodney. 1 Philadelphia, Augt. [September?] 22d. 181 3. 2 Dear Sir, Your favor of the 226. last month .... came safe to hand I recollect what passed in Congress in the beginning of July 1776, representing Independence ; it was not as you have conceived. 
On Monday the 1st. of July the question was taken in the committee of the whole when the State of Pennsylvania (represented by seven Gentlemen then present) voted agt. it. Delaware, (having then only two Representatives present) was divided; all the other States voted in favor of it. Whereupon, without delay I sent an Express (at my private expence) for your honored Uncle Caesar Rodney Esquire, the remaining member for Delaware, whom I met at the State-house door, in his boots and spurs, 3 as the members were assembling; after a friendly salutation (without a word on the business) we went into the Hall of Congress together, and found we were among the latest : proceedings immediately commenced, and after a few minutes the great question was put ; when the vote for Delaware was called, your uncle arose and said ; " As I believe the voice of my constitutents and of all sensible and honest men is in favor of Independence and my own judgement concurs with them, I vote for Independence," or in words to the same effect. 
The State of Pennsylvania on the 4th. of July (there being only five members present, Messrs. 
Dickinson and Morris, who had in the committee of the whole voted against Independence were, absent) voted for it; three to two, Messrs. 
Willing and
Rodney's letter is in the Hist. 
Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, IV. 26. 3 See Caesar Rodney's letter of July 4, no. 758, ante. 
September, 1813 535 Humphries in the negative. 
Unanimity in the thirteen States, an all important point on so great an occasion, was thus obtained ; the. dissention of a single State might have produced very dangerous consequences. 
Now that I am on this subject, I will tell you some truths, not generally known. 
In the printed public journal of Congress for 1776, vol. 2. it would appear that the declaration of Independence was signed on the 4th. July by the members, whose names are there inserted; but the fact is not so for no person signed it on that day nor for many days after, and among the names subscribed, one was agt. it, Mr. Read, and seven were not in Congress on that day, namely, Messers, Morris, Rush, Clymer, Smith, Taylor and Ross of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Thornton of New- Hampshire, nor were the six Gentlemen last named at this time members ; the five for P. .were appointed Delegates by the Convention of that State on the 20th. July, and Mr. Thornton entered Congress for the first time on the 4th. of Novemr. following : when the names of Henry Wisner of New- York and Thomas McKean of Delaware are not printed as subscribers, tho' both were present and voted for Independence. 
Here false colours are certainly hung out; there is culpability somewhere. 
What I can offer as an apology or explanation is ; that on the 4th. of July 1776 the declaration of Independence was ordered to be ingrossed on parchment and then to be signed ; and I have been told, that a resolve had passed a few days after and was entered on the secret journal, that no person should have a seat in congress, during that year until he should have signed the declaration, in order (as I have been given to understand) to prevent traitors or spies from worming themselves amongst us. I was not in Congress after the 4th. for some months, having marched with my regiment of associators of this city, as Colonel, to support General Washington until a flying camp of ten thousand men was completed. 
When the associators were discharged I returned to Philadelphia, took my seat in congress and then signed the declaration on parchment. 
Two days after I went to Newcastle, joined the Convention for forming a constitution for the future government of the State of Delaware (having been elected a member for Newcastle county) which I wrote in a tavern, without a book or any assistance. 
You may rely on the accuracy of the foregoing relation. 
It is full time to print and publish the secret journal of Congress during the Revolution. 
I have thus answered your request, and trust it may reform errors. 
Accept, dear Sir, my best wishes for your happiness. 
Thos M :Kean Caesar Augustus Rodney Esquire. 4 4 In a letter to C. A. Rodney, dated April 30, 1823, John Adams comments thus upon this letter of McKean : " I am honored by your favor of the 20 th April with a Copy of Gov. McKeans letter of 22 August 1813, inclosed I have no doubt that Mr. McKean sent an express to Delaware to summon Mr. Rodney to Congress, that he arrived at the critical moment with boots and Spurs, went into Congress and made a speech which Mr. McKean rehearses, and voted for independence, thereby deciding the vote of the State of Delaware against his Colleague Mr. Reid [Read]. I am incapable of Searching for Books or dates, and my memory may not be depended upon, but according to my recollection the question of the Declaration of Independence was decided in a Committee of the whole house on 536 Continental Congress [761.] Thomas Jefferson to Samuel Adams Wells. 1 Monticello May 12. 19. Sir .... Governor McKean, in his letter to McCorkle of July [June] 16. 1 81 7,.. has thrown some lights on the transactions of that day: but trusting to his memory chiefly at an age when our memories are not to be trusted, he has confounded two questions, and ascribed proceedings to one which belonged to the other, these two questions were 1. the Virginia motion of June
The subsequent signatures of members who were not then present, and some of them not yet in office, is easily explained, if we observe who they were ; to wit that they were of N. York and Pensylvania. 
N. York did not sign till the 15th. because it was not till the 9th. (5 days after the general signature) that their Convention authorised them to do so. the Convention of Pensylvania, learning that it had been signed by a minority only of their delegates, named a new delegation on the 20th. leaving out mr Dickinson who had refused to sign, Willing and Humphreys who had withdrawn, reappointing the
They made their report, but that report was not decided on in Congress. 
Congress chose to meditate on the subject another night and made the subject the order for the next day. 
Accordingly on the 3d July the report of the day before, of the Committee of the whole was taken into consideration and the immortal resolution was passed and the Declaration of Independence ought then to have been signed, but Congress choose to Sleep another night, and ordered the signature for the next day. 
Accordingly on the next day the 4th July 1776 the declaration of Independence was then signed by all the members then present. 
Mr. McKean was not then present for he had so many avocations in Delaware, and as Attorney General in Pennsylvania that he could not constantly attend in Congress. 
I have no doubt that he voted for independence in the Committee of the whole, on the 2d, and for the resolutions in Congress on the 3d but he was not present and did not sign on the 4th. All the confusion has arisen from a resolution which I hope I sharll be pardoned for my irreverence, if I say it was absurd, for I thought it so then, And think it so still, that all future members should si«n the original parchment, but such a resolution passed and was obeyed, in consequence of which a number of names appear on the declaration of Independence of the 4th who were certainly not there and did not sign, among whom Mr. McKean was one."Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1236, item 193. [761] 1 Lihrary of Congress, Jefferson Papers, first scr., XIV. 165; Jefferson's Writings (ed. Ford), X. 127. March, 1813 537 Hampshire was permitted so late as the 4th of November, I cannot now say ; but undoubtedly for some particular reason, which we should find to have been good had it been expressed, these were the only post-signers, and you see, Sir, that there were solid reasons for receiving those of N. York and Pensylvania, and that this circumstance, in no wise affects the faith of this Declaratory charter of our rights, and of the rights of man. 
With a view to correct errors of fact before they become inveterate by repetition, I have stated what I find essentially material in my papers, but with that brevity which the labor of writing constrains me to use P. S. Aug. 6. 1822. since the date of this letter, to wit this day Aug. 6. 22 I receive the new publication of the Secret Journals of Congress, wherein is stated a Resoln of July 19. 1776 that the Declaration passed on the 4th. be fairly engrossed on parchment, and when engrossed, be signed by every member, and another of Aug. 2 that being engrossed and compared at the table was signed by the members, that is to say the copy engrossed on parchment (for durability) was signed by the members after being compared at the table with the original one signed on paper as before stated. 
I add this P. S. to the copy of my letter to mr Wells to prevent confounding the signature of the original with that of the copy engrossed on parchment. [762']. John Adams to William Plumer. 1 Quincy, March 28, 1813. Dear Sir, — You enquire, in your kind letter of the 19th whether, " every Member of Congress did, on the 4th of July 1776, in fact cordially approve of the declaration of Independence? "They who were then Members all signed it, and as I could not see their hearts, it would be hard for me to say that they did not approve it : but as far as I could penetrate the intricate internal foldings of their Souls, I then believed, and have not since altered my Opinion, that there were several who signed with regret, and several others with many doubts and much lukewarmness. 
The Measure had been upon the carpet for Months, and obstinately opposed from day to day. 
Majorities were constantly against it. For many days the Majority depended on Mr. Hews of North Carolina. 
While a Member one day was speaking and reading documents from all the Colonies to prove that the Public Opinion, the general Sense of all was in favour of the Measure, when he came to North Carolina and produced letters and public proceedings which demonstrated that the Majority of that Colony were in favour of it, Mr. Hews who had hitherto constantly voted against it, started suddenly upright, and lifting up both his Hands to Heaven as if he had been in a trance, cry'd out " It is done ! and I will abide by it." I would give more for a perfect Painting of the terror and horror upon the Faces of the Old Majority at that critical moment than for the best Piece of Raphaelle. 
The Question however was eluded by an immediate Motion for Adjournment. 
The Struggle in [762] 1 Works, X. 35; Mass. 
Hist. 
Soc, Proceedings, XLVIII. 507. 538 Continental Congress Congress was long known abroad. 
Some Members who foresaw that the point would be carried, left the House and went home to avoid voting in the Affirmative or Negative. 
Pennsilvania and New Jersey recalled all their Delegates who had voted against Independence and sent new ones expressly to vote for it. The last debate but one was the most copious and the most animated ; but the Question was now evaded by a Motion to postpone it to another day, some Members however declaring that if the Question should be now demanded, they should now vote for it, but they wished for a day or two more to consider of it. When that day arrived some of the New Members desired to hear the Arguments for and against the Measure. 
When these were summarily recapitulated The Question was put and carried. 
There were no Yeas and Nays in those times. 
A Committee was appointed to draw a Declaration, when reported underwent an Abundance of Criticism and Alteration : but when finally accepted all those Members who had voted against Independence now declared they would sign it and support it