
I. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 
New Jersey Convention.

Philadelphia July 5th. 1776. 
Gentlemen: 

You will perceive, by the enclosed Resolve that the Congress have 
judged it necessary to remove the Prisoners from your Colony to York 
Town in Pennsylvania, and have directed me to request you to carry the 
same into Execution immediately. Their Vicinity to our Enemies, and 
the opportunity of deserting to them, or keeping up a Communication 
dangerous to the Interest of these United States, render this Step not 
only prudent but absolutely necessary.^ 

I do myself the Honour to enclose, in Obedience to the Commands of 
Congress, a copy of the Declaration of Independence, which you will 
please to have proclaimed in your Colony in such a Way and Manner as 
you shall judge best. 

The important Consequences to the American States from this Declara- 
tion of Independence, considered as the Ground and Foundation of a 
future Government, will naturally suggest the Propriety of proclaiming 
it in such a Mode, as that the People may be universally informed of it.* 

2. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren.

Philadelphia, July 5, 1776. 
Dear Sir: 

I have the pleasure to inform you that a determined resolution of the 
Delegates from some of the Colonies to push the question of Indepen- 
dency has had a most happy effect, and, after a day's debate, all the Colo- 
nies, excepting New York, whose Delegates are not empowered to give 
either an affirmative or negative voice," united in a declaration long sought 
for, solicited, and necessary — the Declaration of Independency. 

New York will most probably, on Monday next, when its Convention 
meets for forming a constitution, join in the measure, and then it will 
be entitled The Unanimous Declaration of the Thirteen United 
States of America 

3. John Hancock to William Cooper.

Philadelphia 6 July, 1776 
My dear Sir 

.... I hope we shall be a free and happy people, totally unfetter'd, 
and Releas'd from the Bonds of Slavery. That we may be thus free, 


 

Congress have done, and will still do. more, to promote it. Inclos'd 
voii have the Declaration of Indcpciulence, to which Refer yon. I write 
the Assemhly, and it is the wisii of Conj^rcss the Declaration may he 
proclaim'd in the State of Massachnsetts Bay 

4. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 
George Washington.* 

Philadelphia Jnly 6, 1776. 

Sir 

The Congress, for some Time past, have had their Attention occupied 
by one of the most interesting and important Subjects that could possibly 
come before them ; or any other Assembly of Men. 

Altho it is not possible to foresee the Consequences of Human Actions, 
yet it is nevertheless a Duty we owe ourselves and Posterity, in all our 
public Counsels, to decide in the best Manner we are able, and to leave the 
Event to that Being who controuls both Causes and Events to bring about 
his own determinations. 

Impressed with this Sentiment, and at the same Time fully convinced, 
that our Affairs may take a more favourable Turn the Congress have 
judged it necessary to dissolve the Connection between Great Britain 
and the American Colonies, and to declare them free and independent 
States; as you will perceive by the enclosed Declaration, which I am 
directed to transmit to you, and to request you will have it proclaimed 
at the Head of the Army in the way you shall think most proper.^ .... 

5. Thomas Jefferson to Richard Henry Lee.* 

Philadelphia, July 8, 1776. 
Dear Sir: 

For news, I refer you to your brother, who writes on that head. I 
enclose a copy of the Declaration of Independence, as agreed to by the 
House, and also as originally framed : you will judge whether it is the 
better or worse for the critics. I shall return to Virginia after the nth 
of August. I wish my successor may be certain to come before that time : 

f 4]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 210; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., 1. 32; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), L 256. 

2 To New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and New Hampshire was written 
a letter comprising the last two paragraphs above, plus a third paragraph, identical with 
the last paragraph of the letter to the New Jersey convention, no. i, ante. See Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 33, 1397; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 521, IL 313; N. Y. State 
Lib.. Revolutionary Papers, VII. 371 ; Mass. Arch., CXCIII. 73. The letter to the 
convention of Maryland, dated July 8, is in Arch, of Md., XII. 13, and Scharf, Hist, of 
Md., II. 233. The letter to the Pennsylvania committee of safety, July 5 (Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., I. 12), is differently expressed. The Declaration was proclaimed before 
the army under Washington, July 10. See Washington to the President of Congress, 
July 10, in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 224. and Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 173. Some 
account of the event is in the Pennsylvania Journal. July 17; also in Moore, Diary of the 
Revolution, I. 270. Concerning the reception of the Declaration and its proclamation 
in different parts of the country-, see Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I., passim (index. 
Independence). Cf. no. 12, post. 

[5]^ Writings (ed. Ford), II. 59; Lee, Life of Richard Henry Lee, I. 275; Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., I. 118. 



July, 1176 3 

in that case, I shall hope to see you, and not Wythe, in Convention, that 
the business of Government, which is of everlasting concern, may receive 
your aid.^ 

6. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to Horatio Gates/ 

Philadelphia, July 8th, 1776. 
Sir: 

The Congress being informed by Letter from General Schuyler to 
General Washington, which was laid before them at the Request of the 
former and by your own Consent, that a difference of Opinion had arisen 
between General Schuyler and yourself with Regard to the Command of 
the Army in the Northern Department, they immediately took the Matter 
into Consideration, and have this Day come to the enclosed Resolution, 
which I do myself the Honour of transmitting in Obedience to their 
Commands. 

You will there preceive, that Congress are of Opinion your Command 
was totally independent of Genl. Schuyler, while the Army was in Canada, 
but no longer and indeed, the Terms in which the Resolve, relative to 
your Appointment, is conceived, seem to shew that this was their Inten- 
tion. You were expressly, by that Resolve, to take the Command of the 
Troops in Canada; Words, which strongly imply, that they had no 
Design to divest Genl. Schuyler of the Command while the Troops were 
on this side Canada. I am however to inform you, that Congress highly 
approve your Resolution and Magnanimity that the public Service should 
receive no Detriment from any Difference of Opinion on the Occasion. 
It is their most earnest Desire, you will go on to act in the same Manner, 
and cultivate Harmony in all your military Operations. A good Under- 
standing and mutual Confidence are so essentially necessary in Order to 
give Success to our Measures, that I am convinced, they will take Place 
on all Occasions between you. 

He deserves most of his Country, and will undoubtedly meet with the 
greatest applause, in whatever Rank or Station he may be, who renders 
her the most useful and signal Services.^ 

2 In a letter to Edmund Pendleton, of which only a fragment, without date, exists, 
Jefferson says : " I am sorry the situation of my domestic affairs renders it indispensably 
necessary that I should solicit the substitution of some other person here in my room. 
.... I would not urge it again were it not unavoidable. I shall with cheerfulness 
continue my duty here till the expiration of our year by which time I hope it will be 
convenient for my successor to attend" {Writings, ed. Ford, II. 6i). The end of the 
delegation year was Aug. 11. See the Virginia credentials, the Journals, Aug. 28. As 
Richard Henry Lee was given a committee appointment Aug. 27, he probably attended 
on that day. Jefferson left Philadelphia Sept. 2. 

L6]i N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, VI.; Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 
220; Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, I. il. 

2 See the Journals, July 8. Schuyler's letter to Washington, dated July i, and a 
record of a conversation between Schuyler and Gates, dated June 30, are in Force, Am. 
Arch., fourth sen, VI. 1199, 1202, and also ibid., VI. 1266-1269. Washington's letter in 
which they were enclosed is ibid., VI. 1264. They were read in Congress July 6. A 
letter similar to this was written on the same day to Schuyler, ibid., fifth sen, I. 115. 
See also Hancock to Washington, same date, ibid., I. 115; and Gates to Congress, and 
to Washington, July 16, ibid., I. 375, 2>7^. Cf. nos. 18, 75, post. 



Continental Congress 



JS' 



7. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston/ 

Philadelphia, July 8th, 1776. 
Dear Sir 

.... I received a Letter from your Committee of Secrecy War and 
iiitellig-ence respect iui,'- the e.xpediency of Fortifying- the harbour of Cape 
Lookout.- I laid the matter before a Committee ^ of Cong:ress appointed 
to consider what i)laces were proper to be I'Ortifyed but before they con- 
sider and make report thereon it is absolutely Necessary they should 
have a plan or Map of the harbour with proper e.\i)lanations and dis- 
criptions. These should be taken by an engineer on the spot who should 
form a plan of the Fortilications necessary to be made and the expence 
that would attend it. I have wrote to Mr. Harnett twice on the subject 
but as I have reason to believe many Letters Miscarry I now mention the 
matter to you, in hopes you will endeavour to prevail on the Council of 
Safety to get the matter done as early as possible. I find a disposition in 
most of the Members of Congress to grant to our Province all that can be 
reasonably expected, it is not in their power to assist us at present with 
Cannon, but as several Forges are beginning- to Cast twelve and eighteen 
pounders I hope towards Winter they will not only have it in their power 
but be heartily disposed to assist us with some heavy pieces to put into 
such places as may be thought ^lost advisable. This is all you can expect, 
it is all that is done in the like cases, the works must be done At your 
ow'n expence or by such Continental Troops as may be in the province for 
the time being. I give you this as my opinion, perhaps tliey may do 
more for our Province, it stands high in Rank, and high in estimation. 
I wish it may be able to support its good character in future 

My friend Penn came time enough to give his vote for independance. 
I send you the declaration inclosed, all the Colonies voted for it except 
New York, that Colony was prevented from Joining in it by an old 
Instruction. Their Convention meets this da}'^ and it is expected they will 
follow the example of the other Colonies.* 

I had the weight of North Carolina on my shoulders within a day or 
two of three months, the service w^as too severe. I have sat some days 
from Six in the morning till five, and sometimes Six in the afternoon 
without eating or drinking. My health was bad, such close attention 
made it worse, I nevertheless obstinately persisted in doing my duty to 
the best of my Judgment and abilities and attended Congress the whole 
time, one day only excepted, this I did contrary to the repeated solicita- 
tions of my friends, some of whom I believe thought I should not be able 
to keep Soul and body together 'till this time, duty, inclination and self 
preservation call on me now to make a little excursion in the Country to 

[7]! Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 720; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 117; North 
Carolina Booklet, vol. IV., no. 5, p. 32. 

2 This letter has not been found. The committee was first styled " Committee of 
Secrecy, Intelligence, and Observation " ; once " Committee of Secrecy, War, and 
Correspondence ". See A'. C. Col. Recs., X. 507. 519, 527. 544, XI. 293-297. 

3 This committee made a partial report June 24. Cf. ibid., X. 354, 443, 590, 

* See vol. I. of these Letters, no. 752 ; also no. 2, ante, and nos. 10, 18, 21, post. 



July, 1776 6 

see my mother, this is a duty which I have not allowed my self to per- 
form during almost nine months tiiat I have been here. 

.... we are endeavouring to get the Lakes fortified in the best 
manner we can to prevent Burgoyne from passing tliem and entering the 
Colonies on that side.'^ 

A paper has been privately laid on the Congress Table importing that 
some dark designs were forming for our distruction, and advising us to 
take care of ourselves, some were for examining the Cellars under the 
Room where we set.*^ I was against it and urged that we ought to treat 
such information with Contempt and not show any marks of fear or 
Jealousy. I told some of them I had almost as soon be blown up as to 
discover to the world that I thought my self in danger, no notice has 
been taken of this piece of information which I think is right 

8. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia, July 8, 1776. 
My dear Sir: 

Yours of the 24th ultimo I liave received. It grieved me that the 
frigates cannot be got to sea, which I am sensible they might before this, 
had proper attention been paid to cannon in season. I have been a long 
time endeavouring to draw the attention of the Committee to the regula- 
tion of the Navy, but hitherto without success. The present establish- 
ment certainly needs amendment, but business is so exceedingly pressing 
that it is impossible to form a judgment when it will be done 

I must refer you to the papers for news, as time just now is very* 
precious. The Declaration will no doubt give you pleasure. It will be 
published next Thursday at the head of the Army at New York.^ I am 
told it is to be published this day in form in this city.^ .... 

[P. S.] I hope you will take care that the Declaration is properly 
treated.* .... 



9. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of 

New Hampshire.^ 

Philadelphia 9th July, 1776. 
Sir 

Your highly Esteem'd favour of the 18 Ulto inclosing Instructions to 
join with the other Colonies in Declaring these United Colonies, Free 

5 See the Journals, July 11 (p. 542). 

6 An allusion to the Gunpowder Plot (1605), and the subsequent practice of search- 
ing the cellars of the Parliament building for explosives. It is not known what this 
paper was. 

[8]i Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. I. 118. 

2 Thursday was the nth. The Declaration was proclaimed before the army on 
the loth. See no. 4, note 2, ante, and no. 9, post. 
2 See nos. 9, 12, note 2, post. 
* See Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 381, 427. 
[g]! Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1074, item 51; Force Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 136. 



 

and Intlependent States, came very Seasonably to hand.'* as we were so 
happy as to agree in sentiment with our Constituents it gave us the 
greater Pleasure to concur with the Delegates of the other Colonies in 
the inclos'd Declaration, which was Yesterday puhlish'd in form in this 
City, and is to be Publish'd at the Head of the Army at New York next 
Thursday.' 

A plan of Confederation is now forming, which when finished will be 
transmited to each Colony for their aprobation. 

Major Rogers (whose Conduct, it seems, was suspicious) was taken up 
some time since by order of General Washington, and sent under Guard 
to this City. He requested leave to go to England, by way of the West 
Indies but Congress not thinking it proper, have directed him to be sent 
to New Hampshire, to be dispos'd of as the Authority there shall think 
Best.* 

We have the Honour to be with Great Respect, 

Your Most obt Servts, 
JosiAH Bartlett, 
Wm. Whipple. 
Colo. Weare. 



lo. The South Carolina Delegates to the President of 

South Carolina.^ 

Philadelphia 9th July 1776 
Sir 

Inclosed are the Resolutions of Congress respecting our Provincial 
Forces ^ We wish they may be agreeable to your Excellency to our 
Assembly and to the officers of our Army if they are not there is nothing 
compulsory in them Congress would not strictly comply with the Request 
we were ordered to make on this Subject lest they should establish a Pre- 
cedent which might be injurious to the General Interest of America. We 
have therefore been obliged to vary our application and to adopt such 
Resolutions as seemed most conformable to the Intentions of our Congress 
and most likely to give Satisfaction to the Of^cers of our Army. 

Inclosed also are some other occasional Resolutions of Congress and 
a very important Declaration which the King of Great-Britain has at last 
reduced us to the necessity of making, all the colonies were united upon 
this great Subject except New- York whose Delegates were restrained by 
an Instruction given several ]\Ionths ago. their Convention is to meet in 
a few days when it is expected that Instruction will be immediately with- 

- The letter and instructions are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 1029-1030. 
3 See no. 8, ante. 

* See the Journals, July i. 6. Washington to Congress, June 27 (Force, Am. Arch., 
fourth ser., VI. 1108), Hancock to Washington, July i (ibid., fifth ser., I. i), and no. 19, 
post. See also vol. I. of these Letters, no. 289, note 5. 

[10]^ MS. Journal of the South Carolina General Assembly, 1776, p. 116 (copy); 
Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXVI. 71 (copy) ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., 
III. 7. 

- See the Journals, June 18; cf. ibid.. May 20, 25, 29. 



July, 1 7 yd 7 

drawn and the Declaration unanimously agreed to by the Thirteen United 
States of America.^ 

We have procured an Order from Congress for Three Hundred Thou- 
sand Dollars for the Payment and Disbursments of our Troops which will 
be forwarded to you as soon as possible. Congress have also given Direc- 
tions to the Commanding officer in Virginia about a Fortnight ago to 
send forward Five Thousand Pounds of Gun Powder to our Colony.* 

• • • • 

With the greatest Respect we are 

Your Excellency's Most obedient Servants 

Thomas Lynch 
Edward Rutledge 
Arthur Middleton 
Thomas Heyward junior 
Thomas Lynch junior. 
His Excellency John Rutledge Esquire. 

II. Abraham Clark to Samuel Tucker.^ 

Philadelphia July 9th 1776. 
Sir, 

Your Letter of the 6th Inst : wherein you mention the want of Ammu- 
nition was yesterday before Congress. Upon Motion of your Delegates 
four Tons were Ordered to be sent immediately, on Continental Acct for 
the use of the Militia who March out to guard the Province untill the 
Flying Camp is formed, or for the use of the flying Camp if not expended 
before they take the field." I have the Pleasure to Assure you Congress 
pay particular Attention to the Defence of New Jersey, and hitherto have 
denied us nothing which we have Asked for that Purpose— they look 
upon our Province in great danger of being ravaged by the Enemy, and 
it is hoped you will not esteem it so far free from danger as to make your 
Continuing together unnecessary 

12. John Adams to Samuel Chase.^ 

Philadelphia, 9 July, 1776. 

Yours of the 5th came to me the 8th. You will see by this post, that 
the river is passed, and the bridge cut away. The Declaration was yester- 
day published and proclaimed from that awful stage in the State-house 
yard; by whom, do you think? By the Committee of Safety, the Com- 
mittee of Inspection, and a great crowd of people. Three cheers rended 

^ Cf. nos. 2, 7, ante. The affirmative action of the New York convention was 
taken July 9. See Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 515-518; also the Journals, July 15, and 
nos. 18, 21, post. 

* See the Journals, June 15, 21. 
[ii]i Me. Hist. Soc, Signers of the Declaration, I.: N. E. Hist, and Geneal. Register, 
XXX. 314. 

2 See the Journals, July 8. The New Jersey letter of July 6, accompanied by a 
subsequent note of the same date, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 2>7- Cf. ibid., p. 346. 
[i2]'^Works, IX. 420; Biddle, Old Family Letters, p. 8. 

6 



 

the welkin. 'JMie hattali<nis paraded on the Common, and pave us the 
feu dc joic, notwithstandinp^ the scarcity of powder. The hells rang all 
day and almost all nijj^ht. Kven the chimcrs chimed away." .... 

As soon as an American seal is prepared," I conjecture the I)eclarati(-)n 
will he suhscrihed by all the members, which will pfive you the ojjportunity 
you wish for, of transmitting your name among the votaries of inde- 
pendence.* .... 

Your mention last fall for sendini^ ambassadors to France with condi- 
tional instructions, was murdered; terminating in a committee of secret 
correspondence, which came to nothing.'' .... 

13. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 
George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia July loth. 1776. 

The enclosed Letter from Mr. Ephraim Anderson, I am directed to 
transmit by Order of Congress. 

As Mr. Anderson appears to be an ingenious Man, and proposes to 
destroy the British Fleet at New York, tlie Congress are willing to give 
him an opportunity of trying the Experiment, and have therefore thought 
proper to refer him to you. 

The Event only can shew whether his Scheme is visionary or practic- 
able. Should it be attended with Success, (and the very Chance of it is 
sufficient to justify the Attempt) the infinite Service to the American 
States arising therefrom, cannot be described. Or should it fail, our 
Situation will be, in every Respect the same as before." .... 

2 See Christopher Marshall's Diary, July 6, 8 ; Pa. Col. Rccs., X. 635 ; and Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 119. 

3 See the Journals, July 4, Aug. 20; also Adams's letter to his wife, Aug. 14, no. 
77, post. 

* The editor of John Adams's Works quotes from the letter of Chase to which 
Adams is replying: "I hope ere this time the decisive blow is struck. Oppression, 
inhumanity, and perfidy have compelled us to it. Blessed be men who effect the work! 
I en\-y you. How shall I transmit to posterity that I gave my assent? " Cf. no. 31, post, 
and see the Journals, July 19, Aug. 2. In regard to the signing of the Declaration, see 
vol. I. of these Letters, no. 758. 

5 The committee of secret correspondence was appointed Nov. 29, 1775. Chase 
was then absent (see the Journals, Nov. 27). The suggestion that the committee had 
done nothing is not quite correct. See vol. I. of these Letters, nos. 277, 39i. 534. 535. 546, 
and Wharton. Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 63, 64, etc. Cf. the Journals, Dec. 11, 1775, Jan. 26, 30, 
May 10, 18. July 9, 1776. It would appear from this statement of Adams that it was 
Chase's motion that led to the appointment of the committee of secret correspondence. 
See no. 18, post. 

[13]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, X. 179; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., I. 155. 

2 See the Journals. July 10, 22; also no. 14, post. Anderson's letter, dated July 9, 
proposing to destroy the British fleet by means of fire-ships, is in the Library of Congress, 
Letters to Washington, X. 181, and in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 155, See also his 
letters to the President of Congress, July 19, 31, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 451, 692, 
and Washington's letters to Congress, July 14, 27, ibid., fifth ser., I. 329, 620. Cf. ibid., 
I. 983 ; also Read, Life of George Read, p. 154. It was probably Ephraim Anderson who, 
over the signature "A", Nov. 4. 1775, proposed to the New York committee of safety 
a scheme for the destruction of British vessels. See Force, Am, Arch., fourth ser.. III. 
1351. 1757- On July 11 the Pennsylvania committee of safety sent Captain Hazlewood 



July, 1776 9 

14. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

PiiiLADA. July nth. 1776. 
Sir 

.... Agreeable to the Resolve herewith transmitted, I have enclosed 
Mr. Anderson's Letter to you, and wrote you on the Subject. He will 
present you the Letter himself.' 

The Postmaster having- established a double Post in Obedience to the 
Resolve of Congress, a Post will, after Monday next, leave New York 
every Morning, subject however to be detained, or hastened whenever 
you think the Publick Service requires it.' .... 

15. Thomas Stone to the Maryland Council of Safety.^ 

Phila July 1 2th 1776. 
Gent. 

Yours by Capt. Strieker was this morning delivered to me, and I shall 
pay particular attention to its contents, tho I much fear our endeavour 
to procure an Engineer to suit your purpose will not be successful. Every 
man who ever fired a Cannon or was present at erecting any kind of 
fortification has been taken up for the Continental Service 

Capt. Strieker will I think be appointed a field Officer in the German 
Battalion, for which I have no doubt but he is well qualified from what 
I have heard of him.^ .... 

16. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia, July 13, 1776. 
Sir: 

I am to acknowledge the Receipt of your Favour of the loth Inst. ; and 
to acquaint you that it is now under the Consideration of Congress.^ 

The enclosed Resolves I do myself the Honour to transmit, as necessary 
for your Information. I have wrote to General Schuyler, and the Com- 
missioners for Indian Affairs respecting the same. 

to Washington with a similar object. See ibid., fifth ser., I. 186; cf. ibid., pp. 337, 338, 
601, 728, 1454, 1548, 1556. About the same time Joseph Belton offered his services for 
the same purpose. See Franklin's letter of July 22, no. 33, post. Cf. vol. I. of these 
Letters, no. 340, note 2, where several other projects are mentioned. Some account of 
the work of the fire-ships is found in a monograph by Reginald P. Bolton, The Bombard- 
ment of New York. 

[14]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, X. 184; Force. Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., I. 185. 

2 See no. 13, ante. 

3 Cf. the Journals, July 5. 

[i!^Y Arch, of Md., XIL 35; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 219. 

2 The council's letter, dated July 7, is in Arch, of Md., XIL 12. Capt. George 
Strieker was made lieutenant-colonel of a German regiment, July 17. Cf. Stone and 
Paca to the council, July 22, ibid., XIL 93; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 492. 

[ 16] 1 Furnished by the courtesy of Mr. James H. Manning, of Albany; Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., I. 253. 

2 Washington's letter of July 10 is in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 224, and Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 173. Together with Washington's letters of July 11 and 12, it 
was referred to the board of war July 15. 



 

In obctlience to the Comniatids of Conprcss. I have enclosed you two 
Copies of sundry Resolves they have passed, relative to the Treatment of 
our Prisoners by Captain l'\)Ster in Canada. I am to request you will 
take the proper Steps to send one of them to (leneral Howe, and the other 
to Genl. Burgfoyne. I transmit also a third copy for your own use.' 

Should the United States of America give tiieir Sanction to the Jesuiti- 
cal and villanous Distinction which Cajjtain lH)Stcr adopts to justify his 
Conduct, there would he no End to butchering our Prisoners. They have 
thereft)rc very properly reprobated it, and in the genuine Spirit of Free- 
dom, resolved, that such Cruelty as shall be inllicted on Pri.soners in their 
Possession, by Savages or Foreigners taken into Pay by the King of 
Great Britain, shall l3e considered as done by his Orders, and Recourse 
be immediately had to Retaliation. It is to be hoped this Determination 
will have the desired Effect; and that for the future, such barbarous 
Scenes will never be acted under the Eye and Approbation of a British 
•Officer. I say, under the Approbation of a British Officer : For there is 
the greatest Reason to believe, that Captain Foster engaged the Indians 
to join him, on the express Condition of giving up to them all such 
Prisoners as might fall into his Hands. His subsequent Conduct indeed 
renders this Conjecture more than probable. 

I o'clock P. M. This Moment your Favour per Post of the nth 
Inst, came to Hand. I shall lay it before Congress on Monday Morning.* 

17. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton.^ 

Eliz*. Town July 14th. 1776. 
My Dear friend, 

.... I continued at Phila. till thursday last when I returned home- 
ward, We having first Obtained of Congress all the Assistance they could 
afford for our Province. Near half the Militia of Pennsyla. Chearfully 
offered to March to the Aid of this Province and indeed, their Ardour 
was such Congress was Obliged to stop part of the Militia of Phila. or 
the City would have been left wholly defenceless." .... 

Our Declaration of Independance I dare say you have seen, a few weeks 
will probably determine our fate — perfect freedom, or Absolute Slavery — 
to some of us freedom or a halter.^ .... 

' See the Journals, July lo. The original report of the committee on the cartel 
entered into between General Arnold and Capt. George Forster is in the Journals (ed. 
Ford), June 17. See also ibid., June 6, 16, 20, 24. Concerning the affair at the Cedars, 
see Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser.. VI. 576, 587, 589-592, 598-600, fifth ser., I. 158-169, 398, 
1 103, 1 1 67- 1 168. 

* Subsequently Washington's letter of July 12 arrived, in consequence of which 
Congress was called together on Sunday, and both letters were laid before them. The 
letters are in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 237, 242, and, with enclosures, in Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., I. 188, 223. See also note 2, above. 

[17]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1590, Declaration of Independence. Addressed. 
" To Elias Dayton Esquire. Colonel of a battalion of Jersey Troops, at the German 
Flatts ". 

- See the Journals, July 3, 6. ir. the letter from the New Jersey congress, July 9, 
in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 138, sundry letters, July 6, ibid., I. 37-38, and Hancock 
to the N'ew Jersey convention, July 15, ibid., I. 346 (original in N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers 
Coll., Distinguished Americans, p. 801). 

3 Cf. Clark to Dayton, July 4. vol. I. of these Letters, no. 757. 



July, 1776 11 

18. Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

PhiladelphiaJuly 15 1776 

My dear Sir 

.... The Truth is, I hardly know how to write without saying some- 
thing of our Canadian Afifairs ; and this is a Subject so thoroughly morti- 
fying to me, that I could wish totally to forget all that has past in that 
Country. Let me however just mention to you that Schuyler and Gates 
are to command the Troops to be employ'd there ; the former, while they 
are without, and the latter, while they are within the Bounds of Canada.^ 
Admitting both these Generals to have the military Accomplishments of 
Marlborough and Eugene, I cannot conceive that such a Disposition of 
them can be attended with any happy Effects, unless Harmony subsists 
between them. Alass! I fear this is not the Case — Already Disputes 
have arisen, which they have referrd to Congress! And though they 
appear to treat each other with a Politeness becoming their Rank, in my 
Mind, Altercations between Commanders who have Pretensions so nearly 
equal, I mean in Point of Command, forebode a Repetition of Misfor- 
tunes. I sincerely wish my Apprehensions may prove to be ground- 
less 

Our Declaration of Independency has given Vigor to the Spirits of the 
People. Had this decisive Measure been taken Nine Months ago, it is 
my opinion that Canada would at this time have been in our hands.^ But 
what does it avail to find fault with what is past. Let us do better for the 
future. We were more fortunate than expected in having 12 of the 13 
Colonies in favor of the all important Question. The Delegates of N. 
York were not impowered to give their Voice on either Side. Their Con- 
vention has since acceeded to the Declaration and publishd it even before 
they received it from Congress.* .... 

A Plan for Confederation has been brot into Congress wch I hope 
will be speedily digested and made ready to be laid before the several 
States for their approbation.^ A Committee has now under Consideration 
the Business of foreign Alliance. 

It is high time for us to have Ambassadors in foreign Courts. I fear 
we have already suffered too much by Delay. You know upon whom our 
Thoughts were turnd when you was with us.^ .... 

[i8]i Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Gushing), III. 296; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., I. 347. 

~ See no. 6, ante. 

^ Cf. John Adams to Mrs. Adams, July 3, vol. I. of these Letters, no. 755. 

* See nos. 2, 7, 10, ante, and no. 21, post. " Our Declaration of Independence has 
already been attended with good Effects. It is fortunate beyond our Expectation to have 
the Voice of every Colony in favor of so important a Question." Samuel Adams to 
James Warren, July 16, Writings (ed. Gushing), III. 299. 

^ See Richard Henry Lee's resolutions, the Journals, June 7. The resolutions to 
appoint committees on the confederation and treaties with foreign powers were passed 
June II, the committees appointed June 12. Francis Hopkinson was added to the 
confederation committee June 28. The draft of the Articles of Gonfederation was 
reported July 12. Cf. the Journals, July 21, 1775, and see John Adams's Notes of Debates, 
July 25, 26, 30, Aug. I, 2, in the Journals, VI. 1076-1083, and Jefferson's Notes, ibid., VI. 
I 098- II 06. 

^ See the Journals, June 7, 11, 12. A plan of treaties was brought in July 18. 
Cf. vol. I. of these Letters, nos. 687, 690, 727, 744, and no. 12, ante ; see no. 26, note 2, post. 



 

19. JosiAii Bartlett to John Langdon/ 

Philadelphia, July 15, 1776. 
Afy dear Sir: 

Yours of the ist instant is now hcfore me, and I am ohlic^ed to you for 
your intelligence. The alTair of the agency you have heard is settled, and 
in your favour, and I hope another Delegate will be appointed to attend 
Congress, as you have resigned.' .... 

Major Rogers was taken up by order of General Washington, and 
having your letters of recommendation to us, the General ordered him to 
Congress to be examined ; and though no absolute proof was made of hi^ 
ill designs, his conduct appeared so very suspicious that he was ordered 
to be sent to New Hampshire, to be disposed of by our Legislature ; but 
before he was sent off, he found means to make his escape, and has not 
been retaken yet.' 

The Colony of New York have fully acceded to the Declaration of 
Independence, so that it now has the sanction of the Thirteen United 
States. The unparalleled conduct of our enemies have united the Colonies 
more firmly than ever.* .... 

20. Robert Treat Paine to Henry Knox.^ 

Philadelphia July i6th 1776 
Dear Sr. 

the Approach of the Enemy has rendered it necessary to find some 
other place to cast brass Cannon than yr Air Furnace; this Colony are 
about Setting up an Air Furnace for that Purpose, but the Congress I 
believe will employ Mr Byers if it be found practicable, and he will make 
a reasonable bargain.* .... 

21. John Alsop to the New York Convention.^ 

Philadelphia, July 16, 1776. 
Honourable Gentlemen: 

Yesterday our President read in Congress a resolve of your honourable 
body, dated the 9th instant, in which you declare New York a free and 

[ig]! Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, I. 348. 

2 See vol. I. of these Letters, nos. 729, 738. 

3 See no. 9, ante. 

* See the Journals, July 15 ; cf. no. 18, note 4, ante. 

[20] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Knox Papers, II. 161. Addressed to "Henry Knox, Esq. 
Col of Artillery at New York". 

- Paine was a member of the cannon committee, appointed Jan. 15. Cf. the 
Journals, June 17 (p. 453), July 19 (p. 593). 22; also vol. I. of these Letters, no. 483, 
and no. 35, post. The succeeding part of this letter relates to Byers and the casting of 
cannon. A previous letter from Paine to Knox, June 20, on the same subject, is in the 
Knox Papers, II. 103, and one from Gerry to Knox, July 23, is ihid., II. 169. Concerning 
the contract with James Byers, see no. 310, post. About the same time Daniel Hughes of 
Maryland was seeking a contract for the casting of cannon. See Arch, of Md., XII. 40; 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 219. 

[2i]i Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 1428, 368; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 536; N. Y. 
State Lib., Minutes of the Committee of Safety, VI. 117 (copy). 



July, 1776 13 

independent State." I can't help saying that I was much surprised to find 
it come through that channel. The usual method hitherto practised has 
been for the Convention of each Colony to give their Delegates instruc- 
tions to act and vote upon all and any important questions. And from 
the last letter we were favoured with from your body, you told us that 
you were not competent or authorized to give us instructions on that 
grand question ; ' nor have you been pleased to answer our letter of the 
2d instant, any otherwise than by your said resolve transmitted to the 
President. I think we were entitled to an answer. 

I am compelled, therefore, to declare, that it is against my judgment 
and inclination. As long as a door was left open for a reconciliation with 
Great Britain upon honourable and just terms, I was willing and ready 
to render my country all the service in my power, and for which purpose 
I was appointed and sent to this Congress ; but as you have, I presume, 
by that declaration, closed the door of reconciliation, I must beg leave 
to resign my seat as a Delegate from New York, and that I may be 
favoured with an answer and my dismission. 

I have the honour to be, gentlemen, your most obedient, humble servant, 

John Alsop. 

22, The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 

Massachusetts Assembly.^ 

Philadelphia July i6th 1776. 
Honhle Gentlemen, 

Since I had the Honour of addressing you, on the fourth of June, at 
which Time I transmitted sundry Resolves of Congress requesting you 
to call forth your Militia, our Aflfairs have assumed a much more serious 
Complexion.^ If we turn our Attention towards the Northern Depart- 
ment, we behold an Army reduced by Sickness, and obliged to flee before 
an Enemy of vastly superior Force. If we cast our Eyes to Head- 
Quarters, we see the British Army reinforced under Lord Howe, and 
ready to strike a Blow, which may be attended with the most fatal Con- 
sequences, if not timely resisted. The Situation of our Country at this 
Season, calls therefore for all the Vigour and Wisdom among us ; and if 
we do not mean to desert her at this alarming Crisis, it is high Time to 
rouse every Spark of Virtue; and forgetting all inferior Considerations, 
to exert ourselves in a Manner becoming Freemen. 

The Intelligence received this Day from General Washington, points 
out the absolute, the indispensible Necessity of sending forward all the 

2 See the letter of the New York delegates, July 2, vol. I. of these Letters, no. 752, 
and note 2; also nos. 2, 7, 10, 18, ante, and the Journals, July 15. The proceedings of 
the New York convention on this letter, July 22, are in Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 536, 
537, and Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 1429, 1431. See also nos. 61, 79, post. 

3 The letter referred to, dated June 11, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 814; 
cf. Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 490. See vol. I. of these Letters, nos. 688, 714. 

[22]! Mass. Arch. CXCV. iii; Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 239; 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 367; id. to New Jersey, Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., 
Signers, I. 12; Smith, Am. Hist, and Lit. Curiosities, second ser., pi. ix. 
2 See vol. I. of these Letters, no. 682. 



 

Troops that can possibly be collected, to streng-thcn both the Army in 
New York, and that on this Side of Canada.^ 1 do therefore, once more, 
in the Name and bv the Authority of Congress, retjuest and beseecii you, 
as you regard the Liberties of your Country, and the Happiness of Pos- 
terity ; and as you stand engaged, by the most solemn Ties of Honour, to 
support the Common Cause, to strain every Nerve to send forward your 
Militia, agreeably to the former Requisitions of Congress. This is a Step 
of such infinite Moment, that, in all Human Pro1)a1)ility, it will be the 
Salvation of America, and, as it is the only effectual Stej), that can possibly 
be taken, at this Juncture, you will suffer me again, most ardently to 
entreat your speedy Compliance with it. In short, the Critical Period is 
arrived, that will seal the Fate not only of ourselves, but of Posterity. 
Whether they shall arise the generous Heirs of Freedom, or the dastardly 
Slaves of imperious Task-Masters, it is in your Power now to determine ; 
and I am sure, as freemen, you will not hesitate a moment about the 
Choice. 

Honble Assembly of Massachusetts Bay.* 



2^. Thomas Jefferson to Patrick Henry. ^ 

PhiladelphiaJuly i6, 1776. 

Sir 

.... Several vacancies having happened in our battalions, we are 
unable to have them filled for want of a list of the officers stating their 
seniority. We must beg the favor of you to furnish us with one. We 
received from Colo R. H. Lee a resolution of Convention recommending 
us to endeavor that the promotions of the officers be according to seniority 
without regard to regiments or companies this is the standing rule of 
promotion.' in one instance indeed the Congress have reserved to them- 
selves a right of departing from seniority ; that is where a person either 
out of the line of command, or in an inferior part of it has displayed 
eminent talents, most of the general officers have been promoted in this 
way. without this reservation the whole continent must have been sup- 
plied with general officers from the Eastern colonies where a large army 
was formed and officered before any other colony had occasion to raise 
troops at all and a number of experienced, able and valuable officers must 
have been lost to the public merely from the locality of their situation. 



3 The letter of Washington which was read July 16 is that of July 14, Writings 
(ed. Ford), IV. 247; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 329. But see his letters of July 11 
and 12, ibid., I. 188, 223 ; Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 237, 242; see also the Journals, July 14, 
16, and no. 27, post. 

* Identical letters were sent also to Connecticut and New Jersey. 
[23]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, fifth ser., IX. 72 (draft); Works 
(Memorial ed.), IV. 263. 

- The resolve of the Virginia convention, July 5, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth 
ser., VI. 1613. Cf. no. 59, post. 



July, 1776 15 

24. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the New 

Jersey Convention/ 

Philadelphia July 19, 1776. 

Gentlemen: 

The Congress being informed that there is a large Quantity of Stock 
on the Sea Coast of your Colony, which are much exposed to the Incur- 
sions of the Enemy; and that many of the Proprietors of them, actuated 
by Motives of Interest, or disaffected to the Cause of their Country, would 
be glad to dispose of them to the Enemy, I am ordered to forward to you 
the enclosed Resolution, and earnestly recommend it to you to cause the 
Stock to be removed back into the Country to a place of Safety.^ 



25. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the New 

Jersey Convention.^ 

Philadelphia July 19th, 1776. 

Gentlemen: 

I have only time to acquaint you that a Letter from your Agent to Mr. 
Kinsey was read in Congress ; in Consequence of which, I am desired to 
forward you the enclosed Resolve; and enclose you Copies of Lord 
Howe's Letter and Declaration, which require no Comment. I am to 
inform you that Congress wish to know by what Means that Letter to 
Mr. Kinsey reached his Hands, and am to desire you will take every 
Method to prevent any Communication with the Enemy from your 
Colony. This I have in Charge most earnestly to recommend to you, and 
beg your immediate Attention to it.' .... 

[24]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 246 (first letter) ; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth sen, I. 440. 

2 See the Journals, July 17. Cf. the action of the New York convention, July 11, 
17, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 1398, 1414. 

[25]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, IV. 246 (second letter) ; Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., I. 440. 

2 See the Journals, July 18, 19, 20, and no. 28, post. The letter to Mr. ICinsey, 
evidently among the numerous letters read on July 18, was from Dennis De Berdt, then 
agent of New Jersey in England. A similar, if not identical, letter to Joseph Reed 
(brother-in-law of De Berdt), dated May 3, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. ^l'^- 
See Joseph Reed's letter to Mrs. Reed, July 16, to Robert Morris, July 18, James Kinsey 
to Samuel Tucker, July 19, Tucker to the President of Congress, July 20, ihid., I. 2>7^> 
'415, 469, 468, respectively, and Morris to Reed, July 21, no. 30, post. Concerning the 
communications from Lord Howe, see Washington's letters to Congress, July 14, 15, 
Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 247, 258, and Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 329, 350, and 
Reed to Pettit (extract), July 15, ibid., I. 352. Lord Howe's circular letter to the 
governors and his declaration, both dated June 20, are ibid., fourth ser., VI. looi. See 
also Howe's letter to Lord George Germain, Aug. 11, ibid., fifth ser., I. 895. A letter 
from Howe to Franklin, June 20 (the date of the circular letter and declaration), 
IS ibid., fourth ser., VI. 1000; Franklin's reply, July 21 (see the Journals, July 20), is 
ibid., fifth ser., I. 482; Howe's reply, Aug. 16, is ibid., I. 979; Franklin's reply to this is 
ibid., II. 234. The letters are in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 98, 103, iii, 136. The 
correspondence is also found in Franklin's Writings (ed. Smyth), VI. 457-466. See also 
no. 88, post. In regard to the conference between Lord Howe and a committee of 
Congress, see no. 102, note 2, post. 



 

26. Samuel Chase to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philadelphia, July 19th. 1776 
Aly Dear Sir, 

.... Our Confederation, and plan of a forcig'n Treaty engages all 
our attention.' I am afraid our military Operations have been too much 
neglected 

I am anxious to know the Situation of our AfTairs with You. on our 
Return We informed Congress of the abuses and Misconduct, the want 
of Discipline and the Condition of the Army, and our observations and 
the Methods to be adopted to remedy in some Measure the Grievances, 
and to defend the Entrance into these Colonies, if expelled Canada, which 
We then suspected would happen.^ .... 

[a6]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 248. 

2 On June 12, in accordance with a resolution of the day before, Congress appointed 
a committee to prepare a plan of foreign treaties. The committee brought in a report 
July 18. The plan as reported is printed in the Journals, under that date; as amended 
it is found in the Journals, under Sept. 17. See no. 18, note 6, ante, and the Journals, 
July 20, Aug. 22, 27, 29, Sept. 17, 24, 26. Concerning the work of the committee, John 
Adams says in his Autobiography: 

" The committee for preparing the model of a treaty to be proposed to France, 
consisted of Mr. Dickinson, Mr. Franklin, Mr. John Adams, Mr. Harrison, and Mr. 
Robert Morris. When we met to deliberate on the subject, I contended for the same 
principles which I had before avowed and defended in Congress, namely, that we should 
avoid all alliance which might embarrass us in after times, and involve us in future 
European wars ; that a treaty of commerce which would operate as a repeal of the 
British acts of navigation so far as respected us, and admit France into an equal partici- 
pation of the benefits of our commerce, would encourage her manufactures, increase 
her exports of the produce of her soil and agriculture, extend her navigation and trade, 
augment her resources of naval power, raise her from her present deep humiliation, 
distress, and decay, and place her on a more equal footing with England, for the pro- 
tection of her foreign possessions; and maintaining her independence at sea, would be 
an ample compensation to France for acknowledging our independence, and for furnish- 
ing us, for our money, or upon credit for a time, with such supplies of necessaries as 
we should want, even if this conduct should involve her in a war ; if a war should ensue, 
which did not necessarily follow, for a bare acknowledgment of our independence, after 
we had asserted it, was not by the law of nations an act of hostility, which would be a 
legitimate cause of war. Franklin, although he was commonly as silent on committees 
as in Congress, upon this occasion, ventured so far as to intimate his concurrence with 
me in these sentiments ; though, as will be seen hereafter, he shifted them as easily as 
the wind ever shifted, and assumed a dogmatical tone in favor of an opposite system. 
The committee, after as much deliberation upon the subject as they chose to employ, 
appointed me to draw up a plan and report. Franklin had made some marks with a 
pencil against some articles in a printed volume of treaties, which he put into my hand. 
Some of these were judiciously selected, and I took them, with others which I found 
necessary, into the draught, and made my report to the committee at large, who, after 
a reasonable examination of it, agreed to report it. When it came before Congress, it 
occupied the attention of that body for several days. Many motions were made to 
insert in it articles of entangling alliance, of exclusive privileges, and of warranties of 
possessions ; and it was argued that the present plan reported by the committee held 
out no sufficient temptation to France, who would despise it and refuse to receive our 
Ambassador. It was chiefly left to me to defend my report, though I had some able 
assistance, and we did defend it with so much success that the treaty passed without one 
particle of alliance, exclusive privilege, or warranty." Works, II. 516. 

The discussion to which Adams refers doubtless took place Aug. 22-29. Cf- nos. 43, 
44, 50, 68, post. See also the Bibliographical Notes, in the Journals, VI. 1124. For some 
account of the further development of the model treaty and its extended use in treatj' 
making see Edmimd C. Burnett. " Note on American Negotiations for Commercial 
Treaties, 1776-1786", in Am. Hist. Rev., XVI, 579-587. See nos. 94, loi, 146, post. 

3 Chase was one of the commissioners sent to Canada. They made a verbal 
report June 11, and brought in a written report June 12. 



July, 1776 17 

I am sory to find how egregiously you have been represented to the 
Members of Congress. You have many Enemies. I wrote freely to 
General Gates, did he communicate to you ? * 

I shall esteem Myself among the Number of your friends, and am 

Your affectionate Servant 

S Chase 

27. Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston.^ 

Philadelphia July 20, 1776. 

Dear Livingston, 

I should have answered my friend's obliging favor sooner, had I not 
thought that he would cheerfully excuse me until I had called the attention 
of the House effectually to the Support of his country. I trust this is in 
some measure now done. We have sent off Expresses to the Eastern 
States and to Maryland with very strong requests and in order to compel 
the Jerseys to afford a further assistance we have directed (not permitted) 
General Washington to call into your city from the flying camp 2000 men, 
judging, I should suppose truly that the people of that colony would not 
suffer to be overrun, but when convinced that they must contribute to the 
common cause, they would do it at once.^ .... 

28. William Ellery to Ezra Stiles.^ 

[Philadelphia, July 20, 1776.] 

Ld. Howe is arrived in the Eagle Man o' War. The Reinforcmt is not 
arrived and I hope will never arrive. His Ldship sent a Flag o' truce 
a few days ago with Letters to Gen. Washington directed " to George 
Washington Esq." which were not received because his proper Title was 
not given him : since that some others have been sent to him with a similar 
Superscription and were for the same Reason not received. After this 
a flag was sent to Amboy with Letters to all the late Governors S° of 
N. York inclos^ written Declarations containing his and his brother's 
(Genl Howe) appointmt as Commissioners to receive the Submission 
of the Colonies or private Persons and grant Pardons agreeable to the 
late act of the Brit. Parliament, and a number of Letters principally from 
Friends in London to Friends here placing the Character of the Howes 
in the most amiable point of View, and recommending Reconciliation with 
G. Britain. These Letters were all sent by the commanding Officer at 
Amboy to G. Washington, and were transmitted by him to Congress, and 
were opened and read, that part of them, I mean which related to our 
Affairs. Among the Letters were some to Dr Franklin, one to the 
Farmer, and one to Mr Stockton. Dr Franklin was not in Congress 

* See his letter to Gates, July 18, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 410. " On yester- 
day, I came to Congress with Mr. Carroll ", etc. 

[27]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, I. 191 (copy of part). 

2 See the Journals, July 16, 19 (Maryland). Cf. no. 22, ante. 
[28]^ Literary Diary of Ezra Stiles, II. 31 (extract). 



 

when the Letters were bro't in, but was sent for. When he entered, his 
Letters were dehvered to him scaled. He opened them, looked over them, 
and handed them to the President desiring him to read them. They were 
according'' read to Congress and contained much the same Sentiments 
with those to Friends, as did that to Mr Stockton, who is a Member of 
Congress, and who was treated and behaved in the same manner that 
Dr Franklin did. As the Farmer is in the Jersey at the Head of his 
Battalion, his Letter is kept sealed by the President until he shall retufn 
and receive it in Congress." The Letters to the late Governors and the 
Declarations are ordered to be printed to let the People see upon what 
Terms Reconciliation is proposed to them : — Odi Danaos, etiam Dona 
fcrentes: but when what some People, Tories, may call the Olive-plant 
is handed to us at the point of the Bayonet, or is hurled to us from the 
Mouths of Canon, if possible I should more than hate it. The Truth is 
the Door is shut, and it would now be in vain, to talk of any sort of 
Alliance with Britain but a Commercial One. We have been driven into 
a Declar^ of Independency and must forget our former Love for our 
British Brethren. The Sword must determine our Quarrel.' .... 

29. James Wilsox to the Commissioners for Indian Affairs.^ 

[Philadelphia, July 20, 1776.] 
Doctor Franklin and I have been favoured with your letter of the 
14th instant. At his request I write this answer for him and myself. 
I believe the Congress have no particular views which they would wish 
to accomplish at the ensuing Treaty. Their intention and their earnest 
desire is that Peace and Friendship may be preserved and cultivated 
between the United States and the Indian Tribes. Presents are the most 
prevailing arguments that can be used with the Savages for this purpose.^ 



30. Robert Morris to Joseph Reed.^ 

From the Hills on Schuylkill 

July 2 1 St. 1776. 
Dear Sir 

I received your obliging letter of the i8th. yesterday in Congress, and 
shou'd have been tempted to have laid the enclosure immediately before 
the House, had not a letter from the same person on the same subject 
and in a similar style addressed to J. Kinsey Esqr of New Jersey, been 
read in Congress the day before, the Temper of the House was plain and 

2 The " Farmer " was John Dickinson. 

3 See no. 25, ante. 

[29]! Henkels, Catalogue, no. 738. item 140 (extract). 

2 The commissioners for Indian affairs in the Middle department were Jasper 
Yeates and John Montgomery, appointed July 4 {Journals, V. 51?) • See also ibid., 
July 20. Cf. nos. 60, 70, post. 

[30]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, MSS. of Joseph Reed, IV.; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 
467 (dated July 20). 



July, 1776 19 

you may judge what it was, when I tell you, the only enquiry that letter 
produced was, ? how it got to Mr. Kinseys hands. ^ 

I am sorry to say there are some amongst us that cannot bear the 
thought of reconciliation on any terms, to these men all propositions of 
the kind, sound like high Treason against the States and I really believe 
they wou'd sooner punish a Man for this Crime than for bearing arms 
against us. 

I cannot help Condemning this disposition as it must be founded in 
keen resentment or on interested Views whereas we ought to have the 
Interest of our Country and the Good of Mankind to Act as the Main 
Spring in all our Public Conduct. I think with you that if the Com- 
missioners have any propositions to make they ought to be heard, shou'd 
they disclose powers different from what we imagine them to be Vested 
with, and an inclination to employ those powers favourably for America, 
it is our duty to attend to such offers, weigh well the Consequences of 
every determination we come to and in short to lay aside all prejudices, 
resentments and sanguine Notions of our own Strength in order that 
Reason may influence and Wisdom guide our Councils. If the Admiral 
and General are really desirous of a Conference I think and hope they will 
address our General properly, this may be expected if they have powers 
beyond granting pardons ; if they have not, it is Idle for them to solicit 
any intercourse as no good can possibly arise to them or their Cause from 
it, but on our parts I think good Policy requires that we shou'd hear all 
they have to say. I am not for making any Sacrifice of Dignity ; but still 
I wou'd hear them if possible, because, if they can offer Peace on admissi- 
ble terms I believe the great Majority of America wou'd still be for 
accepting it. If they can only offer Pardons and that is fully ascertained 
it will firmly Unite all America in their exertions to support the Indepen- 
dence they have declared, and it must be obvious to everybody that our 
United Efforts will be absolutely necessary this being the case ? why 
shoud we fear to Treat of Peace or to hear the Commissioners on that 
Subject, if they can offer terms that are advantageous and honorable 
for this Country, let us meet them, if they cannot, We are not in a situa- 
tion or temper to ask or receive pardons, and all who 'dont mean to stoop 
to this Ignominious submission will consequently take up their Arms with 
a determination to Conquer or die. If they offer or desire a Conference 
and we reject it, those who are already dissatisfyed will become more so 
others will follow their example and we may expect daily greater disunion 
and defection in every part of these States, at least such are my appre- 
hensions on this Subject. I have uniformly Voted against and opposed 
the declaration of Independance because in my poor oppinion it was an 
improper time and will neither promote the interest or redound to the 
honor of America, for it has caused division when we wanted Union, 
and will be ascribed to very different principles than those, which ought' 
to give rise to such an Important measure 

P. S. I will lay the London Letter before Congress tomorrow 

- The letter from Dennis De Berdt, May 3. See nos. 25, 28, ante. 



 

31. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams and John Adams.* 

Kings Bridge July 21, 1776 
Dear Sirs 

.... Prav subscribe for me the Declaration of Independence if the 
same is to be sijjfned as proposed. I think We ought to have the privilege 
when necessarily absent of voting and signing by proxy.^ .... 

32. Benjamin Franklin to George Washington.* 

Philadelphia, July 22, 1776. 
Sir: 

The bearer, Mr. Joseph Belton, some time since petitioned the Congress 
for encouragement to destroy the enemy's ships of war by some con- 
trivances of his invention. They came to no resolution on his petition; 
and, as they appear to have no great opinion of such proposals, it is not 
easy, in the multiplicity of business before them, to get them to bestow 
any part of their attention on his request. He is now desirous of trying 
his hand on the ships that are gone up the North River; and, as he pro- 
poses to work entirely at his own expense, and only desires your counte- 
nance and permission, I could not refuse his desire of a line of introduc- 
tion to you, the trouble of which I beg you to excuse. As he appears to 
be a very ingenious man, I hope his project may be attended with 
success.^ 

With the sincerest esteem and respect, I have the honour to be, etc. 

B. Franklin. 

33. JosiAH Bartlett to John Langdon.* 

Philadelphia, July 22, 1776. 
My Friend: 

.... Lord Howe's Proclamation has now convinced everybody that 
no offers are to be made us but absolute submission. I think it very 
happy for America that Britain has insisted on those terms; for had she 
proposed a treaty, and offered some concessions, there would have been 

[31]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

- Cf. the query of Samuel Chase, no. 12, note 4, ante, and see the Journals, July 19, 
Aug. 2; see also vol. I. of these Letters, p. 530. 

[32]^ Works Ced. Smyth), VI. 450; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 496; Letters 10 
Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 263. 

2 In September, 1775, and earlier, Belton had proposed to the Pennsylvania com- 
mittee of safety to destroy British ships by means of a submarine vessel. See Pa. Arch., 
first ser., W. 650, 654. It v^'as only a short time after Belton went to New York on 
this mission that David Bushnell put his submarine, the American Turtle, to the test 
in an attempt to destroy the British fleet. An account of this affair is related by David 
Humphreys in his Life of General Israel Putnam, pp. 123-129. See also Am. Jour, of 
Science, II. 94; Abbot, The Beginning of Submarine Warfare under Captain-Lieutenant 
David Bushnell; Fyfe, Submarine Warfare, Past, Present, and Future: and Burgoyne, 
Submarine Nazigation, Past and Present. Cf. no. 64, note 7. post. Nothing further 
has been learned concerning the outcome of Belton's application to Washington, but it 
is not improbable that the superiority of Bushnell's scheme effectually forestalled the 
consideration of that proposed by Belton. Cf. Washington to Jefferson, Sept. 26, 1785, 
in Writings (ed. Ford), X. 501. Concerning Ephraim Anderson's plans for the destruc- 
tion of the British fleet by means of fire-ships, see no. 13, ante. See also vol. I. of these 
Letters, no. 340, note 2. 

[33]^ Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 496. 



July, 1776 21 

danger of divisions, or at least of our not acting with unanimity and 
spirit, as I think will now be the case.^ 

The Convention here have taken on them the government of this 
Colony, and have appointed Delegates for Congress, men who will for- 
ward, and not hinder, spirited measures. In short, there is a far greater 
harmony in carrying on spirited measures in Congress than heretofore. 
The Conventions even of Maryland and New York seem now to be in 
earnest. 

The Confederation is now before a Committee of the Whole. By 
reason of so much other business, it goes on but slowly.' When it is 
laid before our Legislature, brother Whipple expects to be at home, and 
can inform them of some things they may want to be informed of con- 
cerning it.* Our Court, I hear, is to sit again the ist of September 

34. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia, July 22, 1776. 
Dear Sir: 

I have your favour of the 6th instant. In answer to the part of it 
respecting the commissions, I can only say, I am perpetually dunning the 
President to send them. If any alteration in the wages of the commission 
officers, they will be higher; so there can be no difficulty with them. If 
any are lowered, it will be the mates, midshipmen, coopers, sailmakers, 
and perhaps some other of the petty officers, and perhaps boatswain, 
carpenter, and gunner. If the three last are altered, it will be but a 
trifle — say one dollar.^ .... 

I shall not have the pleasure of seeing you so soon as I hoped, as some 
very important matters are now on the tapis, which I want to hear 
debated; besides, I would fain have the marine matters settled before I 
leave this. I therefore think it will be the latter end of August before I 
shall be able to enjoy that satisfaction which I have flattered myself would 
be much earlier.' .... 

I have Mr. Hancock's promise that the commission and blank warrants 
shall go ofif in a day or two by express. The gentlemen are appointed 
agreeable to your recommendations.* There can be no difficulty in their 
acting, though they have not their commissions, as they will soon have 
them 

P. S. The order the Officers stand appointed : Peter Shores First 
Lieutenant, John Wheelright Second Lieutenant, Josiah Shackford Third 

2 See no. 25, ante. " I will likewise send you by this post, Lord Howe's letter and 
proclamation, which has let the cat out of the bag. These tricks deceive no longer. 
Gentlemen here, who either were or pretended to be deceived heretofore, now see or 
pretend to see through such artifices. I apprehend his Lordship is afraid of being 
attacked upon Staten Island, and is throwing out his barrels to amuse Leviathan, imtil 
his reinforcements shall arrive." John Adams to Mrs. Adams, July 20, Familiar Letters, 
p. 202. 

3 See the Journals, July 12, 22, and passim (index, Confederation). Cf. nos. 9, 
18, 26, ante, 43, 44, 45, 47, 50, 52, 68, 73, 83-85, 94, post. 

4 Cf. nos. 34, Sz, 94, post. 

[34] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 497. 

2 C/. the Journals, Dec. 9, 1775, and Nov. 15, 1776. 

3 See no. 22, ante. 

* See the Journals, July 22. 



 

Lieutenant; Georpfe Jerry Osborne Cajitain Marines. Stephen Meads 
First Lieutenant. Xatlianid 'riuiinn- [Thwin}^^! Second Lieutenant. 
W'arrants will he tilled up with the names you sent. 

35. JosKi'ii IIkwks to Samuel Pukvianci:, jk.' 

PniLADKLiMiiA 23d. July 1776. 
Dear Sir 

I received your favour per Mr. Huj^jlies and immediately went with 
him to a Memher of Committee for the Cannon Contracts, they have 
agreed with him for a large (piantity of Cannon." My ill state of healtii 
has i)revented me from attending nuich to business lately and has obliged 
nie for some time past to make an excursion or two into the Country. 
I propo.se to return to North Carolina shortly where I mean to retire from 
public business for a month or two. I have laid your accounts before the 
Marine Committee and shall see that they are properly setled 

36. Thomas Jefferson to Francis Eppes.* 

Philadelphia, July 23, 1776. 
Dear Sir, 

.... When I wrote you last, we were deceived in General Washing- 
ton's numbers. By a return which came to hand a day or two after, he 
then had but 15,000 effective men. His reinforcements have come in 
pretty well since. The flying camp in the Jerseys under General Mercer 
begins to form, but not as fast as exigencies require. The Congress have, 
therefore, been obliged to send for two of our battalions from Virginia.^ 

• • • • 

37. [Benjamin Rush?] to Charles Lee.^ 

Philadelphia, July 23, 1776. 
Dear General: 

It would take a volume to tell you how many clever things were said 
of you and the brave troops under your command, after hearing of your 
late victory. It has given a w'onderful turn to our affairs. The loss of 
Canada had struck the spirits of many people, who now^ begin to think 
our cause is not abandoned, and that we shall yet triumph over our 
enemies." 

The Declaration of Independence has produced a new era in this part 
of America 

[35]^ Md. Hist. Soc, Portfolio, VIII. (i) ; Purviance, Baltimore in the Revolution, 
p. 202. 

2 Cf. no. 20, ante, and the Journals, July 22. 
[36]! Works (Memorial ed.), IV. 269. 

2 See the Journals, July 20 (p. 597). 
[37] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 532. 

2 A letter from General Lee, dated July 2 (see the Journals, July 19, 20), had 
announced a victory over the British at Sullivan's Island June 28. The letter and its 
enclosures are in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 435-440. They were enclosed in a letter of 
Hancock to Washington, July 19, ibid., I. 434. See also ibid., fourth ser., VI. 1205-1208. 



July, 17/(5 23 

The papers will inform you that 1 have been thrust into Conj^ress. I 
find there is a great deal of difference between sporting a sentiment in 
a letter, or over a glass of wine upon politicks, and discharging properly 
the duty of a Senator. I feel myself unequal to every part of my new 
situation, except where plain integrity is required. 

My former letters to you may pass hereafter for a leaf of the Sibyls. 
They are full of predictions ; and what is still more uncommon, some of 
them have proved true. I shall go on, and add, that I think the Declara- 
tion of Independence will produce union and new exertions in England 
in the sa^ne ratio that they have done in this country. The present cam- 
paign, I believe, is only designed to train us for the duties of next summer. 

Adieu ; yours sincerely, 

An old Friend.' 
To Major-General Lee. 



38. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 
President of South Carolina (John Rutledge).^ 

Philadelphia July 24th. 1776. 
Sir: 

The Congress being of Opinion, that the Service of the United States 
will be promoted by taking into Pay a Number of Troops, in the State 
of South Carolina, who are to act either as Infantry or light Horse, as 
Occasion may require, have come to the enclosed Resolves, which I do 
myself the Honour of transmitting in Obedience to their Commands. 

In Consideration that these Troops will go through more than ordinary 
Duty, and be put to greater Expence than others, the Congress have 
augmented their Pay in Proportion. 

I have delivered blank Commissions to the Delegates of your State.^ 



3 The writer of this letter was probably Benjamin Rush. That it was one of the 
new delegates of Pennsylvania is evidenced by a reference (in a passage omitted here) 
to Pennsylvania as " our State ". The style of the letter definitely suggests Rush. The 
election of the delegates by the Pennsylvania convention took place July 20, and the 
credentials were presented to Congress the same day (see the Journals). Rush himself 
says : " On the 20th of July I took my seat in Congress in consequence of an appoint- 
ment received from the Convention that met to form a constitution for Pennsylvania. 
A few days afterwards I subscribed a copy upon parchment of the declaration of inde- 
pendence." {Memorial, p. 92). Strangely enough the Journals record the appointment of 
Rush on a committee July 17. An examination of the " Rough Journal " shows that the 
names of the committee are entered in a different ink from that used in recording the reso- 
lution, and that the resolution itself has been altered by erasures (chiefly with a knife) 
and by emendations in the same ink with which the names are written. The original 
entry appears to have been " that it be referred to the committee appointed [on the mis- 
carriages in Canada?]". It would appear therefore that on a subsequent day, after 
Rush had taken his seat, Congress revised its action and appointed a new committee, and 
that this revision was recorded only by an alteration in the original resolution. In this 
way Rush is made to appear to have been in Congress three days prior to his election. 

IsSl^Mass. Hist. Soc. Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 4; MS. Journal of the South 
Carolina General Assembly, 1776, p. 133 (copy) ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 555, 
III. 16. 

2 An identical letter was sent to the convention of Georgia. Cf. the Journals, 
July 24. 



 

39. The South Carolina Delegates to the President of 
South Carolina (John Rutledge)/ 

Philadelphia 2Stli Julv 1776 
Sir 

Immediately upon llic Receipt of your Letter we apjilied to Congress 
for Permission to order the Kast India Tea now in your stores to be sold 
and to direct the Produce thereof to be carried into the Colony Treasury 
to be appropriated in such manner as your Assembly should jndg^e rij^ht. 
In Consequence of this Application a Debate of some Lcnj^th ensued in 
which the House indicatccl a strone;- Inclination to lay their Hands upon 
the Profits which should arise from the Sale either for the Use of the 
Continent at large or to be carried into a Fund to reimburse those Col- 
onies whose Property should be seized in England There appeared 
neither Reason nor Justice in these Measures and we endeavoured to 
obviate the objections which were made to the Application and to answer 
the Arguments which had been advanced against it. 

We observed That this Property should be looked upon as belonging 
to the King of Great-Britain and not to the East-India Company as the 
latter had been divested of it both by the Seizure which the Custom- 
House ofificers had made of it and by the indemnification of the Parlia- 
ment, that the Congress had therefore no more Right to apply this Tea 
to the use of the Continent at large than they had to dispose of the Cannon 
in our Forts or the Crown Lands within the Limits of the Colony — But 
that if it was the East-India Company's Property they had occasioned 
such an Expence to the State of Carolina as to justify them fully in the 
Seizures. That it w-ould be repugnent [sic] to the Principles of Justice 
to insist that this Tea should be sold for the Benefit of those whose Prop- 
erty had been or might be seized in England in Exclusion of those whose 
Property had been seized in America and that it would be impracticable 
to bring every species of Loss into one common Account That the 
Seizure of Property had been a common misfortune of which as well as 
of public Expences we have had our full Proportion and that therefore it 
would be injurious to our State not to be permitted to make use of the 
Advantage in this Instance which the Possession of the Tea had given. 
It was confessed that we had a Right to sell it if we chose and apply the 
Profits as we pleased But as we had asked the opinion of the House 
upon the Subject we should now be governed by the Disposition which 
they should think proper to make and that they should take Time to con- 
sider of it. The Delegates being by this Time fully convinced that there 
were many in the House who wished to dispose of it in a Manner injuri- 
ous to the Interest and the Right of our State agreed to withdraw the 
Motion for which they obtained the Leave of Congress and we now with 
one Voice advise you to recommend to your assembly immediately to sell 
the same and apply the Profits thereof to Colonial Purposes. Indeed 
we were not a little surprised at your requesting us to lay the same before 

[39]! MS. Journal of the South Carolina General Assembly, 1776, p. 131 (copy); 
Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 36, p. 74 (copy) ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., 
III. 16. 



July, I J J 6 25 

Congress and we hope that you will determine for yourselves in future in 
all cases where the concern is of a Provincial and not of a Continental 
Nature we are with Regard ^ 

Your Excellency's most obedt. huml. Servts. 

Thomas Lynch 
Edward Rutledge 
Arthur Middleton 
Thomas Heyward Junior 
Thomas Lynch Junior. 

39A. The President of Congress to John Bradford.^ 

Philadelphia July 25th 1776 

Sir 

Your letters to 15th Inst, inclusive, I have duly receiv'd. Matters of 
very great moment, in which the Interest of the United States is involv'd, 
having been for sometime under the Consideration of Congress, have 
prevented my regularly Replying to your Letters, and forwarding your 
Commission. I am greatly surpriz'd at what you relate of the Conduct of 
the late Agents, and at their insisting on Acting, untill your Commission 
should arrive; Sir, the very moment you reed my first letter under the 
Sanction of Congress, informing you of your Appointment as Agent, that 
very moment they were Superceeded, and were Accountable to you for 
all monies then in their hands belonging to the United States, in Conse- 
quence of any Captures, and Sales of Continental Property. However as 
I am always dispos'd to Accommodate matters, and to put things on a 
stable footing, I now enclose your Commission, and now not only Au- 
thorise, but Direct, you to call upon the Gentlemen, who have hitherto 
Acted as Agents, to render their Acco[u]nts to you, and to pay what 
monies they may have in their hands belonging to the Public to you, and 
to cease all further proceedings in that Department, the sd. Accts. with the 
vouchers to be Transmitted to me, to be laid before the Marine Com- 
mittee, for their Examination and Approbation, you to render an Accott. 
of such monies reed, and to be accountable therefor. And the former 
Agents are hereby directed immediately on your Application to Render 
their Accotts. and pay the monies they may have in their hands to you ; I 
wish to settle this matter as early as possible, for altho' their Conduct is 
highly Reprehensible yet I would gladly pass it over without a public men- 
tion, but with respect to the Arms, order'd by Congress to be sent to Genl. 
Washington, and which Mr. Glover mentions he without Consulting you 
had dispos'd of among the Troops, in his Brothers Regiment, I must 
insist that you immediately carry that Resolution into Execution, and 
that the Arms be forwarded to the Genl. as at first order'd by Congress, 

- See vol. I. of these Letters, nos. 424, 441, 444, 477, 484, 486, 488. 490, 500, 595 ; also 
the Journals, Feb. 13, Apr. 6, 13. The letter from Rutledge has not been found. 

[39 Ap Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Charles E. Goodspeed 
of Boston. 



 

it being;- my Duty to see every Resolve of Congress executed, [about 60 
ivords torn out here] now in the hands of the former A<,aMits. you wil! 
have sufticient to answer present demands, and to pay for the Vessell 
bought by order of Mr. Morris, if a deficiency yet should happen you must 
draw on me. 

You will please keep me duly advis'd of all matters. 

I inclose you the papers to which I refer you. Do p^ive me all the news. 

1 wish you and l"\amily well, and happy, and am with Sentiments of 
Esteem 

Sir Your very Hum'' Servt. 

John Hancock Presidt. 

John Bratlford Esqr." 

40. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Fridav July 26th. 4 oClock, P. M. 
Sir: 

Cong^ress being adjourned, I have to acknowledge the Rect. of yr. favr. 
of 25th this moment come to hand. The Subject of it is so just that I 
will venture to say that it will be Complied wnth in its fullest lattitude.^ 
The Preamble to the Resolutions for Confiscating the Property of the 
Subjects of the King of Great Britain, having been this day expung'd, 
and the Resolution alterd, agreable to the one now Inclos'd you. I am to 
request you will please to Erase that from the Resolves, I enclos'd you a 
few days past, and substitute the one I now transmit in its place.^ 
With every wish in yr. favr. and every Sentiment of Esteem, 

I am. Sr., vr. verv Hble Servt 

J. H. Prest. 

[P. S.] Brigadr. Genl. Sullivan this day sent me a letter of Resigna- 
tion, wch. is order'd to lie on the Table untill Monday. I have not yet 
seen him.* 

Genl. Washington 

-John Bradford was elected agent for prizes for Massachusetts Apr. 23 (see the 
Journals). His letters to which Hancock here refers have not been found, but the con- 
troversy with Jonathan Glover is set forth, from the point of view of the latter, in a 
letter from Glover to Washington. July 20 (Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 478, 817), 
which Washington transmitted to Congress in a letter of Aug. 7 {ibid., p. 814), read in 
Congress Aug. 8. See also ibid., pp. 34. 209, 625, 662, 670. Letters from Bradford to 
Robert Morris July 14, Aug. 8, Sept. 5 (Library of Congress, Morris Papers, Accession 
1805) relate in part to this controversy. The affair appears to have been handled by the 
marine committee, for there is no reference to it in the Journals. 

[40]^ Mass. Hist. Soc. Hancock Letter-Book, VL 5; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., L 
594; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 738. item 76. 

2 Washington's letter of July 25 is in Writings (ed. Ford). IV. 297, and Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., L 575. See no. 46, post, and the Journals, July 29. 

3 See the Journals, Jul}' 17, 19, 24. "A resolution for confiscating West India 
property- has been some time prepared : but Congress has been so extremely engaged, they 
have not yet passed it." William Whipple to Joshua Brackett, July 23, 1776, Mass. 
Hist. Soc, Proceedings, first ser.. V. 5. 

* See the Journals, July 26. 29 (erased entries). Cf. nos. 44, 47, 51, 75, post. 



July, 1776 27 

41. The Maryland Delegates to the Maryland 
Council of Safety.^ 

Phila. 27th July 1776. 
Gent. 

.... The Congress has allowed a regimental paymaster to each bat- 
talion in the flying Camp, the appointment of which officer is left to the 
Several States from which those battalions come. In the Recess of our 
Convention the appointment is in you, and we beg you will appoint one 
as soon as may be.^ .... 

We are informed that there are large quantities of flint stones at the 
landings on Wye and Choptank rivers: these were brought by the ships 
as ballast and thrown out on the banks. The Congress has desired us to 
write to you on the subject and to procure some person, who understands 
flints, to look after them and report to Congress whether they are good 
or not.^ .... 

We are with regard 

Gentlemen yr. most hum. Servants 
Saml. Chase 
Ch. Carroll of Carrollton 

42. The President of Congress to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia July 27th. 1776. 

Sir, 

Inclosed you have a Resolution ^ of Congress for the Supply of Pro- 
visions to the Frigates in the Eastern Department, out of the Stock of 
Provisions in that Quarter: And I am to request, you will, by the next 
Post, issue your Orders to your Deputy there, to furnish such Quantities 
as shall be applied for by Mr. Cushing and others who have the Care of 
the Ships. 

I have paid all your Bills that have been presented. Money will soon 
be sent to the Paymaster. 

I wish you happy, and am 
Sir, your very hble Servt. 
John Hancock Presidt 

Joseph Trumbull Esqr. Com^. Genl. New York. 

[41]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, XV. 20; Arch, of Md., XII. 129; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., I. 618; Rowland, Charles Carroll of Carrollton, I. 184; Taggart, Biographical 
Sketches of Eminent American Patriots. 

2 See the Journals, June 5 (p. 418). 

3 There is no record of this in the Journals, but cf. entries of July 4 (pp. 509. 
516, 517). See also Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 34, 139, 410, 533, 633, 807. 

[42]! Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 127; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., I. 618. 

2 The resolution referred to is probably that of May 25 {Journals, p. 393), passed 
in consequence of a letter of Charles Miller, the deputy commissary in Boston, to 
Joseph Trumbull, May 8. The letter is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 1238. 
Trumbull's reply to this letter of Hancock, dated July 29, is ibid., fifth ser., I. 643. Mr. 
Cushing is probably Thomas Cushing. 



 

43. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston.^ 

Philadelphia 28th July 1776 
Dear Sir 

.... Much of our time is taken up in forniinjj^ and delxitinj^f a Con- 
federation for the uniteil States, what we shall make of it God only 
knows. I am inclined to think we shall never modell it .so as to he agreed 
to bv all the Colonies, a plan for foreign Alliances is also formed and I 
expect will he the subject of much debate before it is agreed to. these 
two Capital points ought to have been setlcd before our declaration of 
Independance went forth to the world, this was my opinion long ago 
and every tlays exi)erience serves to confirm me in that opinion. I think 
it probable tliat we may Split on these great points, if so our mighty 
Colossus falls to pieces when (as our old friend Mr Gordon used to say) 
we shall be in a whimsical Situation." .... 

44. Thomas Jefferson to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Philadelphl\ July 29, 1776. 
Dear Sir 

.... our army from Canada is now^ at Tyconderoga but in a shattered 
condition. Gen. Sullivan left it and came here to resign on Gate's ap- 
pointment, his letter of resignation was just in on Friday, it was 
referred to this morning that a proper rap of the knuckles might be pre- 
pared, but on the advice of his friends he asked leave to withdraw it and 
repair to his duty.^ The minutiae of the Confederation have hitherto 
engaged us ; the great points of representation, boundaries, taxation, etc. 
being left open.^ for god's sake, for your country's sake, and for my 
sake. come. I receive by every post such accounts of the state of Mrs 
Jefferson's health that it will be impossible for me to disappoint her 
expectation of seeing me at the time I have promised, which supposed 
my leaving this place on the nth. of next month.* the plan of [treaties] ' 
is yet untouched, after being read it was privately printed for the con- 
sideration of the members, and will come on when we shall have got 
through the confederation. 

[P. S. ] I pray you to come. I am under a sacred obligation to go home. 

45. JoHX Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, 29 July, 1776. 
.... We have no news. It is very hard that half a dozen or half a 
score armies can't supply us with news. Wo. have a famine, a perfect 
dearth of this necessary article. I am, at this present w'riting, perplexed 

[43]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1644, Declaration of Independence. 

- See vol. I. of these Letters, nos. 674, 687, 690, y2j, 744, and nos. 18, 26, ante, nos. 
44i 45. A7-, 50, 52, 68, 72>, 85, post. See especially John Adams's Notes of Debates, July 25, 
26, 30, Aug. I, 2, in the Journals, VI. 1076-1083, and Jefferson's Notes, ibid., VI. 1098- 1 106. 

[44]^ Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Papers, I. 46 (original) ; ibid., Lee Transcripts, IV. 99, V. 55. 

- Cf. no. 40, ante, and nos. 47, 51, 75, post. 

3 See the Journals, July 12, July 22-Aug. 9, 20; also Adams's and Jefferson's Notes 
of Debates. July 25-Aug. 2, Journals, VI. 1076-1083, 1098-1106. Cf. no. 43, note 2, ante. 
* See no. 49, post. 

^ See the Journals, July 18, 20, and no. 26. note 2. ante. 
[45] 1 Fatniliar Letters, p. 205 ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 637 (extract). 



July, iyy6 29 

and plagued with two knotty problems in politics. You love to pick a 
political bone. So I will even throw it to you. 

If a confederation should take place, one great question is, how we 
shall vote. Whether each colony shall count one? or whether each shall 
have a weight in proportion to its number, or wealth, or exports and 
imports, or a compound ratio of all ? Another is, whether Congress shall 
have authority to limit the dimensions of each colony, to prevent those, 
which claim by charter, or proclamation, or commission to the south 
sea, from growing too great and powerful, so as to be dangerous to 
the rest? 

Shall I write you a sheet upon each of these questions? When you 
are well enough to read, and I can find leisure enough to write, perhaps 
I may.^ .... 

46. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 
George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia July 29th. 1776 
Sir: 

I have been honour'd with your favrs of 22d. 25th and 27th Inst. I 
hope by to morrow's Post to Transmitt you Answers to the whole of your 
Letters which are yet unanswer'd. The exceeding warm Season, and 
the constant Attention of Congress to Business the last week, induc'd 
Congress to Adjourn from Friday Eveng. to this morning. I shall 
dir&ctly lay your Letters before them, and request their immediate Atten- 
tion to them.^ 

Congress having indulg'd me to make a Demand of Money from Mr. 
Brimer who I Judge to be with Mr. Howe on Staten Island, I have Sent 
the Bill to Mr. Palfrey and desir'd him to apply to you, and I Request 
you will please to suffer him to Conduct this matter for me.^ 

47. JosiAH Bartlett to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia, July 29, 1776. 
My Friend: 

.... Our friend General Sullivan is disgusted at the appointment of 
General Gates to be a Major-General, and being sent to the Northern 

- See no. 43, note 2, ante. Two letters of Adams at this time are of interest as 
regards the Massachusetts delegation. One of them, dated July 25, requests the general 
court for leave to return home ; the other is to James Warren, and is dated July 27. 
In the letter he says : " You must be very speedy in appointing other delegates, or you 
will not be represented here. Go home I will, if I leave the Massachusetts without a 
member here." Works, IX. 426, 427. Cf. his letter to Mrs. Adams, Aug. 14, Familiar 
Letters, p. 210. See also no. 167, post. 

[46]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XI. 17; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., I. 636. 

2 See the Journals, July 29; also no. 40, ante. Washington's letters are in Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 499, 575, 620. Those of July 25 and 27 are in Writings (ed. Ford), 
IV. 297, 301. Later the same day Hancock wrote to Washington : " Since I sent off my 
letter of this morning the Congress has met, before whom I laid your letter, and I have 
the pleasure to inform you the Congress readily agreed to your having another aid de 
camp." Library of Congress, Letters to Washington ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 636. 

3 There is no reference to this matter in the Journals. The claim was probably a 
private one. Cf. Washington to Hancock, July 30, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 675. 

[47] 1 Force, Anu Arch., fifth ser., I. 6z7. 



 

Army. Hy permission of the Generals Scluiyler and Washinp^ton, he 
(General Snllivan) has left the Army, and is \\u\\ here, and has petitioned 
Cong-ress for leave to resign his commission. What will be done in the 
case I cannot say, hnt hope it will be settled without his dismission. 

Brother Whipple is here yet, and will not set out for home till the 
Confederation is settletl, which may possibly take a week or ten days' 
time, as there is a j^reat deal of other business to be done in tiie mean 
time, ami the sentiments of the members of Cone^ress very different on 
many of the articles. I should be glad he might hear the whole of the 
debates here, and be present in our Colony when it is laid before our 
Legislature for their concurrence, to answer any questions and remarks 
that may be made upon it. It is a matter of the greatest importance, 
but the interests and opinions of the several members are so various that 
I see it will not be settled agreeable to my mind.* 

It is a very still time as to news here. The fleet and Armies at New 
York and Staten Island remain in statu quo. The Army in the Jerseys 
is increasing very fast, so that there will soon be a powerful body of 
men there. 

July Sist. — I can now inform you that the afTair with General Sullivan 
is settled, and he is to return to New York, to be employed by General 
Washington in that department; so hope you will not make many words 
about it.' .... 

48. The North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina 

Council of Safety.^ 

Dear Sir, 

This morning in consequence of a letter from Governor Rutlege 
informing the Congress that the Cherokee nation had begun Hostilities, 
a Resolve has passed recommending to the Provinces of Virginia North 
Carolina and Georgia to assist and co-operate with South Carolina in 
carrying on a War with all possible vigor against those savages.^ This 
however is by no means intended to alter the plan of military operations 
which you have begun or to draw off the Strength of our back Country 
to a distant part merely for the sake of acting in the same place with the 
South Carolinians, if the Opposition can be made as effectually in any 
manner devised by yourselves and from a part of your province from 
whence hostilities may successfully be carried into the bosom of the 
Cherokee Country. In fact nothing is meant but to subdue the Cherokees. 

We have taken advantage of a moment's leisure from the Business 
of New York to call the attention of the Congress to the State of North 

2 Cf. no. 2>Z, ante. See also no. 72, note 3, post. 

3 Cf. nos. 40, 44, ante, 51, post. 

[48] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm. (in Hooper's writing) ; A''. C. Col. Recs., X. 679. 

' The resolve is in the Journals, July 30, and this letter should doubtless bear that 
date. Cf. Hancock to the North Carolina council of safety, July 30, in N. C. Col. Recs., 
X. 681. See, further, the Journals, Aug. 5, and Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 95, 481, 
488, 568, 610-613, 749; also N. C. Col. Recs., X. 650, 651, 657-661, 662, 665, 669, 671, 726, 
729. 745, 748, 751, 758. 



July, lyyd 31 

Carolina. This Evening they meet and from the disposition of the con- 
gress We flatter ourselves the very reasonable requisitions signified in 
your Letter and some other matters which have occurred to us since as 
necessary for the safety of our Colony will be duely attended to.' 

Pray make our best respects to your honourable Board and believe us 
to be with great Regard, 

Your most obedt Hum Servts 

Wm Hooper * 
Joseph Hewes 
John Penn. 
Philadelphia July 29 1776, 

49. Thomas Jefferson to John Page.^ 

Philadelphia, July 20 [30?], 1776.^ 
Dear Page, 

.... I would not advise that the French gentlemen should come here. 
We have so many of that country, and have been so much imposed on, 
that the Congress begins to be sore on that head.^ Besides there is no 
prospect of raising horse this way. But if you approve of the Chevalier 
de St. Aubin, why not appoint him yourselves, as your troops of horse 
are Colonial not Continental ? 

The 8th battalion w^ill no doubt be taken into Continental pay from 
the date you mention. So also will be the two written for lately to come 
to the Jersies.* The 7th should have been moved in Congress long e'er 
now, but the muster roll sent us by Mr. Yates was so miserably defective 
that it would not have been received, and would have exposed him. 
We therefore desired him to send one more full, still giving it the same 
date, and I enclosed him a proper form.^ .... 

Having declined serving here the next year, I shall be with you at the 
first session of our assembly. I purpose to leave this place the nth of 
August, having so advised Mrs. Jefferson by last post, and every letter 
brings me such an account of the state of her health, that it is w'ith great 

3 See the Journals, July 30, 31, and no. 55. post. 

* This letter was written by Hooper originally in the first person singular and 
afterward changed to the plural, " we " being substituted for "I ", and " ourselves " for 
" myself ". 

In a letter to Samuel Johnston, July 24, Hewes says : " Mr. Hooper came to town last 
evening" (Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XLHI. 263). He probably took his seat in 
Congress the 24th, as the letter of the North Carolina council, was presented on that day. 

[49]! Writings (ed. Ford), H. 69; Works (Memorial ed.), IV. 266; .V. E. Hist, and 
Geneal. Register, XX. 68. 

2 There are several evidences that the date of this letter as found in the printed 
texts is incorrect : First, Page's letter to Jefferson (Library of Congress, Jefferson 
Papers, second ser., LXV. 8), to which this is a reply, is clearly dated July 20; second, the 
statement in the letter concerning the two Virginia battalions " written for lately to come 
to the Jersies " refers to a resolution of Congress July 20 ; third, a paragraph, omitted 
here, evidently was written in the light of Washington's letter of July 27, read in Congress 
July 29. The date of the letter should probably therefore be July 30. 

3 Cf. Washington to Nathaniel Shaw, jr., of New London, Aug. 5, in Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., I. 770. See also nos. 136, 360A, post. 

* See the Journals, July 20. 
5 See the Journals, Aug. 13. 



32 ContincHtdl Congress 

pain I can stay here till then. But Rraxton purposing to leave us the day 
after tomorrow, the colony would be uincprcsented were I to go, before 
the iith. I hope to see Col. Lee and Mr. Wythe here.". . . . 

50. S.VMl'KL ClI.\SK TO RlCII.\UD IIeNRY LeE.^ 

Piiii.ADr.i.i'iiiA. July 30, 1776. 
My dear Sir: 

Your letter of the 14th instant followed me to this city, and your other 
favour, of the 21st. was delivered by yesterday's post. I hurried to Con- 
gress, to give my little assistance to the framing a Confederacy, and a 
plan for a foreign alliance — both of them subjects of the utmost impor- 
tance, and which, in my judgment, demand immediate despatch. The 
Confederacy has engaged our close attention for a week. Three great 
difficulties occur : Representation, the mode of voting, and the claims to 
the South Sea. The whole might, in my opinion, be settled, if candour, 
justice, and the real interests of America were attended to. We do not 
all see the importance, nay, the necessity, of a Confederacy. We shall 
remain weak, distracted, and divided in our councils; our strength. will 
decrease ; we shall be open to all the arts of the insidious Court of Britain, 
and no foreign Court \\\\\ attend to our applications for assistance before 
we are confederated. What contract will a foreign State make with us, 
when we cannot agree among ourselves ?".... 



51. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 
George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia July 31 1776. 
Sir, 

.... P. S. Upon conversing with Genl. Sullivan, and stating to him 
the Reasons of Congress promoting Genl. Gates over him, he desired Me 
to move for Leave to withdraw his Application to resign, in which the 
Congress have acquiesced. He has now Orders to repair to New York, 
where you will please to assign him such Post of Duty as you shall think 
proper.^ .... 

52. Abraham Clark to James Caldwell.^ 

Phila. August I, 1776. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Our Congress have now under Consideration a Confederation 
of the States. Two Articles give great trouble, the one for fixing the 
Quotas of the States towards the Public expence, and the other whether 

^ Cf. no 44, ante, and no. 60, post. 
[50]! Force, Ajn. Arch., fifth ser., I. 672 ; R. H. Lee, Life of Richard Henry Lee, II. 180. 

- See no. 43, note 2, ante, and no. 68, note 2, post. 
[51]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 262; Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., I. 690. 

2 See nos. 40, 44, 47, ante, 75, post. 
[52]! Harvard L'niv. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. II., p. 168 (original). 



August, iyy6 33 

Each State shall have a Single Vote or in proportion to the Sums they 
raise or the Num'' of Inhabitants they contain. I assure you the diffi- 
culties attending these Powers at Times appear very Alarming. Nothing 
but Present danger will ever make us all Agree, and I sometimes even 
fear that will be insufficient." .... 

I Notice what you say About the want of Cash. The Post that brought 
your Letter, brought one from Genl. Schuyler directed to Genl. Washing- 
ton and by him sent forward making the same Complaint, which was 
referred to the board of War. your wants in that respect I hope will 
soon be Supplied.^ There hath been no complaint on that head from your 
Quarter before that I have heard of. Money is not such a trifling Article 
with the " States General " as to make them thoughtless about it, tho' 
in some respects the value of it seems trifling, as it is no uncommon case 
to order five hundred thousand [dollars] sent of \_sic\ at a Time notwith- 
standing " our daily feasting in the City ".* 

As to your Regts. inlisting for 3 years upon Condition of leaving that 
Country before Winter, I must Observe your Campain is but beginning, 
and the issue very uncertain, it is impossible to foresee the State of affairs 
with you next fall. Necessity may require your comeing away by thai! 
Time, and may also require your staying there, but this you may rest 
assured of that any service within my Scanty powers, and wh[ich] you 
desire, so far as the Public service will admit you may most assuredly 
rely upon, but at present I think it a Subject improper to mention in 
public but shall nevertheless, communicate the matter to particular friends, 
as opportunity offers.^ .... 

I am Dear Sir your and Colo. Daytons Sincere and affectionate Friend * 
and Hum. Servt. 

Abra : Clark 

P. S. Doctor \\'itherspoon sends you his compliments 

2 Cj. nos. 18, 26, 43, 44, 45, 47, 50, ante, 68, "jz, 85, posi. See especially John 
Adams's Notes of Debates, July 25- Aug. 2, in the Journals, VI. 1076- 1083, and Jefferson's 
Notes of Debates, ibid., pp. 1098-1106. Among those recorded by both Adams and 
Jefferson as taking part in the debate on the Confederation Aug. i, was Benjamin Rush. 
Rush himself records in his Memorial (p. 92) : " In the debates upon the Confederation 
of the States I took part with those gentlemen who objected to the small States having 
an equal vote with the large ones, and urged the necessity of the States being repre- 
sented according to numbers, in order to render liberty equal and durable in our country." 

3 The letter of Schuyler referred to is to Washington, July 24, enclosed by Wash- 
ington in his letter of July 30. These letters, laid before Congress Aug. i, are in Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 559, 675, respectively. See also Schuyler's letter to Washington, 
July 20, ihid., I. 473 ; also the Journals, Aug. 2, 15. In a letter to Col. Elias Dayton, 
Aug. 6, Clark says : " General Schuyler makes the same complaint as you do for want 
of cash. His letter came to Congress the same day with yours and Mr. Caldwell's from 
the German-Flats. Two hundred thousand dollars were immediately sent to the Pay- 
master-General, being part of five hundred thousand dollars ordered to be sent. The 
Congress, or rather some of the Members, tell me, that if your regiment is near three 
months in arrear of pay, it is not a neglect of Congress, but a neglect somewhere else, 
as they have sent seasonable supplies." Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 785-786. See also 
Clark to Caldwell, Aug. 7, ibid., I. 811. Cf. nos. 63, 64. 80, post. 

* See Qark to Caldwell, Aug. 7, cited in note 3, above. 

^ " What you say respecting your regiment returning in the fall, will be attended 
to in a proper time." Qark to Dayton, Aug. 6, cited in note 3 above. 

^ " Remember, sir, (what I frequently mention.) that when I write to you or Mr. 
Caldwell, I mean always to address you both." Clark to Dayton, Aug. 6. 



 

53. Abraham Clark to Jamics Caldwell.* 

Phila. Auj,'t. j(l. 1776' 
Sir, 

.... At my coininp;- to Congress, I moved for a Cliajjlain to Attend 
Prayers every moniiiiir whicli was carried, and some of mv Starch 
breathren will scarcely f()r<^ive me for Naming Mr Duchc. This I did 
knowing without such a one many would not Attend, he hath Composed 
a form of Prayer Unexceptionable to all parties.'' 

[Addressed:] 

To the Revd. James Caldwell Chaplain of the Army at Fort Stanwix 

54. The President oe Congress (John Hancock) to 
George Washington.* 

Philadelphia 2d. August 1776 
Sir 

I am particularly instructed by Congress to answer that part of your 
letter of 29th. Ulto. directed to the Board of War, which Relates to the 
filling up Vacancies in the Army. The Congress are Concern'd to find that 
an opinion is Entertain'd that greater Confidence has been plac'd in, and 
larger powers given to other Commanders in that respect, than to your- 
self. They have in no instance except in the late Api^ointment of General 
Gates to the Command in Canada, parted with the power of filling up 
Vacancies. The great Confusion and many Disorders prevalent in that 
Army and its Distance, induc'd Congress to lodge such a power in that 
General, for the limited space of three months, and only during his Con- 
tinuance in Canada. Should Congress ever empower its Generals to fill 
up the Vacancies in the Army, they know of no one in whom they would 
so soon Repose a Trust of such Importance as in yourself ; but future 
Generals may make a bad use of it. The Danger of the Precedent, not 
any suspicion of their present Commander in Chief, prompts them to 
Retain a Pow-er, that, by you. Sir, might be exercised w-ith the greatest 
public Advantage.^ .... 

[P. S.] Your fav. of 5 Inst, just Come to hand will be Replied to by 
to-morrow's Post.^ 

I53]* Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. II., p. 170 (original). 

2 This letter was probably a postscript to the letter of Aug. i, no. 52, ante. In 
Clark's letter to Dayton, Aug. 6, and that to Caldwell, Aug. 7 (see ante, no. 52, notes 
3, 4, 6), the two letters are spoken of as one. 

3 See the Journals. July 9. See also vol. J. of these Letters, no. 12, note 8. 
[54]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX., 264; Force, Am. Arch., 

fifth ser., I. 725; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 267. 

2 This part of Hancock's letter was drafted by the board of war in reply to 
Washington's letter to the board, July 29. See the Journals, July 30 (p. 621) and Aug. i. 
The letter-book copy of Washington's letter is in the Washington MSS. in the Library 
of Congress. It is printed in Force, Atn. Arch., fifth ser., I. 641. Concerning the powers 
given to Gates, see the Journals. June 17; cf. John Adams to Gates, June 18, in vol. I. of 
these Letters, no. 718; also ibid., nos. 692, 702. Action upon one part of Washington's 
letter was taken Aug. 10 (see the Journals, p. 644). Cf. no 75, post. 

3 This postscript was probably appended in the evening of Aug. 5. See the 
Journals, Aug. 6. One of the omitted paragraphs also refers to a resolve recorded in 
the Journals, Aug. 5. Washington's letter is in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 317; the letter 
and enclosures are in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 762-767. 



August, iy/6 35 

55. The North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina 

Council of Safety/ 

Honoured Sir, 

Permit us, thro' you, to address the lionourable body in which you 
preside, and inform them that we were favoured with their two last 
letters by Mr Hooper, and have seized the earliest, and most probable 
method to carry the contents of them into execution. We have stated to 
the continental congress, with all the energy we are capable of, the present 
distress and necessitous State of our Province, and the means which may 
tend most effectually to relieve it. We have been as fortunate as your 
most Sanguine expectations, and the inclosed Resolve will convince you, 
that North Carolina bears no inconsiderable weight in the favour of the 
Continental Congress. The readiness which they discover upon all 
occasions to comply with the just requisitions of our State, evince that 
they entertain a grateful sense of our patriotick exertions, and wish to 
furnish to us every inducement to persist in a conduct from which we 
have to expect liberty, peace, and happiness.^ .... 

With great respect 

Sir Your most obedt Humble Servts 

Will. Hooper 
Joseph Hewes 
John Penn 
Philadelphia August 2 1776 

56. Samuel Adams to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philade Augt 3 1776 
My dear Sir 

Our Friend Coll. W — ^ (not Mr Lewis) brought and delivered to us 
your Letter of the 25th of July directed to Mr J A and my self. The 
Inclosures clearly show the deplorable State of our Affairs in the Northern 
Department, and it is easy to trace the Source of them. I am fully of 
Opinion that one Man ^ must be removd to some other Department to 
put an End to our Misfortunes there. This has been attempted and urgd, 
but has hitherto been impracticable. A little Time may perhaps unravel 
Mysteries and convince Gentlemen that they have been under certain 
Prejudices to which the wisest Men are lyable. It appears to me very 
extraordinary that Mr L should insist upon acting after being apprizd 
of the Resolve of Congress, and it is still more surprising that he is 
supported by * in this Conduct. I am very sure that our Affairs must 

[55]^ N. C. Hist. Comm.; N. C. Col. Recs., X. 718. 

2 See the Journals, July 30, 31. Cf. no. 48, ante. 
LsSJ^Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. i. 

2 Doubtless William Williams, who had come to Congress a few days before. 
Cf. nos. 63, 7S, post. Mr. Lewis was probably Morgan Lewis, who was sent to Congress 
in July by General Gates. See Gates to Congress, July 16, and to Washington, same 
date. Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., L 375, 376; also no. 75, post. 

3 Walter Livingston. See vol. I. of the Letters, nos. 689, 719, 720, and nos. 123, 
124, 145, 162, 164, post. 

* Doubtless Schuyler. 



 

suffer j^reatly if lie is allowd to persist in so doinpf. You are tlie best 
juclt;e of the Part i)roper for you to take on this Occasion in your own 
I )ci)artineiU ; but as your own I\oputation in your office as well as the 
publick Service is at Stake would it be amiss for you to State the Matter 
to the General ? By this Means it might come before Congress. I shall 
certainly do all in my Power to have the Evils you mention corrected. 
I have communicated your Letter to several Gentlemen who will joyn 
with me in every practicable Method for this Purpose. Congress have 
this day passed several Resolutions which I hope will be attended with a 
good Effect.' .... 

These Resolutions perhaps may not please every Body, but if they are 
duly executed they may detect Mistakes, or Frauds if any should happen. 
As to what has passd in Canada and near it, some Person has in my 
opinion been most egregiously to blame, and, to use a homely Proverb, 
the Saddle has been laid, or attempted to be laid on the wrong horse. I 
hope by strict Scrutiny the Causes will be found out and the guilty Man 
be made to suffer. My Regards to General Mifflin and all Friends. I 
am very respectfully 

Yours 
S A 
Jos Trumbull Esqr 

Since writing the foregoing I have turnd to the printed Journals of 
Congress and find that on the 17 July 1775 Walter Livingston Esqr was 
appointed " Commissary of Stores and Provisions for the New York 
Department during the present Campaign." Upon what Grounds then 
does he speak of himself as vested by Congress with full Powers to act 
//// revoked. The last Campaign which limitted his power to act, is 
finishd. Under what Pretence can he be supported by his Patron, espec- 
ially since by the Resolution of Congress of the 8th of July last, you have 
" full Power to supply both Armies, that upon the Lakes as well as that 
at New York, and also to appoint and employ such Persons under you 
and to remove any Deputy Commissary as you shall think proper and 
expedient," and for this express Reason " it being absolutely necessary 
that the supply of both Armies should be under one Direction.® Has not 
General S seen this Resolution? or, if he has seen it. Does he judge that 
the supply of the two Armies should be under different Directions, and 
undertake to order the Matter accordingly. If the Persons whom you 
send to act under you in the Northern Army, are confined and limited 
by any other Person after they arrive there, unless by order of Congress, 
and without giving you Notice in Case such order should be made, We 
must expect a Repetition of the most mortifying Disappointment. Upon 
my Word, I think it your Duty to remonstrate this either to the Com- 
mander in Chief or the Congress. The former I should suppose you 
\vd prefer. 

5 The resolutions which Adams here summarizes are in the Jottrnals under Aug. 2. 
8 Cf. vol. I. of these Letters, no. 720, note 3. 



August, i'jy6 37 

57. The President of Congress to John Haslet.* 

Philadelphia 3d Augst. 1776. 
Sir 

You are hereby Directed to order the Company of your P>attalion 
posted at Lewis Town as soon as possible to march to Philadelphia and Join 
their Battalion now Station'd at the Barracks in this City.^ 

I am Sir 

Your very hum* se* 

John Hancock, President. 

To the Officer Commdg the Battalion of Continental 
Troops now in this City Colonel Haslet's Battalion.^ 

58. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney.^ 

Philadelphia August 3d 1776. 
Sir 

Since I finished my other Letter have been up at Congress where we 
rec'd Intelligence by letter from Captn. Weeks ^ in the Congress Ship the 
Reprisal that he has at sea on the 13th of July taken two prizes, a ship 
and a Schooner bound for Liverpool Loaded with Cotton, Sugar, Rum, 
etc. The Letters came by the Prize Schooner which arrived at an Inlet 
near Egg Harbour, and the Ship Prize has been seen off the Capes of 
Delaware and Supposed by this time got in. This days post is not yet 
Come in from New- York. It is past his Usual time of Coming, and there- 
fore Imagined there will be something important, which delayed him. 
I wish it may be Good. The Delaware [battalion] came to town this 
Morning and there passed an Order of Congress Yesterday Morning for 
Captain Darby and his Company now at Lewis, to Come up and join the 
Battalion, or at least to follow them,^ for as Congress have now Got 
Arms, I imagine t'hey will not stay long here. Let not the Contents of 
my other letter be seen by any, Unless a friend in whom you can confide. 



[57] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book. VI. 14; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., 

^- 739- , , 

2 Haslet's battalion had been ordered to Philadelphia, July 20 (see the Journals). 
Troops were stationed in Lewes, Del., in consequence of a resolve of Apr. 3 {cf. Apr. 12). 
See no. 58. post. 

3 The words " Colonel Haslet's Battalion " were added by Hancock's secretary. 
The letter is otherwise in Hancock's writing. The conclusion therefore is that Hancock 
did not, when he wrote the letter, know the name of the commanding officer. 

[58]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Signers, H. 2>^] Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 741. 

2 The letter of Capt. Lambert Wickes is not mentioned in the Journals, but see 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., L 706, 741, 759. Rodney's " other letter ", also dated Aug. 3, 
is ibid., L 740. 

3 The order is not recorded in the Journals Aug. 2. See however no. 57, ante, 
also the Journals, Aug. 5, 8. In a letter to Thomas Rodney, Aug. 8, Caesar Rodney 
says: "The Delaware battalion is under marching orders for Amboy, subject to 

General Washington's further orders Mr. McKean is still in the Jerseys, and not 

likely soon to return. The terms of Confederation now before the Congress, and our 
Colony not represented without Read and me both, therefore cannot expect to see you 
in Kent very soon." Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 833. See no. 90, note 2, post. 



 

59. John Adams to William Heath.* 

Philadelphia, Aug. 3, 1776. 
Dear Sir: 

Yours of the 20th ult. is before me 

Congress has not determined to liave no regard to the hue of succession 
in promotions, but only that this hnc shall not be an invariable rule; 
eaeteris f^arihus, the line will be pursued, but they mean to reserve a right 
of distinguishing extraordinary merit, or demerit.- This rule may be 
abu.sed. But is it not necessary? all good things are liable to abuse. 
I am afraid, nay I know it will be abused in particular instances. But 
if we make the succession an invariable rule, will not the abuse be greater? 

Is it not common in the British Army to promote junior officers over 
the heads of their supcriours ? nay even officers in the same regiment, and 
on the same commaml? I have been told of several instances. This 
however is wrong 



By some expressions in the close of your letter, I conclude you were 
not perfectly satisfied with a late promotion. Be assured. Sir, if that was 
raising a junior officer, over the head of any superiour, it was not con- 
sidered in that light by the gentlemen who did it ; the person promoted 
was thought to be the oldest Brigadier, and intituled to advancement by 
the line of succession. And it is my opinion he would have been made a 
Major General much sooner if his experience had not been thought indis- 
pensible in the Adjutant General's Department.^ 



60. Thomas Jefferson to John Page.^ 

Philadelphia, Aug. 5, 1776. 
Dear Page, 

.... The Congress having had reason to suspect the Six nations 
intended war, instructed their commissioners to declare to them peremp- 
torily that if they chose to go to war with us, they should be at liberty to 
remove their families out of our settlements, but to remember that they 
should not only never more return to their dwellings on any terms but 
that we would never cease pursuing them with war w^hile one remained 
on the face of the earth ; and moreover, to avoid equivocation, to let them 
know they must recall their young men from Canada, or we should con- 
sider them as acting against us nationally. This decisive declaration 
produced an equally decisive act on their part ; they have recalled their 
young men, and are stirring themselves with anxiety to keep their people 

[59]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Heath Papers, I. 142; Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh 
ser., IV. 14; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I 739. 

- Cf. no. 23, ante. Heath's letter of July 20, to which Adams is replying, is in 
Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IV. 11. 

3 The allusion is to Gates, who was made adjutant-general with the rank of 
brigadier-general June 17. 1775, and was made major-general May 16, 1776. Cf. vol. I. 
of these Letters, nos. 620, 643, 644. Heath was elected major-general Aug. Q. 

[boY Writings (ed. Ford), II. 7i; Works (Memorial ed.), IV. 270; Va. Hist. Soc, 
Lee Transcripts, IV. (copy). 



August, I//6 39 

quiet, so that the storm we apprehended to be brewing there it is hoped 
is blown over." Colo. Lee being- unable to attend here till the 20th inst 
I am under the painful necessity of putting off my departure, notwith- 
standing the unfavorable situation of Mrs. Jefferson's health 

I enclose you (to amuse your curiosity) the^ form of the prayer substi- 
tuted in the room of the prayer for the King by Mr. Duche, chaplain to 
the Congress. I think by making it so general as to take in Conventions, 
assemblies, etc., it might be used instearl of that for the parliament. 
Adieu. 

61. JosiAH Bartlett to John Langdox.^ 

Philadelphia, August 5, 1776. 
Sir: 

.... Since the Declaration of Independence, your friend John Alsop 
has written to the Convention of New- York to resign his seat in Con- 
gress, and made some reflections on the Convention for their agreeing 
so unanimously to that Declaration. The Convention, in return, voted 
cheerfully and unanimously to accept of his resignation, with some severe 
and cutting reflections on him for his conduct; which were all sent to 
Congress.^ I believe his boarding with our friend Wharton has been no 
advantage to him; possibly, he was obliged to resign his seat as a previous 
condition to his taking full possession of the lady 



62. The Board of War to the Maryland Convention or 

Committee of Safety.^ 

War Office 6th Augst. 1776 Philadelphia 
Gentlemen 

By a Resolve of Congress on the Subject of Prisoners, it is determined 
" That a list of the prisoners in each Colony be made out by the Com- 
mittees of the Counties Towns or Districts where they reside and trans- 
mitted to the Assembly, Convention or Council or Committee of Safety 
of such Colony respectively who shall send a Copy thereof to Congress." 
The Board of War who have by Direction of Congress, the Care of all 
Prisoners, are much obstructed in that Business by the Resolution before 
quoted not having been Complied with. I am therefore to press you by 
all Means to Prevail on the several Committees in your State to enable 
you immediately to transmitt an accurate List of all prisoners of war now 

2 See the Journals, June 14, Aug. 6, 19, 26. Cf. ibid., Apr. 10, 15, May 6, 11, 25, 
June 17; also no. 29, ante, and no. 70, post. See especially Schuyler to Congress, June 8, 
with enclosure from Samuel Kirkland, Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, VI. 762-764, 
Washington to Congress, July 13, ibid., VI. 837, to Schuyler, June 13, ibid., VI. 837. 
Cf. ibid., VI. 795, 796, 819, 914, 926, 976-977, 992, fifth ser., I. 36, 137-138, 394, 395, 396, 
480, 856, 867, 983, 1030-1049. 

[6i]i Force, Atn. Arch., fifth ser., I. 758. 

2 See Alsop's letter, July 16, no. 21, ante, and cf. no. 79, post. 
l62]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 41; Arch, of Md., XII. 178; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser.. I. 784; id. to Massachusetts, Mass. Arch., CXCV. 174; id. to North Carolina, 
N. C. Col. Recs., X. 726. 
8 



 

in your State to the Board that this matter which has heretofore been in 
Confusion may be reduced to projjer {)r<ler.* 

I have the honour to be your most obed humble Sert. 

Richard Peters Secy. 

Honouriible C'cMivention or Committee of Safety of Maryland. 

P. S 

63. WiLLi.xM Hooper to Jonathan Trumbull, jr.* 
Dear Sir 

Col Williams oblie^ingley .j^ave me a sij^ht of a letter from you.^ I am 
sorry to find you so much in the plaintive strain and that you have such 
just occasion for it.^ You mention that you had wrote me. be assured 
that I have not received a line from you, or I should have used my small 
abilities to lessen the difficulties with which your department is so griev- 
ously embarrassed. Congress is not well informed of the state of the 
Northern Army — the distance of that Station, the variety of Impediments 
which Sickness, Climate, the failure of duty in officers and men have 
thrown in the way have been insurmountable even to the most spirited 
and well meant intentions of this Congress. Unless some measures are 
immediately taken to strengthen your post I augur that Burgoygn will 
soon set foot in Albany. The Stars in their courses seem to fight against 
our attempts in your Quarter. And What the enemy and desertion have 
spared seem to be reserved only for the horrid depredations of Sickness. 
Heaven watch over the remains of what from its numbers was once 
formidable 

Philadelphia August 6, 1776 

64. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia Augi. 7th 1776 
Dear Sir 

I gratefully acknowledge your favors of 30th ult. and 4 Inst the first 
enclosing the well grounded Complaints of our Bror Jon^ of his and the 
N — rn Armys unjust and strange Treatment, a Letter came to Congress 
at the same Time from Genl Schuyler, containing 2 or 3 sheets Justifica- 
tion of the plan of Deserting Crown Point, and possesing the east of Ty : 
which to my apprehension and by my OAvn personal Knowledge I judge, 
insufficient. He also expresses in pretty strong Terms the want of 
^loney that and many other Letters were comitted to the board of War. 
I comunicated Yours and the inclosed to many Members whom I co*^ 

- See the Journals, Feb. 2, 7, Apr. 6. 9, Aug. 5. 
[63] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. I., no. 122. Addressed 
to "Jonathan Trumbull esqr. Paymaster etc etc Albany". 

2 Cf. no. 56, note 2, ante. 

3 Trumbull's complaints were probably of a lack of money. See Schuyler's letter 
to Washington, July 24, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 559, and the Journals, Aug. 2, 15. 
Cf. no. 52, ante, and nos. 64, 80, post. 

" What can be the reason that Congress does not Supply your Chest, do they Imagine 
that an Army can be Supported and Supplyed without that Necessary Article. _ I 
believe I may Be Justified in saying that this department is Much Neglected." Philip 
Schuyler to Jonathan Trumbull, jr., Aug. 7, Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan 
Trumbull, jr., I. 124. 

[6^]^ Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 563. 



August, iyy6 41 

trust who all seem to feel keenly, but also seem utterly at a loss how to 
redress the Grievances radically. I pressed some of that Board on the 
Subject, and lent Them the Letter in Consequence of which They brot 
in the inclosed Resolutions, which were pasd some days since, almost 
unanimously contrary to Expectation, as the original of the Design is to 
find out what Schuyler has done with his Money, it extends also further 
etc. I endeavored immediately to get a Copy to send you, but the 
Secrety \s\c\ under pretence of Hurry etc. put me off, which I did not 
like very much, and finally obtain [ed] the original from the Board of 
War and put off writing 'till I co^ get them, as I had nothing material, 
tho' I am sensible the Presidt. has sent Copys to Each as due. They are 
not attested but true Copys.^ .... 

Congress seem to be infatuated, are seeking after a thousand Reasons 
of the miscarriages in Canada by a Com* of that purpose etc.^ while the 
Fault is in themselves, in neglecting and abandoning That Army to inevi- 
table Destruction, and then severely censure Officers and Soldiers for 
their ill Conduct, in not making Brick without Straw or even Stubble, 
poor Wooster * a faithful Officer is lashed most inhumanly by Mr. ^ 

and sundry more in Congress tho they cant support any thing against 
him, by Any Proof but the most confident Assertions of their own. 
many of Us grieve and lament the Fate of that unhappy Army, but as yet 
see not how nor what to do. G. Schuyler how good so ever he might be 
if present etc. will be their Ruin to Comand and guide Affairs at a lOO 
or two miles off, but I dont see at present that it wo^ be possible to remove 
him, if the utter ruin of the Continent was to be the known Consequence 
of his Continuance in Office. Endeavors will not be wanting however 
to save them but I believe They will be too late, for I dont not \^sic\ 
expect Eyes will be opened till Burgoyne gets to Albany, and then, but 
I will forbear. 

the Dayly Business of Congress after dispatching a constant seriees 
of Business contained in Letters, receiving Reports, attending to Motions 
etc. is by a Com*^ of the whole House to endeavor to settle Articles of 
Confederation, which are drawn up and printed for the use of the Mem- 
bers only. We make slow Progress in them as every Inch of Ground is 
disputed, and very jarring Claims and Literests are to be adjusted among 
us, and then all to be agreed to by the sev' Legislatures, so that between 
both, I almost Despair of seeing it accomplished. I have not heard a 
word of your Affairs. Congress have been, and in some things are now 
very Lavish of Money and in others very close. There seems to be Spirit 
in some of the Southern agst. the no[r]thern Colonies and all their 

' Cf. nos. 52, 56, ante, and no. 80, post. The resolutions referred to are those of 
Aug. 2. 

^ A committee to inquire into the cause of the miscarriages in Canada was 
appointed June 24, and continued its investigations until October. Cf. vol. I. of these 
Letters, nos. 719, 720. 

* See nos. 71, 84, post. 

5 In his letter to Trumbull. Aug. 10, no. 71, post, Williams speaks of this person 
as one of the commissioners to Canada. This was evidently Samuel Chase. In regard 
to a bit of controversy between Chase and General Gates, see Chase's letter to Arnold, 
Aug. 7, and to Gates, Aug. 9, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 810, 864. Cf. ibid., II. 429. 



 

Officers and Affairs, so that you wo** stand a worse Chance for belonging 
to them. 

You will see the Resolves are calculated to keep you all honest. They 
were occasioned by Yr Bro" Letter and had a primary Reference to a 
Northern Gent." 

if you think it convenient you will furnish our Bro*" Jonathan with a 
Copy of the whole to whom also make my kind Compliments, and to 
Colo. Ilnntington, from whom I never expect to hear another Word. 
Sho"^ be glad to hear frecjuently from you. and will not he in your Debt 
if I can find any thing worth writing 

Your most affectionate Friend and Brother 

Wm. Williams 
Col Trumbull 

P. S. I was sorry to forget asking you at N Y. and I had again forgot 
to ask you where is Bushnel, and why dont he attempt something when 
will or can be a more proper Time than is or has been etc I was knowing 
to his coming etc and that you was acquainted with the Plan etc' 

6^. The Secret Committee to Silas Deaxe.^ 

Philadelphia, August 7, 1776. 
Dear Sir: 

.... The Declaration of Independence meets with universal approba- 
tion, and the people everywhere seem more animated by it in defense of 
their country. 

Most of our frigates are launched in the different provinces, and are 
fitting for sea with all the expedition in our power. They are fine ships 
and will be capable of good service. Our small privateers and continental 
armed vessels have already had great success, as the papers will show you ; 
and by abstaining from trade ourselves, while we distress that of our 
enemies, we expect to make their men-of-war weary of their unprofitable 
and hopeless cruises, and their merchants sick of a contest in which so 
much is risked and nothing gained. The forming a Navy is a capital 
object with us, and the marine committee is ordered to bring in a plan for 
increasing it very considerably." .... 

66. The North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina 

Council of Safety.^ 
Gentlemen : 

.... We send you inclosed a Copy of a letter which this day came to 
Congress from General Washington.- We thot it interesting to you, 

6 Such a letter from Jonathan Trumbull, jr., is not found. In regard to his 
want of money, see no. 52, note 2, ante. The " Northern Gent." was doubtless Schuyler. 
Cf. the statement concerning Schuyler, above. 

"^ The reference is to David Bushnell and his plan to destroy the British ships by 
means of a submarine vessel. See no. 32, note 2, ante. 

[65] 1 Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 107; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 809. 

- The instruction first appears of record in the Journals Aug. 23. See also ibid., 
Nov. 20. 

[66] lA^ C. Col. Recs., X. 730. 

2 The letter referred to was evidently Washington's second letter of Aug. 7, read 
in Congress Aug. 8. It is in Force, Ant. Arch., fifth ser., I. 818. See no. 67, post. 



August, 1776 43 

as it tends to free the Southern Colonies from the apprehensions of 
immediate injury, and will, from Clinton's removal, give them an oppor- 
tunity to provide for their defence in case of a Winter Campaign against 
them. We must most earnestly importune you to compleat the Con- 
tinental Battalions. You will now have leisure to recruit them, and in our 
next to you we hope in behalf of Congress to hold forth such Encourage- 
ment as will make that Task very easy. The circumstance of being com- 
fortably cloathed, for which we are making all tlie provision we can, will 
no doubt weigh much with men to enlist, tho' you will remember the value 
of the Cloathing is to be deducted from their pay.^ .... 
We are Gentlemen with great Respect, 

Your most Obedt Humble Servants, 

Wm Hooper, 
Joseph Hewes, 
John Penn. 
Philadelphia, August 7th, 1776.'* 

67. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Aug. 8, 1776 
Sir 

Your letters of the 7 with the papers enclosed are received and now 
under consideration of Congress.^ 

Enclosed I send you a resolution passed respecting lieutenant Josiah. 
He was first lieutenant of captain Nicholas Biddle and was taken in a ship 
capt Biddle had made prize of, by the Cerberus frigate 

By a letter which he found means to convey he informs that " he is 
used worse than he ever thought one englishman could use another — that 
he was sent before the mast with the rest, but upon refusing to do duty 
was given under the charge of three boatswains mates and expects the 
gangway soon as he is daily threatened." ' 

An Order is this moment pass'd for calling General Lee from the 
southward, and tomorrow is appointed for electing a number of major 
generals and brig"" generals.* 

I am Sir Your very Hum^ servt. 

John Hancock Presi'. 
His Excell*^^ Genl Washington 

You will please to mention the matter of Lieut. Josiah as real informa- 
tion, but not discover that it was by Letter, as it may prove injurious, in 
case he is not exchang'd. 

3 See no. 69, post. 

* The date of this letter should probably be Aug. 8, as the letter of Washington 
to which reference in made (see note 2, above) was read in Congress that day. 

[67]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 269; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser.. L 832. 

2 Washington's letters of Aug. 7 and enclosures are in Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
sen, L 814-819. The earlier of the two, relative to the appointment of general officers, 
etc., is also in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 421. See the Journals, Aug. 8. Concerning the 
second letter, see no. 66, ante. 

3 See the Journals. Aug. 7, and Force. Am. Arch., fifth sen, L 659, 910. Washing- 
ton's correspondence with Lord Howe relative to the exchange of Lieutenant Josiah 
and other prisoners is ibid., I. 1094, 1095. Cf. the Journals, Oct. 10. 

* See the Journals, Aug. 8, 9. and nos. 71, 72, 85, 92, post. 



 

68. Samuel Chase to Piiilii» Schuyler.^ 

Philadelphia, Augst. 9th. 1776. 
My dear Sir, 

.... I have great reason to believe that France would readily listen 
to an application from the united States of amcrica, but when we shall be 
confederated States, I know not. I am afraid the Day is far distant, 
three great DiHiculties occur — The Mode of Voting, whether by Colonies, 
or by an equal Representation ; The Rule by which each Colony is to pay 
its Quota, and the Claim of several Colonies to extend to the South Seas. 
a considerable Diversity of opinion prevails on each Head. '^Fhe Con- 
federacy is to be transmitted to each State for their Concurrence. 

It is probable I'^ance will not enter into an alliance with Us before we 
have confederated, if ever we do, it will take a considerable Time to 
effect it, and the opportunity may be lost of striking some great and 
decisive blow." .... 

69. The North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina 

Council of Safety,^ 

Ge)itlenien 

We wrote you yesterday " by express to General Lee with dispatches 
requesting his immediate return to the Eastern Colonies.* We then men- 
tioned to you that Congress in ordet to encourage the completion of the 
Continental Regiments had ofifered a considerable bounty to all non com- 
missioned Officers and soldiers who would enlist for the space of three 
years. Congress are deeply impressed with the necessity of making 
enlistments if possible during the War but at any rate for the space of 
three years, as frequent enlistments prevent soldiers ever becoming expert 
in discipline and often put it in their power to quit their Stations at a 
time when their Services are most necessary for the publick Safety.* We 
recollect that our State hath given a bounty of 40s. to every man who has 
engaged in the Continental Regts. raised in No. Carolina. By way of 
Oeconomy and to save that Bounty to the Colony in part by making it a 
continental charge We would propose that 5 dollars more be given to 
every non commissioned Officer and soldier already enlisted who will 
engage for the space of the War and if that cannot be effected, for a 
limited time. We wish a longer at any rate than three years, tho that will 

[68] ^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 249. 

- Cf. nos. 18, 26, 43, 44, 45, 47, 50, 52, ante, 73, 83, 84, 85, 94, post. See also the 
Journals, July 12, July 22-Aug. 9, 20; also Adams's and Jefferson's Notes of Debates, 
July 25-Aug. 2, the Journals, VI. 1076-1083, 1098- 1 106. In regard to Maryland's posi- 
tion on the question of colonial claims to western territory and the disposition of the 
lands, see nos. 191, 205, 216, 219-221, 226, 248, 359, post. See also Charles Carroll of 
Carrollton to Governor Johnson, June 22, 1778, in the next volume of these Letters. 

[69]! N. C. Hist. Comm.; N. C. Col. Recs., X. 740. 

2 The letter of Aug. 9, merely a few lines, enclosing resolves, is in N. C. Col. 
Recs., X. 740. 

3 See the Journals, Aug. 8, and Hancock to Lee, Aug. 8, Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
sen, I. 832. Cf. no. 85, post. 

* See the Journals, June 26, July 30 (pp. 483, 617, 620) ; also the circular letter, 
Sept. 24, no. 139, post. 



August, iy'j6 46 

come within the intention of Congress. In increasing the Regts. begun 
to tiieir proper number the new Recruits will be entitled to the lo dollars 
bounty in case of the proposed extension of time in the enlistment. We 
imagine that this will operate to produce a very happy alteration in the 
State of our Carolina army especially as the Soldiers will in a short time 
receive decent and comfortable Cloathing. 

We are Gentlemen, 

With great Respect, 

Your obedt Humble Servants, 

Wm Hooper 
Joseph Hewes 
John Penn 
Philadelphia Aug. lo, 1776 

[Address:] 

The Honourable 

The President and Members of the Council of Safetv 

Halif'ax 

North Carolina 

70. James Wilson to Jasper Yeates and John Montgomery,^ 

Dear Gentlemen 

In my letter to you and the other Commissioners I have enclosed a 
Resolution of Congress mentioning a Matter to be enquired into by you 
and them.^ I enclose to you Major Blaine's Proposals upon the Subject. 
You know, as well as I do, his peculiar Activity and Fitness for an Em- 
ployment of this Kind. He is now at the Camp in New Jersey, where I 

expect to be in a few Days Colonel St Clair was yesterday made 

a General Officer. His Character stands deservedly high. 

It will give me Pleasure to hear from you. 

Philadelphialoth Augt 1776 

Jasper Yeates and 
John Montgomery Esqr. 

71. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia Augt. loth. 1776 
Dear Sir 

On the repeated Request of Genii Washington, for an additional num- 
ber of ]\Iajor and Brigadier Generals, and representing the necessity of 

[70] 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 720. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 6. The letter referred to has not been found. Yeates 
and Montgomery were commissioners for Indian affairs in the Middle department, 
elected July 4 {Journals, V. 517). Cf. nos. 29, 60, ante. 

In the Literary Diary of Ezra Stiles (vol. II., p. 47), under date of Aug. 30, appears 
the following entry: "A Letter from Mr. Ellery in Congress dated Philadelphia Aug ir, 
1776. The Congress lately had an Interview with some of the Seneca Chiefs — ' The 
Name by which the oldest Sachem said the President would hereafter be known amongst 
them. — It was Karanduawyi , the Meaning of which is the Great Tree.' Quere, did the 
Trees of Liberty suggest this Idea to the Indians ? " The interview referred to may 
have been that of May 27. 

(71]^ Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 564. 



 

Them to assist in Command in a day of Action, which He is daily expect- 
ing, Congress yesterday took uji the matter and have apptjintcd a niimher 
of each sntliciently large viz Maj Cienerals Heath, Spencer, Snllivan and 
Green, and Brigadier Generals Reed of N. H. Nixon of Mass: St Clair 
of Pena : McDougall. Parsons, whom you know, and Clinton, N. Y.* 
poor Wooster a worthy Officer is neglected, boundless ICfforts have been 
used to blast his Character in Congress by one of the Canada Commis- 
sioners ' he has been represented by him as a most worthless contemptible 
Fellow and the most illiberal Abuse thrown out against him in Congress, 
such as I think totally inconsistent with their Honor and Justice to suffer 
but so it is ; nor has the author escaped severe Remarks by the Friends of 
Wooster but the former undauntedly persisted in his Reflections, and has 
fixed a deep Prejudice against him in a majority; tho not a single Charge 
can be supported against him. and he has been honorably acquitted by a 
Com'*, whose Report by address etc. has been yet kept of [f] and recom- 
itted however on the Tryal for Maj Gs. he carried six votes twice agst. 
the same No. for Heath, and one for Sullivan with much opposition a 3d 
ballot was had and Heath carried it by 7 vs 6. the other Majr Genlls 
were all unanimously chosen, there was no intention to make more than 
three, but as it was thot necessary to take Them in succession, Green w-as 
so worthy and high in Esteem, that on motion He was added with an 
eager unanimity. Reed carried 10 votes, Nixon 8, St Clair 8, McDougal 
7. Parsons 11, and Clinton 7. thus a Door is opened [for?] a fine parcel 
of Promotions. I know not whether any thing will be done about Them 
at present, nothing yet moved. I hope in God, They and all will accquit 
Themselves like Men and be Strong in the Day of approaching Conflict, 
and may the Lord of Hosts be on our Side and vindicate our righteous 
Cause agt our most unjust and more than Savage Foes. 

I am Dear Sir your afTec*^ Friend and Brother 

W Williams 

Genl Gates has wrote a more favorable Acc° of our Northern Army. 
It is talked out of Doors of adjourning to the Jerseys, please to let me 

- See the Journals, Aug. 8, 9. also Washington's letters of July 29, Aug. 5, 7, 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. I. 641, 762, 814. Cf. no. 67, aute. and nos. 72, 85, post. 

3 Evidently Samuel Giase. Cf. a letter of Chase and Carroll, the commissioners 
in Canada, to Congress, May 27: " General Wooster is, in our opinion, unfit, totally unfit, 
to command your Army and conduct the war ; we have hitherto prevailed on him to 
remain in Montreal. His stay in this Colony is unnecessary and even prejudicial to our 
affairs; we would therefore humbly advise his recall." Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser.. 
\'l. 589. It was doubtless in one of the debates at this time on the miscarriages in 
Canada (see the Journals, July 19, 30, 31, Aug. 3, 5, 10) that the incident occurred which 

Benjamin Rush relates in his Memorial (p. 104) : " In a debate in which Mr. 

criminated the New England troops as the principal cause of the failure of the expedi- 
tion into Canada in 1775, he [John Adams] said, 'the cause of the failure of that expedi- 
tion was chiefly to be ascribed to the imprudence of the gentleman from Marj-land who 
had fomented jealousies and quarrels between the troops from the New England and 
Southern States, in his visit to Canada, and (said Mr. Adams) if he were now pene- 
trated, as he ought to be, with a sense of his improper and wicked conduct, he would 
fall down upon his knees, on this floor, and ask our forgiveness. He would afterwards 
retire with shame, and spend the remainder of his life in sackcloth and ashes, deploring 

the mischief he had done his country.' " " Mr. " could scarcely be any other than 

Samuel Chase. Cf. no. 64, ante. 



August, I J "J 6 47 

know Cap : Dyers best arguments, for a majority, his present Rank etc. 
I wo'' gladly serve him/ 

'J2. JOSIAH BaRTLETT TO JoiIN LaNGDON.^ 

Philadelphia, August ii, 1776. 
Dear Sir: 

.... By the publick prints you will see there is a new emission of 
Brigadier-Generals, and four of the former Brigadiers promoted to 
Major-Generals. We find some difficulty to give satisfaction in the 
appointment of officers; and, on the whole, it was thought the appointing 
the first Continental Colonel in the respective States to the rank of Brig- 
adiers was the least liable to objection.- .... 

August JJ. Colonel Whipple left us for New Hampshire yesterday 
at two o'clock.' 

y^. William Williams to Oliver Wolcott.^ 

Philadela. Augt. 1 2th. 1776- 
Hon'^. and dear Sir 

.... with great Reluctance I set out for this place and reached it near 
the last of July, after the most sultry and fatigueing Journey that I ever 
performed, by much.' .... 

^ Capt. Thomas Dyer, son of Eliphalet Dyer, delegate in Congress from Con- 
necticut. He was assigned by Washington to duty as brigade-major in General Parson's 
brigade, Aug. 15, and was appointed major by Congress Aug. 19. Cf. nos. 78, 86, 87, post. 
[72]! Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 893. 

2 See no. 71, ante, and no. 85, post. 

3 Samuel Adams also left Congress Aug. 12. " Mr. A. sets off to-day, if the rain 
should not prevent him, with Colonel Whipple of Portsmouth, a brother of the cele- 
brated Miss Hannah Whipple, a sensible and worthy man." John Adams to his wife, 
Aug. 12, Familiar Letters, p. 208; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 907. In a letter to 
James Warren. Feb. 11, 1777 (Warren-Adams Letters, I. 290), Samuel Adams gives a 
statement of his services in Congress in 1775 and 1776. 

Under date of Aug. 14 Ezra Stiles records in his Diary (H. 198) : " Dined with Col 
Whipple. He shewed me the Articles of Confederation of the United States, first drafted 
by a Committee, and then received by a Committee of the whole Congress but not passed, 
but printed only for every Member to have a Copy for his own Consider*. He might shew 
it but suffer no Copies. Two or 3 Articles had been considered in Congress as Congress 
and acted upon. And they were proceeding upon the rest when Col Whipple came away." 
There follows a brief analysis of the Confederation as it then stood. 

173]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. I., no. 2. 

2 " Monday, Augidst 12 Commodore Hopkins had his hearing. _ as in the 

Journal. On this occasion I had a very laborious task against all the prejudices of the 
gentlemen from the Southern and Middle States, and of many from New England. 
I thought, however, that Hopkins had done great service, and made an important 
beginning of naval operations 

" It appeared to me that the Commodore was pursued and persecuted by that anti-New- 
England spirit which haunted Congress in many other of their proceedings, as well as 
in this case and that of General Wooster. I saw nothing in the conduct of Hopkins, 
which indicated corruption or want of integrity. Experience and skill might have been 
deficient in several particulars ; but where could we find greater experience or skill ? 
I knew of none to be found. The other captains had not so much, and it was afterwards 
found they had not more success. I therefore entered into a full and candid investiga- 
tion of the whole subject ; considered all the charges a:id all the evidence, as well as his 
answers and proofs ; and exerted all the talents and eloquence I had, in justifying him 
where he was justifiable, and excusing him where he was excusable ", etc. John Adams, 
Autobiography, in Works, III. 65. See vol. I. of these Letters, no. 630, also nos. 81, 83, 
84, 89, post. 

3 See no. 56, note 2, ante. Cf. no. 222, post. 



 

T cannot give you any acceptaMe News. Congress are yet bussie at 
all Intervals of croiuling Business, in Selling a Confederation, it seems 
to labour hard, and I fear a jx^rniancnt one will never be settled ; tho the 
most material articles are I think got thro', so as to give great offence to 
some, but to my Satisfaction, the bold and sonorous Cha.se (and some 
or all his Colleagues) solemnly protest against the Taxation Article etc. 
and declare that they consider Maryland as having no further Concern 
in it. and that his Colony never will nor never shall agree to it. They are 
all gone home, except Mr Stone, to attend (they say) their Convention 
which sits this Day. most of the Southern Colonies are as uneasie as 
they, but dont scold quite so hard.* 

What will be the event of Things God only knows. If we were to view 
only the rage and Strength of our Enemies, our Divisions and the wicked- 
ness of the People, We might well despair, but they are wicked also, 
their cause is certainly most unjust, the Judge of all the Earth will do 
right. He has done great Things for Us. He will not yet forsake Us 
I believe, tho most of Us have forsaken him, but I trust many many 
thousands, have not bowed the Knee to Baal 

74. Thomas Jefferson to Edmund Pendleton.^ 

Philadelphia. Aug. 13. 1776. 
Dear Sir, — 

.... The idea of Congress selling our unlocated lands has been some- 
times dropped, but we have alwais met the hint with such determined 
opposition that I believe it will never be proposed. — I am against selling 
the lands at all.^ .... 

75. Francis Lewis to [Mrs. Gates ?].^ 

Dear Madam 

.... I perceive by your letter that you are alarmed at my son 

Morgan's comming down Express to Congress The principal 

reason for Morgans comming down was. briefly this, Genl. Gates when 
appointed to the Command of the Army in Cannada was impowered to 
appoint such officers as He thought proper ^ in consequence thereof he 
nominated Morgan Depy. Qr. Masr. Genl. w'hen Genl. Gates got to 
Albany the Troops under Sulivan had evacuated Cannada therefor Genl 
Schuyler claimed the Command of that Army whilest in the Colony of 

* See no. 68, note 2, ante. 
[74]^ IVrUings (ed. Ford), II. 78; JVorks (Memorial ed.), IV. 275. The letter is 
unquestionably to Edmund Pendleton, for Jefferson is replying to a letter from Pendle- 
ton, dated Aug. 3, in the Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 

2 Jefferson proceeds to give his reasons. See an extract from a letter of Pendleton 
to Madison, Sept. 25, 1780, quoted in a foot-note in the Journals, VI. 505 (July i, 1776). 
Cf. no. 86, post, and see the Journals, Sept. 16, Oct. 30, Nov. 12, 13. 

The printed texts of this letter have, in the first line above, " selling out " ; but Pendle- 
ton was speaking of Virginia's unlocated lands, therefore " out " is doubtless an erroneous 
reading of our. 

[75]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, VI.; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 945. 
2 See the Journals, June 17. Cf. no. 54, ante. 



August, J//6 49 

Nw. York as Senior Officer, and of course Genl. Gates's appointments for 
Cannada were Niil * this brot. Morgan down to sollissit redress from the 
Congress as he had been put to a considerable expence in equiping himself 
for the appointment.* General Sulivan was also disgusted at Gl. Gates's 
being appointed to that Command the[n] he requested to resigne how- 
ever that he has withdrawn. ° 

Phila. 13 Augt. 76. 

yG. The Secret Committee to George Washington.^ 

PhiladelphiaAugust 14, 1776 
Sir: 

You have annexed an extract of a letter, we have just reed from Messr. 
Clarke and Nightingale Merch*^ in Providence Rhode Island, this letter 
was laid before Congress who ordered this Committee to inform your 
Excellency of the powder therein mentioned and to desire you would take 
possession of it granting a Receipt for the same to those who have it in 
Keeping in order that we may Account hereafter for the Value of such 
part as may be adjudged to the privateer that retook it.^ 

By order and on behalf of the Secret Committee I have the honour 
to be 

Your Excellencys most obedt Servant, 

RoBT. Morris, Chairman 
His Excell^ Genl. Washington 

yy. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, 14 August, 1776. 

.... I am put upon a committee, to prepare a device for a golden 
medal, to commemorate the surrender of Boston to the American arms,^ 
and upon another, to prepare devices for a great seal, for the confed- 
erated States.^ There is a gentleman here of French extraction, whose 
name is Du Simitiere, a painter by profession, whose designs are very 
ingenious, and his drawings well executed. He has been applied to for 
his advice. I waited on him yesterday, and saw his sketches. For the 

3 See the Journals, July 8. and no. 6, ante. 

* Cf. Gates to the President of Congress, July 16, and to Washington, same date, 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, I. 375, 376. Lewis received the appointment from Congress 
Sept. 12. Cf. the general orders, Aug. 25, ibid., I. 1270. 

5 See nos. 40, 44, 47, Si, ante. 
[76]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XL 136; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., I. 943. 

2 The extract of Clarke and Nightingale's letter is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., I. 943. It relates to the cargo of the sloop Nancy, retaken by the privateer Schuyler. 
No mention of the letter is found in the Journals. 

[jj]^ Familiar Letters, p. 210; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. I. 943. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 25, Nov. 29; also vol. L of these Letters, nos. 576, 586. 

3 See the Journals. July 4, Aug. 20 (pp. 689-691); also Jan. 23, 1777. Mar. 25, 
May II, 17, Oct. 27 (p. 985 n.). 1780, June 20, 1782. Cf. no. 12, ante. A History of the 
Seal of the United States, by Gaillard Hunt, was published by the Department of State 
in 1909. 



)0 Coiiliiu'iilal Coiti'it'ss 



{*' 



medal he proposes, Liberty, with her spear and pileus, leaning on General 
Washington. The British fleet in Boston harbor with all their sterns 
towards the town, the American troops marcliing in. For the seal, he 
l)roposes. The arms of the several nations from whence America has 
been peopled, as English, Scotch, Irish, Dutch, German, etc., each in a 
.shield. On one side of them. Liberty with her pileus, on the other, a rifler 
in his uniform, with his rifle gim in one hand, and his tomahawk in the 
other. This dress and these troops with this kind of armor being peculiar 
to America, unless the dress was known to the Romans. Dr. Franklin 
showed me yesterday a book, containing an account of the dresses of all 
the Roman soldiers, one of which appeared exactly like it. This M. du 
Simitierc is a verv curious man. He has begun a collection of materials 
for a history of this revolution. He begins with the first advices of the 
tea ships. He cuts out of the newspapers every scrap of intelligence, and 
every piece of speculation, and pastes it upon clean paper, arranging them 
under the head of that State to which they belong, and intends to bind 
them up in volumes. He has a list of every speculation and pamphlet 
concerning independence and another of those concerning forms of 
government. 

Doctor F. proposes a device for a seal. Moses lifting up his wand, 
and dividing the red sea, and Pharaoh in his chariot overwhelmed with 
the waters. This motto. " Rebellion to tyrants is obedience to God." 

Mr. Jefferson proposed, The children of Israel in the wilderness, led by 
a cloud by day, and a pillar of fire by night — and on the other side, 
Hengist and Horsa, the Saxon chiefs, from whom we claim the honor of 
being descended, and wdiose political principles and form of government 
we have assumed. 

I proposed, The choice of Hercules, as engraved by Gribelin, in some 
editions of Lord Shaftesbury's works. The hero resting on his club. 
Virtue pointing to her rugged mountain on one hand, and persuading 
him to ascend. Sloth, glancing at her flowery paths of pleasure, wantonly 
reclining on the ground, displaying the charms both of her eloquence and 
person, to seduce him into vice. But this is too complicated a group for 
a seal or medal, and it is not original 

78. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelp* Aug 15 1776 
Dear Sir 

Yours of the 12th. I have reed, my avocations this morn^ are so 
many, I can write but verry little if I had any thing worth w^riting about. 
I cant get my Bretheren to join in a Motion for Cap Dyer,^ tho they pro- 
fess a hearty willingness to serve him. they say Congress will expect a 
Recomend" from the Genl. and tis not safe to venture without. I dont 
know but it is necessary, and I wish one co'^ be obtaind, and I am certain 

[78]iConn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. Addressed, "To Joseph Trumbull 
Esqr Commissary General of the American Army New York ". 
- See no. 71, ante, and no. 87, post. 



August, 1776 51 

it can be carried, if from some others it may serve, if Col Dyer is there 
He will certainly g^et it if possible and I sho*^ think he may. I wrote 
him by the same Post I wrote you, but knew nothing of his being at 
N York perhaps it went on if there yet give him my Complim** (and 
Mr Law) ^ and desire him to write let me know his Errant and how 
matters go on in our Congress etc 

79. Philip Livingston to the New York Convention.'- 

Philadelphia 1 6th August 1776. 
Gentlemen, 

Your favours dat^ the 22d. July Incloseing Copy of Mr. Alsops Lettr. 
to the Convention and a Resolve of your body accept^ his resignation of 
his seat in Congress we reed, and agreable to your directions Comunicated 
the same to Congress and delivered a copy to Mr. Alsop, who had not 
attended for some days before, tho' we did not then know the reason of 
his absenting himself." Your favours of the 7th Instant wth. Inclosures 
we reed, and communicatd to Congress ' — the Spirited behaviour of your 
body, so very Conspicuous in your Resolves was very pleasing indeed. 
.... there is not the least doubt but your Rangers will be taken into 
Continental pay. the Southern Colonies are raising Troops for the like 
purpose and we intend in Conjunction with them to Apply to Congress 
on that head, the Gentn. represent^ those Colonies wish to have the 
Application deferred for sometime, but we are of opinion you ought not 
to defer raising the Men. the People on the frontiers !Most Certainly will 
not be Easy nor, we fear, safe, without such security, we are Confident 
Congress Means to be at the Expence Incurred and to be Incurred in 
Obstruct^ the Navigation of Hudsons river and will in Our next Acqt. 
you with their Explicit Ansr. on that head.* .... 

We remain. Gentlemen, 

Your most obedt. Servants. 

Phil. Livingston.^ 
The Honble. Convention of New York 

80. Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, jr.^ 

Philadelphia August i6th 1776. 
Dear Sir 

.... There have been great complaints for want of money in the 
Northern department. That want has been partly owing to a neglect of 

3 Richard Law, delegate from Connecticut in 1774 and again in 1782. 
l79]iN. Y. Hist. Sec, Duer Papers, I.; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXIX. 
158 (copy) ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., L 977. 

- See no. 21, ante. The letter of the New York convention is in Jour. N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., L 537, and Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., L 1431. It was probably presented to 
Congress before Aug. 5. Cf. no. 61, ante. 

3 The convention's letter of Aug. 7 is in Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 560, and 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 1483. It was probably presented to Congress Aug. 12. 

* C/. no. 100, post. Concerning the project of obstructing the navigation of the 
Hudson, see Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 392, 423, 448, 484, 998, 1028, 1409, 1514, 1518, 
1522, 1547, 1548, 1564, and Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 526, 575, 577, 578, 594, 596. See 
also E. M. Ruttenber. Obstructions to the Navigation of Hudson's River (Albany, i860). 

5 Although this letter uses the first person plural, only Philip Livingston signed it. 
[80] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. I., no. 135. 



!j'2 Continental Congress 

makings api)lication to Congress for it, as Paper currency might have been 
sent at any time, but a Sufticicnt Sujjply of Specie could not be obtained 
to support the Arniv in Canada therefore suppHes or provisions etc. oug^lit 
to have been sent from the C"olonies. Who is most blameworthy for the 
ncj^dect I shall iR>t undertake to say. 5CX),oO{) Dollars were .sent forward 
to You about a fort-niji;ht ag^o which I hope are safe arrived — as many 
more, were ordered yesterday," to be forwarded immediately, so that I 
hope you will in future have sufficient supplies of that article, especially 
as Cong'ress has directed the Paymasters to make returns weekly of the 
State of their Military Chests, which returns 'tis expected will be sent 
by the Post 

8i. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of 
Rhode Island (Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

Philadelphia Augt. 17th. 1776 
Sir 

.... Commodore Hopkins, who was charged with Disobedience of 
Orders, hath been heard in his Defence. Congress Resolved that his 
Answers were by no means satisfactory, and thereupon further Resolved 
" that he should be censured and he is censured accordingly." ^ Judge 
Greene arrived here yesterday. We shall move Congress for the Pay- 
ment of the Money requested by the General Assembly.^ 

We have not urged an Appointment of a Brigadier General to the 
Command of the Troops in our State ; because We think it would be 
imprudent to bring them in View at this Time least they should be ordered 
to New York and our State be left defenceless.* .... 
with great Respect 

Your Honor's most obedient humble Servants, 

Step. Hopkins 
William Ellery 

82. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia August 17th 1776, 5 O'Clock P. M. 
Sir, 

Your Favour of the i6th Inst : per Post this minute came to Hand, 
and shall be laid before Congress on Monday.^ .... 

2 According to the Journals. $200,000 was ordered sent to Trumbull Aug. 2, and 
$500,000 Aug. 15. In his letter to Schuyler, Aug. 7 (Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, L 
820), Washington also says he understood that $500,000 had been sent. Cf. nos. 52, 63, 
64, ante. 

[8i]iN. Y. Pub. Lib.. Emmet Coll.. no. 1562, Declaration of Independence. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 15, 16; also no. 84, post. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 2. 

* See the Journals, Sept. 3, 7. 
[82]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 284; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., I. 994. 

2 Washington's letter of Aug. 16 is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 980. It is 
not mentioned in the Journals. 



August, iyy6 5.') 

P. S. This Morns^ I Rec'cl the Box by Coll Reed, and am Directed 
by Congress to Take Care of it, which is done." 

83. JosiAH Bartlett to William Whipple.^ 

Philadelphia, August 18, 1776. 
Sir: 

.... I fear the Confederation will not be finished in time to be laid 
before our Assembly at their next sitting. Last week passed without 
looking at it.^ Other affairs have taken up the whole time. Near two 
days were taken up about Commodore Hopkins ; and we had the pleasure 
to be for the greatest part of that time entertained by the eloquence of 
some of our Southern brethren, particularly that polite speaker, Middle- 
ton. The Congress at last found Hopkins guilty of not paying proper 
attention to his orders, and have ordered him to be censured. Thus 
stands that affair at present.^ .... 

84. John Adams to Samuel Adams.^ 

Philadelphia August 18 1776 
Dear Sir 

.... Confederation has not been mentioned since you left us.' We 
have spent the Time upon the two old Bones of Contention, the old 

3 This was a box containing Washington's military papers, which he sent to 
Congress for safe-keeping. See his letter of Aug. 13 (Writings, ed. Sparks, IV. 45; 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 932), read in Congress Aug. 17. 

[83]! Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 1024; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 52, 
vol. II., p. 1491 (copy). 

2 It was last considered on Aug. 8 and was taken up again on Aug. 20. Cf. nos. 
33, 34. 43- ante, and nos. 84, 85, 94, post. 

3 See no. 81, ante, and nos. 84, 85, 89, post. 

[84]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Letters of John Adams and John Quincy Adams 
(original) ; ibid., Samuel Adams Papers, Wells Trans. ; Bulletin of the N. Y. Pub. Lib., 
vol. X., no. 4227. 

2 Samuel Adams left Congress Aug. 12. See no. 72, note 3, ante. On Aug. 20 Con- 
gress went into committee of the whole on the Confederation. In his Autobiography, 
under that date, John Adams rails at the brevity of the record in the Journals : " Thus we 
see the whole record of this momentous transaction. No motions recorded, no yeas and 
nays taken down, no alterations proposed, no debates preserved, no names mentioned ; ail 
in profound secrecy. Nothing suffered to transpire, no opportunity to consult constituents : 
no room for advice or criticisms in pamphlets, papers, or private conversation. I was 
very uneasy under all this, but could not avoid it. In the course of this confederation a 
few others were as anxious as myself. Mr. Wilson, of Pennsylvania, upon one 
occasion, moved that the debates should be public, the doors opened, galleries erected, 
or an adjournment made to some public building, where the people might be accom- 
modated. Mr. John Adams seconded the motion, and supported it with zeal. But 
no! neither party was willing; some were afraid of divisions among the people; 
but more were afraid to let the people see the insignificant figures they made in that 
assembly. Nothing, indeed, was less understood abroad, among the people, than the 
real constitution of Congress, and the characters of those who conducted the business 
of it. The truth is, the motions, plans, debates, amendments, which were every day 
brought forward, in those committees of the whole house, if committed to writing, 
would be very voluminous ; but they are lost forever. The preservation of them, indeed, 
might, for any thing I recollect, be of more curiosity than use." Works, III. 69. 

Adams had before him when writing his Autobiography (1805) only the public 
Journals, the secret Journals not having been published until 1821. The same error of 
misapprehension is in part responsible for frequent criticisms of the method of keeping 
the record of proceedings. 

It has not been discovered when the motion of James Wilson, referred to by Adams, 
was made. The rule of closed doors was adopted Sept. 6, 1774, and May 11, I775- Cf. 



 

Gen." and the Comnioclorc/ The first we voted bhiiiieless, the last we 
voted censurable, because the Reasons fjiven for not comi)lyinjj litterally 
with his Instructions, were by no Means Satisfactory. My two Collcat^ues 
dilTerod in opinion from me. upon these Questions conccrninj:;- the 
ad[miral] 6 Colonies Ay. 3 No. 3 divided. I am afraid this will hurt 
the I'^eet. but Time must determine. \\c have ordered the old Hero to 
his Command. 

Before the Receipt of your Letter."' what you advise concerning^ Meigs 
and Dearborne was done. The Board of War recommended it and it was 
done, but not without opposition from 5 or 6 Colonies, who thouj^ht that 
there ought to be no Distinctions made, but a general Exchange of the 
Prisoners of Arnolds Party, or none 

85. Edw.vrd Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston.^ 

[August i9(?)-' 1776-] 
My dear Robert, 

.... The Promotion of General Officers gave us a good deal of 
Trouble.^ Woostcr had more Advocates for his Advancement than his 

an erased order in the Journals, Sept. 8, 1777 : " That the door of the lobby be kept 
locked during the sitting of Congress." 

3 David Wooster. See the Journals, Aug. 17. In his Autobiography {Works, 
III. 67) Adams says, concerning the vote to agree to the committee report on Wooster: 

" But not, however, without a great struggle. In this instance, again, as in many 
others, wliere the same anti-New-England spirit which pursued Commodore Hopkins, 
persecuted General Wooster, I had to contend with the whole host of their enemies, 
and with the utmost anxiety, and most ardous efforts, was scarcely able to preserve them 
from disgrace and ruin, which Wooster had merited even less than Hopkins. In 
Wooster's case, there was a manifest endeavor to lay upon him the blame of their own 
misconduct, in Congress, in embarrassing and starving the war in Canada. Wooster 
was calumniated for incapacity, want of application, and even for cowardice, without 
a color of proof of either. The charge of cowardice he soon confuted, by a glorious 
and voluntary sacrifice of his life, which compelled his enemies to confess he was a 
hero." Cf. vol. I. of these Letters, no. 630; also nos. 64, 71, ante, and no. 85, post. 

* Esek Hopkins. See the Journals, Aug. 15, 16. 
"Although this resolution of censure was not in my opinion demanded by justice, and 
consequently was inconsistent with good policy, as it tended to discourage an officer, and 
diminish his authority, by tarnishing his reputation, yet, as it went not so far as to 
cashier him. which had been the object intended by the spirit that dictated the prosecu- 
tion, I had the satisfaction to think that I had not labored wholly in vain in his defence." 
Adams's Autobiography, Works, III. 67. See vol. I. of these Letters, no. 630; also nos. 
7^. 81, 83, ante, and nos. 85, 89, post. An account of the Hopkins affair is found in 
Edward Field, Esek Hopkins, ch. v., and Allen, A Naval History of the American Revo- 
lution, I. 90-115. See also Paullin, The Navy of the American Revolution, pp. 53-60. 

s The letter, dated Aug. 16, is in Writings (ed. Cushing), III. 310. A. resolution 
authorizing the exchange of Maj. Return Jonathan Meigs and Capt. Henry Dearborn 
was passed Aug. 17. A petition from Meigs and others for exchange, presented to 
Congress Aug. 15, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 962. Cf. ibid., I. 553, 777, 853, 
902, 997. 

[85]^ Furnished by courtesy of Mr. James H. Manning, of Albany, N. Y. ; N. Y. Pub. 
Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, I. 203 (copy). 

- The date of this letter is probably Aug. 19. That it could not have been earlier 
than Sunday the 18th is evident from the reference to the Hopkins case: " Most of the 
last week was taken up in trying old Hopkins." It could not have been after the session 
of Aug. 20, for on that day consideration of the Confederation, which had been suspended 
since the 8th, was resumed. The reference to the Articles of War would seem to have 
in view the proceedings of Aug. 19. The letter bears the endorsement, " Edward Rut- 
ledge Esqr Reed Augt. 1776 ". 

3 See the Journals, Aug. 9; cf. nos. 71, 72, ante. 



August, 1/^6 55 

Abilities entitled him to. his Friends threaten'd us with his Resig-nation 
if he was passed by, this was conclusive with some of us, but he has not yet 
gratified our Expectations, and we begin to fear that his Attachment to 
1 20 Dollars a Month will prevent the good work.* We found some diffi- 
culty in getting Clynton made a general, Phil : Livingston proposed him 
and I advocated his Promotion ; it was confessed on all Hands that he had 
done more and suffered more than Mc:Dougal, but a Mr. Varnum of 
Rhode-Island and Maxwell of Jerseys were opposed to him, our Exertions 
however prevailed. I shall be doubly fortunate if by my Endeavours two 
valuable officers can be rewarded. You who have served so long in Con- 
gress, will confess, it is not often that we do much good in one day. Most 
of the last Week was taken up in trying old Hopkins, for a Breach of 
Orders, the Fact was clearly proved, his Excuses were trifling to the last 
Degree, to say the least of them, the Congress in opposition to the Eastern 
Colonies found him guilty and have censured him for his Conduct : Some 
of us Pressed his Removal from the Command, but a tenderness or rather 
weakness for his Brother, and an Opinion that he would resign in Con- 
sequence of the Thunder of the House, obstructed the passing of the 
Motion. I wish he would resign, for I am satisfied that he is totally unfit 
for the Department, and that we shall be disgraced so long as he shall 
continue at the Head of our naval Affairs.^ We are doing everything in 
our power to reform the Vices of the Army and put the Forces under 
better Regulations than they have yet been. The Committee of which 
you Jefferson Adams and I were Members who were desired to revise 
the Articles of War and bring in such Amendments as they thought 
proper, have reported to the House the British Articles as far as local 
Circumstances will admit, and the Congress is in a fair way of adopting 
them.® If we can carry them thro' compleatly it will have a most happy 

* See no. 84, note 3, ante. Cf. no. 173, note 2, post. 

5 See no. 84, note 4, ante. 

8 The so-called committee on spies was appointed June 5 (" to consider what is 
proper to be done with persons giving inteUigence to the enemy", etc.). The duty of 
preparing articles of war was assigned to the committee June 14. It brought in a report 
on Aug. 7, and the articles were further considered Aug. 13, 19, and Sept. 19, and 
adopted Sept. 20. Concerning this report, John Adams says in his Autobiography 
(Works, III. 68) : "This report was made by me and Mr. Jefferson, in consequence of 
a letter from General Washington, sent by Colonel Tudor, Judge Advocate-General, 
representing the insufficiency of the articles of war, and requesting a revision of them. 
Mr. John Adams and Mr. Jefferson were appointed a committee to hear Tudor, and 
revise the articles. It was a very difficult and unpopular subject, and I observed to 
Jefferson, that whatever alteration we should report with the least energy in it, or the 
least tendency to a necessary discipline of the army, would be opposed with as much 
vehemence, as if it were the most perfect ; we might as well, therefore, report a complete 
system at once, and let it meet its fate. Something perhaps might be gained. There 
was extant one system of articles of war which had carried two empires to the head of 
mankind, the Roman and the British ; for the British articles of war were only a 
literal translation of the Roman. It would be in vain for us to seek in our own inven- 
tions, or the records of warlike nations, for a more complete system of military discipline. 
It was an observation founded in undoubted facts, that the prosperity of nations had 
been in proportion to the discipline of their forces by sea and land ; I was, therefore, 
for reporting the British articles of war, totidem z'crbis. Jefferson; in those days, never 
failed to agree with me, in every thing of a political nature, and he very cordially con- 
curred in this. The British articles of war were, accordingly, reported, and defended 
in Congress by me assisted by some others, and finally carried. They laid the foundation 



56 Co)itiiiC)ilal Cotii^ircss 

Effect. I know not how wc shall so soon purj^c the Army of the Men 
you mention, as by prevaiUnj^ upon them to resent their own quarrels. 
To show you how exactly we concurrd in sentiment u\xm this Subject, 
I nuist tell you that when the Conj^ress were employing,' a little Leisure 
Time some days ago in considerinq- new Articles, and before I received 
your Letter. I proposed to strike out tliat Article which ])revents the send- 
ing" of Challenges, and pressed it as a Measure that would tend to make 
their Officers Gentlemen, or at least induce them to act as such, whilst in 
Company with Gentlemen; Stone seconded and supported the Motion, but 
we could not carry the Point. ^ I believe we must leave it to Time. We 
have done nothing with the Confederation for some Days, and it is of 
little Consequence if we never see it again ; for we have made such a Devil 
of it already that the Colonies can never agree to it. If my opinion was 
likely to be taken I would propose that the States should appoint a special 
Congress to be composed of new Members for this purpose — and that no 
Person should disclose any part of the present plan. If that was done we 
might then stand some Chance of a Confederation, at present we stand 
none at all.^ We have not as yet touched the Treaty " — and Independence 
has been declared upward of Six Weeks! We have heard of Deane's 
arrival in France but no letters from him. I am much pleased with the 
Spirit of your Convention, God grant they may receive the Blessings of 
Liberty, and by a wise Government fix those Blessings upon a strong and 
lasting Foundation. Exert my good Friend all your Abilities in the 
accomplishing of this delicate Business, so that you will be beloved by 
Posterity as truly as you are by your most affectionate 

Edward Rutledge. 

P. S. Remember me affectionately to Jay. We have sent to the South- 
ward for General Lee, lest any accident should befall Washington,^" 



of a discipline which, in time, brought our troops to a capacity of contending with British 
veterans, and a rivalry with the best troops of France." 

The letter to which Adams here refers was probably the letter of Joseph Reed, July 
25 (Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. I. 576), referred, July 29, to the committee appointed 
to revise the Articles of War. The articles are printed in the Journals under Sept. 20. 
See also the Bibliographical Notes, ibid., VI. 1125-1126. The articles were somewhat 
revised Apr. 14, 1777. Cf. nos. 92, 142, post. 

'' Articles of War, section VII., articles 2 and 3 (Journals, V. 792). The discussion 
was probably on Aug. 13. 

8 See nos. 43, 83, 84, note 2, ante, and nos. 94, 138, 155, post. Rutledge's suggestion 
that " a special Congress to be composed of new members " ought to be chosen to draw 
up articles of confederation is one of the earliest expressions of what presently came to 
be the fundamental idea of a constitutional convention, the doctrine, namely, that a 
consitution should be framed by a body of delegates specially chosen for the purpose. 
Jefferson had, indeed, a few months earlier, enunciated the doctrine in a letter to Edmund 
Randolph, then in attendance at the Virginia convention (see Writings, ed. Ford, II. 7-9) ; 
and the Delaware convention, which met August 27 (only a few days after Rutledge's 
letter was penned) to frame a constitution for that state, appears to have been chosen 
with that principle definitely in view. See Van Tyne, American Revolution (American 
Nation series), pp. 139-140. 

8 See the Journals. July 18, 20, Aug. 22, 27. Sept. 17; also no. 26, note 2, ante. 

^° See the Journals, Aug. 8, and Hancock to Lee, Aug. 8, Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
sen, I. 832. 



August, lyyd 57 

(which God prevent) and our Army be without a proper Head. You did 
not enclose me Mr. Cortland's Letter as you thought. 

86. John Adams to Samuel Holden Parsons.^ 

Philadelphia, 19 August, 1776. 

Your favors of the 13th and 15th are before me. The gentlemen you 
recommend for Majors, Chapman and Dyer, will be recommended by the 
Board of War, and I hope agreed to in Congress 

With regard to encouragements in money and in land for soldiers to 
enlist during the war, I have ever been in favor of it, as the best economy 
and the best policy, and I have no doubt that rewards in land will be 
given, after the war is over. But the majority are not of my mind for 
promising it now. I am the less anxious about it, for a reason which 
does not seem to have much weight however with the majority. Although 
it may cost us more, and we may put now and then a battle to hazard by 
the method we are in, yet we shall be less in danger of corruption and 
violence from a standing army, and our militia will acquire courage, 
experience, discipline, and hardiness in actual service.^ 

I wish every man upon the continent was a soldier, and obliged, upon 
occasion, to fight, and determined to conquer or to die. Flight was 
unknown to the Romans. I wish it was to Americans. There was a 
flight from Quebec, and worse than a flight at the Cedars. If we do not 
atone for these disgraces, we are undone. 

A more exalted love of their country, a more enthusiastic ardor for 
military glory, and deeper detestation, disdain, and horror of martial 
disgrace must be excited among our people, or we shall perish in infancy. 
I will certainly give my voice for devoting to the infernal gods every 
man, high or low, who shall be convicted of bashfulness on the day of 
battle.' 

P. S. Since the above was written Congress has accepted the report 
of the Board of War, and appointed Dyer and Chapman, Majors. I had 
much pleasure in promoting Dyer, not only from his own excellent charac- 
ter, but from respect to my good friend his father.* 

87. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadel : Augt 20 1776 
Dear Sir 

.... convinced that it was the surest way I had sundry times pressed 
sevl. of the board of War, to recomend Cap Dyer for a Majr. they 
promised to consider it etc. and yesterday brot in a report reccomending 
him and Cap Chapman of Tylers, and after some Consideration, the Votes 

[S6V Works, IX. 431. 

2 Cf. no. 74, ante. 

3 Cf. no. 92, post. These expressions are no doubt the outcome in great measure 
of Adams's work on the Articles of War. See no. 85, note 6, ante. 

* See the Journals, Aug. 19. Cf. nos. 71, 78, ante, and no. 87, post. 
[87]! Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 565. 



 

were calld for and They are both appointd. conchide the Prest. has or 
will send their Coniissions. Your Letter came just Time enow for me 
to Strcni^^then the Recomcnd" by informincf the House that the Objection 
of Rank was removed." I just knew of liie Conveyance by Mr. Colt, and 
had but a minutes Time, pray let me know every thing material pass- 
ing among you, and am your affect. P>iend atid Bro'. 

W Williams 



88. Benjamin Franklin to Lord Howe.^ 

Phila Aug 20, 76 

My Lord 

The Temper of the Colonies as professed in their several Petitions to 
the Crown was sincere. The Terms they proposed should then have been 
closed with, and all might have been Peace. I dare say your L^' as well as 
my self, laments they were not accepted. I remember I told you, that 
better wd never be offered, and I have not forgotten your just Comparison 
of the Sybyl's Leaves. 

But the Contempt with which those Petitions were treated, none of 
them being vouchsaf'd an Answer; and the cruel Measures since taken, 
have chang'd that Temper. It could not be otherwise To propose now 
to the Colonies a Submission to the Crown of Great Britain, would be 
fruitless. The Time is past. One might as well propose it to France, on 
the Footing of a former title. ■ .... 

89. John Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philadelphia, August 21, 1776 
Dear Sir, 

Yours of Aug. 11 reached me Yesterday.'^ Mrs. Temple shall have 
all the assistance which I can give her, but I fear it will be without success. 
It will be a Precedent for So many others, that there is no seeing the End 
of it. I shall answer her Letter by the next Post, and if I cannot promise 
her any Relief, I can assure her of Mr. Temple's Arrival, and of his 
having Leave to go home, which I presume will be more welcome News.' 

2 Cf. nos. 71, 78, 86, ante. 
[88]iAm. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, vol. XLV., no. no. 

2 See no. 25, note 2, ante, no. 94, post, 
[i^]'^ Warren- Adams Letters, I. 270. 

- Warren's letter is found in Warren-Adams Letters, I. 267. 

3 See the statement at the close of the letter, and the Journals, Aug. 23-28; also 
no. 107, post. The Temple claim was not finally settled until 1779. See a letter from 
James Bowdoin to Washington, Apr. 22, 1778 (Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, sixth ser., 
IX. 415), and the Journals, Feb. 27, Mar. 6, 1779. Concerning Robert Temple see Sabin, 
American Loyalists, and Winsor, Memorial History of Boston, II. 540. General Howe 
wrote Washington, Aug. 13 (Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 932), asking permission for 
Temple to land at New York and go to his family in Massachusetts. The permission 
was granted by Washington in a letter to Howe, Aug. 17. A copy of this letter (Library 
of Congress, Washington MSS.) was enclosed in a letter to the President of Congress, 
Aug. 18, read in Congress Aug. 20. An entry in the Diary of John Rowe (Mass. Hist. 
Soc, Proceedings, second ser., X. 104) reads : " Sept. 26— Robt. Temple is come to town." 



August, 7/7(5 69 

There is a Marine Committee, who have the Care of every Thing rela- 
ting to the Navy. Hopkins and his Captains, Saltonstall, and Whipple, 
have been summoned here, and here they have lingered and their ships laid 
idle. I cannot, I will not explain this Business to you ; because if I should, 
it would get into a News Paper, I suppose. You must come and see.* 

We suffer inexpressibly for Want of Men of Business. — Men ac- 
quainted with War by Sea and Land, Men who have no Pleasure but in 
Business. You have them, send them along."^ 

.... I took a Hint from your Letter and this day obtained a Resolu- 
tion authorising and desiring General Ward to continue in the Command 
in the Eastern Department, untill further orders." .... 

[P. S.] Since the foregoing was written I have procured Mrs. 
Temple's Letter to be committed 



90. Benjamin Franklin to Thomas McKean.^ 

Philadelphia Augt. 24, 1776 

Dear Sir, 

I heard your Letter read in Congress relating to the Disposition of the 
German Troops ; ^ and understanding from Col. Ross,^ that they are 
canton'd on the Island opposite to the Jersey Shore, I send you herewith 
some of the Resolutions of the Congress translated into their Language, 
as possibly you may find some Opportunity of conveying them over the 
Water, to those People. Some of the Papers have Tobacco Marks on 
the Back, it being suppos'd by the Committee, that if a little Tobacco 
were put up in each as the Tobacconists use to do, and a Quantity made 
to fall into the Hands of that Soldiery, by being put into a Drift Canoe » 
among some other little Things, it would be divided among them as 

* See the Journals, June 13 and passim ; also nos. 73, 83, 84, 85, ante. 

5 Cf. Adam's letter to Joseph Hawley, Aug. 25 {Works, IX. 433), also his letter to 
Samuel H. Parsons, Aug. 19 (ibid., IX. 431). 

^ See no. 93, post. 
[goJiHist. Soc. of Pa.. McKean Papers, I. 8. Addressed, "To The honble Colonel 
McKean of the Pennsylvania Forces, East Jersey". 

2 There is no mention of McKean's letter in the Journals, nor has the letter itself 
been found. From a letter of Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney, Aug. 28, it would 
appear that McKean was in Philadelphia within a few hours after Franklin's letter had 
been written. Caesar Rodney had written to Thomas Rodney, Aug. 21 : " As Mr. Read 
will go to the Convention, and our Colony requires two Delegates to make a representa- 
tion, I shall come home next week if possible." Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 1092. 
Aug. 28 he wrote : " I intended to come down, but have been prevailed on by the other 
Delegates to stay and attend Congress during their absence, the business in Congress 

being important to each Colony, especially ours As soon as I received the accounts 

from Kent and New Castle of the elections, I wrote to Mr. McKean at Amboy, and 
desired he would give immediate attendance at the Convention. He got my letter, and 
in consequence thereof came to Philadelphia on Sunday night last, and set out yesterday 
morning very early to New Castle." Ibid., I. 1192. See no. 58, note 3, ante. 

3 George Ross, delegate from Pennsylvania. 



liO Continental Con^rrss 

PliuKler before the Ofikers could know the Contents of the Paper and 
prevent it.* 

With great Esteem, I am, Sir, 

Your most obcdt hum* Servt 

B Franklin 

[P. S.] Inclos'd is the EngHsh Copy, wch. is requested to be return'd, 
it belonging to tlie Congress — mislaid * 

Col McKean 



01. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia August 24, 1776. 

Sir. 

The late Conduct of Lord Drummond is as extraordinary, as his 
motives are dark and mysterious. To judge the most favourably of his 
Intentions, it should seem that an overweening Vanity has betrayed him 
into a criminal Breach of Honour. But whether his Views were upright, 
or intended only to mislead and deceive, cannot at present be a Matter of 
any importance. In the mean Time, I have the Pleasure to acquaint you. 
that Congress highly approve of the Manner in which you have checked 
the ofticious and intemperate Zeal of his Lordship. Whether his Designs 
were hostile, or friendly, he equally merited the Reproof you have given 
him; and I hope for the future he will be convinced, that it is highly 
imprudent to attract the Attention of the publick to a Character, which 
will only pass without Censure, when it passes without Notice. 

The Congress having considered the Matter thoroughly, are of Opinion 
to decline taking any public or farther Notice of his Lordship, or his 
Letters; and particularly as you have so fully expressed their Sentiments 
on the subject in your Letter to him. It was the Consideration of this 
Point that induced Congress to detain the Express till now.^ 

Genl ^^'ashingto^. 



* See the Journals, Aug. 9, 14, and no. 96, post. Cf. Washington to the President 
of Congress, Aug. 26 {Writings, ed. Ford, IV. 369). Lieutenant-Colonel Zedtwitz. who 
was employed by Washington to translate the document into German, sent the contents 
to Governor Tryon and offered to become a spy (see ibid., p. 370 n.). The court-martial 
of Zedtwitz is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 1159-1163. Cf. the Journals, Nov. 18, 22. 

5 This postscript is erased in the original. 
[91 ]i Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XL 200; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., L 1135. 

2 See Washington's letter to Congress of Aug. 18, and the propositions of Lord 
Drummond. Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., L 1025-1028; also Washington's letter of Aug. 
26, enclosing a letter from Lord Drummond, dated Aug. 19, ibid., L 1158-1159, and 
Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 369. See also the Journals. Aug. 20, 22, 28. Cf. no. 94, post. 
For an earlier Drummond episode, see the Journals, Feb. 29, Mar. 5, and vol. I. of these 
Letters, nos. 527, 536. Cf. the conference with Lord Howe in September (nos. 102-132, 
passim, post). 



August, iy/6 61 

92. John Adams to Henry Knox.' 

Philadelphia August 25. 1776 

Dear Sir 

. . . . T am a constant Advocate for a regular Army, and the most 
masterly Discipline, because, I know, that without these We cannot 
reasonably hope to be a powcrfull, a prosperous, or a free People, and 
therefore, I have been constantly labouring to obtain an handsome En- 
couragement for inlisting a permanent Body of Troops. But have not 
as yet prevailed, and indeed, I despair of ever Succeeding, unless the 
General, and the officers from the Southward, should convince Gentlemen 
here ; or unless two or three horrid Defeats, should bring a more melan- 
cholly Conviction, which I expect and believe will one day, or other be 
the Case.^ 

Coll Knox ' 



93. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

Artemas Ward.^ 

Philadelphia August 26th 1776. 

Sir: 

The Service in the Eastern Department requiring an Officer of Rank 
and Experience, and Colonel Whitcomb having declined accepting his 
Commission, the Congress have been induced, both from a Regard to 
your Merit while in the Army, and your Zeal and Attention since you left 
it, to request you will, if consistent with your Health, take the Command 
of the Forces in that Quarter. As soon as Congress can fix on some 
Officer to relieve you, they will do it, and only desire you, in the mean 
Time to continue in Command until such Appointment. Your readiness 
to comply with the Wishes of your Country, gives me the strongest 
Reason to believe, you will not resist their Application at this Juncture." 



[92]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Knox Papers, III. 25. 

2 Cf. no. 86, ante. 

3 Knox was made brigadier-general Dec. 27. " I am ashamed and grieved to my 
inmost soul for the disgrace brought upon the Massachusetts in not having its proportion 
of general officers. But there is not a single man among all our Colonels that I dare to 
recommend for a general officer, except Knox and Porter, and these are so low down in 
the list, that it is dangerous promoting them over the heads of so many." Adams to 
Joseph HawleJ^ Aug. 25, Works, IX. 433. Cf. nos. 71, 72, 85, ante. 

[93] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 23; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 
1156. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 21, and a letter from the Massachusetts council, Aug. 8, 
signed "Richard Derby, Junr., chairman", Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, I. 859. Ward's 
resignation had been accepted by Congress Apr. 23. See vol. i. of these Letters, no. 615 ; 
also the Journals, Nov. 7. 

A recent life of Ward, by Charles Martyn (The Life of Artemas Ward, the First Coin- 
vwnder-in-Chief of the American Revolution, New York, Artemas Ward, 1921), avo\ys 
the purpose of both author and publisher of assuring General Ward his proper place in 
American history, which, in their opinion, has hitherto been lower than he deserved. 



 

94. JosiAii Bartlett to William Whipple.* 

Philadelphia, August 27, 1776. 
Dear Sir: 

Last week tlie Articles of Confederation were fniislied by the Com- 
mittee of the Wliole House. They are a,l,^'lin printed as now amended by 
the Committee, and are deHvered to the members in the same manner as 
before, and are to undergo one operation through Congress more before 
they are sent to the several States for confirmation. What alterations 
will be made in them I know not ; but am afraid none for the better. This 
will occasion such a delay that there is no probability it will be sent in 
time to be laid before our Assembly before your return here : so I would 
not have you wait for it, but return as soon as convenient.^ The new 
Articles of War have passed Congress.' The plan of a treaty of foreign 
alliance has passed in the Committee of the Whole.* 

By the leave of Lord Howe, the famous Lord Drummond has, by a 
f^ag to General Washington, proposed sundry articles as the basis of a 
negotiation or conference, (they are nearly the same as those proposed 
by Lord North, called Lord North's Conciliatory Propositions;) and he 
requested leave of General Washington for himself and one or two more 
to repair to this city to propose those terms, which he had the impudence 
to say would have been accepted by the Colonies a few months ago. The 
General did not think proper to give him leave to come here, but in his 
answer told him he should send the papers to the Congress and wait their 
answer. He severely reprimanded Lord Drummond for his ofificiousness 
in meddling w-ith the business, but especially for his going to the Army 
under General Howe, contrary to his parole of honour which he gave 
when he was permitted to leave the Continent. I need not tell you the 
Congress have not accepted the proposed conference with his Lordship." 

Lord Howe has wrote an answer to Dr. Franklin's letter to him which 
you saw. It is full of professions of friendship for America, and of 
esteem and regard for the Doctor — very polite, but very artful. ° .... 



95. The President of Congress to George Weedon.* 

Philadelphia August 28th. 1776. 
Sir: 

The Congress being informed that you are on your March to New 
Jersey, with Intention to pass through York Town and Philadelphia I have 
it in Charge to direct, that you continue your March from York Town 
by the nearest Route to New Jersey, (avoiding Philadelphiaon acct of the 

[94]! Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 1179. 

2 See X\\t Journals, Aug. 20. Cf. nos. 33, 34, 43, 68, y^, 83-85, ante. 

3 This is incorrect. See the Journals, Aug. 19, Sept. 20; cf. no. 85, ante. 

* See the Journals, Aug. 27, Sept. 17. Cf. nos. 26, note 2, ante, loi, 146, post. 
^ See no. 91, ante. 

^ See no. 25, note 2, and no. 88, ante. 
[95]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 24; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., 
L 1191. 



August, lyyd G3 

Small Pox) where on your Arrival you will execute such Orders as 
Genl. Washington shall think proper to give you.^ 

I am Sir 

your most obedt and very hble sert, 

J. H. Prest. 
To Colo. [George Weedon] ' 

96. Benjamin Franklin to Horatio Gates/ 

Philadelphia, August 28, 1776. 
Dear Sir, 

The Congress being advised, that there was a probability that the 
Hessians might be induced to quit the British service by offers of land, 
came to two resolves for this purpose, which, being translated into 
German and printed, are sent to Staten Island to be distributed, if practi- 
cable, among those people. Some of them have tobacco marks on the 
back, that so tobacco being put up in them in small quantities, as the 
tobacconists use, and suffered to fall into the hands of these people, they 
might divide the papers as plunder, before their officers could come to 
the knowledge of the contents, and prevent their being read by the men. 
That was the first resolve. A second has since been made for the officers 
themselves. I am desired to send some of both sorts to you, that, if you 
find it practicable, you may convey them among the Germans that shall 
come against you.^ .... 

97. William Hooper to Jonathan Trumbull, jr.* 

Dear Sir 

.... I have the pleasure to inform you that we have all the reason 
in the World to believe that France will soon take an active part in our 
favour. She has opened all her ports to our Merchandize, privateers and 

2 Cf. the Journals, Aug. 28, where the reason for the order is not given. This 
order was modified Aug. 30. See no. 99, post. For the original order to march, see the 
Journals, July 21, and Hancock's letters to Gov. Henry and Gen. Lewis, July 22, Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 494. 

3 The name of the colonel is not found in the original. When the resolution was 
passed Congress was apparently not informed as to which one of the Virginia battalions 
was marching toward New Jersey, or who was its commander. From a letter of Gen. 
Andrew Lewis to Congress (Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, L 1053), read in Congress 
Aug. 22, it is learned that the battalion was the third, and imder the command of Col. 
George Weedon. 

[g6]^ Writings (ed. Smyth), VL 451; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IL 133; Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., L 1193. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 9, 14, 27, and Franklin to McKean, Aug. 24, no. 90, ante. 
The action of Aug. 27 was taken in consequence of a letter from Col. James Wilson, 
Aug. 22 (Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., L mo), read in Congress Aug. 26. (This Col. 
James Wilson was not the delegate, who was himself a member of the committee 
appointed on this business. The index to the Journals shows some confusion of the 
two men.) See also two documents printed as foot-notes in the Journals (ed. Ford) 
under Aug. 14 and 27 (pp. 655, 708-709), the one a preamble written by John Adams, 
the other an address prepared by George Wythe. Both documents are found among 
the Jefferson Papers. Wythe's address was probably an outcome of the resolution of 
May 21. He was not a member of that committee, but Jefferson was. Cf. the Journals, 
Nov. 27. 

[97] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. L, no. 145. 



(»4- Contiucutal Congress 

prizes, and has offered us Warlike Stores in the Islands and every otiier 
Article which may tend to induce an intercourse with her,' 

.... I write in the C'onj^rcss lohhy and am called for in Conj^ress 
must therefore conclude this Scrawl. 1 beg" a very particular account of 
the State of your N(jrthern Army and Navy. 

Philadelfhi.v August 28 1776 

98. Francis Lewis to Jonathan Trumbull, jr.' 

PniLA. 29th Augt. 1776 
Sir 

1 have been duly favored with your letter of the 8th Inst 

Upon the Apf^lication in your Letter. I moved Congress and obtained 
a Resolve for 500,000 dollars,^ to be Issued for your department, when- 
ever I can render you any Services here please to Command, 

J. Trumbell Jur. Esqr. 

99. The President of Congress to George Weedon.^ 

In Congress 30 Augt. 1776 
Sir 

You are Directed (notwithstanding a former order to March to New 
Jersey and wait the orders of General Washington) to March your 
Battalion immediately on Receipt of this to New York, and inform the 
General of your Arrival. 

I am Sir, Your very hum Servt 

John Hancock Pres 

To The Officer command^ the 3d Batt" of Virginia Troops." 

TOO. Philip Livingston to the President of the New York 
Convention (Abraham Yates, JR.)-^ 

Philadelphia, August 30, 1776. 
Sir: 

Your favour, dated 28th, came to hand by the post, who returned before 
we had any opportunity to apply to Congress, as you desired. The appli- 

2 Josiah Bartlett mentions in his letter to William Whipple, Aug. 27 (no. 94, ante; 
paragraph omitted there), that this information was received in a letter from the agent 
who was sent to Martinico in the Reprisal, Captain Wickes. This agent was William 
Bingham. See the secret committee to Bingham and to Capt. Lambert Wickes, June 10, 
in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 783. See also nos. 136, 153, 178-180, 224, post. 
[98]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. I., no. 151. 

- This presumably has reference to the appropriation Aug. 15. Cf. nos. 63, 80, ante. 
[99]! Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 720. 

- This was Col. George Weedon. See no. 95, ante. The address on the wrapper 
is : '■ To The Officer Commands, the Third Battalion of Virginia Troops in the Conti- 
nental Service, On the Road to New York." Besides the visual endorsement, " On Publick 
Service ", it bears also the endorsement : " Congress, Philadelphia John Hancock." This 
modification of. the order of Aug. 28 is not found in the Journals. The new order 
was doubtless given in consequence of the action on Long Island Aug. 27, and particularly 
in view of General Mercer's letter of Aug. 28 (Force. Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 1193). 
See also the letter of R. H. Harrison, Aug. 27, read in Congress Aug. 29, and Washing- 
ton's letter of Aug. 29, read in Congress Aug. 30 (ibid., I. 1183, 1211). 

[ioo]i Force. Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 1564; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 605, II. 494; 
N. Y. State Lib., Minutes of the Committee of Safety, I. 449 (copy). 



September, iyj6 65 

cation was immediately agreed to, and their resolve to employ the black- 
smiths (who are now engaged in building the frigates) for the purpose 
of obstructing the navigation of Hudson's River, is here enclosed. We 
wish much to hear from you what is done in that affair, and what more 
is proposed to be done.^ .... 

loi. Benjamin Franklin to Philip Mazzei.^ 

Philadelphia. [August ? 1776.]^ 
Dear Sir, 

.... The Congress have not yet extended their views much towards 
foreign powers. They are nevertheless obliged by your kind offers of 
your service, which perhaps in a year or two more may become very 
useful to them. I am myself much pleased, that you have sent a transla- 
tion of our Declaration of Independence to the Grand Duke ; ^ because, 
having high esteem for the character of that prince, and of the whole 
imperial family, from the accounts given me of them by my friend, Dr. 
Ingenhousz,* and yourself, I should be happy to find, that we stood well in 
the opinion of that court 

102. Josiah Bartlett to Nathaniel Folsom.^ 

Philadelphia Septembr 2nd 1776 
My Dear Sir 

.... After writing the above Genl Sullivan came to my Lodgings in 
this City and by his Account the affair of Long Island was much as I 
had heard. He says he has two verbal Messages from Lord Howe which 
he is per[mitted] on his parole to Come to Congress to propose, one is 
the Exchange of himself and Lord Sterling for Genls. Prescot and 
McDonald, the other is to propose a meeting with some of the members 
of Congress (as private Gentlemen for he Cant acknowledge any such 
Body as Congress) to see if they Can't agree on some propositions for 
an accomodation without further Bloodshed and says he will meet at 
almost any place for the purpose, these are but verbal messages and I 
Can Easily forsee great Difficulties that may arise let the Congress accept 
or refuse the proposed Conference, what the Congress will Do is at 
present uncertain but hope they will be Directed by the Supreme Disposer 

2 The letter from the New York convention, dated Aug. 28, is in Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., I. 1548. Cf. no. 79, ante. 

[loiji Writings (ed. Smyth), VI. 455. 

2 This letter was evidently written some time after the Declaration of Indepen- 
dence and before the election of Franklin as one of the commissioners to the court of 
France (Sept. 26). The plan of foreign treaties had however been under consideration 
for some time. See no. 94, note 4, ante. Whatever may have been the service offered 
by Mazzei, it is doubtful whether it was ever even considered by Congress. For a 
sketch of Philip Mazzei, see a note in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 825. 

3 The Grand Duke of Tuscany. 

*Jan Ingenhousz (1730-1799), a Dutch phj'^sician and scientist, sotne years 
attached to the Austrian court. He was a frequent correspondent of Frankhn. 

[i02]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll.. Declaration of Independence; Hist. Mag., XIV. 
213; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 118. 



 

of all Events, to Do in this and Every other affair before them what will 
be Most Conducive to the Safety and Hapiness of these American States.^ 

So wishes your friend 

and most obednt Humble Servt 

JosiAn Bartlett 

Genl Folsom 



103. JosiAii Bartlett to William Whipple.^ 

Philadelphia, September 3, 1776. 
Dear Sir: 

By that time this reaches you I expect you will be near ready to set out 
on your return to this city. Make all convenient haste. The Congress 
is, at this time, very thin. Colonel Lee is arrived here,* but several others 
have taken leave of absence, among them Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Hay- 
wood.' The unhappy affair of the 27th, on Long Island, has occasioned 
the evacuation of our works there and on Governour's Island. Our 
people were ensnared, and, what vexes me, in a very careless manner. 

Yesterday General Sullivan arrived at my lodgings, being on his parole. 
He says he has a verbal message to Congress, to propose himself and Lord 
Sterling in exchange for Generals Prescott and McDonald. He also says 
that Lord Howe expressed himself very desirous of an accommodation 
with America, without any more bloodshed — that he was very willing to 
meet, at almost any place, a number of the members of Congress, (as 
private gentlemen, for he could not own any such body as Congress,) 
to try if they could make any proposals for an accommodation; that he 
said he had waited near two months longer in England than he should 
have otherwise done, to procure proper powers for a final accommodation, 
with which he said he was now vested, etc., and he allow'ed General 
Sullivan to come here to propose the aforesaid conference to Congress. 
What will be done in the affair by Congress I know not, but think there 
are difficulties on both sides. If the Congress should accept of the pro- 
posed conference, only on a verbal message, when at the same time Lord 
Howe declares he can consider them only as private gentlemen, especially 
when we are certain he can have no powder to grant any terms we can 
possibly accept, this, I fear, will lessen the Congress in the eye of the 
publick, and perhaps at this time intimidate people when they see us catch- 
ing hold of so slender a thread to bring about a settlement. On the other 
hand, General Sullivan's arrival from Lord Howe with proposals of an 
accommodation, with thirty falsehoods in addition, are now spread over 

2 Cf. Bartlett to Langdon, Sept. i, 2, in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 105. See 
the Journals, Sept. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6; also nos. 103, 105, 107-113, 116-119, 121, 122, 125, 126, 
128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 252, post. Cf. no. 25, note 2, ante. 
[103]! Force, Ant. Arch., fifth ser., II. 137. 

2 The Virginia credentials were presented Aug. 28, but as Richard Henry Lee 
was appointed on a committee Aug. 27 he probably attended on that day. See no. 128, 
note 4, post. 

3 Thomas Heyward of South Carolina. See no. 106, post. 



September, 1776 67 

this city, and will soon be over the Continent; and if we should refuse 
the conference, I fear the Tories, and moderate men, so called, will try 
to represent the Congress as obstinate, and so desirous of war and blood- 
shed that we would not so much as hear the proposals Lord Howe had 
to make, which they will represent (as they already do) to be highly 
advantageous for America, — even that he would consent that we should 
be independent provided we would grant some advantages as to trade. 
Such an idea, spread among the people, especially the soldiers, at this 
time, might be of the most fatal consequence. Whatever is done by Con- 
gress in the affair will, I hope, be ordered for the benefit of America.* 



104. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 

Maryland Convention.^ 

Philadelphia Sepr. 3d. 1776. 

Gentlemen, 

Our enemies being determined to make a powerful Attack on New 
York, and the States adjoining thereto; and having for this Purpose, 
collected their whole Force from every Part of the Continent, it is incum- 
bent on the United States of America to take the most effectual Measures 
to defeat their deep laid Schemes agt their Country. 

The Congress have just receiv'd Information from General Washing- 
ton of the very great and Superior Strength of the Enemy; and if we 
consider the recent Change in the Situation of our Affairs at New York, 
we shall soon be convinced that nothing will prove an Adequate Remedy 
in our present Circumstances but the most vigorous Exertions on our 
Part. I am therefore by Order of Congress to request you will immedi- 
ately send all the Aid in your power to our Army at New York. 

The State of our Affairs is so extremely critical, that Delay may be 
attended with fatal Consequences. Suffer me therefore to press you in 
the Name and by the Authority of your Country, to an immediate Com- 
pliance, and with all the Earnestness so naturally suggested by the Im- 
portance of the Cause. Altho' I doubt not your own Ardor would be a 
sufficient Stimulus when called on by the voice of Liberty, yet my anxiety 
is so great I cannot refrain on the present Occasion from beseeching you 
to exert yourselves. Every Thing is at Stake ; our Religion, Our Liberty, 
the Peace and Happiness of Posterity, are the grand Objects in Dispute; 

4 See no. 102, note 2, ante. On the same day that this letter was written, but 
subsequently, it would appear, Congress received Sullivan, heard his verbal message, 
and required him to put it in writing. Concerning the written statement John Adams 
remarks in his Autobiography (Works, III. 73"): "In this written statement of the 
message it ought to be observed, that General Sullivan has not inserted, what he had 
reported verbally, that Lord Howe had told him 'he would set the act of Parliament 
wholly aside, and that Parliament had no right to tax America, or meddle with her 
internal polity'." , ,, , ^ 

[104]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VI. 56 (L. S.) ; Am. Antiq. Soc. (to Massachusetts) ; 
Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 27; Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, II. 136; 
N. H. State Papers, VIII. 361. 



C8 Continental Congress 

which that \vc may be able to prcsorxc and transmit to fntme Generations 
— is the constant and uninterru])tcd Wish of, 

Gentlemen, Your Most Obedt and very hble Servt. 

John Hancock Presidt. 

To The Honble The Convention of the State of Maryland.^ 

105. Caesar Rodney to George Read.^ 

Philadelphia September 4th. 1776 
Sir, 

.... I mentioned in my last the arrival of General Sullivan, and 
then hinted the business of his coming. The day I wrote you last he 
was admitted in Congress, and informed them that he had been on board 
of the Eagle, and there had private conversation with Lord Howe; the 
substance of which was that his Lordship declared that he had ample 
powers, together with the General, to settle matters between Great Britain 
and Colonies, in such a manner as should be for the true interest and 
benefit of both, and to make such settlement permanent; that he wished 
for nothing more than to converse with General Washington, or some 
one or more members of Congress, on that head, but that there was a 
difficulty in the way which prevents it, for that his rank and situation was 
attended w-ith that kind of delicacy that he could not treat with the Con- 
gress as such, and had no doubt that the Congress from their situation 
lay under the same difficulty — therefore [he] proposed his having conver- 
sation, of an hour or two, with some of the members, as private gentle- 
men; that he w^ould meet them in that character, also wherever they 
pleased ; that he did not doubt by this step matters might be put in a train 
of accomodation, if not, that it would only be so much time lost ; that his 
Lordship further said that he had staid in England two months after he 
was otherwise ready to come on purpose to obtain those ample powers 
before mentioned, by which means the declaration of Independence had 
taken place before his arrival. 

There was other conversation, such as that his Lordship thought this 
a fine country, that he had many friends and acquaintances here, and that 
he should be pleased much to have an opportunity to ride through the 
country to see them etc. You, Sir, may be desirous to know what Con- 
gress think of this message, delivered by Sullivan at the request of Lord 
Howe. To satisfy your desire I think I may venture to say that a very 
great majority of the members look on it as an insult, and [I] believe a 
Resolution will pass that no proposals for the future be received unless 
reduced to writing, and signed [by] some person who has authority to 

- This letter, in compliance with instructions, Sept. 3, was written to the states 
northward of Virginia. The notation in the letter-book states that it was sent to the 
assemblies of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island, and the 
conventions of Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Maryland. It does not appear to have been 
sent to New York or New Jersey. 

[losl^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Revolutionary Papers, I. 183 (copy); Read, 
Life of George Read, p. 174. 



September, i^y6 69 

treat with Conji^ress as an assembly of the United Independent States of 
America, or to that effect." .... 

P. S. You will communicate the matter relating to Sullivan's message 
to Mr. McKean. 

io6. Thomas Heyward, jr., to John Morgan.^ 

Dear Sir 

.... The Contents of your several Letters have been laid before the 
Medical Committee and Congress have come into several Resolutions 
which I imagine you must have received long before this time. I wish 
they may answer the good Purposes intended by them and be equally 
satisfactory to you and the Gentlemen in the different Departments.^ 

Your Commands I shall always be glad to recieve but it will for some- 
time be out of my Power to execute any of them in Congress as I purpose 
to set out for So. Carolina in the Morning.^ .... 



Philadelphia 4th. Septr. 1776 

107. John Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philadelphia, Septr. 4, 1776 
Dear Sir, 

.... Mr. G[erry] got in the day before yesterday, very well. 

There has been a Change in our Affairs at New York. What Effects 
it will produce I cant pretend to foretell. I confess, I do not clearly foresee. 
Lord Howe is surrounded with disaffected American Machiavellians, 
Exiles from Boston and elsewhere, who are instigating him to mingle 
Art with Force. He has sent Sullivan here, upon his Parol, with the most 
insidious, 'tho ridiculous Message which you can conceive. It has put Us 
rather in a delicate Situation, and gives Us much Trouble.^ Before this 

2 See no. 102. note 2, ante. Cf. no. 112, post. 
[106]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Signers, II. 97. 

2 See a letter from Dr. Morgan to the President of Congress, dated Aug. 12, 
in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 919; also the Journals, June 18, July 12, 17, Aug. 20, 
Oct. 9. 

3 Cf. no. 103, ante. 

[107]^ Warren-Adams Letters. I. 272. 

2 In his Autobiography (IVorks. III. 80), Adams makes this comment on Sulli- 
van's mission : " The conduct of General Sullivan, in consenting to come to Philadelphia, 
upon so confused an errand from Lord Howe, though his situation, as a prisoner, was 
a temptation, and may be considered as some apology for it, appeared to me to betray such 
want of penetration and fortitude, and there was so little precision in the information 
he communicated, that I felt much resentment, and more contempt, upon the occasion, 
than was perhaps just. The time was extremely critical. The attention of Congress, the 
army, the States, and the people, ought to have been wholly directed to the defence of the 
country. To have it diverted and relaxed, by such a poor artifice and confused tale, 
appeared very reprehensible. To a few of my most confidential friends, I expressed my 
feelings, in a very few w^ords, which I found time to write, and all the letters of which 
I find copies in my letter book, are here subjoined, relative to this transaction, from its 
beginning to its end." See, for instance, his letter to William Tudor, Aug. 29. IVorks, IX. 
436 (the paragraph dated Sept. 2) ; also no. 117, post. 

Benjamin Rush, in his Memorial (p. 103), remarks concerning Adams's attitude toward 
the Sullivan mission : " I sat next to him while Gen'l Sullivan w-as delivering a request 
to Congress from Lord Howe for an interview with a committee of the house in their 



 

day no doubt you have appointed some other Persons to come here, and 
I shall embrace the fust Opportunity, after our Affairs shall get into a 

more settled Train to return 

Upon the Receipt of yours and Mrs. Temple's Letters I communicated 
the Contents of them to Congress, who appointed a Committee to consider 
them, who reported that the Trees should be paid for as Wood. The 
President I suppose has communicated the Resolution upon it, which 
agrees with the Report. I should be glad to write Mrs. Temple an 
Account of this, but have not Time. You will be so good as to let her 
know it. I answered her Letter before her affair was determined.' 

io8. John Witherspoon, Speech on the Message from 

Lord Howe.^ 

[September 5 (?), 1776.] 
Mr. President: 

The subject we are now upon is felt and confessed by us all to be of the 
utmost consequence, and perhaps I may also say, of delicacy and difii- 
culty. I have not been accustomed in such cases to make solemn profes- 
sions of impartiality, and shall not do it now, because I will not suppose 
that there are any suspicions to the contrary in the minds of those who 
hear me. Besides, the variety of opinions that have been formed and 
delivered upon it, seem to prove that we are giving our own proper 
judgment without prejudice or influence, which I hope will lead to the 
discovery of what is most wise and expedient upon the whole. 

As the deliberation arises from a message sent to us by Lord Howe, at 
least by his permission, I think it is of importance to attend with greater 
exactness to all the circumstances of that message than has been done by 
any gentleman who has yet spoken on the subject. It comes from the 
Commander-in-Chief of the forces of the King of Great Britain, and one 
who is said to carry a commission to give peace to America. 

From the conduct of the Ministry at home, from the acts of Parliament, 
and from Lord Howe's proclamation in conformity to both, it is plain that 
absolute, unconditional submission is what they require us to agree to, or 
mean to force us to. And from the most authentick private intelligence, 
the King has not laid aside his personal rancour; it is rather increasing 
every day. In these circumstances Lord Howe has evidently a great 
desire to engage us in a treaty ; and yet he has constantly avoided giving 
up the least punctilio on his side. He could never be induced to give 
General Washington his title. He plainly tells us he cannot treat with 
Congress as such ; but he has allowed a prisoner of war to come and tell 
us he would be glad to see us as private gentlemen. 

private capacities, after the defeat of the American Army on Long Island on the 26 
of August 1776. Mr. Adams under a sudden impression and dread of the consequences 
of the measure, whispered to me a wish ' that the first ball that had been fired on the day 
of the defeat of our Army had gone through his head '. When he rose to speak against 
the proposed interview, he called Gen'l Sullivan a ' decoy duck whom Lord Howe has 
sent among us to seduce us into a renunciation of our independence'," 
3 See no. 89, ante. 
[108]^ Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IL 178. The speech is also printed in an appendix 
to the Journals (ed. Ford), VL 1109-1113. 



September, iy/6 71 

It has been said that this is no insult or disgrace to the Congress ; that 
the point of honour is hard to be got over in making the first advances. 
This, sir, is mistaking the matter wholly. He has got over this point of 
honour; he has made the first overtures ; he has told General Washington, 
by Colonel Putnam, that he wished that message to be considered as 
making the first step. His renewed attempts by Lord Drummond, and 
now by General SulHvan, point out to all the world that he has made the 
first step. It w'\\\, doubtless, be related at home; and I am of opinion it 
is already written and boasted of to the ^Ministry at home that he has 
taken such a part. Therefore any evil or condescension that can attend 
seeking peace first, has been submitted to by him. Yet has he uniformly 
avoided any circumstance that can imply that we are anything else but 
subjects of the King of Great Britain in rebellion. Such a message as 
this, if in any degree intended as respectful to us, ought to have been 
secret; yet has it been open as the day. In short, such a message was 
unnecessary; for if he meant only to communicate his mind to the Con- 
gress by private gentlemen, he might have done that many w^ays, and it 
needed not to have been known either to the publick or the Congress till 
these private gentlemen came here on purpose to reveal it. These, then, 
are the circumstances which attend this message as it is now before us: 
and the question is, shall we comply with it in any degree or not? Let 
us ask w^hat benefit shall be derived from it? There is none yet shown 
to be possible. It has been admitted by every person without exception 
who has spoke, that we are not to admit a thought of giving up the inde- 
pendence we have so lately declared ; and by the greatest part, if not the 
whole, that there is not the least reason to expect that any correspondence 
we can have with him will tend to peace. Yet I think in the beginning of 
the debate such reasonings were used as seemed to me only to conclude 
that we should grasp at it as a means of peace. We w^ere told that it was 
easy for us to boast or be valiant here, but that our armies w^ere running 
aw'ay before their enemies. I never loved boasting, neither here nor any- 
where else. I look upon it as almost a certain forerunner of disgrace. I 
found my hope of success in this cause, not in the valour of Americans or 
the cowardice of Britons, but upon the justice of the cause, and still more 
upon the nature of things. Britain has first injured and inflamed America 
to the highest degree, and now^ attempts, at the distance of three thousand 
miles, to carrv on war with this w^hole countrv, and force it to absolute 
submission. If we take the whole events of the war since it commenced, 
we shall rather wonder at the uniformity of our success than be surprised 
at some cross events. We have seen hvayery as well as cowardice in this 
country, and there are no consequences of either that are probable, that 
can be worth mentioning as ascertaining the event of the contest. 

Lord Howe speaks of a decisive blow not being yet struck, as if this 
cause depended upon one battle, which could not be avoided. Sir, this is 
a prodigious mistake. We may fight no battle at all for a long time, or 
we may lose some battles, as \vas the case with the British themselves in 
the Scotch rebellion of 1745. and the cause notwithstanding be the same. 
I wish it were considered, that neither loss nor disgrace worth mentioning 
10 



 

lias befallen us in the late cnjjac^etnent, nor conii)arable to what the British 
troops have often snfTered. At the battle of Preston, sir, they broke to 
pieces and ran away like sheep, before a few Ilip^hlanders. I myself saw 
them do the same thing- at Falkirk, with very little difference — a small 
part only of the army making a stand, and in a few hours the whole 
retreatiiiiif with precipitation before their enemies. Did that make any 
difference in the cause? Not in the least — so lonq- as the body of the 
nation were determined, on principle, at^ainst the rebels. Nor would it 
have made any other difference, but in time, thouj^h they had got posses- 
sion of London, which they might have easily done if they had understood 
their business ; for the Militia in England there gathered together, behaved 
fiftv times worse than that of America has done lately. They generally 
disbanded and run off as soon as the rebels came within ten or twenty 
miles of them. In short, sir, from anything that has happened, I see not 
the least reason for our attending to this delusive message. On the con- 
trary, I think it is the very worst time that could be chosen for us, as it 
will be looked upon as the effect of fear, and diffuse the same spirit in 
some degree through different ranks of men. 

The improbability of anything arising from this conference, leading to 
a just and honourable peace, might be shown by arguments too numerous 
to be even so much as named. But what I shall mention only is, that we 
are absolutely certain, from every circumstance, from all the proceedings 
at home, and Lord Howe's own explicit declaration in his letter to Dr. 
Franklin, that he never will acknowledge the independence of the Ameri- 
can States. 

I observed that one or two members said, in objection to the report of 
the Board of War, that it was like a begging of a question, and making 
a preliminary of the whole subject in debate. Alas, sir, this is a prodigious 
mistake. It was not only not the whole, but it was properly no subject of 
debate at all, till within these three months. We were contending for the 
restoration of certain privileges under the Government of Great Britain, 
and we were praying for re-union with her. But in the beginning of July, 
with the universal approbation of all the States now united, we renounced 
this connection, and declared ourselves free and independent. Shall we 
bring this into question again ? Is it not a preliminary ? has it not been 
declared a preliminary by many gentlemen, who liave yet given their 
opinion for a conference, while they have said they w^ere determined on 
no account and on no condition to give up our independence? It is then 
a necessary preliminary, and it is quite a different thing from any punc- 
tilios of ceremony. If France and England were at war, and they were 
both desirous of peace, there might be some little difficulty as to who 
should make the first proposals; but if one of them should claim the other 
as they did long ago as a vassal or dependent subject, and should signify 
a desire to converse with the other, or some deputed by him, and propose 
him many privileges, so as to make him even better than before, I desire 
to know how such a proposal would be received? If we had been for 
ages an independent Republic, we should feel this argument with all its 
force. That we do not feel it, shows that we have not yet acquired the 



September, lyyd 73 

whole ideas and habits of independence : from which I only infer, that 
every step taken in a correspondence as now proposed, will be a virtual 
or partial renunciation of that dig^nity so lately acquired. 

I beg you would observe, sir, that Lord Howe himself was fully sensible 
that the Declaration of Independence precluded any treaty, in the charac- 
ter in which he appeared ; as he is said to have lamented that he had not 
arrived ten days sooner, before that declaration was made. Hence it 
appears, that entering into any correspondence with him in the manner 
now proposed, is actually giving up, or at least subjecting to a new con- 
sideration, the independence which we have declared. If I may be allowed 
to say it without offence, it seems to me that some members have un- 
awares admitted this, though they are not sensible of it; for when they 
say that it is refusing to treat, unless the whole be granted us, they must 
mean that some part of that whole must be left to be discussed and 
obtained, or yielded, by the treaty. 

But, sir, many members of this House have either yielded, or at least 
supposed, that no desirable peace, or no real good, could be finally ex- 
pected from this correspondence, which is wished to be set on foot; but 
they have considered it as necessary in the eye of the publick, to satisfy 
them that we are always ready to hear anything that will restore peace to 
the country. In this view it is considered as a sort of trial of skill between 
Lord Howe and us, in the political art. As I do truly believe, that many 
members of this House are determined by this circumstance, I shall con- 
sider it with some attention. With this view it will be necessary to dis- 
tinguish the publick in America into three great classes: i. The Tories, 
our secret enemies. 2. The Whigs, the friends of independence, our 
sincere and hearty supporters. 3. The Army, who must fight for us. 

As to the first of them, I readily admit that they are earnest for our 
treating. They are exulting in the prospect of it; they are spreading 
innumerable lies to forward it. They are treating the Whigs already with 
insult and insolence upon it. It has brought them from their lurking 
holes; they have taken liberty to say things in consequence of it, which 
they durst not have said before. In one word, if we set this negotiation 
on foot, it will give new force and vigour to all their seditious machina- 
tions. But, sir, shall their devices have any influence upon us at all? If 
they have at all, it should be to make us suspect that side of the question 
which they embrace. In cases where the expediency of a measure is 
doubtful, if I had an opportunity of knowing what my enemies wished me 
to do, I would not be easily induced to follow their advice. 

As to the Whigs and friends of independence, I am well persuaded that 
multitudes of them are already clear in their minds, that the conference 
should be utterly rejected ; and to those who are in doubt about its nature, 
nothing more will be requisite than a clear and full information of the 
state of the case, which I hope will be granted them. 

As to the Army, I cannot help being of opinion, that nothing will more 
effectually deaden the operations of war, than what is proposed. We do 
not ourselves expect any benefit from it, but they will. And they will 
possibly impute our conduct to fear and jealously as to the issue of the 



 

cause; wliith will add to tlioir present little discourag^enient, and produce 
a timorous and dcspcMidcnt spirit.' 

109. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.* 

[Philadelphia], Friday, 6 September, 1776. 

This day. I think, has been the most remarkable of all. Sullivan came 
here from Lord Howe, five days ago, with a message, that his lordship 
desired a half an hour's conversation with some of the members of Con- 
gress in their private capacities. We have spent three or four days in 
debating, whether we should take any notice of it. I have, to the utmost 
of my abilities, during the whole time, opposed our taking any notice of 
it. But, at last, it was determined by a majority, " that the Congress being 
the representatives of the free and independent States of America, it was 
improper to appoint any of their members to confer in their private charac- 
ters with his lordship. But they would appoint a committee of their body, 

' Benjamin Rush gives the following account of this debate : 
" I took part in several debates. The first or second time I spoke was against a motion 
for a Committee of Congress, to meet Lord Howe in their private capacity, to confer 
iM>on a peace with Great Britain. On the same side of the question John Adams, Dr. 
W'itherspoon and George Ross spoke with uncommon eloquence. The last of those 
gentlemen began his speech by asking — what the conduct of George the 3rd would be had 
Congress proposed to negotiate with him as Elector of Hanover instead of King of Great 
Britain — he would spurn, and very properly spurn the insulting proposal. ' Let the 
American States ', said he, ' act in the same manner. We are bound to cherish the 
honor of our countrj' which is now committed to our care. Nothing could dishonor the 
sovereign of Britain, that would not in equal circumstances dishonor us.' In the con- 
clusion of my speech, I said. ' that our country was far from being in a condition to make 
it necessary for us to humble ourselves at the feet of Great Britain. We had lost a 
battle, and a small island but the city and State of New York were still in possession of 
their independence. But suppose that State had been conquered, suppose half the States 
in the Union had been conquered — nay, suppose all the States in the Union except one had 
been conquered, still let not that one renounce her independence ; but I will go further — ■ 
should this solitary State, the last repository' of our freedom be invaded, let her not 
survive her precious birthright, but in yielding to superior force, let her last breath be 
spent in uttering the word Independetice.' The speakers in favor of the motion were 
Ed. Rutledge, Thos. Lynch, John [Thomas] Stone, and several others. One of them 
in answer to the concluding sentence of my speech, said, ' he would much rather live 
with dependence, than die with independence upon his lips.' The motion was carried 
with some modification. The committee appointed to confer with Lord Howe were Dr. 
Franklin, John Adams and Edward Rutledge. John Adams objected for a while to 
going upon this embassy, but was prevailed upon by the minority to consent to it. They 
met on Staten Island, but the conference ended in a discovery that Lord Howe had no 
power to grant us peace, upon any other condition than a rescinding the declaration of 
independence. 

" The issue of this negotiation demonstrated that the time in which the States declared 
themselves to be independent was the proper one. It prevented their dissolution after 
the defeat and the retreat of the American armies in the subsequent summer and autumn. 
It moreover produced a secession of Tories, and timid Whigs from the Councils of the 
United States, and left the government of the country in the hands of men of fixed 
and determined principles and tempers. Maryland had yielded a little to the gloomy 
complexion of public aflFairs. She had instructed her delegates in Congress to vote 
for an accommodation with Great Britain any measure (meaning independence) to the 
contrary, and one of the delegates said to me in the street soon afterwards, that General 
Howe's proclamation contained everything we could wish and that we ought now to 
submit to Great Britain." Memorial, p. 90. See no. 102, note 2, ante. 
[log]^ Familiar Letters, p. 223; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 192. 



September, ijy6 76 

to wait on him, to know whether he had power to treat with Congress 
upon terms of peace, and to hear any propositions that his lordship may 
think proper to make." 

When the committee came to be balloted for, Dr. Franklin and your 
humble servant were unanimously chosen. Colonel R. H. Lee and Mr. 
Rutledge had an equal number; but, upon a second vote, Mr. Rutledge 
was chosen. I requested to be excused, but was desired to consider of it 
until to-morrow. My friends here advise me to go. All the stanch and 
intrepid are very earnest with me to go, and the timid and wavering, if 
any such there are, agree in the request. So I believe I shall undertake 
the journey. I doubt whether his lordship will see us, but the same com- 
mittee will be directed to inquire into the state of the army at New York, 
so that there will be business enough, if his lordship makes none. It would 
fill this letter-book to give you all the arguments, for and against this 
measure, if I had liberty to attempt it. His lordship seems to have been 
playing off a number of Machiavelian manoeuvres, in order to throw upon 
us the odium of continuing this war. Those who have been advocates 
for the appointment of this committee are for opposing manoeuvre to 
manoeuvre, and are confident that the consequence will be, that the odium 
will fall upon him. However this may be, my lesson is plain, to ask a 
few questions and take his answers.'^ 

I can think of but one reason for their putting me upon this embassy, 
and that is this. An idea has crept into many minds here, that his lord- 
ship is such another as Mr. Hutchinson, and they may possibly think that 
a man who has been accustomed to penetrate into the mazy windings of 
Hutchinson's heart, and the serpentine wiles of his head, may be tolerably 
qualified to converse with his lordship. 

no. Elbridge Gerry to John Wendell.^ 

[September 6, 1776.] 

Our affairs in Canada wear a favorable Appearance, or rather at Ticon- 
deroga and Crown Point; where by the last returns the Army were ab't 
thirteen thousand strong of w^'ch about 3000 were unfit for Duty, in 
addition to these six other Regiments were on their March from Con- 
necticut and Massachusetts, and about four Regiments at other different 
posts, at New York things for the present are a little shattered by Means 
of the Retreat, but the Skirmish on long Island has served to convince 
our Army that they are now able with the Regiments that are disciplined, 
to meet the Enemy on equal Terms. General Lee is ordered to reinforce 
them with several Regiments from the Southward and one from Rhode 
Island ^ and with firm Conduct our Generals may yet baffle the Enemy. 
There is reason to imagine that the Enemy have suffered more than our 

2 Cf. no. 107, ante, and no. 117, post. See also no. 102, note 2, ante. The committee 
made a verbal report Sept. 13, and a written report Sept. 17. See the Journals; also 
nos. 129, 132, post. 

[iio]i Henkels, Catalogue, no. 731, item 198 (extract). 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 3. Cf. nos. 114, 127, post. 



 

Army incliuliti^ the captives, and Lord Howe has sent to Conj^ress by 
General SuMivan a Desire of conferrinj^f w'th some Members of its Body 
in a private Capacity, not tlonhtinj^ that he can afford snch Terms of 
peace as will be acceptable and projxjsing- to treat w'th the Cong-ress when 
the same are acceded to, but the whole is considered as an artifice to divide, 
by leadint:^ the people to suppose that his Lordship has used every Method 
for obtaining Peace while on our Part they have been rejected, to turn 
the Stratagem upon him Congress have resolved that being the Repre- 
sentatives of the independent States of America, they cannot send a Com- 
mittee but in their public Capacity, and that being ever ready to listen to 
Terms of peace they will send a Committee to know his Lordship's 
Powers and proposals and to enquire what the Terms are which he has to 
oflFer to the Continent. The Committee are appointed, altho' against the 
^Tind of every Member from the State which I represent, as well as 
Rhode Island and Georgia who are appreliensive that the Appointment 
previous to his Lordship's assurance that he will receive them will wear 
the Appearance of an over great Desire for Peace which is neither con- 
sistent with Dignity or true Policy and be construed as an Act of Timidity 
very discouraging to the States and animating to the Enemy, but the 
Gentlemen on the other Side are very desirous of drawling out his Lord- 
ship's proposals that if good they may be accepted and if bad exposed, 
which is a good Design if accomplished in a way that will not disagreeably 
effect the Continent. It is expected that the Committee will not be re- 
ceived, and if they are, any proposals w'ch his Lordship may offer that 
do not allow the States to be independent, will be without Hesitation 
rejected,' 

III. Samuel Huntington to Matthew Griswold, Eliphalet Dyer, 

AND William Pitkin.^ 

Philadelphia 7th Septemr 1776 
Gentlemen 

.... Lord How^e hath manifested Repeatedly a desire to confer with 
some members of Congress w'hich has not been regarded, until he sent 
General Sullivan with a Message to Congress Intimating his dilicate Situ- 
ation, and desiring that he might confer with them tho' at the same time 
saying he could not do it in that Capacity but that he had large powers to 
enable him to settle the Controversy etc. The Congress rather suppose 
this a finness to Create a belief in the people that he is desirous for peace 
and we desire to protract the w^ar. however after mature consideration, 
Congress resolved as the Representatives of the United Independant 
States of America, to appoint a Committee to meet his Lordship if he 
pleases to know^ what Authority he has to Settle peace and hear his pro- 
posals that on the one hand if he has any Authority and proposals that 
are Serious they may know; and on the other if it be a finness the world 
make know- it this matter is not fully made public as yet but have tho't 

* See no. 102, note 2, ante. 
[iii]i Furnished by the courtesy of Mr. Wolcott G. Lane, of New York. 



September, iyj6 77 

proper to Coniniiinicate it to you thus early, the same is Communicated 
to Govr Trumbull. 

The Committee appointed are Doer Franklin Mr John Adams and 
Edd Rutlidge.^ 
Honbl M. Griswold, E. Dyer and Wm Pitkins Esqrs ' 

112. Caesar Rodney to George Read.^ 

Philadelphia, September 7th. 1776. 
Sir, 

.... In my last letter ^ to you I gave you the substance of Sullivan's 
message and what I then thought would be the determination of Congress 
thereon, however, the matter after three days debate, has in some measure 
received a different determination. The Congress have refused sending 
any of their members to confer, as private gentlemen, but with a view to 
satisfy some disturbed minds out of doors, rather than expectation of its 
bringing about peace, they have appointed a Committee of Congress to 
repair to New York, with powers to confer with Lord Howe, to know 
the extent of his powers, and the terms he shall propose. General Sullivan 
was furnished with a copy of this Resolution, certified, and returned to 
Lord Howe yesterday.^ You will see by this that if Lord Howe receives 
the Committee thus sent he acknowledges the Congress, and of course 
the independence of the States, which I am convinced he will not do. Yet 
it may tend to convince the people at large that we are desirous of peace, 
whenever it can be had upon those principles 

113. William William.s to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadel. 7 Sepr 1776 
my dear Sir 

.... to the Grief of Congress the Genl. has wrote several (they 
think) too gloomy Letters, some speak with great Resolution.^ 

after a most serious and long Debate Congress have orderd three 
Members, in their proper Character only, to wait on Ld Howe, in Con- 
sequence of his IMessage by Gen. Sullivan to know if He has power to 
treat of Peace, what his Power is, and to hear his Propositions, if he 
please to receive Them as such, if not the World will be satisfied there is 
no sincerity in his Professions. We are already, the Measure is an 
Object of great Speculation and A[n]xiety I hope no 111 can arise from 
it. Congress are greatly on their Guard You may rely, the whole will 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 2-6, and no. 102, note 2, ante. 

' Matthew Griswold was deputy governor of Connecticut, and Eliphalet Dyer 
and William Pitkin were assistants. Samuel Huntington was also assistant. See Conn. 
Colony Recs., XV. 272. 

[ii2]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Revolutionary Papers, I. 207 (copy); Read, 
Life of George Read, p. 189. 

2 Sept. 4, no. 105, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 2-6, and no. 102, note 2, ante. 
[iiSl^Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 566. 

2 Washington's letters after the affair on Long Island were naturally not cheerful 
(see particularly his letter of Sept. 2, read in Congress Sept. 3) ; but other evidence is 
lacking that Congress as a whole was disposed to criticize the tone of the letters. 



 

be published on Monday, and every one will be better able to Judge of the 
Expediency of the Measure. 

Howe wanted Them only as private Gent, but Congress wo*^ only send 
as a Deputation of their Body, and He will act his Pleasure about receiv- 
ing Them." 

I am dear Sir yom- affectionate Friend and Brother 

\V Williams 

[P. S.] have You heard any thing fr Bro^ Jon'' * etc. I hoped for a 
Letter eer now. there has been great Compla : to Congress of Letters 
in that Departm* being played fury with they have given orders for 
better Regulations etc." 

I mentioned the affair of Salt to the Presidt. he says he has laid all 
yr and other letters before Congress, and can give no Orders which They 
dont give, but thinks as you must find Provisions you most certainly 
mav and ought to find the means to preserve it, etc.® the Com'* are 
Franklin, J. Adams, and Rutledge." 

Col Jos Trumbull 

1 14. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island (Nicholas 

Cooke). ^ 

Philadelphia, Sept. 7, 1776. 
Sir: 

.... Mr. Hopkins tells me, that he doth not propose to return to Con- 
gress until spring if ever, it is therefore necessary that an Additional 
Delegate Should be immediately appointed; for otherwise the State of 
Rhode-Island, etc. may be unrepresented, which might be attended with 
pernicious Consequences to Us. I may fall sick and not be able to attend 
Congress when some ^vlatter may be brought upon the Carpet which will 
immediately relate to our State ; not to mention that if two delegates were 
here they might have an Opportunity to relax now and then from that 
constant Attention which if One Delegate only should be continued here, 
he would be obliged to give, unless he should leave the State unrepresented 
in Congress, which I am determined not to do let what will be the Conse- 
quence: and a constant Attendance on Congress for nine Months without 
any Relaxation is too much even for a robust Constitution. Beside it is 
necessary that Motions should be made and supported, in which Case the 
Advantage of having Two on the Same Side is manifest. In Causes of 
no great Importance it is common to engage Tw'O Lawyers, and the vulgar 
Observation that Two Heads are better than One is just. Can then the 
State of Rhode-Island hesitate about immediately appointing an Addi- 

3 Cf. nos. 102, 103, 105, 107. 108, log, no, in, 112, ante. See also no. 125, post. 
* Jonathan Trumbull, jr., deputy paymaster-general of the Northern department. 
William Williams married his sister. 

5 The reference is presumably to the regulations of the post-office adopted Aug. 30. 

6 See Trumbull's letter to Congress, Sept. 19, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 
272; also nos. 145, 162, 166, 172, post. 

' The committee to confer with Lord Howe. 
[114]^ R. I. Arch.. Letters to the Governors, 1776, p. 50; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 83 ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. II. 210. 



September, ly/S 79 

tional Delegate ? I am sure it cannot. I should be exceedingly glad that 
Gov Hopkins might return ; for he is well acquainted with the Mode of 
conducting Business, and is well esteemed in Congress, and I have Reason 
to think from what hath passed, that we should act in Concert and 
Harmony; but if he should conclude not to return it would be best that 
Two Should be immediately appointed ; for Matters of great Consequence 
will be on the Carpet, in the Multitude of Council is Safety ; and in that 
Case the Delegates might alternately visit Home, brace up their relaxed 
Minds and Bodies by a journey and enjoying their native Air, and thereby 
be better able to discharge the Duties of their Office. 

There is nothing against our States appointing Three Delegates but the 
Expenses, and if the Amount of the Allowance to the two Delegates, and 
their Expenses for one year be summed up and compared with what would 
be the Amount of the Expense to the State of those delegates, at five 
dollars per Day, I believe the Difference will be found to be but trifling ; 
but if it should be something considerable I am sure the Benefits resulting 
to the State therefrom would compensate for any such additional expense. 
If a confederacy should hereafter take Place, a Council of State * would 
doubtless be appointed, in which Case our State would have only One 
Delegate to support constantly, the other Two, if three should be ap- 
pointed, would be present only a small Part of a year, when the Congress 

should sit Congress have ordered One of our battaP to N. York, 

and its Place to be supplied w'ith a Battalion of Militia from Massa- 
chusetts. It was moved at first that both the Battalions should be ordered 
thither. I opposed the Motion to the best of my Abilities, and think We 
have come off pretty well.^ I expect that if our Affairs at New York 
should take an ill Turn, that the other Battalion w'ill be ordered from our 
State; for it is the Sentiment of Congress that the Continental battaP 
should be drawn together for that greater Reliance is to be placed in them 
than a Militia unaccustomed to Discipline and the Hardships of a Camp : 
And indeed the liberties of this Country in my Opinion cannot be estab- 
lished but by a large standing Army. Heartily wishing Success to our 
Cause, and to you. Sir, and your Family, Health and Prosperity, I con- 
tinue to be, with great Respect 

115. Samuel Chase to Horatio Gates.^ 

Annapolis, Septr. 8th. 1776 
Dear Sir. 

.... The same good opinion of Colonel Saint Clair which induced 
me to recommend him to your notice, compelled me to urge his promotion, 
and for which I stayed in Congress beyond my Time limited for my 
Return here.^ .... 

2 See the Articles of Confederation as reported July 12 and Aug. 20 ; also Edmund 
C. Burnett, " The Committee of the States ", in Am. Hist. Assoc, Annual Report, 1913, 
vol. I., p. 139. 

3 Cf. no. 127, post. 

[iisV N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, VII.; Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, II. 232. 
2 See the Journals, Aug. 8. 



 

ii6. Benjamin Franklin to George Washington.* 

PiiiLADA. Sept. 8, 1776 
Sir 

The Congress having appointed Mr Adams, Mr Rutledge and my self 
to meet Lord Howe, and hear what Propositions he may have to make, 
we purpose setting out to-morrow, and to be at Perth Amboy on Wednes- 
day morning, as you will see by the enclos'd, which you are requested im- 
mediately to forward to his Lordship; and if an Answer comes to your 
hands, that you would send it to meet us at Amboy. What we have heard 
of the Badness of the Roads between that Place and New York, makes 
us wish to be spar'd that part of the Journey.'' 

117. John Adams to James Warren.* 

Philadelphia, 8 September, 1776. 

I am going to-morrow morning on an errand to Lord Howe, not to 
beg a pardon, I assure you, but to hear vv'hat he has to say. He sent 
Sullivan here to let us know that he wanted a conversation with some 
members of Congress. We are going to hear him. But as Congress have 
voted that they cannot send members to talk with him in their private 
capacities, but will send a committee of their body as representatives of 
the free and independent States of America, I presume his Lordship 
cannot see us, and I hope he will not; but if he should, the whole will 
terminate in nothing. Some think it will occasion a delay of military 
operations, wdiich they say Ave much want. I am not of this mind. Some 
think it will clearly throw the odium of continuing this war on his Lord- 
ship and his master. I w^ish it may. Others think it will silence the tories 
and establish the timid whigs. I wish this also, but do not expect it. 
But all these arguments, and twenty others as mighty, would not have 
convinced me of the necessity, propriety, or utility of this embassy, if 
Congress had not determined on it. I was totis virihus against it, from 
first to last. But upon this occasion New Hampshire, Connecticut, and 
even Virginia gave way. All sides agreed in sending me. The stanch 
and intrepid, I suppose, such as were enemies to the measure, as well as 
myself, pushed for me, that as little evil might come of it as possible. 
Others agreed to vote for me in order to entice some of our inflexibles to 
vote for the measure. You will hear more of this embassy. It will be 
famous enough.^ 

Your secretary ^ will rip about this measure, and well he may. Noth- 
ing. I assure you, but the unanimous vote of Congress, the pressing 

[ii6]i George C. Thomas Collection, Philadelphia; Thomas, Autograph Letters and 
Autographs of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence. 

2 See the Journals. Sept. 2-6, and no. 102, note 2, ante. See also Franklin to Howe, 
Sept. 8, in IVritings (ed. Smyth), VI. 462; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 136; and 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 234. Howe's reply, Sept. 10, is ibid., II. 274. Cf. no. 25. 
note 2, ante. For the outcome of the conference see the Journals, Sept. 13, 17, and 
nos. 122, 125, 126, 128-132, post. 

[117]! Works, IX. 440. 

' See nos. 107, 109. ante, and nos. 129, 132, post. 

3 Samuel Adams. See John Adams to Samuel Adams, Sept. 8, in Works, IX. 441. 



September, 1//6 81 

solicitation of the firmest men in Congress, and the particular advice of 
my own colleagues, at least of Mr. Hancock and Mr. Gerry, would have 
induced me to accept this trust. 

118, Lewis Morris to John Jay.^ 

Phila., Sepr. 8, 1776. 

My Dear friend: 

.... Genl. Sullivan brought a mesage from Lord Howe to Congress 
in consequence of which they have sent Doctor Franklin, John Adams 
and Ned Rutledge. I doubt in my own mind any good effect that it can 
have, as he was desirous to meet them in their private ' character. I will 
enclose you the resolve of Congress. Sullivan says that L. Howe said he 
was ever against taxing of us, and that they had no right to interfere with 
our internal Police, and that he was very sure America could not be con- 
quered, and that it was a great pitty so brave a nation should be cutting 
one another to pieces.^ .... 

119. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 
George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Sepr. 8. 1776. 
Sunday 6 OClock P. M. 

Sir 

I am this Minute honoured with your Favour of the 6th. Inst : - and 
am to acknowledge the Receipt of your several Favours to that Date. 

In Consequence of the Message which Genl. Sullivan delivered to Con- 
gress from Lord Howe, respecting a Conference with some of their 
Members, they have, after great Debate, been induced to pass the first 
Resolution of the 5th. of Sepr. and have since appointed three Gentlemen 
on that Business, as you will observe by a subsequent Resolution, to 
which, without any Comment, I beg Leave to refer you. But in Order 
to prevent similar Messages for the Future, they have passed a Resolve 
directing the Mode in which all applications shall hereafter be made, 
either to Congress, or the Commander in Chief of the Army, and to which 
only any Attention is to be paid. I beg Leave to refer you to the Resolve 
itself, as the future Rule of your Conduct with Respect to every such 
verbal application, until it shall be altered, or you shall hear further from 
Congress on the subject.® .... 

[ii8]iN. Y. Public Lib., Bancroft Coll., Revolutionary Papers (copy); Corr. and 
Pub. Papers of Jay (ed. Johnston), I. 83. • • j 

2 In the Correspondence, etc., of Jay (ed. Johnston) this word is printed 
"favorite". 

s See no. 102, note 2, ante. 
[iig]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 304; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., IL 233. 

2 Washington's letter of Sept. 6 is in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 385, and Force, 
Ant. Arch., fifth ser., II. 193. His reply to this letter of President Hancock, Sept. 11, is 
ibid., II. 290. 

s See the Journals, Sept. 2-6. Cf. especially nos. 107, 108, 109, 113, 117, ante. 



82 Contbicntal Congress 

To morrow Mornitipf I will lay your Letter before Congress and ac- 
quaint you ininicdiately of the Result.* Genl. Sullivan went from here 
two (lays a^cfo. The Coniiiiittee to wait on Lord Howe will set out to 
Morrow Morning for New York." .... 

I am to request you will direct Major Hausackre to repair to this City 
as soon as possible to take the Command of the German Battalion, of 
which he is appointed Colonel, being extremely wanted.' 

1 20. The President of Congress to George W.xshington.^ 

Congress Cham. loth Sepr. 1776. 
Sir 

Your Letter of 8th Inst, is now under the Consideration of Congress ; 
as soon as they have come to a Determination upon it the Result shall be 
transmitted you, in the mean time Congress being Apprehensive that 
their former Resolution of 3d Int. was not rightly understood, have 
directed me to Send you the foregoing, by which you will perceive that 
their wish is to preserve N York and leave the time of Evacuate it to yo"" 
Judgment." I beg leave to Refer you to the Resolve, not hav^ time to 
Add, but that I am, Sir 

Your very hum* svt 

John Hancock P[residt] 
[Genjeral Washington 

121. JosiAH Bartlett to William Whipple.^ 

Philadelphia, September 10, 1776. 
Dear Sir: 

The proposal of Lord Howe for the exchange of Generals Sullivan and 
Lord Stirling for Prescott and McDonald is accepted by the Congress. 
We have also agreed to send three of our members, not as private gentle- 
men, but as a committee of our body, to meet Lord Howe, to know of 
him whether he has any terms of peace to propose, and what they are, 
etc., etc. Whether Lord Howe wnll meet them as a committee of Con- 
gress, is uncertain. The gentlemen appointed are Doctor Franklin, Mr. 
Adams, and Mr. Rutledge. The two former had the unanimous vote of 
Congress, and at the first vote there was a tie between Colonel R. H. Lee 
and Mr. Rutledge ; but as Mr. Lee had opposed the measure, he declined 

* The letter was read Sept. 9, and referred to the board of war. The action taken 
in regard to militia Sept. 14 may in part have been in consequence of Washington's inquiry. 

5 C/. nos. 116, 117, ante. 

6 Nicholas Hausegger, previously major in a Pennsylvania battalion, was 
appointed colonel of the German battalion July 17, 1776. See the Journals, Sept. 4. 
Hausegger subsequently went over to the British. See Heitman, Hist. Reg., also the 
Journals, Feb. 11. Mar. 19, 1777. 

[i2o]i Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See the Journals. Sept. 10. Washington's reply to this letter, dated Sept. 14 
(read in Congress Sept. 16), is in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 402, and, with enclosures, 
in Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, II. 325-332. 

[i2i]i Force. Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 272; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 52, 
vol. II., p. 195 (copy). 



September, iyy6 83 

being voted for, as he said lie could not accept. The votes then were for 
Stockton and Rutledge, and the latter carried it.^ 

Nothing has since been done about the Confederation, as the Congress 
is pretty thin, and hurried with other business 

There is a report from the Board of War now before Congress, for 
putting our army on a more respectable footing than at present.' The 
substance is, that eighty-four regiments should be inlisted to serve during 
the war, and to give, as an encouragement, one hundred acres of land and 
[20]* dollars bounty, to be proportioned to such State, who are to take 
care that it's quota is raised. The proportion set to our Colony is four 
regiments, which is too much, and shall try to get it altered if I am able 
to attend Congress when it comes on. This plan, perhaps, may be some- 
what altered, but will, I am pretty sure, be adopted in the main. Qtiere : 
whether, as this is like to be the case, it is best for our State to do any 
thing at present about raising the regiment ordered in the Spring for our 
own defence ; and whether petitioning Congress to take into their pay our 
Colonial troops will not be best, considering all circumstances? 

You'll excuse me, as I am hardly able to write. 

122. Edward Rutledge to George Washington.^ 

Brunswick, Wednesday Evening 10 o'clock. 

II September, 1776. 
My dear Sir, 

Your favor of this morning is just put into my hands.^ In answer I 
must beg leave to inform you, that our conference with Lord Howe has 
been attended with no immediate advantages. He declared that he had 
no powers to consider us as independent States ; and we easily discovered 
that, were we still dependent, we should have nothing to expect from 
those with which he is vested. He talked altogether in generals; — that 
he came out here to consult, advise, and confer with gentlemen of the 
greatest influence in the Colonies, about their complaints ; that the King 
would revise the Act of Parliament, and royal instructions, upon such 
reports as should be made; and appeared to fix our redress upon his 
Majesty's good will and pleasure. This kind of conversation lasted for 
several hours, and, as I have already said, without any effect. 

Our reliance continues, therefore, to be under God, on your wisdom 
and fortitude, and that of your forces ; that you may be as successful as 
I know you are worthy, is my most sincere wish.^ .... 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 2-6, cf. nos. 109-113, ante. See also no. 102, note 2, ante, 
and nos. 128-132, post. Cf. Bartlett to Langdon, Sept. 9, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., 

II. 253. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 2 (p. 729), 9-13, 16. Cf. nos. 124, 128, post. A motion 
was made and voted down, Jan. 19, to make enlistments for three years or during the 
war. See Richard Smith's Diary for that date, vol. I. of these Letters, no. 454. 

* Cf. no. 124. post. 
{122]^ Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 287; Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, II. 287. 

2 Washington's letter to Rutledge has not been found. See however his letter 
to the President of Congress, Sept. 11, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 290. 

3 See nos. 109, 116, 117, 119, ante, and nos. 125. 126, 128-132, 155, post. For 
the origin of the mission, see no. 102, and note 2, ante. 



 

123. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull.* 

Philadelphia 12th Scpr 1776 

Dear Sir 

Colo. Williams shewed me your Letter to him mentioning the Situation 
of your Brother at Ticonderoga, in Consequence of wch It was moved 
to Congress to appoint him D Adj. General and no objection was offered ; 
Mr. Lewis recommended by General Gates is also appointed D Quar. 
Master General " 

The Diificulties which You mentioned as the Grounds of your Resigna- 
tion of the Commissaryship for the northern Department being removed 
by Congress, will it is hoi^d induce You to renew your Engagement 
therein. Surely It is the Intentn. of Congress, that the whole of the 
Commissary affairs shall be under your Direction, and if Mr. Levingston 
opposes, You will be supported in dismissing him. General Schuyler has 
nothing to do with your Officers otherwise than to order where the 
Magazines shall be placed and the Quantity of provision to be procured 
or delivered.^ .... 

Congress seem now determined to have an Army of some Duration 
and to give sufficient Bounties for the purpose ; I wish It had been sooner 
accecded to, but We must move with the Waters 

[P. S.] Since writing the within. Letters from General Schuyler* 
recommend the Appointmt. of your Brother to the Office of D A. General 
wch. was previously complied wth. a Letter from Mr Levingston con- 
tains his Resignation, wch. was very agreeable to some Members of 
Congress." .... 



124. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull.* 

Philadel: Sepr. 13 1776 

Dear Sir 

I reed yours of the 7th. I had wrote you the same day by Mr Halsey 
[ ?]^ but about nothing. You will see by the Copys etc. gone from the 
Presidt. to you I trust, that Congress will not give you up as Commis* 
for the northern Department.^ Many of Them greatly resent the Conduct 

[i23]iConn. State Lib., Joseph Tnimbnll Papers, no. 66. 

2 These appointments (John Trumbull and Morgan Lewis) were made Sept. 12. 
Cf. no. 124, post. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 12, and no. 124. post. 

* See Schuyler's letters to Congress, Sept. 8, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IL 
245, 248. 

^ Walter Livingston's letter to the President of Congress, dated Sept. 7, is in 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 220. The letter was read in Congress Sept. 13. See also 
the Journals, Sept. 11; cf. vol. I. of these Letters, no. 719, and no. 124, note 4, post. 
[i24]iConn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 Probably Lieut. Jeremiah Halsey, who had a memorial before Congress 
Sept. 5, 7- 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 11, 12, and no. 123. ante. A letter from Joseph Trum- 
bull to Congress, Sept. 7, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 213. 



September, ly/d 85 

of the Gent,* wlio has so interfered with you and there are appearances 
of many other things agst him, which begin to work, and will I believe 
prove his Down fall, but things are not fully ripe yet, nor can they pos- 
sibly be attended to now. He had lately written a very long Epistle to 
enforce the necessity and expedience the bestness and Cheapness etc. 
of supplying the northern army by a Contract with somebody there, it 
was hastily read thro in the House, and not the Lest further notice taken 
of it." I presume he will not interpose in your Departmt again, tho I 
know He has paid but little attention to his orders in many things. 

We yesterday moved the appointmt of a D. Adjt Genl. for that army, 
and with no great Difficulty carried the appointmt of your Bro*" Jno to 
that office." nothing is added about the rank and Pay, but on motion and 
Enquiry I found it to be an establishment already made, of a Colo., and 
there was no need of it. I trust the Prest has forwarded the Comis". 
Morgan Lewis was also appointed D. Qr. Masr. Genii for the same 
Department. 

.... I have no Doubt Congress will reward yr Services, are now 
busie in planing etc. for forming a new and permanent Army.'^ will 
20 Dols. bounty and 100 acres of Land at the Close sufficiently operate 
upon N Engld. Men to engage for 5 years, tho I pretend not to say such 
a thing will be carried if attempted indeed I much fear it. but I wish I 
had the best opinions etc. etc. about it soon as possible. 

I am dear Sir with undissembled and strong Affection, your Friend 
and Bro"" 

Wm Williams 

Col. Trumbull. 
[P. S.] 



125. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Sepr. 13. PM. [1776.] 
Dr Sir 

Since writing my Letter,^ I found at the House, unexpectedly that our 
Com*^^ were last night, returnd, from their interview with Lord Howe. 

* Walter Livingston. Cf. nos. 56, 123, ante. In Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.,_ II. 
^2)2i7, is a document, dated Nov. 13, containing a complaint of Jarnes Deane against 
Walter Livingston, and what appears to be a report of the committee appointed on 
Trumbull's letter of Sept. 7 (see note 2, above) relative to the controversy. This report 
is printed as a foot-note in the Journals (ed. Ford), V. 750 (Sept. n). 

5 This letter of Walter Livingston has not been found. There is, however, a 
letter from Walter Livingston to Robert R. Livingston, Aug. 25. 1776 (original in 
possession of Mr. Johnston L. Redmond of New York; photostat in possession of the 
Carnegie Institution), which states that General Schuyler had advised Congress that the 
army be supplied by contract, and would write to-morrow, recommending that the 
" refusal " of the contract be given to Walter Livingston. " I must earnestly entreat 
you", says Walter Livingston, "to write every friend you have in Congress requesting 
them to exert themselves, (if a Contract is made) to obtain the refusal of it for me." In 
a postscript he adds: "I have just wrote to-our members in Congress." The latter is 
probably the letter to which Williams refers. In regard to supplying the army by con- 
tract, see nos. 145, 162, 164, 165, 172, 175, post. 

« See no. 123, ante. Cf. nos. 331, 415, 419, post. 

"^ Cf. no. 121, ante, and no. 128, post. 
[i25]iConn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

~ No. 124, ante. 



86 Continental Con stress 



&' 



the sum and substance of their Report is, that havinj^;- sent a previous 
Messag-e to him he aj^-recil to receive 'I'hem on Staten Island at a house 
opposite Ambuy. he accordinjj^ly sent over a Bar^e W'echiisd. morning. 
They went in without Ceremony. H. met Them on their Landing, 
comphmented Them on the Honor They did, by their unhmeted Con- 
fidence tliey placed in Him, by puting Them selves so intirely in his Power 
etc. waited on Them to the House, entertained them most politely, and 
with a cold Collation, etc. introduced the Subject by informing Them 
how He first came to give his Attention to this American Dispute, viz the 
passing the Boston Port Bill awakend and alarmed his youthful remem- 
brance and attention to that Town and Province which had been im- 
pressed on Him from the high Respect and Honor They had done his 
Brother etc. and from that Time he attended to the American 
Affairs etc. 

He was urged to come over, had an ardent Desire to settle the Contro- 
versie amicably etc. 

being asked if He had Power to settle it, He ownd He had no other 
than to confer with Congress Members, but not as such, or any other 
Gent, whom They called Rebels, (this it seems took him his two months 
to obtain) and to move and urge Them to their Duty etc. and to deliver 
[ ?] Them in the Kings Peace. He had no power to treat with Them as 
Members of Congress, and no Terms or Proposals to make to any, with- 
out a full return to their Allegiance as an indispensible Preliminary, 
when that sho*^ be come into his Majesty wo^ certainly cause the grievious 
Acts of Parliament to be revised, and if it sho"^ appear just and fit, his 
Majesty wo"^ obtain such reasonable Relaxation as He sho*^ think just 
and right, or to that purpose, this is the Substance as I can recollect. 
So that on the whole He appears to have no Kind of Power but what is 
contained in the Act of Parliamt. saveing a Liberty of personal Confer- 
ance with the Rebels, as well as the Friends of Governmt. 

This is what was expected by almost every one who were for sending 
Them, indeed there is less daubing and Pretentions of Powers, and much 
less plausible pretentions and assurances of relaxation and generous fair 
Treatment etc. than was expected. He says Genl Sullivan mis took him, 
in saying he offerd that Parlit. wo'^ give up the Idea of Taxation and 
govern^ our internal Police etc.^ 

thus, it is conceived one great point is gained, is to strike the Torys 
dumb, or rather to defeat and kill the impressions they were makeing and 
wo'^ have made on many Friendly but credulous Minds by their confident 
and undaunted Assertions, that Ld H. was vested with full and ample 
Powers to settle the Controversie on the most equitable Terms and such 
as wo^ give perfect Satisfaction to all America except the turbulent and 
haughty, who wished to continue the War, for their own Honor and 
Emolument, and was disposed and evidently desirous to do so. 

His Ld. Ship expresd his great Pain and Regret for the unhappy Con- 
sequences to America of their refusal to submit etc. and was told America 

3 Cf. no. 122, ante, and nos. 126, 128-132, post. 



September, 1776 87 

wo^ use great Endeavors to save those Consequences safe and save him 
that Pain. 

the whole affair will I trust be published, in a few days. The Com*'= 
desired till Monday to draw up and lay in their Report in Writing.* I 
have wrote our Govr. all but this Result. I wish you co*^ immediately 
send him this or a Copy of it, as I cannot write him now, and fear my 
Letters may miscarry. 

126. Caesar Rodney to George Read.^ 

Philadelphia, September 13th. 1776, 
Dear Sir, 

.... The people here have been, for several days, fully employed in 
forming conjectures with respect to the conference between the Com- 
missioners of Congress and Lord Howe. They have been various — some 
Lord Howe has full powers, and if we have not peace it is the fault of 
Congress — others there is no doubt but they will finally settle matters, 
and the armies be disbanded — others again, are cursed if they believe he 
has any powers at all. However, this business is put an end to by the 
return of the Committee, who report — that having sent a letter to Lord 
Howe, by Express, to acquaint him of their coming, they proceeded to 
Amboy, where they arrived on Tuesday evening, and there, the same 
evening, received a letter from Lord Howe, in answer to theirs, letting 
them know that he would meet them, on Wednesday, at a house on Staten 
Island, opposite Amboy — that his Lordship the next day sent his boat for 
them, with a flag, and met them himself at the water-side, and in a very 
polite manner conducted them up to the house, where he had a dinner, 
and plenty of good wine for them, and that after dinner they had a con- 
ference, which, with the time they were dining, was about three hours. 
Upon the whole it seems his Lordship has no power to make a peace, or 
even to order a cessation of arms — that he had a power to confer with 
any person or persons whatsoever to hear what they had to offer, and 
report to his majesty, but that previous to any thing else we must return 
to and acknowledge obedience to his majesty. This being done, he did 
not doubt, on his representing matters home, but that the several acts of 
parliament and instructions might and would be revised, and many of our 
grievances removed.^ .... 

127. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

Philadelphia, Sept. 14th, 1776. 
Sir, 

Agreeably to the Resolution of the State of Rhode-Island, etc.. My 
Colleague and I made Application to Congress, and received an Order 

* The committee made a verbal report on the day this letter was written, and 
a written report Sept. 17. 

[i26]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Revolutionary Papers, I. 215 (copy) ; Read, 
Life of George Read, p. 190. 

2 Cf. no. 125, ante, and nos. 128-132, post. 
[127]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1776, p. 64; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 85. 

II 



 

on the Trensnry for One hundred and twenty thousand Dollars ; Out of 
that Sum I have received seven hundred Dollars, partly to procure etc. 
a Monument for the late Ilonhle Samuel Ward, Esq., and partly for my 
own Use; for the whole of which I promise to be responsible to said 
State.' I should not have taken any of tiie Money to my own Use could 
I have been supplied from tlome without Risque; but as the Chance of 
a Loss may soon be ^reat, and indeed the Communication by the North 
River mav be intercepted, and it will make no great Difference to the 
State whether two hundred Dollars are advanced to One of their Delegates 
or not I hope my Conduct in this Instance will not be blamed. 

By a Resolve of Congress, there is ordered a Paymaster for each 
Battalion in the Continental Service.^ I know not whom to recommend as 
Paymaster to the battalion ordered to New York : Nor do I know whom 
to recommend as Surgeon to it. I shall recommend a Paymaster and 
Surgeon for the Battalion that shall remain at Newport, when it shall be 
known which of the Battalions hath marched to N. York. At present it 
is to me uncertain; for the President first required the Commanding 
Officer to order One of the Battalions to N. York ; and afterwards, when 
it was known that the Field Officers were not commissionated. they were 
ordered by Congress to be commissionated, agreeable to the Recom- 
mendation of the Assembly, and the Second, Col. Lippitt's Battalion is 
ordered to march to N. York provided the first should not have marched 
before the Arrival of the last Direction of Congress.* .... 

128. JosiAH Bartlett to William Whipple.^ 

Philadelphia, September 14, 1776. 
Dear Sir: 

.... Last Wednesday our Committee met Lord Howe on Staten- 
Island, where they ate and drank together. He treated them with great 
civility and politeness; and after about three hours' conversation, they 
took their leave of each other. His Lordship's conversation was full of 
his friendship for America — particularly the town of Boston, for their 
respect to the memory of his brother. He said that the ravaging and 
destroying America would give him great pain and uneasiness. Dr. 
Franklin replied that we should take proper, and he hoped effectual, care 
to prevent his Lordship's feelings on that account. On the whole all the 
terms he had to propose were, that we first of all lay down our arms and 
return to our allegiance; and then, he said, the King and Parliament 
would consider the acts we formerly complained of, and if they judged 
it proper would alter or amend them. They told him that General Sulli- 
van said, that his Lordship in conversation told him that the King and 
Parliament would give up the right of taxation and of intermeddling with 
the internal police of the Colonies, and desired to know what authority 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 2. 

3 See the Journals, June 5 and 25. 

* See the Journals, Sept. 3 and 7. Cf. no. 114, ante. 
[128]^ Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 323; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 52, 
vol. II., p. 156 (copy) ; Letters by Josiah Bartlett, William Whipple, and Others, p. 40. 



September, jyy6 89 

he had to say it. Lord Howe repHed, that General Sullivan must certainly 
have misunderstood him, as he had no right to say any such thing, nor 
did he believe the Parliament would give up those claims. The Com- 
mittee are about to publish the whole affair, which I hope will stop the 
mouths of the weak and credulous, who have had great hopes of peace 
from the supposed great powers entrusted with Lord Howe as a Com- 
missioner for that purpose.^ .... 

The affair of the Confederation rests at present. The Committee of 
the Whole have agreed that ninety regiments shall be inlisted for five 
years, if not sooner discharged by Congress. The affair of bounty is not 
yet settled ; the proposal of giving lands as a part of the bounty has 
boggled us ; however, it will be got over in a few days, I believe, and sent 
forward. The great difficulty of raising men for so long a period, made 
me think it my duty to prevent more being required of our State than 
their just proportion by numbers; and by producing the return of our 
number of inhabitants, I have got the proportion to be fixed at three 
instead of four regiments for our State, to be raised and completed for 
that term.^ 

Mr. Wythe is come to Congress.* .... 

129. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, Saturday 14 September, 1776. 

Yesterday morning, I returned with Dr. Franklin and Mr. Rutledge 
from Staten Island, where we met Lord Howe, and had about three hours' 
conversation with him. The result of this interview will do no disservice to 
us. It is now plain that his lordship has no power, but what is given him 
in the act of Parliament. His commission authorizes him to grant par- 
dons upon submission, and to converse, confer, consult and advise with 
such persons as he may think proper, upon American grievances, upon the 
instructions to Governors and the acts of Parliament, and if any errors 
should be found to have crept in, his majesty and the ministry w^ere willing 
they should be rectified.^ .... 

130. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter.^ 

Philadelphia Sepr. 15, 1776 
My dear Col. 

.... As the Court of G. B. has ever accompanied violence with de- 
ception; Ld. Howe their agent since his arrival, has constantly endeav- 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 13 and 17. Cf. nos. 122, 125, 126, ante, and nos. 128-132 
post. See also no. 102, note 2, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 9-16. Cf. nos. 121, 124, ante, 135, 139, 142-145, 147, 148, 
post. 

* The Virginia credentials were presented Aug. 28, but probably Wythe did 
not attend until some days later. Cf. no. 103, note 2, ante. 

[i2g]'^ Familiar Letters, p. 226; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 324. 

^Cf. nos. 109, 117, 122. 125, 126, 128, ante, and 129-132, post. 
[iSol^Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Papers, IV. 79. 



 

our'd to make the people believe, that lie has p^reat powers and earnestly 
wish'd for peace; and at lentith carried the matter so far, as to desire a 
conference with some members of Conp^rcss, in their private capacities. 
The Congress to show they were not averse to peace, sent a Comtee. of 
their body to confer with him. IMiey had the honor of three hours con- 
versation with his Ld. Ship and returned here last fryday. He acknowl- 
eged he had no power to suspend the operations of war, or to offer any 
terms; but said, he had waited two months in England to prevail with 
the Ministry to empower him to converse and confer with Gentn. of influ- 
ence in America, that he was sure of the good intentions of the King and 
the Ministry; and if we would return to our allegiance, they wou'd revise 
the late instructions to Govrs. and the Acts of Parliament, and if there 
was anything in them that appear'd unreasonable to them; he did not 
doubt but they wou'd make them easy. The whole affair will soon be 
publish'd by Congress.^ .... 

131. John Penn to the North Carolina Council of Safety.^ 

Phila. Septr. 16. 1776. 
Dear Sir 

I wrote to you by Thomas Hayward Esqr. one of the Delegates of So. 
Carolina that General Howe was in possession of Long Island as also the 
manner in which we left it." General Sullivan who was made a prisoner 
on that occasion was sent here lately by Lord Howe with a message that 
his Lordship was very desirous to converse wnth. some of the members of 
Congress as private Gentn. and that he would meet them as Mr. Howe 
that he had great powers from the King to negotiate a peace, tho we were 
pursuaded that he only intended to throw the odium of carrying on the 
war on the Congress having no reason to believe that he had any such 
authority. Yet to counteract his design Doctr. Franklin, John Adams 
and Edwd Rutledge esqrs were directed to meet his Lordship not as pri- 
vate Gentn. but as a Committee of Congress to know of him what his 
powers were if any he had to treat with the Congress on the subject of 
peace. 

The Gentn. had a conference with Lord How^e who owned that he had 
no terms to offer to America and was not at liberty to treat with any set 
of men who were Representatives of the People, that he had a right to 
converse \vith Individuals and represent to the King the substance of 
what passed. I hope this will have a good effect as it will satisfie the 
people at large that we have no alternitive for our safety but our spirit 
as Soldiers.' 

2 Cf. nos. 122, 125, 126, 128, 129, ante, and nos. 131, 132, post. See also a letter 
of Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry, Sept. 15, in Letters (ed. Ballagh), I. 214, and 
W. W. Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 10. 

[131]! N. C. Hist. Comm. ; A^ C. Col Recs., X. 801. 

2 Heyward left Philadelphia Sept. 5. See no. 106, ante. The letter referred to is 
probably that signed by Hooper, Hewes, and Penn, dated Sept. 3, in A^. C. Col. Recs., 
X. 790. Cf. no. 135, post. 

' See no. 102, note 2, ante, and cf. nos. 122, 125, 126, 128-130, ante, 132, post. 



September, iyy6 91 

The Congress have left the sending two Battalions from No. Carolina 
with General Moore to New York altogether to the Council of Safety.* 
I would not advise the sending them at any rate as it is too late in the 
year 

132. John Adams to Samuel Adams.* 

Philadelphia, 17 September, 1776. 

In a few lines of the 8th instant I promised you a more particular 
account of the conference. On Monday, the committee set off from Phila- 
delphia, and reached Brunswick on Tuesday night. Wednesday morning, 
they proceeded to Amboy, and from thence to Staten Island, where they 
met the Lord Howe, by whom they were politely received and entertained. 
His lordship opened the conference by giving us an account of the motive 
which first induced him to attend to the dispute with America, which he 
said was the honor which had been done to his family by the Massachu- 
setts Bay, which he prized very highly. From whence I concluded, in 
my own mind, that his lordship had not attended to the controversy earlier 
than the Port Bill and the Charter Bill, and consequently must have a 
very inadequate idea of the nature as well as of the rise and progress of 
the contest. 

His lordship then observed, that he had requested this interview, that 
he might satisfy himself whether there was any probability that America 
would return to her allegiance ; but he must observe to us, that he could 
not acknowledge us as members of Congress, or a committee of that body, 
but that he only desired this conversation with us as private gentlemen, 
in hopes that it might prepare the way for the people's returning to their 
allegiance and to an accommodation of the disputes between the two 
countries; that he had no power to treat with us as independent States, 
or in any other character than as British subjects and private gentlemen ; 
but that upon our acknowledging ourselves to be British subjects, he had 
power to consult with us ; that the act of parliament had given power to 
the king, upon certain conditions, of declaring the colonies to be at peace ; 
and his commission gave him power to confer, advise, and consult with 
any number or description of persons concerning the complaints of the 
people in America ; that the king and ministry had very good dispositions 
to redress the grievances of the people, and reform the errors of admin- 
istration in America ; that his commission gave him powder to converse 
with any persons whatever in America concerning the former instructions 
to governors, and the acts of parliament complained of ; that the king and 
ministry were very w^illing to have all these revised and reconsidered, and 
if any errors had crept in, if they could be pointed out, were very willing 
that they should be rectified. 

Mr. Rutledge mentioned to his Lordship what General Sullivan had 
said, that his Lordship told him he would set the acts of parliament wholly 
aside, and that parliament had no right to tax America, or meddle with 

* See the Journals, Sept. 16 ; cf. no. 135, post. 
1132]! Works, IX. 443. 



 

her internal polity. His I.orclsliip answered Mr. Rutledge that General 
Sullivan had misunderstood him. and extended his words much heyond 
their import. 

His Ix)rdship g^ave us a long- account of his negotiations in order to 
obtain powers sufViciently ample for his purpose. He said he told them 
(the ministry, I suppose he meant) that those persons whom you call 
rel)els, arc the most proper to confer with of any, because they are the 
persons who complain of grievances. The others, those who are not in 
arms, and are not. according to your ideas, in rebellion, have no com- 
plaints or grievances; they are satisfied, and therefore it would be to no 
purpose to converse with them. To that his Lordship said, he would not 
accept the command or commission until he had full power to confer with 
any persons whom he should think proper, who had the most abilities and 
influence. But. having obtained these powers, he intended to have gone 
directly to Philadelphia, not to have treated with Congress as such, or 
to have acknowledged that body, but to have consulted with gentlemen 
of that body in their private capacities upon the subjects in his commission. 

His Lordship did not incline to give us any further account of his 
powers, or to make any other propositions to us, in one capacity or 
another, than those which are contained in substance in the foregoing 
lines. 

I have the pleasure to assure you, that there was no disagreement in 
opinion among the members of the committee upon any one point. They 
were perfectly united in sentiment and in language, as they are in the 
result of the whole, which is, that his Lordship's powers are fully ex- 
pressed in the late act of parliament, and that his commission contains no 
other authority than that of granting pardons, with such exceptions as 
the commissioners shall think proper to make, and of declaring America, 
or any part of it, to be at peace, upon submission, and of inquiring into 
the state of America of any persons with whom they might think proper 
to confer, advise, converse, and consult, even although they should be 
officers of the army or members of Congress, and then representing the 
result of their inquiries to the ministry, wdio, after all, might or might 
not, at their pleasure, make any alterations in the former instructions 
to governors, or propose, in parliament, any alterations in the acts com- 
plained of. 

The whole affair of the commission appears to me, as it ever did, to 
be a bubble, an ambuscade, a mere insidious manoeuvre, calculated only 
to decoy and deceive, and it is so gross, that they must have a wretched 
opinion of our generalship to suppose that we can fall into it. 

The committee assured his Lordship, that they had no authority to 
wait upon him, or to treat or converse with him, in any other character 
but that of a committee of Congress, and as members of independent 
States; that the vote which was their commission, clearly ascertained 
their character; that the declaration which had been made of indepen- 
dence, was the result of long and cool deliberation ; that it was made by 
Congress, after long and great reluctance, in obedience to the positive 
instructions of their constituents, every Assembly upon the continent 



September, 17/6 93 

having instructed their delegates to this purpose, and since the declaration 
has been made and published, it has been solemnly ratified and confirmed 
by the Assemblies, so that neither this committee nor that Congress which 
sent it here, have authority to treat in any other character than as inde- 
pendent States. One of the committee, Dr. Franklin, assured his Lord- 
ship that, in his private opinion, America would not again come under 
the domination of Great Britain, and therefore that it was the duty of 
every good man, on both sides of the water, to promote peace, and an 
acknowledgment of American independency, and a treaty of friendship 
and alliance between the two countries. Another of the committee, 
Mr. J, A., assured his Lordship, that, in his private opinion, America 
would never treat in any other character than as independent States. 
The other member, Mr. Rutledge, concurred in the same opinion. His 
Lordship said he had no powers nor instructions upon that subject; it 
was entirely new. Mr. Rutledge observed to his Lordship that most of 
the colonies had submitted for two years to live without governments, and 
to all the inconveniences of anarchy, in hopes of reconciliation; but now 
they had instituted governments. Mr. J. A. observed that all the colonies 
had gone completely through a revolution; that they had taken all 
authority from the officers of the Crown, and had appointed officers of 
their own, which his Lordship might easily conceive had cost great 
struggles, and that they could not easily go back ; and that Americans had 
too much understanding not to know that, after such a declaration as they 
had made, the government of Great Britain never would have any con- 
fidence in them, or could govern them again but by force of arms.^ 

2 The written report of the committee is in the Journals, Sept. 17. A verbal 
report had been made Sept. 13. See nos. 122, 125, 126, 128-131, ante. For the origin 
of the mission and comments thereon, see no. 102 et seq., ante. See also nos. 155, 252, 
post. In his Autobiography (M^orks, III. 75) Adams gives the following account of 
the conference with Lord Howe and the subsequent proceedings in Congress : 

"Monday, September 9 

" On this day Mr. Franklin, Mr. Edward Rutledge, and Mr. John Adams, proceeded 
on their journey to Lord Howe, on Staten Island, the two former in chairs, and the latter 
on horseback. The first night we lodged at an inn in New Brunswick. On the road, and 
at all the public houses, we saw such numbers of officers and soldiers, straggling and 
loitering, as gave me, at least, but a poor opinion of the discipline of our forces, and 
excited as much indignation as anxiety. Such thoughtless dissipation, at a time so 
critical, was not calculated to inspire very sanguine hopes, or give great courage to 
ambassadors. I was, nevertheless, determined that it should not dishearten me. I saw 
that we must, and had no doubt but we should, be chastised into order in time 

" There were a few circumstances which appear neither in the Journals of Congress, 
nor in my letters, which may be thought by some worth preserving. Lord^Howe had 
sent over an officer as a hostage for our security. I said to Dr. Franklin, it would be 
childish in us to depend upon such a pledge, and insisted on taking him over with us, 
and keeping our surety on the same side of the water with us. My colleagues exulted 
in the proposition, and agreed to it instantly. We told the officer, if he held himself 
under our direction, he must go back with us. He bowed assent, and we all embarked 
in his lordship's barge. As we approached the shore, his lordship, observing us, came 
down to the water's edge to receive us, and, looking at the officer, he said, ' Gentlemen, 
j^ou make me a very high compliment, and you may depend upon it, I will consider it 
as the most sacred of things.' We walked up to the house between lines of guards of 
grenadiers, looking fierce as ten Furies, and making all the grimaces, and_ gestures, and 
motions of their muskets, with bayonets fixed, which, I suppose, military etiquette 
requires, but which we neither understood nor regarded. 

"The house had been the habitation of military guards, and was as dirty as a stable; 
but his lordship had prepared a large handsome room, by spreading a carpet of moss and 



 

133. Robert 'J'reat Paine to Peter Grubb.* 

PiiiLADA. Septr. 1 8th. 1776. 
Sr 

.... I nieiitioiied to Congress your Inclination to have some of the 
Prisoners from I^ancaster to work for you, but it was supposed the Com- 
mittee of Lancaster would object to it. I hope you will make all Expedi- 
tion in making the Cannon and getting them down, for they are much 
wanted, the Cannon must be proved with two shott or they will never be 
put on board the sliips. 

[Addressed :] 
To Peter Grubb Esq.,^ at Cornwal Furnace 

green sprigs, from bushes and shrubs in the neighborhood, till he had made it not only 
wholesome, but romantically elegant ; and he entertained us with good claret, good 
bread, cold ham, tongues, and mutton. 

" I will now proceed to relate the sequel of this conference : ist, from the Journal of 
Congress ; 2d, from the letters written to some of my friends at the time ; 3d, a circum- 
stance or two, which are not preserved in the Journals or letters [Extracts from 

the Journals, Sept. 13 and 17, including the committee's report, which is quoted at 
length, are here omitted.] 

" Two or three circumstances, which are omitted in this report, and, indeed, not thought 
worth notice in any of my private letters, I afterwards found circulated in Europe, and 
oftener repeated than any other part of this whole transaction. Lord Howe was profuse 
in his expressions of gratitude to the state of Massachusetts, for erecting a marble monu- 
ment, in Westminster Abbey, to his elder brother, Lord Howe, who was killed in 
America, in the last French war, saying, ' he esteemed that honor to his family above 
all things in this world. That such was his gratitude and affection to this country, on 
that account, that he felt for America as for a brother, and. if America should fall, he 
should feel and lament it like the loss of a brother.' Dr. Franklin, with an easy air, 
and a collected countenance, a bow, a smile, and all that naivete, which sometimes 
appeared in his conversation, and is often observed in his writings, replied, ' My Lord, 
we will do our utmost endeavors to save your lordship that mortification.' His lordship 
appeared to feel this with more sensibility than I could expect ; but he only returned, ' I 
suppose you will endeavor to give us employment in Europe.' To this observation, not 
a word, nor a look, from which he could draw any inference, escaped any of the 
committee. 

■' Another circumstance, of no more importance than the former, was so much cele- 
brated in Europe, that it has often reminded me of the question of Phocion to his fellow- 
citizens, when something he had said in public was received with clamorous applause: 
' Have I said any foolish thing?' When his lordship observed to us that he could not 
confer with us as members of Congress, or public characters, but only as private persons 
and British subjects, Mr. John Adams answered somewhat quickly, 'Your lordship may 
consider me in what light you please, and, indeed, I should be willing to consider myself, 
for a few moments, in any character which would be agreeable to your lordship, except 
that of a British subject.' His lordship, at these words, turned to Dr. Franklin and 
Mr. Rutledge, and said, ' Mr. Adams is a decided character ', with so much gravity and 
solemnity, that I now believe it meant more than either of my colleagues, or myself, 
understood, at the time. In our report to Congress, we supposed that the commissioners. 
Lord and General Howe, had, by their commission, power to except from pardon all that 
they should think proper ; but I was informed, in England, afterwards, that a number 
were expressly excepted, by name, from pardon, by the Privy Council, and that John 
Adams was one of them, and that this list of exceptions was given, as an instruction, to 
the two Howes, with their commission." For other accounts of this interview see 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IL 141-145 ; Almon's Remembrancer, VHL ; Barrow, Life of 
Howe, pp. 91-97; Sparks, Life of Franklin, 1. 414, V. 97, VHL 187. See also Bigelow, 
Life of Franklin, vol. H., ch. xii. ; Writings of Franklin (ed. Smyth), VL 457-466. 

[133]^ Library of J. Pierpont Morgan, Declaration of Independence (now in the 
Library of Congress). 

2 Peter Grubb was colonel of the eighth battalion of Lancaster County militia 
and owner of the Cornwall iron furnace, located in Lancaster. See Harris, Biog. Hist, of 
Lancaster Co. Paine was a member of the cannon committee. See the Journals, Jan. 15. 



September, lyyd 95 

134. Thomas Nelson, jr., to John Page.* 

PhiladelphiaSepr i8th [i7th?]^ 1776 
My Dear Page: 

.... The Congress determined yesterday that Commissioners should 
be appointed, to audit the Continental Accounts, in the Southern depart- 
men[t] and they are to proceed to day to the appointment of them.* The 
Virginia Accounts, that were tran[s]mitted to us some time ago, are to 
be referrd to them, but in the mean time the State is to have Money 
advanced to it upon account 

135, The North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina 

Council of Safety.* 

Cetitlemen 

We wrote the honourable the Council of Safety by Mr. Hayward who 
left this sometime since.^ We then inclosed you a Resolve of the Con- 
tinental Congress directing Brigadier General Moore with two of the 
Continental battalions which were raised in the State of North Carolina 
to proceed to New York with all possible expedition. A further Revision 
of that subject together with some private infoiTnation by letters of the 
present state of our Country have induced your delegates to obtain an 
alteration of that Resolve ; from which it will appear that the movement of 
our Troops is now left to the discretion of your honourable Body.' .... 

We need say nothing to you who have so well considered and digested 
the matters to induce you to compleat to their full number the Continental 
Battalions which have been raised in our State. The inclosed system 
agreed upon by Congress for the modelling a new Army * holds forth 
such encouragement that we flatter ourselves you will find no difficulty 
in carrying into execution that part of the plan which has been allotted 
to your share. The Bounty proposed is liberal and aided with the stimulus 
which every honest American does or ought to feel effectually to establish 
the liberties of America upon a pure and solid basis we hope to have an 
opportunity soon to congratulate you, that it has obtained for you an 
additional force which will effectually baffle the future efforts of our 
Enemies. 

You will observe that in addition to the six Regiments already raised 
by you, you are impowered to raise three more. Should you think your- 
selves inadequate to so large a number you will as early as possible repre- 
sent such your incapacity to Congress who will no doubt make such alter- 
ation as will suit your circumstances, tho' we hope that you will find no 
difficulty in complying with this Resolve to the full as you will no doubt 
be often called upon hereafter to aid the weakness of South Carolina and 

[134]! N. Y. Pub. Lib.. Emmet Coll., no. 1636. Declaration of Independence. 

2 The contents indicate Sept. 17 as the proper date. See note 3, below. 

3 See the Journals. Sept. 16 (p. 761). The appointment of the commissioners 
was set for Sept. 17, but did not take place until Nov. 6. 

[135]* N. C. Hist. Comm.; N. C. Col. Recs., X. 804. 

2 The letter, dated Sept. 3, is in N. C. Col. Recs., X. 790. Cf. no. 131, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 3, 16. 

* See the Journals, Sept. 16. Cf. nos. 121, 124, 128, ante, nos. 142-145, 147, 148, post. 



 

Georgia, and the calling forth the militia is so expensive and burdensome 

that it ought as much as possible to be avoided 

We shall write you very fully by Mr Hewes who leaves this in a few 
days.' In the mean time we l3eg leave to subscribe ourselves with all 
possible respect Gentlemen, 

Your most Obed Humble Svts, 

Wm Hooper 
Joseph Hewes 

Philadelphia Sept i8 1776. J*^"^' P^^^'- 

The Honourable The Council of Safety of North Carolina. 

136. The Committee of Secret Correspondence to 
William Bingham.^ 

Philadelphia, September 21, 1776. 
Sir: 

Your several letters of the 4th, I5tli, and 26th August, to this Com- 
mittee, have been duly received, with the several enclosures, and the whole 
have been laid before Congress.^ We can therefore communicate that 
satisfaction w^hich we dare say it must afford you to know, that you have 
so far obtained the approbation of that august body. 

It is not necessary that we should enter into minute replies to the con- 
tents of your letters ; therefore, we shall only notice such parts as seem 
to require it. 

Captain Wickes's * behaviour meets the approbation of his country, and 
fortune seems to have had an eye to his merit when she conducted his 
three prizes safely in. You made a very proper use of his engagement by 
your question to the General,* and it is extremely satisfactory that our 
prizes may be carried into and protected in the French ports ; but hitherto 
the Congress have not thought proper to entrust blank commissions 
beyond seas, neither can their resolve for bringing prizes into some of 
these States for condemnation, be dispensed with. These matters are now 
under consideration of a committee, and should any alteration take place, 
you shall be informed of it.^ .... 

5 The letter, written Sept. i8 ( ?), 19, 24, and 26, and signed by Hooper and Penn, 
is in N. C. Col. Recs., X. 810. It is largely concerning military matters. A more intimate 
letter, from Hooper to Samuel Johnston, dated Sept. 26, is ibid., X. 815. The same 
letter, dated Sept. 27, is in Jones, Defence of North Carolina, p. 321. 
[136]! Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 425. 

- The Journals contain no mention of this correspondence. It is probable how- 
ever that the letter laid before Congress by the committee of secret correspondence Aug. 
21 was Bingham's letter of Aug. 4. Bingham had been sent to Martinique by the secret 
committee in June (see no. 97, note 2, ayite) and resided there as the agent of Congress 
until near the close of the war, serving particularly as a medium of communication with 
France. Beginning in October. 1776, considerable correspondence with him is found in 
the collected Revolutionary correspondence. An important body of his correspondence 
has recently been acquired by the Library of Congress. A sketch of him is in Appleton, 
Cyclo. of Am. Biog. 

3 Captain Lambert Wickes. Concerning his operations, see Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., I. 14, 180, 249, 609, 706, 742. 759, .11. 323, 425. 429, 121 1, 1213, 1215. 

* The governor-general of Martinique was the Comte d'Argout. See no. 501, 
post. 

5 The committee was appointed Aug. 21, but it does not appear to have made a 
report. Another committee, with somewhat different scope, was appointed Oct. 17. 



September, ly/d 97 

We recommended the French officers that came with Captain Wickes 
to Congress, and the Board of War liave provided for them to their satis- 
faction.^ On this subject your remarks have been very proper; officers 
unacquainted with our language cannot be useful ; ° therefore we do not 
wish to encourage such to come amongst us; at the same time, men of 
merit and abilities will always meet with suitable encouragement. You 
must therefore pursue the line you set out in ; give general discouragement 
to those that apply, and recommend none but such as the General will 
pledge his word for, and you may even intimate to him, that if too many 
come over, the Congress will not know what to do with them '' 

137. Marine Committee to Thomas Cushing.* 

September 21, 1776. 
Sir- 

In consequence of a letter from the President of Massachusetts Bay, 
dated the 13th instant, to the President of the Congress, which was by 
Congress referred to this Committee,^ we have determined to comply 
with the wishes of your Assembly by ordering the frigate commanded by 
Captain McNeill, and that by Captain Thompson, of New Hampshire, 
to be fitted immediately and proceed on a cruise on your coast, in hopes 
of taking the Millford frigate, or driving her or any other enemy away 
from those seas. We therefore authorize you to accept the proffered 
assistance of the said Assembly, or any Committee they appoint to assist 
in fitting, equipping, arming and manning that frigate. You are also 
to accept their offer of twenty-four nine-pounders cannon, and to coop- 
erate with them in getting the ship to sea with the utmost expedition ; and 
we agree to reimburse the State of Massachusetts Bay for all just and 
necessary expenses they incur in effecting this business.^ .... 

138. Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston.^ 

Philadelphia Sepr. 23d. 1776. 
My dr. Livingston 

I have been so much upon the Wing that for some Weeks past it has 
been impossible for me to put Pen to Paper. The Hurry is however past 
away in a Degree and I snatch a Moment's Leisure to request that you or 

5 See the Journals, Sept. 14, 19; also a letter from the board of war to Wash- 
ington, Sept. 20, in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 407. 

^ Cf. no. 49, ante, and no. 360A, post. See also the Journals, Mar. 13, 14, 19, 1777, 
and DOS. 407, 410, 418, post. 

"^ The continuation of this letter, written Oct. i, relates principally to the question 
of expected help from France in the West Indies. See also the committee to Bingham, 
Oct. I, in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 822, and nos. 153, 153A, 178-180, 224, post. 
[137]^ Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 427. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 20. 

3 Cf. the committee's letter to John Langdon, Sept. 21, Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., II. 429; also the letters to Captains Hector McNeill, Thomas Thompson, and 
Benjamin Bradford, ibid., II. 428. 

[138]! Furnished by courtesy of Mr. Johnston L. Redmond of New York; N. Y. Pub. 
Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, I. 213 (copy). Addressed, "To Robert R. 
Livingston Esquire, at the Congress of New York, to be forwarded to him wherever he 
may be in New York." 



 

Jay or both of you will immccliately on receipt of this set off for this 
Place. Little less than the Salvation of your Colony may depend on your 
Presence.* I could tell you a jj^reat deal, had I Time, or were it not 
possible that this mij^ht fall into Hands inimical to us and our Cause. 
If I have Lei.sure I shall write to Jay to desire his Attend", if not make 
my Love to him, tell him how I esteem him, and how much I long to see 
him; By a Letter received this Day from Schuyler he informs us that 
he is no longer a Major Genl in our Service, but that he will attend his 
Duty in Congress in a Fortnight from the Date of his Letter.' I wish 
he was now here. You know as well as I do, that the Rascals who took 
much Liberty with the Character of that Gentleman would not venture 
to look him in the Face. I admire his Wisdom ; it was the only Step which 
he could take to recover and establish his Reputation. If it is in your way 
to write him let him know how agreeable his Presence will be in Congress 
to all who wnsh well to our Affairs. Let me repeat it ; you cannot render 
as much Service to your Country in any other way whatever as by coming 
to us immediately and bringing with you Jay and Schuyler.* I shall go 
from hence for Carolina within a Month. I wish to see Matters put upon 
a better Foot than they now are, and to contribute as far as my Abilities 
can carry me, towards rendering your Country free and happy. Don't 
take my Silence amiss, but let me hear from you soon. God bless you. 

Yrs Sincy, and affectionately. 

E. RUTLEDGE. 



139. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 
New Hampshire Assembly.^ 

Philadelphia Sept. 24th, 1776. 
Gentlemen, 

You will perceive by the inclosed Resolves,^ which I have the honor 
to forward, in obedience to the Commands of Congress, that they have 

2 This has reference no doubt to the Confederation. See no. 155, post; but cf. 
no. 85, ante. 

3 Schuyler's letter, conveying his resignation, dated Sept. 14 (read in Congress 
Sept. 23), is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 333. Cf. nos. 144, 145, 148, 149. 155, 162, 
163, 184, 195, post. 

* Upon receipt of Rutledge's letter, Livingston wrote to Schuyler, Oct. 2, trans- 
mitting Rutledge's message, and adding : " Our resolutions a copy of which I shewd you 
are committed by Congress to Gentlemen that will do you justice for two of them at least 
I will answer. The Committee are Rutledge Hooper McKean" (N. Y. Pub. Lib., 
Schuyler Papers, no. 1249). See no. 149, post. 

[139]! A'. H. State Papers, VIII. 351; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 489; Mass. 
Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 38; id. to Massachusetts, Mass. Arch., CXCV. 
269; id. to New York, N. Y. State Lib., Minutes of the Committee of Safety, VI. 645; 
Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 6=;3 ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 209; id. to Maryland, 
Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VI. 53 ; id. to North Carolina. N. C. Col. Recs., X. 807. This 
is a circular letter to the several states. To some of the states, particularly Maryland 
and North Carolina, a considerably compressed form was sent. A similar letter, bearing 
the same date, was written to Washington. It is in the Library of Congress, Letters to 
Washington, LXXXIX. 320. and is printed in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 488. 

2 The resolves relative to the army, Sept. 16. Concerning the action of Maryland 
in the matter, see the proceedings of the convention of Oct. 4 and 9, Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., III. 116, 120, also no. 192, note 3, post. 



September, ///d 99 

come to a determination to augment our Army, and to engage the Troops 
to serve during the War. As an Inducement to enhst on these Terms, the 
Congress have agreed to give, besides a Bounty of twenty dollars, a 
Hundred Acres of Land to each soldier; and in Case he should fall in 
Battle, they have resolved that his children, or other Representatives, 
shall succeed to such Land. 

The many ill consequences arising from a short and limited Inlistment 
of Troops, are too obvious to be mentioned.^ In general, give me leave to 
observe, that to make men well acquainted with the duties of a soldier, 
requires Time; and to bring them under proper subordination and Dis- 
cipline, not only requires time, but has always been a work of much 
difficulty. We have had frequent experience that men of a few days 
standing, will not look forward; but as the time of their discharge ap- 
proaches, grow careless of their arms, ammunition etc. and impatient of 
all Restraint. The Consequence of which is, the latter Part of the time 
for which the soldier engaged, is spent in undoing what the greatest Pains 
have been taken to inculcate at first. Need I add to this, that the Fall of 
the late General Montgomery before Quebeck is undoubtedly to be 
ascribed to the limited time for which the Troops were engaged, whose 
Impatience to return home, compelled him to make the attack, contrary 
to the conviction of his own Judgment. This Fact alone furnishes a 
striking Argument of the Danger and Impropriety of sending Troops 
into the field, under any Restriction as to the Time of their Inlistment. 
The noblest enterprise may be left unfinished by Troops in such a Predica- 
ment or abandoned at the very moment success must have crowned the 
attempt. 

The heavy and enormous expences consequent upon calling for the 
Militia, the Delay attending their Motions, and the Difficulty of keeping 
them in the Camp, render it extremely improper to place our whole 
dependence upon them. Experience hath uniformly convinced us of this, 
some of the Militia having actually deserted the Camp, at the very moment 
their services were most wanted. In the mean time the strength of the 
British Army which is great is rendered much more formidable by the 
Superior Order and Regularity which prevail in it. 

Under these circumstances, and in this Situation of our affairs, it is 
evident that the Only Means left us of preserving our Liberties, is the 
Measure which the Congress have now adopted, and which I am ordered 
most earnestly to recommend to you, to carry into immediate effect. 
Without a well disciplined Army, we can never expect success agst 
veteran Troops; and it is totally impossible w^e should have a well dis- 
ciplined Army, unless our Troops are engaged to serve during the war. 
To attain therefore this most desirable End, I am to request you will at 
once, and without a moments delay, bend all your attention to raise your 
Quota of the American army. The Times call for the greatest Dispatch 
and Vigour of Conduct. When the bloody Standard of Tyranny is 
erected in a land of Liberty, no good man, no Friend of his Country, can 

' Cf. the report on the miscarriages in Canada, the Journals, July 30. See also 
nos. 13s, ante, 142-145, 147, 148, post. 



100 Contiueutal Congress 

possibly remain an inactive Spectator of her Fall. Display therefore, I 
most earnestly entreat you that Virtue which alone can Save her, on this 
occasion. Let us convince our enemies, that as we entered into the present 
contest for the Defence of our Liberties, so we are resolved, with the 
t'lrmest Reliance on Heaven for the Justice of our Cause, never to relin- 
quish it, but rather perish in the Ruins of it. If we do but remain firm, 
if we are undismayed at the little Shocks of Fortune, and are determined 
at all hazards that we will be free, I am persuaded, under the gracious 
smiles of Providence, assisted by our most strenuous endeavours, we shall 
finally succeed agreeably to our wishes, and thereby establish the Inde- 
pendence, the Happiness, and the glory of the United States of America. 
As the Troops now in service belonging to the several States, will be 
considered as part of their Quota in the American Army, you will please 
to take such steps as you judge necessary to ascertain what number of the 
Troops, as well as what Officers will engage to serve during the war. 
I send by this Express, blank Commissions, to be filled up with such as 
you shall please to appoint. I also forward a Number of the Rules and 
Articles of War, altered by Congress and just published.* 

140. Benjamin Rush to Anthony Wayne.^ 

Philadelphia Septemr. 24th. 1776 
My dear Sir 

.... My Compts. await Genl. Gates, and Genl. St. Clair. Tell the 
latter that I have done nothing since I took my seat in Congress with 
greater pleasure than in giving my vote for making him a Brigadr.'^ and 
I wash for nothing more than to do the same justice to the merit of my 
friend Col. Wayne. Inter Nos, an attention in you to Genl. Gates may 
facilitate this matter if it should soon come before Congress.^ .... 

141. Lewis Morris to the President of the New York 
Convention (Abraham Yates, jr.).^ 

Philadelphia Septemr 24 1776 
Sir 

.... Since my arrival at Philadelphia the State of N York has had 
no more than a representation in Congress, and as the Gentlemen of the 
Committee for Indian Affairs were mostly out of Town, the whole of 
that necessary business has Devolved upon me.^ .... 

* See the Journals, Sept. 20. 
[140]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Wayne Papers, I, 109 (copy). 

- See the Journals, Aug. 9. 

3 Wayne was made brigadier-general Feb. 21, 1777. 
[141]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Declaration of Independence; Jour. N. Y. 
Prov. Cong., I. 654; Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, IIL 211. 

- Morris is explaining why, instead of resuming his command in the army, he 
had remained in Congress. See the proceedings of the New York convention, Sept. 16, 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IL 693, and a letter from the president of the convention 
to Morris, Oct. 8, ibid., IL 949; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 627, 666. 

A letter of the same date, signed by Philip Livingston, William Floyd, and Lewis 
Morris, referring to New York's quota of the eighty-eight battalions, says : " Four bat- 
talions is all that is required of New York, including those already raised." (Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., III. 208). See ibid., pp. 217, 218, and no. 232, post. 



September, i'jy6 101 

141A. Robert Treat Paine to S. P. Eve [?].* 

Philadelphia Septr. 25th. 1776. 

Sr. 

Mr. Gerry delivered me a letter y**. sent by Major Cox; I have been 
a long time anxious to know the state of Gun Powder manufacture in 
our Government and have wrote repeatedly without being able to get any 
satisfactory information. We have had great success in making saltpetre, 
but witho^ great Care it will be all spoilt in making into Gunpowder, 
there have been some great instances here of miserable trash turn'd out 
for Gunpowder, which occasioned the Congress to appoint a Committee 
to enquire into the defect and procure a remedy.^ .... 

.... I am exceeding glad to find you turning yr. attention to this 
very important Manufacture. I hope you will not only make improve- 
ments in yr. own Works but communicate Knowledge to the other 
Powder makers and do what lays in yr Power to promote the manufac- 
ture of good Powder for it must be a most cruel Vexation in the day of 
decision for Liberty or Slavery to have the Scale turn against us meerly 
thro' the defect of our own Powder, this matter has lain as a Burthen on 
my mind and has caused me to apply great attention to this manufacture. 

Congress have passed some resolves to prevent the bad manufacture 
of Powder and also the importation of bad Powder, (for much Powder 
which has been imported from abroad has proved exceed [sic'\ bad) and 
have recommended inspectors to be appointed to prove all Powder, this 
matter should be carefully attended to. Majr. Cox will describe to you 
the machine by which we made most of our Experiments. You will 
excuse the freedom I take in addressing you thus freely when you consider 
the real importance of the subject. I wish the Inhabitants of the United 
States were more intent upon providing and manufacturing the Means 
of defence, than making Governments with^. providing for the means of 
their Support. Wishing you Success in yr. noble Efforts to promote that 
best Good of yr Country, its defence from powerful Enemies, I part your 

most hble Servt 

R T Paine 

[Endorsed :] 
Mr. Paine to S. P. Eve [ ?]' on Gun powder 

[141 a]^ Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Charles E. Goodspeed 
of Boston. 

2 Complaint against the powder manufactured at the powder-mill of Oswell 
Eve was presented June 7, and a committee (Wisner, Paine, and R. R. Livingston) was 
appointed to investigate the defect and take measures to remedy it. See the Journals, 
June 14. Aug. 6 Benjamin Rush was added to this committee. Aug. 28 the committee 
reported some regulations, which were adopted and printed (see Bibliographical Notes, 
the Journals, VI. 1125). An additional resolve was passed Sept. 2. 

3 Nothing has been learned concerning S. P. Eve. The powder-mill of Oswell 
Eve was located at Frankford, Pa. A petition from him to the Pennsylvania committee 
of safety, dated Mar. 22, 1776 (Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, V. 464), was referred to 
Congress May 3. A committee was appointed upon it, but there is no record of a report. 



1 

142. John Adams to James Warren/ 

Sept. 25, 1776 
Dr. Sir, 

This Express carries a new Plan of an Army ' I hope the Gen. Court 
without one Moments delay will Send Commissions to whole Corps of 
their officers, either by Expresses or Committees to New York, and Ticon- 
derogfa, that as many Men may be inlisted without delay as possible. It 
may be best to send a Committee with full Powers to each Place. There 
is no Time to be lost. I inclose you a sett of Articles as lately amended.' 
Discipline I hope will be introduced at last.* I am, 

John Adams 

143. Edward Rutledge to the President of South Carolina 

(John Rutledge).^ 

[Philadelphia, September 25, 1776.] 

The Congress are resolved to raise Eighty eight Battalions to continue 
during the War we mean to re-inlist all those who are now engaged if 
they will serve. It is not intended by the Resolutions that you should 
raise Six Battalions over and above what you now have but that they 
should be re-inlisted to serve durinsf the war." 



'i3 



[142]^^ Warren-Adams Letters, I. 275. 

- See the Journals, Sept. 16, also nos. 139, ante, 143-145, 147, 148, post. 

s Evidently the Articles of War, adopted Sept. 20. The task of revising the 
rules of war was assigned to the committee on spies June 14 (a committee consisting 
of John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, Edward Rutledge, James Wilson, and Robert R. 
Livingston, appointed June s). A report was brought in Aug. 19 and further considered 
Sept. 19. See no. 85, note 6, ante, and some remarks of Adams there quoted. Again, 
in his Autobiography, under the dates Sept. 19 and 20. he comments upon the Articles : 
" This was another measure that I constantly urged on with all the zeal and industry 
possible, convinced that nothing short of the Roman and British discipline could possibly 

save us 

" The articles are inserted in the Journal of this day, and need not be transcribed ; they 
are the system which I persuaded Jefferson to agree with me in reporting to Congress. 
They fill about sixteen pages of the Journal. In Congress, Jefferson never spoke, and 
all the labor of the debate on those articles, paragraph by paragraph, was thrown upon 
me, and such was the opposition, and so undigested were the notions of liberty prevalent 
among the majority of the members most zealously attached to the public cause, that 
to this day I scarcely know how it was possible that these articles could have been 
carried. They were adopted, however, and have governed our armies with little varia- 
tion to this day." Works, III. 83. 

* Apart from the Articles of War, Adams had been instrumental, according to 
his own statement, in bringing about the resolution in behalf of discipline passed Sept. 
19 (brought in by the board of war, in accordance with instructions, Sept. 18). 

" This resolution was the effect of my late journey through the Jerseys to Staten Island. 
I had observed such dissipation and idleness, such confusion and distraction among 
officers and soldiers, in various parts of the country, as astonished, grieved, and alarmed 
me. Discipline, discipline, had become my constant topic of discourse and even declama- 
tion in and out of Congress, and especially in the board of war. I saw very clearly that 
the ruin of our cause and country must be the consequence, if a thorough reformation 
and strict discipline could not be introduced. My zeal on this occasion was no doubt 
represented by my faithful enemies, in great secrecy, however, to their friends in the 
army; and although it might recommend me to the esteem of a very few, yet it will be 
easily believed that it contributed nothing to my popularity among the many." Ibid. 

[143] 1 MS. Journal of the South Carolina General Assembly, 1776, p. 211. Extract 
of a letter of Edward Rutledge, transmitted by the president of South Carolina to the 
legislature. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 16. Cf. no. 143A, post. 



September, iy/6 103 

143A. William Hooper to Robert R. Livingston.^ 

PiiiLADA. Sept 25, 1776 

Dear Sir 

I thank you for your very obliging letter of the 9th of this Instant. 

• • • • 

The Congress have ordered 88 Regiments to be raised for the next 
Year's service to continue during the War I wish this may save the 
dreadful Consequences of short Enlistments as calling forth the Militia 
upon Exigencies, were one to persist in the method hitherto pursued, the 
Contest would be of short duration, our Treasury would soon discover 
its weakness.' 

Juniper Lees Express arrived here last night ' — he left Lee at Georgia, 
the Congress Express within a day and half ride of him — Possibly Lee 
may be here in a day or two 

Adiew I scrawl this amidst the confusion of Congress at the Treasury 

board 

Yours truly 
Wm Hooper 

144. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia Sepr 26th 1776 

Dear Sir 

I have only Time to advise You that General Schuyler finds himself so 
uneasy at the Northward from the Reflections of the people that he pro- 
poses to resign, from which We have Reason to hope that Harmony will 
ensue.^ the Army is to consist the ensuing Year of eighty eight full 
Batalions to be enlisted for the War, the Officers to have Bounties of 
Land, the Men one hundred Acres each and twenty Dollars.^ the Express 
is Waiting, my Respects to all Friends and believe me to be 

yours sincerely 

E Gerry 

Colo Trumbull 

145. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadel. 26 Sepr 1776 

Dear Sir 

I reed yours of the 19th. have you reed mine contain^ an extempore 
Acc°. of the Nego": wh. Ld Howe." Congress have directed You to 

[i43A]i Furnished by courtesy of Mrs. W. A. Read of New York City. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 16; cf. nos. 13S, I39. 142, U3, ante, 144, H7, 148, post. 
s Letters of General Lee were read in Congress Sept. 25. He reported to 
Congress in person Oct. 7. The nickname " Juniper " was probably applied to General 
Lee because of his sharp tongue ; but no other instance of its use has been found. 
[144]! Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 67. 

2 Schuyler's resignation, dated Sept. 14, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IL 
333- Cf. no. 138, ante, and no. 145, post. See also Joseph Trumbull to Gen. Gates, 
Sept. 20, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 417. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 16. 

[145]! Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 567. 
2 Sept. 7, no. 113, ante. 



12 



1 

purchase Salt and put up Provisions as You shall judge necessary for 
next year's army trust You have reed it from the Presidt." They have 
alarming: Acc°*, from the No. Army that tlie Sick have nothin^^ hut hread 
and meat, not so much as Ind : meal nor any kind of Veg^etahle etc. and 
the Sick perish for want etc.* and have sent a Com*' of Mr Stocton and 
Clymer to enquire into all the Circumstances of that Army in order to 
make Them as comfortable as possible,"* and the Idea of a Contract for 
that Departmt. is received and adopted and the Com'*" are instructed to 
endeavor to make one, upon Schylers Plan, of which They have a Copy. 
Suppose it will ease You of a heavy Burden." three wo*^ have been sent 
but they co'' not find a 3d man, two had been successively chosen and 
begd off, and then it was concluded to send but the two.' tis also said 
the Jersey Troops have nothing but bread and meat and that none of the 
Troops have their just rations,^ and that there is jobbing and cheating, 
tho nobody directly blames You and surely you have powerful Friends 
and Supporters but there is great uneasiness that your Deputies or some- 
body grossly fails etc. tis very possible they may soon be for enter^. into 
a Contract for the York Army, and have you continue Comissary. they 
say tis his business only to issue and be a Check upon the Contractor. I 
tell Them if They make a Contract then You ought by all means to have 
the offer of it, and they [say] yes by all means, what relates to the Y.' 
army is only out of Doors talk, and I cant say it will be any thing else, 
but very likely it may, tho nothing yet moved. 

If it sho*^ be the Case sho^ be glad to know Your mind about contract- 
ing etc. I trust the Com*^. will see you on the road, to get what advice 
and assistance They can from You. I think Mr Clymer is a very good 
sort of a Man, and Air Stocton is not bad. I forgot whether I told You 
Gen. Schuyler had resigned.^'* it has not been acted upon but I imagine 
it will be accepted, but am sensible it will cause great heart burning in 
many members, and they will curse N Engld. as having by malicious 
Clamors forced him to it etc. etc. the Measures are taken for form^ a 
new Army as you will have seen; and learnd pr. Mr Sherman etc. also 
I hope it will succeed, wish to know how it is relished in the Army, it is 
of the last importance to have it succeed, as I have but a moments Time 
cant look over your Letter to know whether I sho*^ have mentioned any 

3 See no. 113, ante, and nos. 162, 166, 172, post) also the Journals, Sept. 25, 27, 
Oct. 5, 9, 16. 

* Cf. nos. 162, 166, 266, post. 

5 A report from Stockton and Clymer, dated Oct. 26, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., II. 1256. See the Journals, Nov. 4. 

6 The plan proposed by Schuyler is in his letter of Aug. 25 (read in Congress 
Aug. 31). The letter is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 1151. See the instructions to 
the committee appointed to go to Ticonderoga, Sept. 25 ; also no. 124, ante, and nos. 162, 
164, 166, 172, 175, post. 

■The Journals, Sept. 25 (p. 823), show that the word "three" was erased and 
"two" substituted, the alteration evidently having been made on the 26th (p. 828). 
See no. 164, post. 

8 See no. 166, post. 

9 York, J. e.. New York. 

10 See nos. 138, 144, ante; also note 12, below. 



September, lyyd 105 

thing more which you hint at. you will let me hear what you can get 
Time for etc. 

I am dear Sir your most sincere and 

affec^ Friend and Servt " 
Col Trumbull 

Complimts of Mr Sherman etc. 

Sat. 28. I have unluckily lost 2 days, in the conveyance of this, by a 
misinformation, about the Posts, going out on Thursday. I said Gen: 
Schuy^ : Resign'' wo^ probably be accepted, but I trust I was mistaken. 
I did not f orsee what maneuvre wo*^ take place ; the N. York Convention 
have sent a warm and Spirited Remonstrance agst. accept*^ it represent^ 
the Consequences of it as fatal and total destruction etc. etc. etc. in the 
most pressing Terms and unanimous they say it is possible some body 
wrote to them to procure this, his Friends here blaze away on the same 
side, and have got a Com*^ to consider the remonstrance and to report, 
and no doubt what the report will be his Friends are so many and fierce, 
that I doubt not those who wo^ willingly accept it, must give away to 
such a Torrent in his Favr. for the sake of Peace here.^^ 

146. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia 27th. Septr. 1776 
Dear Sir, 

.... The plan of foreign treaty ^ is just finished, and yourself, with 
Doctor Franklin, and Mr. Deane now in France, are the Trustees to 
execute this all important business 

The idea of Congress is, that yourself and Dr. Franklin should go in 
different ships. The Doctor, I suppose will sail from hence, and if it is 
your pleasure, one of our Armed Vessels will meet you in any River in 
Virginia that you choose.^ 

147. Elbridge Gerry to Horatio Gates.^ 

KiNGSBRiDGE, 27th Sepr. 1776. 
My dear Sir 

Being here wth. a Committee of Congress for enquiring into the state 
of the Army,^ I take the opportunity of informing you by Mr. Trumbull ^ 

11 This letter is not signed, but is in the unmistakable writing of William Williams. 
^2 See no. 149, note 2, post ; also nos. 155, note 8, 162, 163, post. 
[146]^ Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second ser., LI. 30; Letters of Richard 
Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), L 218. 

2 The committee to prepare a plan of treaties was appointed June 11. The plan 
as reported by the committee is in the Journals, July 18; as adopted, it is found under 
Sept. 17. See nos. 26, note 2, 94, loi, ante. 

3 The election of commissioners to France was on Sept. 26. Jefferson declined, 
and on Oct. 22 Arthur Lee was chosen in his stead. See nos. 179, 180, post. 

[147]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, VIL ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IL 572. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 23. 

3 Joseph Trumbull, commissary-general. Letters from him to Congress, written 
from King's Bridge, Sept. 19, 23 (read in Congress, Sept. 23, 27), are in Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., IL 372, 453. 



lOG Continental Congress 

that we are endeav^. to new model the Army in every respect where neces- 
sary. Congress have resolved to establish eighty eight full Ratalions for 
the war and the Assemblies are to appoint the Regimental OfTicers, in 
doing which if some extra Measures are not adopted we shall have such 
a Corps of Officers as the Army have been hitherto incumber'd wth.* I 
have desired General Washington to furnish the Committee wth. a List of 
such officers in the Army here as he is desirous of having again engaged 
in the Service, wth. the States to wch. they belong and the General thinks 
it will be necessary to obtain the same from the northern Army. The 
use we intend to make of this is, to send it wth. a Member of Congress to 
the Assembly of each resj^ective State who is to be ordered to impress the 
Necessity of apix)inting Gentlemen of Education to military offices as a 
Measure absolutely necessary for saving the Country and to urge the 
Assemblies to apportion the Men on the Towns and raise them by recruit- 
ing or draughting, in Readiness for reinforcing or forming the Camps 
by the ist. Deer. next.° We have obtained Colo. Moylan's Resignation 
and General Miflin comes again into the office of O. M. G.^ Many other 
Measures will be reported wch, I think will put things on a good Footing. 

• • • • 

[P. S.] Pray direct the List to me at Philadelphia without delay. The 
Men are to have a Bountv of twentv Dollars and lOO Acres Land each at 
the end of the war — the Officers Land in proportion. 

148. The President of Congress to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philadelphia, September 27, 1776. 
Sir: 

I have the honour to enclose you sundry resolves, which are so explicit 
that I need only request your attention to them. 

You will perceive that Congress have come to a determination to aug- 
ment our army to eighty-eight battalions, and to engage the troops to 
serve during the continuance of the war, being thoroughly convinced by 
repeated instances that the short and limited inlistment of troops has 
been the source of much mischief to the service." 

In order that these troops may be better disciplined, the Congress have 
abolished the system of rules and articles for the government of the army 
which they at first instituted, and have adopted a new one, sundry copies of 
which I enclose you.^ 

* See the Journals. Sept. 16; also no. 148, post, and Washington's letter to 
Congress. Sept. 24 (read Sept. 27), in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 438, and Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser.. II. 495. 

5 See the Journals, Oct. 3, 4, 8, 9. Cf. nos. 148, 150, 152, 159, 160, 164, 165, 166, 
170, post. 

^ See the Journals, Oct. i. Moylan's letter of resignation, dated Sept. 27, was 
read in Congress Oct. 2. It is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 570. See also ilnd., 
II. 605, and no. 156, post. 

[148]! Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 560, III. 235; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 668, 
II. 347 ; N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, VIII. 275 (copy) ; id., Min. Com. of 
Safety, VI. 712 (copy) ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXIX. 407 (copy). 

2 See no. 139, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 19, 20, and no. 142, ante. 



September, iyy6 107 

It is also their determination that the strictest discipline should be kept 
up in the army, that the soldiers should be daily trained and practised in 
their different manoeuvres. An attention to these things, you will observe 
by the enclosed resolves, will be the likeliest way to obtain promotion, and 
will be the surest recommendation to their notice. 

The Committee of Congress to confer with you on the state of the 
army, etc., will set out to-morrow or next day for Tyconderoga.* To 
them I beg leave to refer you ; and am, with every sentiment of esteem and 
regard, sir, your most obedient and very humble servant, 

John Hancock, President. 

To General Schuyler, Albany. 

P. S. The attention of Congress has been so much taken up by our 
affairs at New York, that I have not time to reply to your several letters, 
but hope I shall have leisure to do it by the next conveyance, and that 
Congress will soon determine on the subject of them. They are now in 
the hands of a special committee.' 



149. Philip Livingston to the President of the New York 
Convention (Abraham Yates, jr.).^ 

Philadelphia, 28th September, 1776. 

Gentlemen: 

.... Your resolutions respecting General Schuyler we have laid 
before Congress, and they have appointed a Committee to consider them, 
who have promised us to report on Monday next. The Committee is to 
our wishes, viz : Mr. Rutledge, Mr. Hooper, and Mr. McKean. As soon 
as this report is agreed to, it shall be forwarded for your information. 
It will, without question, be satisfactory.^ 

< See the Journals, Sept. 25, 26. Cf. no. 147, note 5, ante. 

^ Most of Schuyler's letters for more than a month past had not been acted upon, 
and in a letter to President Hancock, Oct. 3 (Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 857), he 
complains bitterly at the neglect. For instance, his letter of Aug. i6 (Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., I. 983) had been referred (Aug. 22) to the committee on the miscarriages in 
Canada (appointed June 24). Schuyler was so informed Sept. 14, and the committee 
reported Oct. 7, and then its report was laid on the table. Sept. 14, Schuyler sent in 
his resignation (Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 333). This letter, read Sept. 23, was 
acted on Oct. 2. Cf. no. 149, post. See Schuyler's reply to this letter, Oct. 6 (Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 921), and his letter to the New York convention, Oct. 7 
(ifcid., p. 932). 
[149P Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 216. 

2 See the Journals. Sept. 27, Oct. 2 ; cf. nos. 138, 144, 145, 148, ante, and nos. I55> 
162, 163, post. The resolutions of the New York convention, Sept. 20. concerning 
Schuyler's resignation, are in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 707; the letter to the 
New York delegates relative thereto, Sept. 21, is ibid., II. 418. See R. R. Livingston's 
information to the New York convention relative to a conference with Schuyler, ibid., 
III. 216. The items are also in Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 634, 635, 656, 657. In a 
letter of Oct. 27 (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 1250). Livingston endeavors to 
dissuade Schuyler from resigning at this juncture, expressing confidence that the 
resolution of Congress was intended by Rutledge and other friends as an ample justifica- 
tion of Schuyler's conduct. See also Tuckerman, Life of Schuyler, ch. v.; Lossing, 
Life of Schuyler, chs. v., vi., passim. 



1 

150. Benjamin Rush to Anthony Wayne.^ 

PhiladelphiaSeptemr. 29, 1776. 

Dear Sir 

.... The late resolution of congress for increasing our army to 
60,000 men will necessarily call for a number of new Brigadiers, and the 
proportion which Pennsylvania will send into the field will give her a 
right to demand one or two more for her Share. Merit like yours will 
weigh heavily with the congress but it must be held up in a pointed light 
to their view. Col. Magaw ^ tho' a younger Officer than you being near 
the congress, and having one or two eloquent friends in the house may 
perhaps be held up in colours that may injure your more just pretensions 
to promotion. 

ijpon this acct I beg leave to suggest to you that your friends in con- 
gress (among whom I desire to be classed) will derive great support 
from a few words in your favor from General Gates. You must not omit 
improving this hint to your advantage. And in everything relative to this 
matter I beg you will command my services. 

I should not have suggested these ideas to you, had I not more than 
once seen the most eminent military merit neglected in our promotions, 
from ignorance in the congress, or from the want of proper recommen- 
dations 

151. John Adams to Henry Knox.^ 

[September 30 (?), 1776.] 

.... I wish we had a military academy, and should be obliged to 

you for a plan of such an institution. The expense would be a trifle — 

no object at all with me. 

October i. 

This day I had the honor of making a motion for the appointment of 
a committee to consider of a plan for the establishment of a military 
academy in the army. The committee was appointed, and your servant 
was one. Write me your sentiments upon the subject.^ 

[150]! Pa. Mag. Hist, and Biog., XLIII. 265. 

2 Col. Robert Magaw, of the fifth Pennsylvania battalion, was taken prisoner at 
Fort Washington Nov. 16, 1776, and was not exchanged until Oct. 25, 1780. He did 
not return to the service. Wayne was made a brigadier-general Feb. 21, 1777. See the 
Journals, Feb. 22. 

[151]! Works, I. 257 (extract). 

2 See the Journals, Oct. i. Cf. Adams to Knox, June 2, 1776, in Works, IX. 384. 
In his Autobiography (ibid.. III. 85) Adams quotes this postscript of Oct. i, and 
dilates at some length upon the need of such an institution. It does not appear that 
this committee ever made a report. However, on Oct. 3, a committee which had been 
sent to inquire into the state of the army at New York made a report, in which was 
offered a resolution for the establishment of a military academy. The resolution was 
not adopted. See the Journals, Oct. 3, 8, 9. For a history of the establishment of 
a military academy at West Point, see Bojniton, History of West Point .... and the 
Origin and Progress of the United States Military Academy (New York, 1871). 



October, 1//6 109 

152. The Secret Committee to the Maryland Council of Safety.* 

In Secret Committee, Piiilada Octr ist 1776. 

Gaitn 

Publick Bodys shou'd be equaly cautious of taking offence as of giving 
it, because mischiefs are very apt to arise therefrom and generally before 
a remedy can be applyed. You have taken amiss the refusal of fourteen 
p^ canvass wanted for your Colonial Vessells and had information that 
2000 p^ had been imported in one Vessell here. These are your premises 
and the Facts are as follow. It was not this Committee that refused you 
the canvass for we had agreable to orders of Congress delivered the 
whole to the Marine Committee and that whole consisted of about 600 p^ 
instead of 2000, but it was not possible the Marine Committee cou'd spare 
you a single Bolt, because the Congress had but a day or two before your 
application ordered all the light Duck and other Stuff, then in the Publick 
stores or that could be bought in the City to be made up into Tents and 
sent immediately to Genl. Washington, the Marine Committee remon- 
strated against this measure alledging that none of the Continental Ves- 
sells cou'd be sent out if this canvass was taken from them. No matter 
they were told the soldiers should have Tents if they stripped the Yards 
of those Continental Frigates and Cruizers that had sails made up, and 
in Consequence of this measure which nothing but the extream necessity 
of our Army cou'd justify, We have now a parcell of fine vessells lying 
here useless at a time they might have been most advantageously em- 
ployed. Therefore Judge you, whether that Committee or the Congress 
itself cou'd have justifyed sparing you the Canvass you wanted. You 
may depend Gentn. that no just grounds are ever meant to be given by 
Congress or any of its Committees for Complaints like yours. We are 
all embarked in a Cause that requires our utmost united exertions to carry 
us through, and be assured you can always command our utmost aid 
and assistance when it can possibly be extended, consistent with the 
general Welfare.^ 

For and on behalf of the Secret Committee I have the honor to be, 
Gentn., 

Your most Obedt and very hble Servant 

RoBT Morris. 
To the Honble the Council of Safety Maryland. 

[152]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 43; Arch, of Md., XII. 314; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., II. 823. 

2 See a letter of the secret committee to the Maryland council of safety, Sept. 13, 
and the council's reply, Sept. 25, in Arch, of Md., XII. 290, 305; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., II. 310, 510. See also the Journals, Aug. 15, 30, Sept. 4. 



1 

153. The Committee of Secret Corresponden'ce, Statement.* 

[October i, 1776.] 

Mr. Thomas Story,* who had been sent by the committee of secret 
correspondence. December 13, 1775, to France, Holland, and England, 
reported verbally as follows : 

" On my leaving London, Arthur Lee, esq., requested me to inform 
the committee of correspondence that he had several conferences with 
the French ambassador, who had communicated the same to the French 
court ; that, in consequence thereof, the Duke de Vergennes had sent a 
gentleman to Arthur Lee, who informed him that the French court could 
not think of entering into a war with England, but that they would assist 
America, by sending from Holland this fall £200,000 sterling worth of 
arms and ammunition to St. Eustatius, Martinique, or Cape Frangois; 
that application was to be made to the governors or commandants of those 
places, by inquiring for Monsieur Hortalez, and that, on persons properly 
authorized applying, the above articles would be delivered to them." 

Philadelphi.a, October i, 1776. 

The above intelligence w-as communicated to the subscribers, being the 
only two members of the committee of secret correspondence now in this 
city, and on our considering the nature and importance of it, we agree in 
opinion that it is our indispensable duty to keep it a secret, even from Con- 
gress, for the follow'ing reasons : 

(i) Should it get to the ears of our enemies at New York they would 
undoubtedly take measures to intercept the supplies, and thereby deprive 
us not only of those succors, but others expected by the same route. 

(2) As the court of France have taken measures to negotiate this loan 
and succor in the most cautious and most secret manner, should we divulge 
it immediately w-e may not only lose the present benefit, but also render 
that court cautious of any further connection wath such unguarded people, 
and prevent their granting other loans and assistance that we stand in need 
of and have directed Mr. Deane to ask of them, for it appears from all our 
intelligence they are not disposed to enter into an immediate w'ar with 
Britain, though disposed to support us in our contest with them ; we there- 
fore think it our duty to cultivate their favorable disposition tow'ards us, 
draw from them all the support we can, and in the end their private aid 
must assist us to establish peace or inevitably draw them in as parties to 
the war. 

(3) We find, by fatal experience, the Congress consists of too many 
members to keep secrets, as none could be more strongly enjoined than the 
present embassy to France ; notwithstanding which Mr. Morris was this 
day asked by Mr. Reese Meredith ^ whether Dr. Franklin and others were 

[153]! Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 151; House Rept. No. 220, 20 Cong., i sess., 
p. 19; Force. Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 8i8 (except first three lines); Sparks, Dipl. 
Corr. Rev., I. 387 (except last two paragraphs) ; Lee, Life of Arthur Lee, I. 57. 

2 See Wharton. Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 63, 66, 82, 85, 87, 92. 

3 A merchant of Philadelphia. 



October, jyy6 111 

really going- ambassadors to France, which plainly proves that this com- 
mittee ought to keep this secret, if secrecy is required. 

(4) We are of opinion that it is unnecessary to inform Congress of this 
intelligence at present, because Mr, Morris belongs to all the committees 
that can properly be employed in receiving and importing the expected sup- 
plies from Martinico, and will influence the necessary measures for that 
purpose; indeed, we have already authorized William Bingham, esq., to 
apply at Martinico and St. Eustatia for what comes there, and remit part 
by the armed sloop Independence, Captain Young, promising to send others 
for the rest. Mr. Morris will apply to the marine committee to send other 
armed vessels after her, and also to Cape Frangois (without communicat- 
ing this advice) , in consequence of private intelligence, lately received, that 
arms, ammunition, and clothing can now be procured at those places. But, 
should any unexpected misfortune befall the States of America, so as to 
depress the spirits of Congress, it is our opinion that, on any event of that 
kind, Mr. Morris (if Dr. Franklin should be absent) should communicate 
this important matter to Congress, otherwise keep it until part of or the 
whole supplies arrive, unless other events happen to render the communica- 
tion of it more proper than it appears to be at this time.* 

B, Franklin. 
Robert Morris. 

Communicated to me this nth October, 1776, and I concur heartily in 
the measure. 

Richard Henry Lee. 

Communicated to me this loth day of October, 1776, and I do also sin- 
cerely approve of the measure. 

Wm. Hooper. 

1 53 A. The President of Congress, Certificate.* 

Philadelphia October ist 1776 
In Congress 

I do hereby Certify that Benjamin Franklin and Robert Morris - Esqrs. 

* The following passage in a letter from John Jay to Robert Morris, written from 
Fishkills, Oct. 6, is pertinent here: "I wish the Secret Committee would communicate 
no other intelligence to the Congress at large, than what may be necessary to promote 
the common weal, not gratify the curiosity of individuals. I hint this because a copy 
of a letter from A. L. to that Committee has lately been sent by a member of Congress 
to a gentleman of his acquaintance who is not a member of Congress. I came by this 
intelligence in such a way as to speak with certainty, for I have seen the copy, but at 
the same time in such a way as not to be able with propriety to mention names. You 
will be pleased therefore to make no other use of this information than to induce the 
greater caution in the Cornmittee. For as to binding certain members in the house to 
secresy by oaths or otherwise would be just as absurd as to swear Lee (no matter which 
of them) to look or feel like Ned Rutledge." Correspondence of Jay (ed. Johnston), I. 
85 ; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 164. For Jay's part in solving the secret letters of 
Silas Deane, see Morris to Jay, Sept. 23, 1776, Jay's reply, cited above, and Morris to 
Jay, Feb. 4, 1777, Correspondence of Jay, I. 84, 85, 120. 

In regard to the expectation of assistance from France, see nos. 97, 136, ante, 153A, post. 
See also nos. 178-180, post. 

[153 a] ^Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong.. Miscellaneous; Henkels, Catalogue, 
no. 1290, item 222 ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 823 (appended to a letter from the 
committee of secret correspondence to William Bingham). 

- After this certificate had been written the names of Richard Henry Lee and 



1 

delej^ates in Congress from Pennsylvania liave been duely appointed Mem- 
bers of the Honorable Committee of Secret Correspondence, and that they 
are fully emix:)\vred to direct all matters in their department on behalf of 
the United States of America, the other Members of Said Committee being 
now absent. 

I do also Certify that the delivery of Arms, ammunition, Specie or other 
Stores, to them or their Order on behalf of the Congress, is and will be 
acknowledged as Valid and binding on the United States of America. 

John Hancock Presidt.' 



154. The President of Congress to the New Jersey 

Assembly.^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 2d. 1776. 
Gentlemen, 

The many and just Complaints of the Insufficiency of the Surgeons and 
their Mates, to discharge their Duty in a proper Manner, have induced 
Congress to pass the enclosed Resolves, recommending it to the several 
States to appoint some skilful Physicians as Examiners; without whose 
Approbation, no Surgeon, or Surgeon's Mate, shall receive a Commission 
either in the Army or Navy.^ 

The Congress being at present deeply engaged in Alatters of the utmost 
Importance to the Welfare of America, have judged it absolutely neces- 
sary that there should be a full Representation of the several States as 
soon as possible. For this End, I am to request, in Obedience to their 
Commands, you will immediately take proper Measures to comply with 
the enclosed Resolve, in Order that the United States may be fully repre- 
sented in Congress, and the Sentiments of America be the better known 
upon those interesting Subjects that lie before them.^ I shall therefore 

William Hooper were inserted after that of Robert Morris (above the line), but they 
were afterward so carefully erased that they can now barely be made out. Inasmuch as 
both Lee and Hooper appear to have been in Congress Oct. i (both received committee 
appointments that day), it is not at all clear why their names should not have been 
included in this certificate, as members of the committee of secret correspondence then 
present, or why they should not have signed, until Oct. lo and ii, the committee's com- 
pact of secrecy drawn up Oct. i (see no. 153, ante). 

3 In the letter of the committee of secret correspondence to William Bingham, 
Sept. 21 (the part written Oct. i; see no. 136, note 7, ante), is this statement: "We 
also enjoin you to the strictest secrecy, and herewith enclose you two separate letters 
as your proper authority for receiving any goods or money Monsieur Hortalez, our 
agent in Europe, may remit." The two letters are doubtless this certificate and the 
letter of the same date to Bingham, to which the certificate appears to be appended 
(Force, Ant. Arch., fifth ser., II. 822, 823). 

[154]! From the collection of the late Garrett D. W. Vroom of Trenton. This letter 
was sent to the assemblies of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, 
New York, and New Jersey. The same letter, except the first paragraph, was sent to 
the assemblies of Maryland, Virginia, North CaroHna, South Carolina, and Georgia. 
The two forms are printed in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 838, 839. The original to 
Marj'land is in the Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VI. 51 ; that to New York is in the N. Y. 
State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, VIII. 39, and is printed in the Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., 
II. 318. The letter-book copy is in the Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 47. 

- See the Journals, Sept. 30. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. i, and no. 155, post. 



October, lyyd 113 

only once more request your Compliance with this Requisition of Con- 
gress, and have the Honour to be, 

Gentlemen, Your most obedt. Servt. 

John Hancock Presidt 

Honble Assembly of New Jersey. 

155. Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston.^ 

Philadelphia Oct 2, 1776. 
My dear Robert, 

The day before I rec'd your last favor I wrote you a few lines ^ request- 
ing that you Jay and Schuyler would immediately come hither upon busi- 
ness of great importance. Since which we have rec'd a letter from your 
Convention ^ relative to the last gentleman whose fate has been hard 
indeed. However his spirited conduct and the support which your body 
seem determined to give him w-ill I trust have a proper effect upon Con- 
gress and make him respectful even in the eyes of his enemies. The 
enclosed resolution * which I drew and which passed the House unani- 
mously will justify the conjecture. It will be a farther satisfaction to 
you to know that upon the receipt of your Convention's letter, when some 
of us took the opportunity of applauding his (Sr's) conduct in high 
terms, no man could be found to say any thing against him. Let him not 
im.agine from this, that the members are all his friends, this is not to 
be expected nor do I know that it is to be desired ;....! moved Con- 
gress yesterday and they accordingly directed all absent members to 
attend.* Our Confederation has been neglected for many many w^eks 
because the States have been unrepresented. Necessity requires that it 
be immediately past. If I am not much mistaken the salvation of your 
State depends upon something being soon done in this business.* We 
have great reason to think that the Quakers have determined to refuse 
our Continental Currency. If they make a point of it, we must make a 
point of hanging them, which will bring on a storm that will take the 

wisdom of all our wise men to direct I must forego the pleasure 

of telling you what past between Lord Howe and your hble. servt. it is 
too long for the compass of a letter. Delay was my object. I wish we 
could have procrastinated matters until we could have procured more 

1155]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll.. Livingston Papers. L 217 (copy). 

2 Sept. 2Z, no. 138, ante. See a letter from Jay to Rutledge, Oct. 11, in Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 998; also Jay to Robert Morris, Oct. 6, Wharton, Rev. Dipt. 
Corr., II. 164. 

s See the Journals, Sept. 27, Oct. 2, and nos. 138, 144, 145, 148, 149, ante, 162, 
163, 184, 19s, post. 

4 The resolution relative to Schuyler, Oct. 2. See Schuyler to Hancock, Oct. 16, 
Force. Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1078. Cf. nos. 173, 184, post. 

5 See the Journals, Oct. i, and no. 154, ante. 
8 See no. 138, ante. 



1 

assistance from tlie Soutlnvard. T think the thing was possible however 
my scheme (hd not take.'' .... 

Adieu my friend 

yours most affectionately 

E, RUTLEDGE * 

[P. S.] . . . . 



156. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney.^ 

Philadelphia, October 2, 1776. 

. . . General Mifflin came to town the day before yesterday. He 
brought letters from General Washington informing Congress that Mr. 
Moylan, the Quartermaster-General, had resigned his commission, as 
unable to conduct the business of so many troops. That in consequence 
thereof, the General says he had prevailed on General Mifflin to accept, 
confident that there was not another man in the army who could carry 
on the business upon the present large plan. Under these circumstances, 
Mifflin has with reluctance accepted.' .... 



157. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadia. Octr 4th. 1776. 

Sir, 

[P. S.] Inclos'd you have Col. Shepard's Commission.^ The Vacancy 
of Col. in room of the late Col. Stephenson, is order'd to be Kept for 
Mr. IMorgan, agreeable to your Recommendation.* 

7 Cf. nos. 122, 132, ante. 

8 On receipt of this letter Livingston wrote to Schuyler from Fishkill, Oct. 7 : 
" I wrote to you by Mr. Yates but can not defer informing you of a resolution of 

Congress which Rutledge just now enclosed me since it gave me the most sincere and 
real pleasure. I hope it will obviate your objections to a continuance in command 
since its unanimity carries with it the highest marks of respect and honour. It is one 
of Neds own pening, who has the strongest attathment to our state. He warns you in 
my letter not to infer from the unanimity of the resolution that the whole Congress are 
your friends, but this I believe you need not be told since the friendship of some people 
is not to be purchased but at a price which you would scorn to pay." Harvard 
Univ. Lib.. Sparks MSS., no. 49, IL 181 (original). 

[156]! Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 840. 
2 Cf. no. 147, ante. 

[157]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LXXXIX. 331; Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., II. 864. 

2 Col. William Sheppard. See the Journals, Oct. 2, and Washington's letter of 
Sept. 30, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 603. 

3 See Washington's letter of Sept. 28, Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 454; Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., II. 589. The order to promote Capt. Daniel Morgan to the colonelcy 
left vacant by the death of Col. Hugh Stephenson is not mentioned in the Journals, 
evidently for the reasons suggested by Washington. 



October, I//6 115 

158. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams.^ 

Philadelphia Octr 4th 1776, 

My dear Sir 

The post just going out affords mc Time only to acknowledge the 
Receipt of your agreable Favour of Sepr 23d. '^ .... 

With Respect to the two affairs which you allude to the C ' is not 

finished, the other is and persons appointed to carry it into Execution. 

Doctor F and Mr. J of Virginia are well [ ?]* and We have had late 

accounts from Mr. D of Connecticut. The plan which you desire to 

have a Copy of would be no Ways useful at present, as It must undergo 
great Alteration. 

.... Great Delays have taken place in the marine Department. I 
am sure it is high Time to adopt a Plan for a Board of Admiralty that 
can be obliged to attend to the business.'' .... the Indian and our [ ?] 
Department ® are firm without effeminacy or the least Disposition for 
Wavering. Some others have the Disorders mentioned in Mr. Adams 
famous Letters.'' 

[P. S.] We hope to see You soon ' 

159. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 5th. 1776. 

.... The Officers of the Army in general are not equal to their 
Appointments, and from hence it is that our Soldiery is disorderly and 
undisciplined. It is therefore recommended by Congress to the several 
States in officering the new Army, that they pay a particular Regard to 
Merit and Qualifications in their Appointments.' It is agreed on all hands 

[158]! MSS. of the late William D. Ely of Providence. 

^Although Gerry's letter contains no address, internal evidence shows that it 
was written to Samue! Adams, then in Boston. A letter from Adams to Gerry, dated 
Sept. 23, found in Wells, Life of Samuel Adams, II. 447, contains the inquiry to which 
Gerry evidently alludes in the second paragraph of his letter : " I should have been glad 
to have known what situation the two capital affairs were in, which were on the carpet 
when I left you." 

■ The Confederation. The " other " affair is the plan of foreign treaties. See 
no. 146, note 2, ante. 

*The reading may be erroneous, but it is more probable that Gerry is using 
a deliberately chosen cryptical mode of expression. At all events he evidently means 
to inform Adams that Franklin, Jefferson, and Deane have been chosen commissioners 
to the court of France (see the Journals, Sept. 26). 

5 See the Journals, Dec. 26. 

6 Possibly the reading should be " war Department ". Gerry was however a 
member of the treasury board, and his reference may be to that department. 

^ John Adams's letters of July 24, 1775, to James Warren and to his wife. See 
vol. I. of these Letters, no. 244. 

8 Adams resumed his seat in Congress Oct. 24. See his letter to Samuel Mather, 
Oct. 26, in Writings (ed. Gushing), III. 316. 

[159]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors (1776), p. 76; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 88. 

2 See the Journals. Oct. 8. Cf. nos. 147, 148, 150, ante, and nos. 160, 164, 165, 
166, 170, post. 



1 

that our men will make gooi\ soldiers wlicn they have good officers. 

The committee who were appointed to inspect the State of the Army, 
etc.. at Ilaerlem. have returned and represented Tliinj:i;-s in a more favor- 
able Light than We had used to view them. Methods are taking that the 
Army shall be better di.sciplined and provided in every Respect than it 
hath been. Altiiough We have some good Officers in some of the principal 
Departments; yet in others there is great Want of Skill and Abilities. 
The Quartermaster General Moyla[n] was pcrswaded by the Comm" to 
resign and Brigadier Genl Mifflin to accept that office with the Rank and 
Pay of Brigadier General. This Appointment will give great Satisfaction 
to the Army ; for Genl Mifflin is not only well acquainted with the Business 
of the Office ; but he hath Spirit and Activity to execute it in a proper 
Manner.' 



1 60. Caesar Rodney to John Haslet.^ 

PiiiLA Oct. 6. 1776. 
Dear Sir.' 

.... If Health and Weather permits, I Set out this day for Kent, 
and don't intend to return to Congress soon again, at least not in the 
present Reign. My Domestick business will Employ me all the remaining 
part of this fall, let Matters here turn out hereafter as they may 

I suppose by this time you have seen the plan published by Congress 
for Establishing an Army. By this Plan You'l find a bounty of twenty 
Dollars and one hundred Acres of Land to Each Soldier that will Enter. 
There is also a Bounty in Land to the Officers.' You will no doubt 
wonder that the Congress have not Raised the pay of the Officers. I con- 
fess it is Strange that they have not. But depend upon it (betw^een you 
and I) their pay will be raised very soon, and very Considerably too.* 
This for your private Satisfaction therefore not to be mentioned Yet. 
Your private Satisfaction, Did I say? in this I may be wTong, not know- 
ing whether you may find yourself disposed to Enter the List during the 
War; or Whether if you were so inclined, as the Congress have left it to 
the several Assemblies to appoint all the Officers, Except General Officers. 
You'd have any Chance in the Nomination, Even if you deserved it ten 
times as much more as I think you Do. How^ever time will inform us 
more of these Matters 

P. S. Don't suppose from what I said They have left me out of Con- 
gress. They have not. 

3 Cf. nos. 147, 156, ante. 
[i6o]i Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1236, item 88. 

2 Colonel John Haslet of Delaware, to whom this letter was addressed, was 
killed at the battle of Princeton, Jan. 3, 1777. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 16. Cf. nos. 147, 148, 150, 159, ante, and nos. 164, 165, 
166, 170, post. 

* See the Journals, Oct. 7, 8, Dec. 21. Cf. nos. 164, 166, post. 



October, iy/6 117 

i6i. JosiAii Bartlett to John Langdon/ 

Philadelphia Octobr 7th 1776 
Dear Sir 

As I have not been able for some time to attend the marine Committee 
I last Saturday took the liberty to show Mr Morrice ^ your letters Con- 
cerning the Conduct of the Providence Committee about Guns and soon 
found Mr Hancock thro the multiplicity of Business had not laid the 
affair before the Marine Committee Mr Morrice resented their Conduct 
extremely and Desired liberty to lay the letter before Congress but as I 
was uncertain but some bad Effect might arise from laying it before the 
whole Congress I Declined it He then Desired liberty to lay it before 
the Marine Committee to which I Consented He said he would Do his 
utmost that your ship should have them Guns at Providence and without 
paying that Enormous price for them I am in hopes them guns will be 
ordered for your ship and one of theirs ordered to wait till guns can be 
sent from here where, they are Contracted for at 35 and 40 pound this 
money pr tun ' 

I believe (inter nos) your letters to the President Concerning marine 
affairs have not been laid before the Committee nor much attention been 
paid them the great and important Business in which he is Constantly 
employed and the almost immense number of letters which he is Con- 
stantly receiving on the most interesting subjects makes it impossible for 
him to attend to them all and lesser matters must be neglected I sincerely 
wish he did not belong to the Marine Committee but would Confine him- 
self to the affairs of Congress which is Business abundantly sufficient to 
employ the time of any one human being.* .... 

162. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadela 7 Octo 1776 
Dear Sir 

I reed your favr of the ist Inst and observe the Contents have also 
shewn it to my Colleagues, and Mr G. and H.^ but have not had Time to 
consult much upon it. I think tis not best to move the matter you insist 
on without a previous Consultation, and finding our Strength, when I will 

[i6i]iHist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Signers, I. 35; Brotherhead, Book of the 
Signers, p. 97. 

2 Robert Morris. 

^ See the letters of the marine committee, Oct. 9, to Stephen Hopkins, the com- 
mittee at Providence (2), Nathaniel Falconer, and John Langdon, in Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., II. 954-956. 

* " Last Saturday I received yours of the 14th instant, and am very sorry for 
your bad success in procuring guns for the frigate. You say you have mentioned the 
affair to the President, and I hope some order will be taken about it, but what, I know 
not. I have not been able to attend either the Marine or Secret Committee for some time 
past, and Congress but little." Bartlett to Langdon, Sept. 30, Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., II. 602. See also Bartlett's letters to Langdon, Sept. 9, 16, 2^, Oct. 15, ibid., II. 
253. 350, 459, 1063, and to Whipple, Sept. 10, 14, ibid., II. 272, 323; also no. 174. post. 

[162]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. Addressed, "To Colo. Joseph 
Trumbull, Commissary General of the Army of the United States etc. at Harlem ". 

2 Gerry and Hooper? Cf. no. 175, note 4, post. 



1 

attempt, we liave a Club once a week, but am not certain They are all 
fit to be consulted in this matter. I truly fear what will be the result of 
the motion in the House, am not without hopes of Success, but am ex- 
treemly unwillinj^ yon sho'' leave the Service.* there are stranj^e Mortals 
in Con^ be assured, tis hard to say what some of Them aim at, but easie 
to say a luimber invariably hate and persecute every N Engld. man, and 
can embroil Matters exceedingly. I expect to leave Them soon as Mr 
Sherman returns or before, it will be pleasure to me to get away, and 
it wo'^ give me inexpressible Satisfaction to leave the great Affairs of 
America in better Hands, but these are dangerous hints, the Salvation 
of the Country depends on the Character of Congress, excellent Men 
there are, too, and the great Affairs generally are well determined, tho 
some times with great Altercation. I hope to see you in abt. a fortnight. 
the Affair of Salt We have moved, and not without opposition (from its 
being wanted for the navy) have got a Resolve that the Con' Agents 
deliver you or order what They have etc.* the moment I co^ I desired the 
Presit. to send you the Copy etc. as I have frequently done before, he 
assured me he wo*^ but always seems to be half oft'ended that I sho'* doubt 
his Care in all those Things, he says he has sent the other order for 
purchasing etc. 

have nothing lately of the Scolding about the Vegetables.^ this Militiae 
are got back to their dens, and pamperd their Guts, and are perhaps more 
easie. this Province have a fixed hatred of N. E. and every thing that 
belongs to it, but Money, and that is all the God they worship. I fully 
agree their Troops have done more mischief than ever they did or will do 
good. Have heard nothing said about a Contract at N York, and I think 
there will not, at least till the Com'*, returns from Ty." I shall not be 
unmindful of your affair, but I dread the Clamour to be raised by it. I 
know so perfectly the rancor of some against you as of N. E. and an 
honest Man, and the pleasure They wo*^ have to get rid of you, and give 
yr. birth to a southern or middle Colony man. and the Distress and Con- 
fusion of the army in Consequence of it, wo"^ give me great pain. Con- 
gress have refused Schylers Resign^ and sent him high Compliments and 
assurances of their great esteem, and resentmt. of malicious Clamours 
etc. etc.^ in a Lettr. late fr. him he expresses his surprize that he sho** be 
forbid to interfere in yr supplies and says he has interfered no more than 
he thot the Good of the Service requird, and that he will forever do.* 
I believe if Genl, Washington sho^ write so contemptuous a Letter, he 
wo'* come near to be broke, but if Schy'' sho** damn the Congress and the 

3 The allusion is probably to the augmentation of Trumbull's compensation. 
See especially nos. 164, 166, 175, post. Cf. vol. I. of these Letters, nos. 410, 417, 446, 689. 
* See the Journals, Oct. 5, and no. 145, ante; also nos. 166, 172, 331, post. 

5 See no. 145, ante, and nos. 166, 266, post. 

6 Cf. nos. 124, 145, ante, and nos. 164, 165, 172, 175, post. 

^ See the Journals. Oct. 2; cf. nos. 145, 155, ante, 163, post. 
8 See Schuyler's letter to Congress, Sept. 25 (read Oct. 4), Force, Atn. Arch., 
fifth ser., II. 525. 



October, lyyd 119 

Cause, it wo** not be resisted by some. Such Letters as this must be burnt. 
I have no Time to add but that I am with much affection and g-ood Will 

yr. affect. Frd. and Bro"". 

W. Williams 
do you know any thing abt. my Kinsman, Col Wards Adjutant. 

163. The New York Delegates to the New York Convention,* 

Philadelphia, October 7, 1776. 
Gentlemen: 

.... The Committee of Congress to whom your papers respecting 
General Schuyler were committed, have reported, we hope to your satis- 
faction. Mr. Rutledge informs us that he had transmitted a copy to 
Robert R. Livingston, Esq., and a certified copy shall be sent you per 
post, which will probably come to your hands before this letter.^ 

On the 5th instant we were going to move Congress, that they would 
direct General Washington to propose to General Howe the exchange of 
Brigadier-General Woodhull for Brigadier-General McDonald, when a 
Pennsylvania newspaper of same date was handed to us, by which it 
would appear that Brigadier-General Woodhull had taken such a part as 
would put it out of our power to move for his exchange. Should be glad 
you would inform us if there be any truth in this conjecture, and direct 
us as to our conduct therein.' 

We are respectfully, gentlemen, your very humble servants, 

Fra. Lewis, 
Phil. Livingston, 
Wm. Floyd. 

To the honourable the Convention of New-York. 

[163]! Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 926; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., II. 320; N. Y. 
State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, VIII. 59. 

2 See nos. 149, 155, ante. 

3 Shortly after the battle of Long Island Brig.-Gen. Nathaniel Woodhull was 
taken prisoner and Received wounds from which, when this letter was written, he had 
already died (Sept. 20). See Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, II. 170, 701, 894, 934, III. 203, 
240; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 630, 671 ; also Washington's Writings (ed. Sparks), IV. 
128, 142. The circumstances of the capture and wounding of General Woodhull have 
given rise to much controversy. See B. F. Thompson, History of Long Island, p. 503 ; 
Hist. Mag., V. 140-142, 172-176, 204-211, 229-236 (a series of letters by James Fenimore 
Cooper, Lorenzo Sabine, Henry Onderdonk, jr., and H. C. Van Schaack, reprinted from 
the Home Journal, 1848) ; Onderdonk, Revolutionary Incidents of Suffolk and Kings 
Counties, pp. 30-41 ; and Long Island Hist. Soc, Memoirs, II. 288-310. 422. The news- 
paper item alluded to by the New York delegates is probably one found in the issue of 
the Pennsylvania Ledger of Oct. 5, under the following caption : 

From the Connecticut Gazette. 
The following papers were a few days since brought from 
Long Island, and are given to us for publication. 
The papers consist of four orders signed by Oliver De Lancey. The pertinent one 
is the following: 

"Jamaica, Sept. 21, 1776. 
Sir, 

I am ordered by his Excellency the Honorable William Howe, Esq ; General and Com- 
mander in Chief of his Majesty's forces in North America, from Nova Scotia to the 
Floridas, on the application of the county of Suffolk, by Nathaniel Woodhull and Samuel 
Philips, who have signified to him that the inhabitants of said county are desirous of lay- 
ing down their arms and again becoming loyal and obedient subjects, that for the peace 

13 



1 

164. Elbridgi-: Gekry to Joseph Trumbull.' 

PniLADELPinA 8th Octr. 1776 
Dear Sir 

I have just rccd your Favours of 3(1 and 7th Inst* and am at a Loss to 
know wliat is meant by " supplying' the army by Contract ". I have never 
heard a proposal of the Kind made in Conc^ress; if such a plan has been 
agitated It was in my absence.* the Comm^ exerted themselves to return 
to Congress and make their report. It has now been under Consideration 
four Days and the part that respects your powers contains sufficient pro- 
vision for your purposes, but has not yet been considered.^ I suppose the 
Congress will have no objection to making you a generous Allowance for 
your services when the Matter can be properly agitated, but a Multiplicity 
of Business and not an apprehension that the Measure cannot be carryed, 
has prevented a Determination of it before this. It will be proposed when 
several Important Alatters are finished, and I hope to your Satisfaction, 
if not and You resign, It is probable to me that Congress will supply the 
Army by Contract. For my own part I have sacrificed Ease and Interest 
to the Liberties of America, and am fully convinced that unless a general 
Determination prevails to establish it at every Expense and Hazard, 
Slavery and inevitable Ruin must be the Consequence. I could wish 
therefore that a Determination had taken place in your Mind to have 
sustained the office of Commissary General without annexing the Con- 
ditions mentioned, since Congress must exercise an unbiassed Judgment 
in determining the Quantum meruit of all their officers or surrender the 
purse strings of the Continent to those who are employed in its Services — 
a Measure that would soon end in the ruin of all. I am the more desirous 
of this as your Friends would not be the less attentive to your Merits, and 
as Your present plan may end in the Introduction of an officer to suc- 
ceed vou who mav dissatisfv the Armv, yea cause it to be disbanded and 
risk the loosing America. These are my Sentiments on the Matter but 
shall nevertheless endeavour to have the Affair properly regulated and 
the most generous Allowances made for your services.* my Complimts. 

and ease and security of the inhabitants he is willing to accept of their submission, and 
promise them protection, on the King's Colonels and other inferiors of the militia 
respectivel}', making and causing the men through the county, to lay down their arms, 
take the oath of allegiance, and sign the said roll of submission, disclaiming and rejecting 
the orders of Congress and Committees, and totally refusing obedience to them, and to 
obey the legal authority of government, and in all places of worship in future, pray for 
the King and Royal Family, as was usual before the present unprovoked rebellion. 

Oliver De Laxcey, 

Major-General of the Militia in the Southern 

District of the colony of New York. 
Colonel Concklin 

Directed also to Col. Phineas Fanning or ^ 

next commanding officer, Sonthold." 

[i64]iConn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 Cf. nos. 124, 145, 162, anic, 165, 172, 175, 239, post. 

3 The committee appointed, Sept. 25, 26, to inquire into the state of the army 
made a report Oct. 3 (see the Journals, Oct. 8). 

•* Cf. no. 162, note 3, ante, and nos. 166, 175, post; also the Journals, Oct. 21. 
A revision of the commissary's department was effected June 10, 1777, and the com- 
pensation of the officers was determined June 16. 



October, ///d 121 

to Colo. Cortland and the Ladies and believe me to be Sir your very 
hum. Sert 

E. Gerry 

P. S. The Officers pay is raised 50 per Ct. but this to be communicated 
but to a few Friends untill the report relative to the Men is considered.* 
General Lee is arrived, the Cherokees have had a severe drubbing-, abt 
300 killed, 75 of wch. are scalped and g-reat Numbers put to flight leaving 
their Towns to be burnt and Corn Fields destroyed.® I am just informed 
that while We were at N York the Ticon. Comm. had power to supply 
the army by Contract, and inclose a Letter Which pray examine and 
forward ist Opper. 

165. Elbridge Gerry to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 9th. 1776 
Dear Sir, 

I wrote you about 10 days ago ^ from the Camp at Harlem, and since 
my return to this City, find that the Committee of Congress to enquire 
into the state of your affairs at Tyconderoga are empowered to make 
Contracts for supplying your Army. What gave rise to this matter I have 
not yet learnt, but it counteracts a measure of having it supplied by the 
Commissary General, which has alone proved salutary in that department. 
I suspect it originates from Tory influence, and that if any alteration is 
made, the Committee not knowing or being intimately acquainted with 
the characters of the persons who are desirous of the place, will introduce 
a person that will put the Northern Army in the same ruinous situation 
heretofore experienced. For God's sake then use your influence to 
prevent new schemes at this critical juncture, if no great inconveniences 
are felt from the present mode of supplies.^ .... 

166. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia Octo. 10 1776 
Dear Sir 

I inclose you a Resolution, brot. in among others, by the New York 
Com*^,^ and yesterday pasd, not without opposition. I suppose however 

5 See the Journals, Oct. 7 ; cf. ibid., July 29, Nov. 4, 1775. See also no. 160, ante, 
and no. 166, post. 

6 Cf. a letter of William Ellery to Governor Cooke, Oct. 11, in Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., II. 990. For the first intimation to Congress of the project to arouse the 
Cherokees, see Gerry to Trumbull, June 18, vol. I. of these Letters, no. 719. Concerning 
the Cherokee campaign, see N. C. Col. Recs., X. 650-652, 657-661, 662, 665, 669, 671, 
726, 729, 745-747, 751, 758, 763-785, 788, 837, 842, 844-847, 881; also Ramsey, Hist, of 
Tenn.j pp. 162 et seq. 

[165]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXII. 58 (copy). 

2 Sept. 27, no. 147, ante. 

3 Cf. nos. 124, 145, 162, 164, ante, 166, 172, 175, post. 
[ 1 66] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 That is, the committee " who went to the camp ". The resolution referred to 
is no doubt that pertaining to the purchase of salt. See the third paragraph of this 
letter; also nos. 113, 145, 162, ante, no. 172, post. 



1 

the President has sent it, but not being' certain, and knowing it of im- 
portance, think it my Duty to inform you of it, lest it sho*^ escape Him. 

there was also a Resolve pasd same Time, that for the preservation of 
the Health etc. of the Army, the Comiss". Genl be directed to purchase 
and have sufficient Quantitys of Indian Meal and Vegetables, or to that 
purpose, it was a good deal urged, that the Words Pease, Beans, etc. 
sho'* be inserted, but it was said, they were included in vegetables, and it 
pasd. as drawn.' 

I sho'' suppose you cannot employ a better Person to import Salt than 
Colo. Jaz Huntington, and perhaps He alone is quite sufficient 

The affair you mention is not yet moved and our Club meets this 
Even^. I intend to sound them, and prepare the Matter as well and soon 
may be.* 

You have doubtless heard of a addition of 50 per Cent made to the 
Wages of the officers from Colo, to Ens" Adj. Quar. Mas'". Ad jut. 
stand [s] as established a little before, viz the Pay and Rations of a Capt 
and rank of ist Lieut.^ since that, on an exceeding, most laborious and 
warmly spirited Debate that ever I was Witness to, They have added, 
an annual Suit of Cloaths to the non Com : Officers and Soldiers to the 
value and amount of twenty Dollars, and the man procuring a Certificate 
from his Capt. that He is provided with the enumerated Articles will be 
entitled to the 20 Dols in Cash. This is the very utmost that can possibly 
be obtained and certainly is as much as can be reasonably wishd or desired, 
and I am sure it is a very large and sufficient Encouragemt., and as much 
as it is possible for the Continent to support. New England pressed it to 
the utmost of their Power and were but just able to carry it, but They 
wo^ not wdsh to add another farthing. 

to save great Delay and Inconvenience, a Resolve is also pasd 
recomending it to all the States from this to N. H. inclusive forthwith to 
send a Com*^. or Deputies to each of the Camps, and appoint all the 
Officers, etc. and to consult the Genl officers abt. it and promote and 
appoint such as have recomended them selves by their good Conduct and 
especially their Attention and Discipline etc. the Express with these 
Resolves goes eastward this Day.^ The additional Bounty to the Soldiers 
co*^ never have been carried but by a Letter, from Genl Washing" 
recomend^ and enforcing the reasonableness and absolute Necessity of it 
in Terms moving pathatic, rational and nervous, exceed'^, so, which came 
in not an hour before the same question wo^ have been irreversibly 
negatived.^ .... 



3 See the Journals, Oct. 9; cf. nos. 145, 162, ante, 266, post. 

* See no. 162, ante, and cf. no. 175, post. 

5 See the Journals, Oct. 7. The writer's meaning is evidently this : an addition 
of fifty per cent, has been made to the wages of officers from colonel down to ensign, 
and also to those of adjutant and quartermaster. The adjutant stands as established 
a .little before, viz., with the pay and rations of a captain and rank of first lieutenant. 
A wage schedule was established July 29, 1775. and modified for certain officers Nov. 4, 
1775- The recent change in the adjutant's pay and rank was Sept. 19, 1776. See the 
Journals, Oct. 8; cf. nos. 160. 164, ante. 

^ See the Journals, Oct. 8. 

7 Washington's letter, dated Oct. 4, and read in Congress Oct. 8, is in Writings 
(ed. Ford), IV. 466. and in Force. Am Arch., fifth ser., II. 867. 



October, 1776 123 

167. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, ii October, 1776. 

.... I yesterday, asked and obtained leave of absence. It will take 
me till next Monday to get ready, to finish off a few remnants of public 
business, and to put my private affairs in proper order. On the 14th day 
of October I shall get away perhaps.^ .... 



168. Benjamin Rush to the President of the Pennsylvania 
Council of Safety (Thomas Wharton, jr.).' 

Friday [October 11, 1776.]' 

Sir 

The congress have ordered the board of war to confer with a committee 
of the council of Safety of Pennsylvania (agreeable to their request) 
upon the propriety of having a few battallions stationed in or near this 
city. The board of War will set this morning at 9 : °Clock at the War 
Office at which time and place they expect the pleasure of meeting your 
committee.^ 

I beg leave to inform the council that such information was given 
yesterday in Congress respecting the designs of our enemies against this 
city, as makes the delay of a single day, or even an hour dangerous. 

[^^^Y Letters of John Adams Addressed to his Wife (Boston, 1841), I. 172. ^ 

2 " October 13. Sunday. Set out from Philadelphia towards Boston." Adams s 
Diary, Works, II. 433. See also Adams's Autobiography, ibid., III. 88. Cf. no. 45 
(note 2), ante. 

[i68]iHist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Signers, II. 11 ; Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 38. 

2 The letter is endorsed: "Letter from Dr. Rush Friday Oct. 11. 1776." 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 10 (p. 863, and foot-note). The application from the 
council of safety to Congress, dated Oct. 8. is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 939- 
See also the proceedings of the council of safety, Oct. 8, 14-16, ibid., II. 83, 86-88. 
Richard Peters, secretary of the board of war, wrote to Washington, Oct. 24, as follows : 

" By Order of the Board of War, I have the Honour to inform your Excellency that 
the Congress have this Day given them Direction to order the two Virginia Regiments 
now at Chester, immediately to Trentown, there to wait your Excellencys commands; 
and at the same time to acquaint you of the Situation of the People of this State, that 
having as comprehensive a View of the State of Affairs as possible you may make such 
Disposition as the good of the Service may require. 

" The Council of Safety of this State requested some days since a Conference with 
this Board in Order to lay before it a Representation of their Situation, and Expectations. 
In the course of this Conference it appeared very clearly, that they were in a most defence- 
less Condition, that they had no works upon the River except one Fort unfinished, that 
the Militia of this City are inactive and languid to the last Degree and to close their 
distress a number of the People of this Place were disaffected. Indeed they went so 
far as to say that in their Judgement a large party might be found to espouse openly the 
Cause of the Enemy should our Affairs run retrograde at New York. As your Excel- 
lency, however, must know more of your own Strength and your own intended Operations 
then [sic] Congress possibly can, and as it is of the greatest importance that you should 
be Supported at all Events General Stephens with the Virginia forces will take post at 
Trentown in Order to obey such Commands as you may be pleased to give him." Library 
of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCV. 306; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1211. 
Cf. a letter from Henry Fisher to the Pennsylvania council of safety dated at Lewes, 
Oct 25, in Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 83. See also no. 189, post. 



1 

169. RiciiAUU IliiNKV Lee to Samuel Purviance, jr.' 

Philadelphia nth October 1776 
Dear Sir, 

Among the inconveniences of this busy scene, I esteem it not the least 
to be so often prevented from acknowledging- the favors of my friends 
sooner than I do. It has been owing to much business that your letter of 
the 27th. has not received an answer before now. I have the pleasure to 
acquaint you that in ranking the Captains of our Continental Ships, the 
Congress have placed Captain Nicholson at the head, he being the first 
Captain.- I wish it were in my power to give you a satisfactory answer 
about the building another Frigate. Hitherto nothing has been determined 
on this subject, the Committee having been prevented by an infinite 
nuiltiplicity of other business; and to the same cause has it been owing 
that no orders have been sent concerning the Frigate Virginia. I have 
no doubt but that another Frigate will soon be directed, and that the 
Builder of greatest merit will be prefer'd. It would give me the greatest 
pleasure to hear that the Virginia was ready for Sea, and I am happy in 
being satisfied that the Managers of this business in Baltimore will not 
loose a moment in eflecting so salutary a work. I suppose a want of 
Anchors will be the greatest obstruction, as I take it for granted no time 
will be lost in getting the guns down from Mr. Hughes's works, and 
having the Carriages made. I shall be glad to have an exact state of the 
Frigate and what she wants to complete her. I refer you to the papers 
for news and am Sir Your most obedient servant 

Richard Henry Lee 



170. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 

Maryland Convention.^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 12th. 1776. 
Gentlemen 

.... The Congress for very obvious Reasons, are extremely anxious 
to keep the Army together. The dangerous Consequences of their break- 
ing up, and the Difficulty of forming a new one, are inconceiveable. Were 
this Barrier once removed, military Power would quickly spread Desola- 
tion and Ruin over the Face of our Country. The Importance, and indeed 
the absolute Necessity of filling up the Army, of providing for the Troops, 
and engaging them to serve during the War, is so apparent, and has been 
so frequently urged, that I shall only request your Attention to the 
Resolves of Congress on this Subject; and beseech you, by that Love you 
have for your Country, her Rights, and Liberties, to exert yourselves to 

[i69]iMd. Hist. Soc, Portfolio No. 8 (i) ; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. 
Ballagh), I. 219; Purviance, Baltimore in the Revolution, p. 204; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser.. II. 989. 

2 See the Jouriials, Oct. 10. Nicholson was assigned to the Virginia, mentioned 
below. Cf. no. 171, post. 

Li7o]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book. VI. 48. 



October, i'jy6 125 

carry them speedily and effectually into Execution, as the only Means of 
preserving her, in this her critical and alarming Situation.- .... 

171. JosiAH Bartlett to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia, October 15. 1776. 
Dear Sir: 

.... Yesterday, the Committee appointed to hear the appeal from the 
Maritime Court in New Hampshire, concerning the Elizabeth, made their 
report, which was accepted. Ihey have reversed the sentence of our 
court, and have ordered a salvage of one-tenth part to be paid by the 
claimants, as she did not come under the order of Congress of November 
and December last. Afterwards, the Congress, by a vote, gave up to the 
said claimants their share of the said tenth, so that they will have but one- 
twentieth part to pay, besides the costs. - 

The same Committee have had Mr. Sheafe's petition under their con- 
sideration, but have made no report. By what I have conversed with 
them, I believe they will not think themselves authorized to do any thing 
in that afifair, as there is no appeal from the court to the Congress, and 
the opposite party not present to be heard in the case, and nothing but the 
petition, without any thing more before them. They all say the case 
appears to be hard, but know not how to remedy it, without more proofs 
than they have at present, and without the opposite party being heard, 
and the case brought properly before them. 

Before this reaches you, you will see the several orders of the Marine 
Committee about guns for your ship, and the reasons of those orders. 
The rank of the Captains is settled.^ Captain Thompson is the sixth. 
Captain Manley is uneasy about his being the third, and has desired leave 
to resign : whether his resignation will be accepted, or his rank altered, 
I am uncertain 

172. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia 17th Octr 1776 
Dear Sir 

I reed your Favours of the 9th and nth Instant and find by the 
Journals that the Continental agents are as follows John Langdon Esqr. 
of Portsmouth, John Bradford Boston, Daniel Tillinghast for Rhode 
[Island] but I think John Brown of providence is agent for that State, 
Nathaniel Shaw Jr. for Connecticut and Jacobus Van Zantz for New 
York.- the Resolve for impowering "you to import Salt is past and 

- This paragraph is also included in the letter of Hancock to the Northern 
states, Oct. 9, in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 953, III. 247. See the Journals, Oct. 8. 

[171]! Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1063; Letters by Josiah Bartlett, William 
Whipple, and Others, p. 46. 

- The report is in the Journals, Oct. 14. Cf. ibid., Sept. 12, 30. Concerning 
Sheafe's petition, see ibid., Oct. 5. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 10. Cf. no. 169, ante. 
[172]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 These appointments and others were made Apr. 23, except that of Langdon, 
which was made June 25. John Brown does not appear to have received such an 
appointment by Congress. 



IlM; Continental Congress 

you will probably receive it e'er tbis." I a^ree witb you that it is absurd 
to supply One Army with and the other without a Contract ; my Suspicions 
are conArnied relative to the Rise of a certain Committee, while wc were 
on the Business of the Army; I hope however that the plan will not be 
carryed.* Cong^ress have sent to all the assemblies for a fuller Repre- 
sentation and on their Return I hope your allowance will be settled. I am 
glad you discontinue the Thought of giving up your office, such practices 
in so important a Department may ruin the Cause before We are aware 
of it 

173. Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston/ 

Philadelphia Oct 19th, 1776 

.... I feel for Schuyler's ill usage but I hope his love for his country 
will silence his resentment, at least for the present. It was impossible to 
prevent the Resolutions * going as they did and it will I am afraid be long 

so until Colonies are more regularly represented Your brother ' 

should have been long since appointed to the command of Clynton's regi- 
ment, but A4r Phil : Livingston thinking the Congress had no right to fill 
up vacancies after their resolution of the i6th. of Septr. and that it would 
be interfering in the internal polity of the State I did not press the matter; 
but got the enclosed resolution passed in order to preserve to him his 
proper rank 



174. JosiAH Bartlett to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia, October 19, 1776. 
Dear Sir: 

.... I mentioned in the Marine Committee that you were desirous 
to know whether you were to allow any passenger or seaman on board 
any of the prizes their adventures, or private property, more than the 
wages to the seamen agreeable to the resolve of Congress. They informed 
me they had not given any orders about it, and that it was not in their 
power to give any orders different from the resolves of Congress, yet it 
seemed to be the desire of the Committee that such passengers and seamen 
as behaved themselves decently should be dealt well by, and not stripped 
of every thing that might be taken from them by the rules of war 

A great number of foreigners, especially French officers, are daily 
almost arriving here, and requesting to be employed in our army, many 
of whom are well recommended. . 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 9, also nos. 113, 145, 162, 166, ante, and no. 331, post. 
* The allusion is no doubt to the committee sent to Ticonderoga. See no. 164, 
ante. 

[173]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, L 247 (copy). 

2 The reference is probably to the complaints in Schuyler's letter of Oct. 6 
(Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IL 921), read in Congress Oct. 15. Cf. rio. 155, ante. 
It is possible however that Rutledge is referring to the resolution exonerating Wooster, 
Aug. 17 (see nos. 84, 85, ante), which had but recently come to the notice of Schuyler. 
See no. 184, note 2, post. 

3 Henry Brockholst Livingston. See the Journals, Sept. 25. 

[174]! Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IL 1128; Letters by Josiah Bartlett, William 
Whipple, and Others, p. 48. 



October, j^;6 127 

Colonel Whipple is not arrived here yet. I shall look for him every 
day now till I see him, when I shall return home, and, after your example, 
enjoy the pleasure of residing in my own country in future.^ .... 

175. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull.* 

Philadelphia Octr 22, 1776 

Dear Sir 

Since my last your Friend Mr W ^ in Consequence of an order of 

Congress directing the Board of War to consider an Application of 
Mr Harrison Dep. pay. Gen. for the southern Department and of your 
Brother for the northern that their Salaries may be augmented,^ moved 
that the Board may at the same Time consider the Salary of the Commis- 
sary General and report an Augmentation. I confess that I was not less 
puzled than surprized at this injudicious Measure, taken previous to a 
Consultation of your Friends in Congress, at an unfavourable Time, and 
proposing the Consideration of this Matter for Gentlemen whose Senti- 
ments would in all probability be against it. had the Motion not been 
seconded It might have passed over without prejudice, untill a favorable 
Oppertunity should offer for looking into the Reasonableness of your 
Expectations ; but Mr H * adopting it from friendly Motives pro- 
duced an Opposition that at once prevented a Committment. Nothing 
remains to be done but your stating in a Petition to Congress the princi- 
ples upon wch. you ground your Request for an augmentation and praying 
for the same ; if this is done with Reason and Coolness and supported by 
the opinion of the General who has spoken in Favour of the Measure." 
I have no Doubt that It will be favourably reed. As the Salary which 
you now have, compared with others of the Staf, is very large, Congress 
will expect to have it demonstrated that the army is better supplyed and 
at less Expence in the present Mode than It would probably be by Con- 
tract ; and with respect to the Method of paying the Commissary It must 
be left with Congress without any proposals in the petition for this 
purpose.® 

I could wish that your Friend aforesd. had not medled with the Matter, 
as his observations on it have only served to injure the Cause; but that 
cannot be now remedied. 

2 See no. 161, note 3, ante. 
[175]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. Addressed: "Joseph Trumbull, 
Esqr., Commissary General, at Kings Bridge or Lebanon in Connecticut." 

2 William Williams. See nos. 162, 166, 172, ante. 

3 Benjamin Harrison, jr., and Jonathan Trumbull, jr. The Journals contain 
no mention of this matter. 

* Hooper? Cf. no. 162, note 2, ante. 

5 See Trumbull's letter to Congress, June 9, 1776, in Force, Am. Arch., fourth 
ser., VI. 790, and Washington to Congress, June 10, 28, ihid.. VI. 789. 11 17. Washington's 
letters are also in Writings (ed. Ford), IV. 129, 184. They were read in Congress 
June II and July i, respectively. 

6 In a letter to Trumbull, Nov. 11, Gerry says: " I think it a good Time to brmg 
on your affair and wish You had sent the petition." Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull 
Papers. See also no. 419, post. In regard to the question of supplying the army by 
contract, see nos. 124, 145, 162, 164, 165, 172, ante, and nos. 239, 423. post. 



1 

This is a critical Time for our affairs at Ticonderoga as well as New 
York ; may God support and prosper them. 

176. The Board of War to Nathanael Greene/ 

War Office, Philadelphia, Oct. 22d, 1776. 

The Congress liaving done the Board of War the Honour of referring 
to them your Letter for Consideration and execution,* we beg Leave to 
inform you that we have ordered two hundred Thousand Cartridges to 
be instantly forwarded to you. Light Waggons have been got and are 
getting ready and you will receive the above supply by Tomorrow Eve- 
ning or the next Morning. We have employed Persons to make up a 
Quantity for the use of the Army, which shall be forwarded to your Care 
as soon as a proper Number shall be compleated. We cannot however 
but wish that General Washington could procure such supplies of Ammu- 
nition as he may want, from the Eastern States, there being very little in 
this City, from whence alone every Demand to the Southward of Hud- 
son's River must be answer'd. Every Assistance however that can be 
shall be afforded you as well as his Excellency the General from this Office. 



177. Benjamin Rush to [Thomas Morris ?].^ 

Philadelphia, October 22, 1776. 

.... I will add only an anecdote to the honor of the bearer of this 
letter. I had the honor to be seated near him in Congress at the moment 
w'hen he was appointed to depart immediately for your court, and, upon 
my complimenting him thereon, he said to me : " I have only a few years 
more to live and I am resolved to employ them in whatever manner my 
countrymen judge proper ; or, as the old clothes dealers say, speaking of 
a scrap of cloth, ' you shall have me for what you please '." ^ 

[176]^ Copied from the original then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia. The same letter is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1185, but printed as if 
to Washington. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 21. Greene's letter, dated Oct. 20, is in Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., II. 1 136. 

[177]! Paris, Affaires Etrangeres, Correspondance Politique, Etats-Unis, vol. I., no. 
77. fol. 263. The letter is labeled " Bush a Morris. Traduite de I'anglais (interceptee)"'. 
The letter is evidently from Benjamin Rush and presumably to Thomas Morris. It is 
here retranslated from the French. 

2 The bearer of the letter was Benjamin Franklin, who had been named, Sept. 26, 
one of the commissioners to the court of France. The incident is also recorded by 
Rush in his estimate of Franklin included in his Memorial (p. iii) : "I sat next to him 
in Congress, when he was elected by the unanimous vote of every State in the Union 
to an embassy to the Court of France in the year 1776. When the vote was declared, 
I congratulated him upon it. He thanked me, and said, ' I am like the remnant of a 
piece of unsaleable cloth. You may have it, as the shopkeepers say for what you please '." 
In reply to a caution of David Hartley (Apr. 23, 1778), to take care of his own safety, 
Franklin uses the same simile, although in varied language {Writings, ed. Smyth, 
VII. 143). 



October, I//6 129 

178. The Committee of Secret Correspondence to Silas Deane/ 

Philadelphia October 23d. 1776^ 
Silas Deane Esqr. 
Sir 
We lately wrote you very fully by Mr. Wm Hodge junr.' who went 
passenger in the Sloop Indepcndance to Martinico from whence he wou'd 
proceed to France and deliver you sundry dispatches from this Committee, 
amongst the rest was the plan of a Treaty with the Court of France and 
Instructions of Congress relative thereto and this day we have enclosed 
you Instructions relative to Treaties with other Nations and sent them 
under Cover to Wm Bingham Esqr. at Martinico. Enclosed herein are 
Triplicates of the whole which we send by the Brig^ Lexington Wm 
Hallock Esqr. Commander under Cover to Mr. Stephen Ceronio at Cape 
Francois to be forwarded from thence to Messrs. Delap at Bourdeaux * 
and we hope in due time you will receive the whole safely. For and on 
behalf of the Committee of Secret Correspondance 

I am Dr Sir, Your obedt Servt. 

RoBT Morris 

179. The Committee of Secret Correspondence to Silas Deane.^ 

Philadelphia October 24th 1776 
Dear Sir: 

We embrace this opportunity of your worthy colleague, and our mutual 
good friend Doctr. Franklin, to transmit you copies of our letters of the 
1st Octr.- by the sloop Independence, Capt. Young, to Martinico, from 
whence they would be carried to you by Mr. William Hodge, junr. sent 
in said sloop for that purpose, those letters contained a Commission 
from the Congress appointing Doctr. Franklin, Thos Jefferson, Esq., 
and yourself Commissioners on behalf of the United States of America 
to negotiate a Treaty of alliance and amity and Peace with the Court of 
France; a plan of that Treaty; Instructions from Congress relative 
thereto; Form of Passports for the ships of each nation, etc. We con- 
sider these papers as of the utmost consequence, and hope they will arrive 

[ 1 78] 1 Haver ford College, Roberts Coll., 720 (in the writing of Robert Morris); 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1198. 

2 Three letters, of similar purport, were written to Deane by the committee of 
secret correspondence on Oct. 23 ; one was sent by the Sachem, Capt. James Robinson, 
a second (the present letter) by the Lexington, Capt. William Hallock, and a third by 
the Andrew Doria, Capt. Isaiah Robinson. They are all printed in Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., II. 1197-1198. The third is also in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 177. 

The three continental cruisers mentioned were placed at the disposal of the committee 
of secret correspondence in consequence of the resolves of Oct. 11. See Force, Am,. Arch., 
fifth ser., II. 1092, 1115, 1197-1199, and Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 177-182; also 
no. 179, post. Another vessel placed at the disposal of the committee was the Reprisal, 
Capt. Lambert Wickes. See nos. 97, 136, ante, 179, 180, 224, post. 

3 See the letters of Oct. i, 2, Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 157-163. 

* Letters from the committee to Ceronio and Messrs. Delap, Oct. 23, are in Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1198, 1213. 

[179]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Morris Papers; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
II. 181 ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1214. 

2 See no. 178, note 3. Evidently that of Oct. 2 is included in this reference. 



1 

safe. Yesterday we wrote you a few lines,' inclosing additional Instruc- 
tions from Congress to their Commissioners, authorizing them to Treat 
with other nations; also Two Resolves of Congress, by one of which you 
would sec that Thomas Jefferson, Esqr., declined his appointment, and 
that Arthur Lee, Esqr., was appointed in his stead, to whom we inclosed 
a letter. Copy whereof goes herewith.* By the other, the Commissioners 
are directed to hire or buy Eight Line-of-Battle ships for the American 
Service." these papers were sent under Cover to William Bingham, Esqr., 
our Resident at Martinico, with orders to forward them immediately.' 
We wrote you another letter yesterday ^ covering duplicates of all the 
papers and letters mentioned herein, and sent it by the armed Brig^ Lex- 
ington, Wm Hallock. Esqr., Commander, to Mr. Stephen Ceronio, our 
Resident at Cape Franc^ois, with directions to forward the same to Messrs. 
Saml and J. Hans Delap, merchts, at Bordeaux who are requested to 
send the Packet from thence by Express to you, and Doctr. Franklin 
carries with him Triplicates of all these publick papers, we have been 
thus particular in mentioning them and the conveyances by which they 
were sent that you may know when the whole are received and we desire 
you to be equally pointed in advising us thereof, for we shall be anxious 
to hear of their getting safe and shall be very uneasy if we don't hear this 
in due time, for they ought not on any account to fall into the hands of 
our Enemies. 

Since Mr. Dickinson and Colo. Harrison were out of Congress and 
Doctr. Franklin appointed one of the Commissioners at the Court of 
France, the Congress have filled up the Vacancys in this Committee, and 
the members now are Mr. Jay, Mr. Johnston, Mr. Morris, Colo. Richd 
Henry Lee, Mr. Wm Hooper, and Dr. John Witherspoon, which we 
mention for your information.* we shall continue to address all our 
advices and dispatches to you only, untill informed that the other Com- 
missioners have joined you but you will Communicate the letters to them 
as if directed to the whole, and we depend on you to notify Doctr. Lee of 
his appointment using the utmost precaution in the method of doing it, 
or his person may be endangered, we suppose it may be best to have the 
letter inclosed by the ministers of France to their Ambassador in England 
with proper cautions respecting the delivery of it. Doctr. Franklin 
being the bearer of this letter, it is totally unnecessary for us to enter into 
any detail of what is passing here or to convey any Political remarks, 
he being possessed of every knowledge necessary for your information, 
will communicate very fully everything you can wish to know. Therefore, 
wishing you a happy meeting with him and a successful issue to your 

3 See Wharton, Kev. Dipl. Corr., II. 177, and no. 178, note 2, ante. 

* Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 177. 

5 See the Journals, Oct. 22. 

^Two letters, dated Oct. 23, are in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1198, 1199. 
See also ibid., II. 822, and no. 136, ante. 

'' Evidently no. 178, ante, although that letter says " triplicates ". 

8 John Jay and Thomas Johnson had been members of the committee since Nov. 
29, 1775- Robert Morris was chosen Jan. 30, 1776, and Lee, Witherspoon, and Hooper 
were added to the committee Oct. 11. 



October, iyy6 131 

labours in the service of your Country we remain with perfect esteem and 
regard, 

Dear Sir, 

Your affectionate Friends and obedient humble Servants. 

RoBT. Morris 
Richard Henry Lee 
Jno. Witherspoon 
Will Hooper 

i8o. The Committee of Secret Correspondence to the 
Commissioners in Paris.^ 

PhiladelphiaOctober 24th 1776. 
Gentlemen 

The Congress having committed to our charge and management their 
ship of war called the Reprisal ^ commanded by Lambert Wickes, Esqr., 
carrying sixteen six pounders and about one hundred and tw^enty men We 
have allotted her to carry Doctor Franklin to France and directed Capt 
Wickes to proceed for the Port of Nantes where the Doctor will land and 
from thence proceed to Paris, and he will either carry with him or send 
forward this letter by express as to him may then appear best 

In Consequence of this plan for the Reprisal's Cruize we desire you to 
make immediate application to the court of France to Grant the Protec- 
tion of their Ports to American Men of War and their Prizes. Shew 
them that British Men of War under Sanction of an Act of Parliament 
are daily Capturing American Ships and Cargoes. Shew them the 
Resolves of Congress for making Reprisals on British and West India 
property and that our Continental Men of War and numerous private 
Ships of War are most successfully employed in executing those Resolu- 
tions of the Congress. Shew them the Justice and equity of this proceed- 
ing and surely they can not, they wall not refuse the protection of their 
Ports to American Ships of War, Privateers and their prizes. If your 
application on this head is crowned with success, try another which it is 
their interest to grant, that is to obtain leave to make Sale of those Prizes 
and their Cargoes or any part thereof that may be suitable for that 
Country. If you succeed in this also, you must appoint some person to 
act as judge of the Admiralty, who should give the Bond prescribed for 
those Judges to determine in all Cases agreable to the Rules and Regula- 
tions of Congress, and for this purpose we will report to Congress some 
Resolves vesting you with authority to make such appointment and 
authorizing such judge to condemn without a jury as required here; ' if 

[i8o]iAm. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, IV. Ii8; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 178. 

2 The Reprisal was one of the vessels turned over to the committee of secret 
correspondence in consequence of the resolutions of Oct. 11. See no. 178, note 2, ante; 
also letters of the marine committee to Captain Wickes, Sept. 21, Oct. 24, Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., II. 429, 1213, 1215. 

3 It does not appear that such resolves were enacted by Congress. See however 
nos. 252, 274, post; also article XIX. of the treaty with France (the Journals, May 4, 
1778), and a letter from Franklin and Deane to the committee of secret correspondence, 
Mar. 12, 1777 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 287). 



1 

these Resolves are agreed to by Congress, they shall be immediately trans- 
mitted to you ; if they are not that plan must drop and the Prizes must all 
proceed for America for condemnation. You can in the mean time con- 
sult the ministers whether they will permit such Courts in France and in 
the French West India islands. If protection is granted to our Cruizers 
and their Prizes you will immediately procure proper orders to be sent to 
the officers of all their Ports on this subject, and write yourselves to those 
Houses we have named at the several Ports that the Prizes are to remain 
for Cap Wickes's further orders, also lodge such orders with proper 
persons at the other Ports in France. On the Contrary if the Prizes are 
not to be protected in their Ports then give immediate notice to all those 
Houses and proper persons at the other Ports to furnish the Prizes that 
Cap Wickes of the Reprisal may send into their port with any necessarys 
the Prize Master may judge they stand in need of and to order him 
immediately to make the best of his way with the Prize to the first safe 
Port he can make in the United States of America lodge advice also for 
Cap Wickes at Bordeaux, Brest and Nantes whether his Prizes are to be 
protected in Port or not and whether or not any sales will be permitted. 
If they are protected he can take his own time to Collect and bring them 
Home under his own Convoy ; if any sale is permitted, he can sell perish- 
able commodities and Vessels unfit for so long a voyage as to this Coast. 
If no protection for Prizes they will be come away by your orders and 
need not stay for his, and if they deny Protection to our Cruizers them- 
selves, he will only remain in Port for your advices and to obtain such 
supplies as may be necessary. We have recommended Cap Wickes to take 
on board his own Ship as many Valuable Commodities as he can if he is 
successful but should he be unsuccessful in Cruizing then Messrs. Pliarne 
and Co. may put some Goods on board when he is coming away. You 
will readily see the Tendency these measures have, and as their conse- 
quences may be very important so we hope your attention to them will be 
immediate and Constant whilst necessary. 

Captain Wickes is a worthy man as such we recommend him and 
shoud he have the misfortune to be taken or meet wuth any other mis- 
fortune we hope you will adopt measures for his relief. He will treat 
Prisoners with Humanity and we are Convinced his Conduct will do 
honor to his appointment. We have the honor to be Gentn. 

Your most obedt and most hble Servants 

RoBT. Morris 
Richard Henry Lee 
Jno Witherspoon 
Will Hooper 

i8i. Board of War to George Washington.'^ 

War Office Octr 24th. 1776 
Sir: 

The Board of War have directed me to enclose you the Plan they 
intended to present to Congress for preventing Abuses in regiments or 

[i8i]i Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCV. 305; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., IL 1210. 



October, J/^6 133 

Companies Receiving more Rations than they are entitled to ; an evil 
which has been complained of perhaps with too much Foundation. 

It frequently happens that Sick Soldiers are either left behind at Posts 
or Places thro' which their Regiments or companies are marching, or 
they are sent to Hospitals at a Distance from their Corps. These unhappy 
People, or Some of them, are often thought unable and discharged by the 
Director or Surgeon of the Hospital as unfit for Service, and turned out 
to beg their Subsistence to their Homes or Places of their former Res- 
idence, altho' they may have Pay due to them Sufficient to Support them. 
This not only raises Compassion and from this Motive should be remedied, 
but is extremely detrimental to the Service, by deterring others from 
enlisting. 

The Board therefore have thought that the Soldiers, so discharged, 
should have it in their Power to recieve their Pay in whatever Part of 
the States they may be ; and have accordingly formed a Plan to enable 
them to do it, and request your Excellency's advice on both these 
Subjects.^ 

With the greatest Respect I have the Honour to be your obedt humble 
Servt 

Richard Peters Secy 
to His Excellency General Washington 

182. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 26th. 1776 
Sir, 

.... By the same Express you will receive a Letter from the Com- 
mittee of Cloathing, inclosing a Resolve of Congress respecting the 

2 Following is the plan enclosed in this letter : 

" That each Regiment Troop or Company be mustered either by the Muster master- 
Genl. or his Deputies Times in every Year if the Situation of the Army will admit 
thereof and that the Muster Mr Genl. or his Deputies, shall return exact accounts 
thereof monthly to the Commanders in Oiief of the several Departments, and furnish 
Copies of such returns to the Adjutant and Commissary General or their Deputies. 

"That the Commissary Genl. or his Deputies shall return to the Adjutant General or 
his Deputies monthly an exact Account of all Rations drawn by each Regimt. Troop or 
Company in the Course of the Month and the said Adjutant General or his Deputies 
shall return the same to the Commander in Chief of the several Departments to be trans- 
mitted to Congress as part of the General Returns of the Army. 

" That the Captains or Comrs of every Troop or Company shall, at the Time a sick 
non comd. Officer or Soldier shall go to the Hospital send with such sick non comd. 
Officer or Soldier an exact Account of what pay is due him and in case of Discharge 
from the Hospital as unfit for farther Service the Director or Surgeon of such Hospital 
shall certify what Pay is due the Non comd. Officer or Soldier so discharged. And the 
Captain or Comander of the Troop or Company out of which such Officer or Soldier 
shall go to the Hospital shall not receive the Pay of any Officer or Soldier so sick or 
discharged; but such Non Comd. Officer or Soldier shall be paid at any Pay Office or 
Place by any Person in the United States authorized to pay the Continental Troops on 
producing such Certificates which shall be kept as vouchers by the Person so paying 
and Copies thereof delivered to the Officer or Soldier receiving his Pay." 

Washington's reply to the board's inquiry has not been found. The board made a 
report Nov. 13, and on Nov. 19, upon the further consideration of the report, some 
resolutions on these subjects were adopted. See the Journals. 

[182]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1776; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 94. 
A part of this letter (that which precedes the passage here given) is printed in Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., H. 1248. 



134 Continoital Congress 

Blankets and coarse Goods taken and imported into our State in a Prize 
Store-Ship bound to Quebec' It is not meant that this Resolve should 
supersede the Resolve lately sent to your Honour by the same Committee.' 
With all the Cloathins::- that can be collected in several States, and im- 
ported, We shall not I am afraid have more than sufficient to cloath our 
Armies. Hang well and pay well, is a good military Maxim. In paying 
well I presume Cloathing and Food is involved, otherwise they ought to 
be subjoined. The former, Congress attended to in their last Articles of 
War, and I hope their Resolutions respecting the latter will be carried 
into Execution by those to whom the Execution thereof hath been 
committed.* .... 

183. The New York Delegates to the New York Convention.' 

Gcntt^. 

As the State of New York has not been represented in Congress for 
several Weeks past, (Mr. P: Livingston with myself being their only 
Delegates at present here) we are requested by Congress to apply to you 
Sirs for a full representation, therefore hope you will speedily send us 
one other Member that we may be enabled to give our vote for that state 
which we have been sent here to represent. 

We are respectfully, GentP., Your very Humbl Servts. 

Fra : Lewis for self and 
Ph : Livingston 
Phila. 26. Octobr. 1776 

The Honbl. the Convention for the State of Nw. York 

184. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton.' 

Elizabethtown, October 26, 1776. 
My dear Friend: 

.... I propose next Monday to return again to Philadelphia, where 
I can remain but two weeks, when our Assembly will meet again, when I 
propose to sue for a dismission from Congress ; finding it too hard to 
attend there and at the Assembly, between both of which I could not 
expect to spend much of my time at home. Publick news I suppose you 
know as much of as I do, from my long confinement 

I hear General Schuyler lately wrote to the Congress requesting to 
resign his commission, upon a supposition they meant to cast an oblique 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 23 ; also Cooke to Washington, Oct. 19, in Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., II. 1133; cf. ibid., II. 1136. 

3 See Ellery to Cooke, Oct. 11, Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 92; Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., II. 989. Probably the resolve of Sept. 25 is meant. Cf. the letter from 
the committee on clothing to the New York convention Oct. 7, Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., II. 925, III. 248. See also nos. 215, 233, post. 

* In a postscript Ellery says : " Since writing the foregoing, the President read 
in Congress a letter from General Mifflin to a gentleman in this Town, dated at Fort 
Washington, October 23d" [describing a skirmish in the neighborhood of the Fort]. 

[iSsl^N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, VI. 49 (in the writing of Lewis); 
Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., II. 232; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1247. 

[184] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1248. 



October, lyyd 135 

censure on him by approving General Wooster's conduct in Canada ; con- 
cluding there must be a fault somewhere, and if not in General Wooster, 
it would naturally fall on him. His conclusion was ill founded. The 
Congress, when they cleared General Wooster of misconduct, never 
thought of laying it on General Schuyler, but imputed the miscarriage 
there to the short time the soldiers had inlisted for, the small-pox getting 
into the amiy, the want of hard money to purchase provisions in Canada, 
and the almost impossibility of transporting any quantity there in the 
winter." .... 

To Colonel Dayton. 

185. Robert Morris to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philadelphia October 27, 1776. 
Dear Sir 

I find by your letter of the 5th Inst, you had not received one of my 
letters wrote in answer to one of yours. I kept no Copy of it which youl 
say is unusual for a merchant. I acknowledge it and only plead in excuse, 
that I did not write to you in that Character. The letter for Mrs. Gates 
is gone forward by Post, as I cou'd not meet any other Conveyance, altho 
I kept it here some days in expectation of one. Mr. Johnston, and indeed 
all the Maryland Delegates, are at home forming a Constitution. This 
seems to be the present business of all America, except the Army, it is 
the fruits of a certain premature declaration which you know I always 
opposed, my opposition was founded in the evil consequences I foresaw 
or thought I foresaw, and the present state of several Colonies justifys my 
apprehensions. We are disputing about Liberties, Priviledges, Posts, and 
places, at the very time we ought to have nothing in View but the securing 
those objects and placing them on such a footing as to make them worth 
contending for amongst ourselves hereafter; but instead of that, the 
Vigour of this and several other States is lost in Intestine division, and, 
unless this spirit of Contention is checked by some means or other, I fear 
it will have banefull influence on the general measures of America. 

I am not one of those Testy Politicians that run resty when my own 
plans are not adopted, for I think it the duty of a good Citizen to follow 
when he cannot lead, and happy wou'd it be for America if all her 
Inhabitants wou'd adopt this Maxim, and make it an invariable rule 
during this great Contest for the Minority on every question to submit to, 
and Cooperate with, the Majority, but alas this cannot be it is not to be 
expected from Human Nature. We must take men as we find them, and 
do the best we can. You tell me the Congress are bad Correspondants, 
and I fear you have too much truth on your side, was you here I cou'd 
explain this in a Tete a Tete but I have neither time nor inclination to com- 
mit that explanation to paper. You may depend there is no intentional 

2 See Schuyler's letter to Gates, Oct. 5, and to Congress, Oct. 23, Force, Am-. 
Arch., fifth ser., II. 909, 1205, respectively. The latter was read in Congress Nov. 4, and 
a resolution in consequence was enacted Nov. 7. The resolve exonerating Wooster was 
passed Aug. 17. Cf. nos. 138, 155, 173, ante, 195, post. 

{i%sV N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, VII.; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1262. 

14 



1 

Neglect or SHg-ht meant to you or the departnicnt you Act in. it is 
deemed of the utmost importance, and all the Members of Congress wish 
that and every other deiKirtment was duly attended to; but the Fact is 
they have too many objects and retain too much executive business in 
their own hands for their Members to efTect with that vigor and dispatch 
that is necessary.* 

You say I must tell you gfood News. I will if you will repay me in 
kind for of late we have had nothing but very bad News from both our 
Army's. Wq expect daily to hear of your being attacked and have 
sanguine hopes of a Vigorous and successful! defence on your part, 
much depends on it. if you keep your Ground I think Genl. Washington 
will keep his and if both do this for the present Fall and ensuing Winter, 
the Good News I mean to tell you will be verifyed. 

It is that the French are undoubtedly disposed to assist us in this Con- 
test, and I have little doubt but they will take part in the War next 
Summer, indeed it seems to me impossible but all Europe will be involved 
in War and, if so, Great Britain will have her hands full, and probably 
be glad to render justice and reparation to the Country she has so much 
injured. 

Nothing do I wish for more than a peace on terms honorable and bene- 
ficial to both Country's; and I am convinced it is more Consistent with 
the Interest of Great Britain to acknowledge our Independency and enter 
into Commercial Treatys with us than to persist in attempting to reduce 
us to unconditional submission. I hope we shall never be reduced to 
[that] vile situation whilst a true friend to America and freedom exists, 
life W'ill not be worth having and it is better to perish by the sword than 
drag out the remaining days in misery and scorn; but I hope Heaven 
has better things in store for the Votaries of so just a Cause. 

I am, Dr. Sir, Yours affectionately 

RoBT Morris 

i86. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 
George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Monday Even^. ii oClock 28th Octr 1776. 
Sir 

This moment, Dodd the Express from the State of Massachusetts, who 
took your Dispatches to Congress on Saturday last, arriv'd at my house, 
and informs me that this Day about 12 o'clock he put up at one Bissi- 
nett's - a publick house in Bristol,^ where he open'd his Bundle to deliver a 
Letter to be forwarded over the ferry to Mrs. Reed, and leaving his 
Bundle in the Barr Room while he Stept out, on his return the whole of 
his Letters were carried off, and no person could give any Acco" of them, 
and after Enquiring and getting all the Assistance he could to Endeavour 

- See nos. 246, 253, 258, 272, 273, 279, 298, post. 
[i86]i Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XU. 124; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., n. 1269. 

2 The name is spelled Bessonet in the Journals. 

3 Bristol, Pa. 



October, iyy6 137 

the obtaining- them, their Searches were fruitless, and he is here without 
a single Letter. As your Letters may be of the utmost Consequence, and 
the Enemy may derive great Advantages from the knowledge of their 
Contents (as I have no Doubt but they will soon be in possession of them) 
I have judg'd it proper without waiting for the Meeting of Congress in 
the Morning to dispatch this Express to you, to give you this Intelligence 
that you may as far as possible Guard against the Movements the Enemy 
may take in Consequence of the Intelligence they may gain by the pos- 
session of those letters, and that you may Take such Steps as this Acci- 
dent may Suggest to you from the particulars of your Letters as necessary 
to Counteract the Attempts of the Enemy. I however hope that your 
Letters, should they fall into their hands will not afford them much 
Comfort, nor give them any great Prospects of advantages, tho' I shall 
be unhappy until I know the Contents, and Beg by the Return of this 
Express you will send me a Copy of them as it will be a great Relief to 
Congress to Receive the earliest acco*^. 

I shall early in the morn^ send to Bristol and have a strict sea[rch] 
made, and Recover the Letters if possible, a[nd] detect the persons who 
Rob'd the mail.* 

You will Excuse this hasty Letter, and wrote in great Agitation and 
hurry, as I would not lose a moment in sending it off. 

187. William Hooper to the President of the 
North Carolina Convention.^ 

Philadelphia, Oct 29. 1776. 

Honoured Sir, 

By my worthy Colleague Mr Penn, I do myself the honour to transmit 
a resolution of the Continental Congress which bears immediate relation 
to the State of North Carolina.^ The Congress having been informed 
that the Armed vessels belonging to the Enemy have lately quitted the 
River of Cape fear, and have proceeded to the Northward, have bestowed 
their thoughts upon the practicability of fortifying that entrance into your 
state, and excluding the British Men of War. The importance of such 
a measure must weigh as powerfully with you as with them, and I am well 
assured that nothing will be wanting on your part to carry it into Execu- 
tion with all possible dispatch 

You will observe that this is to be executed at the Expence of your 
own particular state ; a recommendation of a similar kind went to South 
Carolina, in consequence of which they have erected very great and very 
expensive fortifications at their own cost.^ It becomes Oeconomy in you 
to bear this Expence yourself, rather than by making it Continental, 
expose yourself to pay your proportion of the large fortifications which 

* See the Journals, Oct. 29, 31, Nov. 6, 20, 27, Dec. 12. A reply to this letter, 
Nov. I, by R. H. Harrison, Washington's secretary, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., 
III. 464. See also Washington's Writings (ed. Ford), V. 25. 
[187]! N. C Hist. Comm. ; N. C. Col. Recs., X. 871. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 29. 

3 This probably refers to the resolve of Nov. 4, i775- 



V'iS Continental Congress 

have been or may hereafter be erected in the Eastern States. Your pro- 
|x)rtion only of the Connecticut forts would amount to as much as the 
wliole of those propc^scd for your colonial security. In this case therefore 
it will he political (at least for us) to suffer each state to bear its own 
burdens. 

Should the Convention think it proper to ap|)ly to the Continentl. Con- 
gress for the Assistance of an Engineer to execute this proposal, I shall 
upon beinq;- informed thereof immediately take the proper steps to procure 
one and send him on.* 

i88. John Witherspoon to Horatio Gates.^ 

Princeton Octr 30, 1776 
Sir 

.... It gave me much Concern that you had not an immediate and 
fully satisfying answer to your Letter to Congress relating to the dissolv- 
ing the Court Martial. There was a full and ample report brought in 
upon it by the board of War but it was postponed after some Debate for 
a little and many things being thrust in that seemed to require immediate 
Despatch it w^as some time before it was brought in again and the second 
time wdien it was just about to be almost unanimously agreed to by the 
artful Management of some who wanted a little Alteration made it was 
postponed again by the Demand of a paper which was not at hand and 
since that time your friends thought it not w^orth while to resume it.^ 
I must however assure you that by far the greatest part of the Congress 
have a very high sense of your importance and services in a particular 
Manner for discouraging to the utmost of your power Colonial Jealousies 
and Distinctions. 

I have written to General Maxwell that he is indebted to you for a very 
honourable Mention of him in your Letter to Congress which was read 
at the last promotion of General Officers when he could certainly have 
been promoted but for some of his friends here.^ .... 

189, Benjamin Rush to the President of the Pennsylvania 
Council of Safety (Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

Sir 

In consequence of the letter from Mr. Fisher to the Counsel of Safety 
of Pennsylvania being laid before Congress, the Congress resolved that 
the board of war should immediately order a part of a Virginia regiment 
now on the Eastern Shore of Maryland to march to Dover there to wait 

* See Hooper's letter of Oct. 26, N. C. Col. Recs., X. 862. 
[i88]iN. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, VH. ; Force, Ant. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1293. 
- The reference is to the court-martial of Col. Moses Hazen. See, in the 
Journals, Sept. 18, the " postponed " articles in a report of the board of war. When the 
second postponement took place cannot certainly be made out. 

3 The promotion of general officers referred to is probably that of Aug. 9. See 
Maxwell's memorial, Aug. 28 (read in Congress Sept. 6), in Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., I. 1204. He was made a brigadier-general Oct. 23. 

[ 189] 1 Library of Congress, Personal; Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 58. 



November, i;y6 130 

for such Orders as tlie future accounts they shall receive from the Sussex 
tories shall render necessary." 
Friday. [November i, 1776.]^ 

190. William Hooper to the North Carolina 
Provincial Congress.^ 

Philadelphia, November ist, 1776. 
Sir, 

I take the freedom thro' you to communicate to the Honourable the 
Convention the memorial of several of the prisoners from North Carolina 
now confined in the Gaol of this City. Their confinement tho' accom- 
panied with every circumstance of humanity which the publick security 
will admit of must however as the Winter advances become more irksome, 
from a scarcity of cloathing an inconvenience which at this time it will 
be very difficult to relieve. I shall not take the freedom to intrude my 
opinion upon the Conventions. I may be permitted to say that I lament 
that conduct which has drawn upon them the resentment of their injured 
Country. I feel sincerely for their distressed families, and earnestly wish 
they may be restored to their homes as soon as such a measure can take 
place without hazarding the safety of North Carolina." 

191. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 5th. 1776. 
Sir, 

The Congress, apprehensive that Commissioners from some of the 
States for the Purpose of appointing Officers in the Army under the new 
Establishment, may not have arrived at the Camp, and at the same Time 
fully and deeply impressed with the Necessity of recruiting the Army to 

~ See the Journals^ Nov. i. The letter of Henry Fisher referred to is probably 
that of Oct. 25, in Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 53. See also no. 168, ante, and no. 192, post. 

3 The letter is endorsed : " From Doctr. Rush Novr. ist 1776." 
On the same day (presumably; the date is merely "Friday") Rush addressed the 
following note to the president of the Pennsylvania council of Safety (copied from 
the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia) : 

The enclosed petition was referred to the council of Safety by the Congress. He is 
entitled I believe to half pay from our State agreeable to some late resolutions of 
congress." 

The petition referred to is probably that of Ezekiel Letts, in Pa. Arch., first ser., V._57, 
to which Rush has appended an endorsement, dated Oct. 31, 1776. There is no mention 
of the case in the Journals. The resolutions referred to are of Aug. 26. 

[190]! iV. C. Col. Recs., X. 888. 

2 The memorial of the prisoners, dated Oct. 31, accompanies this letter of Hooper 
in N. C. Recs. See the Journals, Oct. 17; cf. ibid., Dec. 20, 22, 23, 1776, Jan. 9, I777- 
See also no. 391, post. Hooper's letter and the memorial were laid before the North 
Carolina congress Tuesday, Nov. 19, and consideration referred to the following 
Thursday. The matter was not, however, then taken up. For the case of Brig.-Gen. 
Donald MacDonald, see a letter from him to the board of war, Sept. 7, 1776, in Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., 11. 191, and consult the Journals, passim. 

[igi]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 7; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., HI. 514. 



1 

its full Complement, have passed the enclosed Resolves, authorizing you 
to grant Warrants to such Officers as you shall think proper, provided 
there are no Commissioners from the State to which such Officers belong.^ 

As it is of the greatest Consequence that the Militia now in Service 
should not leave the Camp at this Crisis, it is the Desire of Congress that 
you will take such Steps as you shall judge best for attaining this End ; 
and that in particular, you should for that Purpose write to such of the 
States as have any Militia in the Government of New York, requesting 
their Assistance in the Business. 

The Commissions for such Officers as you shall please to appoint by 
Warrant, in Consequence of the enclosed Resolves, shall be forwarded 
as soon as possible. 

The Resolves herewith transmitted, I am to inform you, do not extend 
to the Maryland troops, as the Commissioners from that State are on 
their Way to Head Quarters to appoint Officers agreeably to the former 
Resolves of Congress. You will therefore be pleased to suspend any 
appointment of Officers for that State, until you shall hear further from 
Congress, or until the Arrival of those Gentlemen shall make it un- 
necessary.' 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 8, Nov. 4. 

' Some resolutions of the Maryland convention relative to raising the state's 
quota of troops were presented to Congress Oct. 23 and referred to a committee. 
The committee made its report Oct. 30, and the conclusions of Congress thereon were 
transmitted to the convention by President Hancock Nov. 4 (Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., III. 508). For the origin and purpose of the Maryland commission, see the pro- 
ceedings of the Maryland convention, Oct. 4, 9, in the Journal of the Maryland Conven- 
tion, pp. 265, 272-274; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 116, 120. The commissioners 
were Benjamin Rumsey. James Lloyd Chamberlaine, Thomas Contee, and John Han- 
son, jr. A letter from Rumsey to James Tilghman, Oct. 24 (Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, 
IV. 44: Arch, of Md., XII. 397), throws light on the earlier proceedings of Congress on 
the matter. The letter is addressed : " To The Honble James Tilghman Esquire In 
his absence To any other of the Council of Safety of the Province of Maryland " : 

" I arrived here on Saturday Evening last but mj- Colleagues did not all arrive before 
last Monday. On Tuesday we laid the Resolves of Convention before the Congress and 
on Wednesday about one OClock two of their Members informed Us that the Mode 
proposed by our Convention of substituting the Gift of ten Dollars in Lieu of the hun- 
dred Acres of Land would prove in the Opinion of Congress extremely prejudicial to 
the united States as it would subject them all to the same Advance, an Expence in 
their Apprehension too great to be borne and wch. to use their own Expressions would 
break the Back of all North America they represented that Land might be bought for 
three Dollars per hundred that the Soldiery had already extorted from the State greater 
Wages than could well be borne. They further requested to know if We would proceed 
to attempt the Inlistment of the Men with the twenty Dollars Bounty without promising 
the ten Dollars which Congress were not inclinable to grant at present but had appointed 
a Committee to draw up a Letter to the Convention of Maryld on the Subject of their 
Resolves setting forth their Reasons for not furnishing Us with Money and dissuading 
them from that Mode of raising Men. 

" We informed the Gentlemen our Province had no Land solely, that an Expectation 
was formed by the People of our State that what was conquered from an Enemy at 
the joint Expence of Blood and Treasure of the whole should become their joint property 
but as Qaims had been set up opposite to our Ideas of natural Justice it became a 
wise people rather to prepare for the worst by giving ten Dollars now than trust to the 
mercy of a few Venders from whom they would be obliged to purchase (having 
pledged their Honour) at any price, the Case of all Monopolies ; that we had limited 
Orders from our Convention a special Authority under which We must act and not 
deviate ; that if their Letter to our Convention could be wrote in any reasonable Time 
we would await the Event and return or advance as we should be by them ordered. 
They also observed that the State of ^Maryland shewed a Disposition to seperate by their 



November, i'j'j6 141 

The enclosed Commission of Brigadier General you will please to have 
delivered to Genl Smallwood. 

[P. S.] I send some commissions, and shall send others immediately. 
Mr Harrison's Letters to 3rd Inst, are come to hand.* 

192. Robert Morris to George Read.^ 

Philadelphia, November 6th, 1776. 
Dear Sir, 

You will not wonder that I should be obliged to answer your favor of 
the 5th instant in a great hurry, after detaining the bearer some time 
before I could even sit down to write. 

It seems there is some foundation for the report you heard, although 
not strictly true. I was not in Congress when Dr. Rush brought the 
account from the Council of Safety, but am told, he moved for some 
Continental troops being ordered down, which was opposed by several 
members upon the very principles you would wish, and finally the motion 
was rejected ; but as a Virginia regiment was ordered up from the Eastern 
Shore, they were directed to halt at Dover for the further orders of 
Congress, on the supposition that your government would apply for them 
if they should think it necessary.^ 

This I believe to be the true state of facts, and as my sentiments are 
totally with you, I am ready to obey your commands, or do anything you 
desire, if in my power; being very sincerely, dear sir, your obedient 
servant, 

Robert Morris. 

Resolves from the united States, that the Resolves ran in the Stile of We would not. 
We remarked in Reply that the Terms made use of were ought not and the two Reasons 
that appeared in the Resolves themselves were first that the Mode of Calculation was 
unequal and the second that it was not of our power to comply not having the Lands 
solely and exclusively and yet notwithstanding Injustice was done Us and We had not 
the Lands etc We had as a State resolved to raise the Men requested by Congress which 
together with our former Zeal in the Cause evinced our Attachment to it and ought in 
our Opinion to have excused us from such an Imputation. Thus ended the Discourse and 
it is now Thursday Evening and no Lre. wrote that We know of I shall wait upon a 
Gentleman of the Congress to Morrow for the Lre. to go by the Post and We intend to 
write to the Convention 

" When I set off from Annapolis I asked G. Duvall for the Commissions transmitted to 
Convention by Congress, he answered there were None sent they were to be got at 
Philadelphia When We came here our old Friend the Honble Jno. Hancock would have 
sent us back to get them but he was overruled in this and We should have got others. I 
beg if we are continued in Office that We may not have Favours of that Sort to ask — 
And that you will take Care they shall be sent up by the next post " 

See the council to the commissioners, Nov. i, 8, Arch, of Md., XII. 416, 423. 

The subject was again considered by the Maryland convention Nov. 8, 9, 10 (Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 174. 177-178, 179), and on Nov. 13 Congress was induced to 
modify its action. See nos. 205, 216, 219-221, 226, 248, post. For an elaborate treatment 
of the whole subject of Maryland's attitude on the land question, see H. B. Adams, 
Maryland's Influence upon Land Cessions to the United States (Johns Hopkins Univ. 
Studies, ser. III., no. i), and Shosuke Sato, History of the Land Question in the United 
States (ibid., ser. IV., nos. 7-9). Cf. vol. III. of these Letters, under June 22, 1778. 
* R. H. Harrison, Washington's secretary. 

[192]! Read, Life of Read, p. 213. 

-See nos. 168, 189. ante; also the letter of George Read (dated at Newcastle, 
Nov. 5, Life of Read, p. 212) to which this is a reply. The letter is also in Henkels, 
Catalogue, no. 1183, with the date Nov. 4. In regard to Read's attitude toward Henry 
Fisher, cf. the letter of James Sykes, Apr. 10, 1777, post. 



1 

193. William Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, jr.* 

Philadelphia Nov 6, 1776 
Dear Sir 

Contrary to my Expectations and Wishes I am yet detained liere but 
expect Mr Shermans return every day and hour and then T propose to set 

homeward;' Mr Huntington is also gone home unwell the 

present occasion of my writing is to mention an affair yesterd. under 
Consider", viz a Petn. of one Majr Cady ' setting forth that he with a 
Body of men marched to Canada after the fall of G Montgomery and that 
lie has never been able to obtain any Pay by reason that Gen. Schuyler 
forbid it. he knows not why and the Men greatly disaffected and preju- 
diced agst the Service, and praying to be allowed their W^ages etc. (I 
suppose in the same situation w'' Col Warner)* much Dispute was about 
it and finally all that c** be obtained was to refer it to the Comisrs. of 
Acc°* at Albany to examine and make Rei)ort. it was suggested the 
probable reason was. His men went into Inoculation contrary to order 
etc. and that was alledged as a sufficient Reason to cut them off etc.. and 
that Crime if one in the Circumstances, was treated with impolitic Sever- 
ity I think to say no more. I am greatly concerned that it will have a 
very ill Effect and disaffect Men to the Northern Service, the distressing 
feelings of the Men under the certain prospect of taking and dying with 
that Disease etc. in my opinion pleads strongly in their Excuse, and in 
such Cases allowances ought to be made and Faults winked at, especially 
when the Men are so much wanted etc. things appear in a very different 
light to me than to some here etc. 

I know not the Man in the present Case nor where He is from, but for 
the reasons hinted at etc. I earnestly wish you to interpose every good 
Office in your Power with the Genl and the Comisrs. and whoever can 
influence in the affair that the Man may be incouraged and paid, and the 
same with Respect to Col Warner, but know not where nor in what Situa- 

fiQS]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. II., no. 15. 

- A letter from Oliver Wolcott to his wife, Nov. 12, indicates that Williams 
probably left Congress that day. But see no. 215, i>ost. 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 6. Jeremiah Cady was a major in Paterson's Massachu- 
setts regiment, April-December, 1775, and commanded a battalion in the Canadian cam- 
paign, Januarj'-June, 1776. Schuyler wrote to Jonathan Trumbull, jr., Dec. 12: 

" The Commissioners having certified that Nothing appears before them why Major 
Cady's Detachment should not be paid you will therefore proceed to pay them, any Order 
of mine to the contrary notwithstanding. 

" Two Month's advance pay was intended as a Boimty and is not to be stopped from 
them. They must also be allowed as the others were that came from Canada discharged 
on the sixth of May, as an equivalent for pay and provisions to bring them Home." 
Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., II. 49. 

* Petitions from Col. Seth Warner, dated Sept. 10 and Oct. 4, are in Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 273, 884. See the Journals, Sept. 10, 11, 12, Oct. 15. In a letter 
to Trumbull, Nov. 27, Schuyler says : 

" I have received a Letter from Mr Sherman the Delegate on the Subject of Colonel 
Warner's Regiment, and altho' that is far from being authority to me to grant a Warrant 
on, yet as I greatly apprehend that we shall not have Troops in Time to relieve the 
Garrisons to the Northward. I will venture to give Colonel Warner eight thousand 
Dollars for the recruiting Service, on his delivering to you the Copies of the Resolves 
of Congress empowering him to raise a Regiment." Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan 
Trumbull, jr., II. 37. See also, nos. 330, 532, post. 



November, ///d 143 

tion he is in now. It seems to me of great importance, even tho they 
deserved nothing that they sho'' not be discouraged at this Juncture. 

194. Samuel Adams to James Warren/ 

Philadelphia, Nov. 6, 1776.^ 
My dear Sir, 

.... Congress could not account for the Delay of the Assemblies to 
send Committees to the Camp agreeable to their Recommendation, but 
by your Letter I am led to believe that the answer of our Assembly was 
among those Letters which were lately stolen from an Express on the 
Road. The Necessity of immediate Application to the important Business 
of inlisting a new Army indued Congress to direct the Commander in 
Chief to give orders for that Purpose even though the Committees should 
not have arrivd.^ .... 

Nov. pth. Mr. Partridge * arrivd in this City the last Evening, having 
been dispatched by your Committee at Genl. Washington's Head Quarters, 
who have consulted with the General concerning the Augmentation made 
by our Assembly of the Pay of the Troops to be raisd by our State. The 
General advisd them to lay the Matter before Congress. We intend to 
bring it on this day. I have strong Doubts whether it will succeed here. 
Men must be prevaild upon to inlist at some Rate or other, and I think 
it must be confessd that our State have shewn a laudable Zeal for the 
publick Service. But if the other States which are to have Troops in the 
Army should not consent to give the same Encouragement, it may cause 
great Uneasiness among them. I am the more ready to believe it will not 
be well receivd in Congress because a proposal made not long ago by the 
Maryland Convention for them to offer to their Men Ten Dollars in Lieu 
of the 100 Acres of Land was rejected.^ 

Nov. II. On Saturday last Congress considerd the Business on which 
Mr, Partridge is here. A Com*^ was appointed who have this day 
reported against your Resolution and the Report is agreed to, but as the 
Resolution must be known to the Soldiers, it has greatly embarrassd us. 
A Motion was made to limit the Duration of the Inlistments, which after 
Debate was postpond and is to be determind tomorrow. If the present 
Encouragement offerd by Congress is continued only for a limited Time 
of three or four years, it certainly would be very great. I will inform 
you further of this Affair tomorrow. 

Nov. I2th. The Motion I yesterday mentiond has been this Day con- 
sidered and Congress have resolvd upon an Alternative; that is, so far 
to reconsider their former Resolution as to admit of Inlistments for 

[194]! Warren-Adams Letters, I. 275. 

- Adams had returned to Congress Oct. 24. See his letter to Samuel Mather, 
Oct. 26, in Writings (ed. Gushing), III. 316. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 8, Nov. 4. 

* George Partridge, bearer of the letter of Timothy Danielson read in Congress 
Nov. 9. See nos. 197, 201, post. 

s See no. 192, note 3, ante. 



1 

three years with the Bounty of 20 Dollars and the Suit of Cloaths 
annually, or durin^u: the War, with the Addition of the 100 Acres of Land ; 
and our Committee is desired not to offer the further Encouragement of 
20/ You will have a Copy of this Resolution sent to you by the Presi- 
dent." Would it not be proper to send immediate Instructions to your 
Committees at the several Camps to settle the Affair of Ofiicers, and exert 
themselves in the most important Business of procuring a new Army? 
I am affectionately vours, 

S. A. 

195. Edward Rutledge to Philip Schuyler/ 

November 6th: 1776 
Dear Sir 

The Part which I have taken in Congress relative to your Character 
and Conduct, has I trust, been such as the Measures which you have 
adopted, and the Principles by which they were directed will fully justify." 
That you have sustain'd for a length of Time an uncommon Load of 
Calumny is alas ! too true ; but tho' your Friends were much mortified to 
find that they were unable effectually to oppose the Torrent, yet they felt 
some Consolation in reflecting that the Day would come when you would 
appear in your true Character; I mean in the Character of a firm and 
disinterested Patriot. I congratulate you upon the Prospect of its Ap- 
proach, and wish that I could hold my Seat in Congress until I could see 
you in Philadelphia, and contribute my Assistance to do Justice to your 
Reputation : But a Desire of returning to my native Home from which 
I have been absent for more than Eighteen Months will deprive me of that 
Satisfaction. You however will suffer nothing from my Absence, as I am 
convinced you will receive ample Justice from those whose Duty it is to 
administer it 

196. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia, 7th November, 1776. 
My dear Sir: 

.... I have just received your favour of the 21st ultimo. Your 
giving up to Captain Plance his small adventure is, in my opinion, very 
right; but by some hints that have been dropped, am inclined to think 
that some gentlemen suppose you have exceeded your power. Captain 
Bowden, I find, has preferred a petition, which is referred to a committee. 
I have a letter from Colonel Wentworth on the subject, which I shall 
answer in a day or two. I heartily wish there may be some method 
adopted whereby that gentleman may be relieved, but must confess am 

6 See the Joiirnuls, Nov. 9, 11, 12, and nos. 197. 199, 201, 205, post. 
[195]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. II., p. 192 (original). 

2 See nos. 138, 155, ante. In a letter to Jay, Nov. 24 (Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser.. III. 825), Rutledge enlarges upon his suggestions relative to the course to be 
pursued bv Schuj'ler and by the New York delegates. 

[196]! force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 554; Letters by Josiah Bartlett, William 
Whipple, and Others, p. 51. 



November, i'j'j6 145 

doubtful of the success of his petition — for a publick body to break their 
own general rules may be attended with evil consequences; however, I 
shall do all in my power to have this matter determined as speedily as 
possible, and shall use my endeavours to serve Captain Bowden, so far as 
(in my opinion) is consistent with the publick good." .... 

Enclosed you have some late resolutions of Congress respecting the 
Navy. Some further proposals are before Congress, which I expect will 
be soon taken up.* .... 

197. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

PHiLA^Sth. Novr. 1776 
My Dear Sir 

Our Colleage ^ arriv'd the 3d inst he cross'd the River several miles 
above Dobb's ferry by which means I suppose you Miss'd him he com- 
plains much of the Roads and I believe justly, he was Inoculated Yester- 
day, but attends Congress. Nothing meterial has happen'd since your 
departure, some private Letters from Genl Lee of Yesterdays date are 
very incouraging. If you pass'd through the Army, you must be sensible 
of the want of Cloathing and as you know what was done in Congress 
respecting that matter no doubt You'll use your influence to draw the 
attention of the Executive Power of Our state to that Subject. I find 
the Genl. Court of the Massachusetts have increas'd the pay of their 
Soldiers and have sent a Committee to Camp to inlist the men, but Genl. 
Washington wo*^ not consent to their giving out Orders till the matter 
was lay'd before Congress one of the Gentn.* arriv'd Yesterday what 
will be done in the affair I know not. we really have a Choice of Diffi- 
culties which I [am] in no doubt we shall get over but the thing is to make 
advantages of those difficulties The Massachu*^. have increas'd the pay 
of their Soldiers to 10 dols. pr Month for the new army if that sho'^ be 
come into, the charge of the Army will be so great that it will discourage 
many and undoubtedly will cause some heart burnings in a certain 
Assembly; on the other hand, if the matter has taken air among the 
Soldiers and sho*^ not be agree'd to there is greater danger that we shall 
have no Army this affair is referr'd to a Committee who I suppose will 
report tomorrow shall be able to give you a more perticular acco*. of 
the matter in my next, in the mean time I hope every measure is and will 
be taken to raise our Proportion and as many more as possible.* .... 

2 See Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 307, 59S ; also letters from Commodore 
Esek Hopkins to Capt. Abraham Whipple, Nov. 12, ibid.. III. 658, to John Langdon, Nov. 
21, Dec. 28, ibid., III. 799, 1470, and to John Bradford, Dec. 28, ibid., III. 1470. The 
memorial of Capt. Lawrence Bowden, presented to Congress Nov. 9, has not been found. 
Cf. no. 203, post. Concerning Capt. John Plance (or Plants) see a letter from Hopkins 
to Bradford, Nov. 12, Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen. III. 659. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 10, 11, 30, Nov. 6, 7, 13, 18, 20, and no. 214, post. 
[197]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. I., 1774-1778. 

2 Matthew Thornton. See the Journals, Nov. 4, and cf. Thornton to Weare, 
Nov. 12, Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen. III. 652. 

3 George Partridge. See no. 194. ante, and no. 201, post. 

* Washington's letter, dated Nov. 6, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 541. 
He is more explicit in a letter of Nov. 11 (read in Congress Nov. 15), ibid., III. 638. See 



14G Continental Congress 

198. Thk Board of War to the Maryland Council of Safety.* 

War Office Novr 8th 1776. 
Honourable Gentlemen: 

General Scluiyler is very desirous of having- an answer to his Letters 
respecting^ the Nanticoke Inthans. The Six Nations repeatedly complain 
that those of that Nation who were left in Maryland are detained there 
contrary to their Inclinations. This idea, tho' not founded in Truth 
creates much uneasiness, and is constantly held up by the Indians in their 
conferences with the General. Congress have before written to your 
State on the Subject on which I have now the honour of addressing- you 
by order of the Board of War, but have not been favoured with an 
Answer, which I have it in command to request you will now be pleased 
to give that it may be transmitted to General Schuyler, and he may thereby 
be enabled to satisfy the minds of the Indians on this subject.^ 

With the greatest respect I have the Honour to be your most obedt 
hble Servt 

P. S 



Richard Peters Sec'y. 

199. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes.^ 

[November 8( ?), 1776.] 
Dear Hezves 

In your letter to your Brother you ask " what is become of Hooper ?["] 
I answer, Here he is the Packhorse of North Carolina,^ carrying his 
burden in congress all day, and varying it only by taking it up in Com- 

also his letter of Nov. 6, to the Massachusetts assembly, ibid., III. 547, that of Nov. 10, to 
Governor Trumbull of Connecticut, ibid., III. 632, Gates to Hancock, Nov. 6, ibid., III. 
549, Gates to Stockton and Oymer. Nov. 7, ibid.. III. 592, and Stockton and Clymer to 
Congress. Nov. 10 (printed 20), ibid.. III. 784. The matter came before Congress Nov. 
9, in a letter of Timothy Danielson, one of the Massachusetts commissioners. See also 
the Journals, Nov. 11, 12. The letter of Danielson, dated Nov. 3, together with a 
letter from Danielson to James Warren of the same date, and the Massachusetts resolves 
of Oct. 19, are ibid., III. 494-496. See also a letter from Danielson to the Massachusetts 
assembly, Nov. 5, ibid.. III. 521, and one to Tristram Dalton, Nov. 16, with sundry 
enclosures, ibid.. III. 711-713, and a letter from the President of Congress to the Eastern 
States, Nov. 15, ibid.. III. 697. The report of the commissioners to the assembly, dated 
Dec. 7. is ibid.. III. 713. Cf. no. 194, ante, and nos. 199, 201, 210-213, 215, post. 

[igS]^ Arch, of Md., XII. 429; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 598. 

-See, further, the Journals, Aug. 19, Nov. 7; Schuyler's letters to Congress, 
Aug. 18 (read in Congress Aug. 26) and Sept. 14, and his letter of Nov. 6 to the com- 
mittee sent to the Northern armj-, in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 1030, II. ZZZ^ and 
III. 1585, respectively. Hancock wrote to Schuyler Nov. 9: 

"Although Congress have repeatedly applied to Maryland on the subject of the 
Nanticoke Indians without effect, yet are they determined to make another application, 
the result of which shall be immediately transmitted to you." Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser.. III. 614. 

The reply to this letter from the board of war is in Arch, of Md., XII. 447, dated 
Nov. 15. See no. 228, post. On Dec. 6, 1775, John Bull presented a memorial to Congress 
on behalf of the Six Nations, for the removal of the Nanticoke Indians from Maryland. 
A time was set for consideration of the memorial, but it seems never to have been taken 
up. The memorial is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 202. 

[199}! Furnished by the courtesy of Mr. James H. Manning of Albany. 

- Cf. Hooper's letter of Oct. 26 to the North Carolina provincial congress, N. C. 
Col. Recs., X. 862. 



November, ///d 147 

mittees all the Evening. In a word I am fatigued almost to death. 
9 Colonies you know are required to compose a Congress. Neither 
Georgia Maryland Delaware or New York have been for some time past 
represented so that your humble Servant is compelled to a constant un- 
remitting attendance. I never in my life felt myself so perfectly excul- 
pated from the Sin of Omission. I am at a loss to conceive how I have 
found time to write so many publick and private letters, amongst the 
latter before this you are convinced that I have not been unmindful of 
you 

From the many difficulties which attend the raising an Army here and 
to the Eastward I cannot too earnestly press upon you the necessity of 
forwarding by every possible method the recruiting Service, the Bounty 
and pay are both enormous and I hope will secure us success in recruiting 
to the Southd. tho the Eastern Gentry are not yet satisfied, and wish to 
screw us up a few pegs higher,' but they will be disappointed for in my 
opinion matters are now come to this. Give way to the extortion of the 
Army and you part with the property of the Continent to them and become 
Slaves to their Avarice and Caprice. Disband your Army and you are 
Slaves to a British Tyrant. Your Slavery dififers only in the name of the 
Superiour. if I am a Slave let me have one rather than 60,000 Masters. 
However these Gentry will soon I hope be brought to reason and we shall 
have a formidable force on reasonable Terms 

Pray request the Convention to write me fully of what they wish to 
have accomplished here within the compass of my abilities, and not leave 
me to guess at a meaning. If it can be prevented I wish you could avoid 
a demand for a large sum on the Contl. Treasury for a while at least. It 
runs a little low just now but will soon I hope by Lottery and Loan Office 
both of which are established by Congress will be up again. As to settling 
the publick Accounts Gentlemen in Carolina are employed to adjust those 
in Virginia so vice versa. Adieu I am at the bottom of my Sheet Love 
to Penn 

Yours Affectionately 

Wm Hooper 

200. The Board of War to George Washington.^ 

War Office Novr 8th : 1776 

Sir 

Mr. Lewis (a Brother Delegate) has given Congress Information that 
Application had been made to your Excellency by a Flag from Genl. Howe 
to permit Mrs. Watts and Mrs : Barrow, the Pay Masters Wife to go to 
their Husbands in New York and at same Time requested Congress to 
assist him with their Authority to obtain the Release of his Lady whom 
the Enemy would not permit to come out. The House having refer'd the 
Matter to the Board of War, we beg leave to represent to your Excellency 

3 See nos. 194, 197, ante, and nos. 201, 210-213, 215, post. 
[200] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCV. 325; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., in, 597. 



1 

the Propriety of obtaininj? Mrs: Lewis and Mrs. Robinson her Daughter 
with her Children in exchange for Mrs. Watts and Mrs. Barrow: and, 
if you have not already permitted these ladies to go into York or given 
Genl. Howe a promise to that effect, that you will make the Release of our 
Ladies, if we may be allowed the expression, a necessary requisite. In- 
deed should you have complied with Genl. Howe's Request, we submit it 
to your Excellency whether Mrs: Lewis and Mrs Robinson may not be 
asked for in Return. We do not imagine that you will be refused, but 
should you, we must recur to the unhappy Expedient of with-holding in 
future every similar Indulgence to those Ladies in our Power, who may 
desire to visit their Connections in the Army. 

We are very sorry that our Enemies have compelled us to resolve upon 
any Thing which looks like severity, or indeed to lay any Restraint upon 
the fair sex, but tho' we cannot approve the Practice, we shall be obliged 
to follow the Example of his Britannic Majesty's Commanders.^ We 
have the Honour to be with the most perfect Esteem your very obedt 
Servants 

Benjn Harrison 
James Wilson 
Edward Rutledge 

P. S. Should Mrs. Watts and Mrs. Barrow carry in their Baggage 
Mrs. Lewis and Mrs Robinson must have the same indulgence. Perhaps 
if the Ladies cannot be exchanged upon the above Terms Mrs. Lewis may 
be exchanged for Mrs. Kempe. 

B. H. 

J. W. 

E. R. 

201. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 9th. 1776. 
Sir, 

.... The enclosed Letter from Colo. Miles to Mr. W^ister of this City, 
I am directed by Congress to transmit to you, that you may take such 
Steps relative to the Exchange of the Gentlemen therein mentioned, as 
you may judge proper.' 

Mr. Partridge, one of the Committee from the State of Massachusetts 
Bay, having laid before Congress, sundry Resolves of that State encreas- 
ing the Pay of their Troops beyond what the Congress had given, they 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 8. Washington's reply, Nov. 15, is in Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser.. III. 699. 

[2oi]i Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 12; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., in. 614. 

- See the Journals, Nov. 7, 30. The letter of Col. Samuel Miles to William 
Wister, dated "November, 1776", is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 619. A letter 
from Col. Samuel J. Atlee to Washington, dated Nov. 9, is on the same page. The further 
correspondence of Washington relative to the case is ibid.. III. 629, 764, 791, 838, 871. 
In regard to the case of Thomas Irving, for whom Atlee hoped to be exchanged, see 
no. 2^2, post. 



November, i'jj6 149 

have come to a Resolution disapi)roving- of that Measure ; and have 
agreed, that the Troops in the American Army may be enlisted for three 
years, or during the War, as shall be most agreeable to them, subject to 
the Terms mentioned in the enclosed Resolves. ° 

202. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter.^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 9th. 1776 
My dear Colonel, 

.... You was in the right not to be alarm'd, all is well in Congress ; 
only the members grow weary, go off, and leave us too thin ; which obliged 
us to call for them.^ There are some, my dear Col. who wish the Congress 
to be divided and contemptible; as that cant be accomplished, the next 
thing is, to make the world think it is so. Those endeavors affect me only 

as the public good is concern'd Congress made no observations 

on the report of the Com*" to L° Howe,^ thinking it better to leave the 
plain facts to the judgement of the people. This was not my opinion, and 
allways hoped some private hand wou'd have done it, but alass ! Constitu- 
tions employ every pen 

203. Elbridge Gerry to John Wendell.^ 

Philadelphia nth Novr 1776 
Dear Sir 

I reed your Favours of the 20th and 27th Octr. and have layed before 
Congress Capt Bodens ^ petition, in Consequence of which it [is] com- 
mitted to the marine Committee. Colo Whipple being a Member of that 
Comm^ and well acquainted with the Circumstances will undoubtedly take 
proper Measures for rightly conducting the Matter ; I have likewise shewn 
to him and Mr. Ellery your Letter on the Subject. 

.... The Soldiers thro'out America have not been so well provided 
for, as every Friend to the Army could wish, owing partly to a Scarcity 
of some articles and partly to a Multiplicity of Business ; but I believe that 
every State as well as Congress are fully convinced of the Necessity of 
paying a particular Regard to this part of their Concerns. Medicines are 
sent in sufficient Quantities for the Army at Ticonderoga, and by a late 
Letter from the Commissioners ^ We are informed that comfortable pro- 

3 This paragraph was evidently added to the letter subsequent to the resolves of 
Nov. 12, to which it refers. A similar statement, dated Nov. 13, is appended to Hancock's 
letter to Schuyler, Nov. 9 (Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 614). See also Hancock's 
letter to the Eastern states, Nov. 15, ibid., p. 697, and no. 197, note 4, ante. 

[202]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1638, Declaration of Independence; Va. Hist. 
Soc, Lee Transcripts, II. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. i, and no. 154, ante. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 17. 
[203]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Signers, vol. I., no. 27. Addressed, "John 
Wendell Esqr at Portsmouth ". 

2 Capt. Lawrence Bowden. See the Journals, Nov. 9, and no. 196, ante. 

3 Stockton and Qymer, the committee sent to the Northern army (see the 
Journals, Sept. 26, and no. 145, ante). The letter referred to, dated Oct. 26, is in Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1256. The committee's report to Congress, Nov. 27, is printed 
ibid., III. 1584-1592, together with reports (Nov. 28, 29) of the committee to which this 
report was referred. 



150 Continental Couiircss 

vision is made for the sick, riiey have pood Houses fresh provisions etc 
and only wanted Straw. The Anny were Healthy and in Expectation of 
an Engagement. The Sutlers have hy all Accounts been exceedingly 
extortionate and Congress are now making provision for rectifying this 
Matter.* a Resolve has lately passed Congress for preventing Monopolies 
and if the States do not make effectual provission the people should call 
on them for this purpose. ° The Currency is a most important object, but 
if provission is made to pay all Interest on the Loan Office Certificates in 
Specie and the possessor is at Liberty to receive continental Currency for 
the princepal when his Certificate becomes due or continue it on Interest 
untill the Continent shall redeem it in specie, I think It must immediately 
appreciate to its Original Value; and this is now under the Consideration 
of Congress." .... 

General Howe's sudden Retreat occasions much Speculation, he un- 
doubtedly intends to land on the Jersey Shore and if he comes this Way 
I hope you will hear a good Account of him ; Time must convince the 
Continent of the true Character of the people of each State but I cannot 
think they will any where be backward in Defence. On the whole our 
Difficulties are great, but the State is never to be dispaired of. Had the 
southern States been in the politics of the eastern, We should have declared 
Independance last Winter and received a great advantage therefrom, but 
this being omitted We must make the best of it 

204. George Wythe to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

The resolutions describing treasons are inclosed." the report for ascer- 
taining the value of coins, etc. remains in the same state of repose as you 
left it in, among several others that are, as the president says, not acted 
upon.^ .... 

II Nov. 1776 

205. The President of Congress (John H.\ncock) to the 
Commissioners from Maryland.^ 

Philadelphia Nov. 13th 1776. 
Gentlemen, 

In consequence of a letter to congress this day received from the Honble 
convention of Maryland inclosing sundry resolutions of that Body rela- 

* See the Journals, Nov. 8, 9. Cf. nos. 215, 261, post. " A Plan is now in Agita- 
tion to prevent the Soldiers being abusd by the Extortion of Sutlers." Samuel Adams 
to James Warren, Nov. 16, Warren-Adams Letters, I. 277. 

^ See the Journals, Oct. 28, 31, Nov. 26. 

6 A committee to devise ways and means of supplying the treasury was appointed 
Oct. 14. See the Journals, Oct. 3. 7, Nov. i, 2, 13, 15, Dec. 5, 6, and the Journals for 
"^y??) passim (index. Loan Office Certificates; Loans). Cf. no. 215, post. 
[204] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second ser., LXXXIV. 2. 

- The resolutions were passed June 24. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 19, May 22, July 24, Sept. 2. Under the latter date 
will be found a report, drawn by Jefferson, on the value of gold and silver coins. The 
matter was reported as unfinished business Jan. 23, 1777. 

[205]^ Arch, of Md., XIL 441 ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. IIL 673. 



November, i'j'j6 151 

tive to the raising their Quota of the new Levies,^ I have it in charge to 
furnish you with the Resolutions of Congress pass'd yesterday admitting 
the new Levies to enhst for three years, and at the same time to inform 
you, that if the Inhabitants of the State of Maryland will inlist to serve 
during the continuance of the present war, they already have the Faith of 
the United States of America pledged for the land to be granted to such 
soldiers. 

The Resolutions referred to you have inclosed, and contain the sense of 
Congress as to the mode of the new Inlistment.^ 

206. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 14th. 1776. 

Sir, 

The enclosed Letter from Mr. Searle, a Gentleman of Honour and a 
Friend to the Cause of America, I am commanded by Congress to forward 
to you with the utmost Expedition. The uncertain Destination of the 
Fleet therein mentioned, makes it absolutely necessary that you should 
be informed of the Intelligence as soon as possible, that you may make 

- The letter from the convention of Maryland, dated Nov. 10, together with 
the resolutions of Nov. 9, are in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 627. See the Journals, 
Nov. 12, 13; also no. 191, note 3, ante, and nos. 216, 219-221, 226, 248, post. 

3 Two letters from the Maryland commissioners are appropriate here. One of 
them, dated at Philadelphia, Nov. 13, is from Benjamin Rumsey and is addressed to 
Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer. The pertinent part is as follows : 

" Congress have this day given an Answer to the Resolutions of our State which being 
an intire new One We have dispatched to the proper place to be considered they resolve 
that the Troops may be inlisted for three Years and a Bounty of twenty Dollars only 
be given or during the War and One hundred Acres of Land be added to the Bounty 
they will not specify where the Land lies belonging to the united States. 

" Our Instructions run that they are to be inlisted during the War of Course when 
our State accedes to it we can proceed. Congress has got rid of the Difficulty with 
Respect to the Land and has not closed in with either of the Propositions made by our 
State nor receded intirely from their own Resolution. 

" But if they have escaped they embarrass Us. What can We do with our Regulars? 
they are inlisted during the War : Must we inlist them again in the Service of the State 
for three Years? I imagine our State will not incline to do so if they do we ought to 
have Instructions on that Head." (Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 46; Arch, of 
Md.. XII. 442; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 660.) 

The other letter, dated Nov. 14, is signed by James Lloyd Chamberlaine, Thomas 
Contee, Benjamin Rumsey, and John Hanson, jr., and is addressed to "The Honorable 
Mathew Tilghman Esqr., President of the Convention of Maryland " : 

" On receipt of yours of the 10 Instant We waited on the Honorable Congress. This 
morning received a Letter and Resolutions of Congress, the inclosed are Copies. To us 
new difficulties arise, among others a grand one, Whether, our Regular Troops, (who 
are already engaged during the war) shoud now be inlisted for three years. As we 
conceive the subject matter of those Resolves to be new, we wait for further directions 
from the honourable Convention of our State. As time grows Short we have sent off 
the express with the utmost despatch." (Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 49, in the writing 
of Rumsey; Arch, of Md., XII. 452; Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, III. 673.) The reply 
to this letter, Nov. 17, is in Arch, of Md., XII. 454. 

[206] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 18; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser.. III. 669. 

15 



152 Conthiental Congress 

such Dispositions of the Troops under your Command as you sliall judge 
proper.' 

1 have the honour to he, with every sentiment of Esteem and Respect, 
Sir your most obed. and very hble Servt 

John Hancock Presidt. 

His Excellency Genl Washington.^ 

207. John Witherspoon to the Governor of New Jersey 

(William Livingston).^ 

Philadelphia Nov. 14, 1776 
Sir 

The inclosed Letter delivered to me this morning in Congress has been 
so long on its Way that perhaps Mr Stockton is himself at home by this 
time yet I thought it necessary that you should receive it by Express and 
lay it before the Assembly who will do upon it what appears to them 
necessary ^ 

I also take leave to inform you and by you the Council and Assembly 
that this Moment Congress have received an Express that ships are turn- 
ing out from the Hook and steering southward. The former Intelligence 
which you can inform them of will enable them to determine what use 
they should make of this. Expresses are sent to the southern Govern- 
ments and every means is using in this City to prepare for its Defence in 
Case the Enemy should intend here. The ships come out slowly but 
100 were seen two of them large yesterday afternoon when the Express 
left Long branch. It is the opinion of intelligent Persons that you should 
immediately send a Body of Militia to the fort at Willingsport on Dela- 
ware lest they should send a detachment against it. As soon as further 
Intelligence comes the Assembly shall be made acquainted with it and I 
doubt not the most vigorous Exertions will be made as most here seem 
to think the Design is against this important Place.' 

I am Sir your most obedt humble servant 

Jno Witherspoon 

2 The letters of Searle. written from Long Branch, N. J., Nov. 13, are in Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 669-670. One of them is in A^. C. Col. Recs., X. 908. The 
Pennsylvania council of safety also sent out an urgent call for assistance. See their 
letters to the Lancaster committee and to the several battalion commanders in Lancaster 
County, Nov. 14, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IH. 672-673; also a letter of William 
Hooper to the North Carolina congress, Nov. 14, in A^. C. Col. Recs., X. 902 (the original 
is in the office of the North Carolina Historical Commission), and Samuel Adams to 
James Warren, Nov. 16, in Warren- A dams Letters, 1. 277. William EUery (Nov. 16, 
no. 212, post) mentions that on Nov. 15 Searle brought to Congress further information. 
This proved to be a false alarm. See nos. 207, 208, 211, 212, post. 

2 Appended to the text in the Am. Arch, is the statement (from the Hancock 
Letter-Book) : " The same to the Commanding Officer in New Jersey, and to his Excel- 
lency Governor Livingston." Similar letters were also written to the Southern states, 
Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina (Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. 
HL 669, 670). The original of the letter to North Carolina is in the office of the North 
Carolina Historical Commission. It is printed in A^ C. Col. Recs., X. 908. 
[207]! N. J. State Lib., Stryker Coll. 

2 Probably such a letter as that from Stockton to Abraham Clark, Oct. 28, in 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 1274. 

^ See no. 206, ante. 



November, I'^yd 153 

208. The President of Congress to the North Caroona 

Convention.^ 

PiiiLADA, Novr 15th, 1776. 
Gentlemen, 

Since dispatching^ the Express yesterday * with IntelHgence that a Fleet 
of above and [sic'] Hundred Vessels had left New York, the Congress have 
received a Letter from General Green containing- further Accounts; a 
Copy of which, in Obedience to their Commands, I now enclose.' 

It appears from this Information, that Lord Dunmore is to take the 
Command of a Fleet bound for the Southward, and said to be for South 
Carolina. But as it is by no Means certain against which of the Southern 
States, the Expedition is designed, it is highly necessary you should be on 
your Guard. I shall not detain the Express, only to add that you will 
make such Use of this Intelligence, as the Importance of it requires. 

I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, 

Your most Obedt and Very Hble Servt 

John Hancock, Presidt. 

[P. S.] Since the foregoing, Congress have pass'd a Resolve, respect^' 
the Troops in your State, and the necessity of the Exertion of a part of 
your Militia, which I inclose you and to which I beg Leave to Refer you 
as also to the Resolve respect^ the Inlistments. 

Please to forward the Dispatches to South Carolina by a fresh Express. 

Honble Convention of the State of North Carolina * 

209. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Novr. i6th. 1776. 
Sir, 

Since my last Nothing material has occurred here, nor have I any 
Thing in Charge from Congress, except to request you will negotiate an 
Exchange of the Hessian Prisoners at Elizabeth Town under the Care of 
Mr. Ludwick as soon as possible. They have been treated in such a 
Manner during their Stay in this City, that it is apprehended, their 
going back among their Countrymen, will be attended with some good 
Consequences.^ 

[208] IN. C. Hist. Comm. ; id. to Maryland, Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VI. 41; Mass. 
Hist. Soc., Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 68; N. C. Col. Recs., X. 909; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., III. 697 (to Maryland). 

2 See no. 206, ante. 

3 Greene's letter, dated Nov. 12, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 652 ; also in 
N. C. Col. Recs., X. 909. A letter from Greene to Washington, Nov. 11 (Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser.. III. 638), is of similar purport. See the Journals, Nov. 15. Cf. a letter 
of William Hooper to the North Carolina provincial congress, Nov. 15, in N. C. Col. 
Recs., X. 903 (the original is in the office of the North Carolina Historical Commission) ; 
also Ellery to Cooke, Nov. 16, in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 99. 

* The same letter, with a variation in the postscript, was despatched to Virginia, 
South Carolina, and Maryland. The resolve applied only to North Carolina. Cf. 
no. 210, post. 

[209]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 21; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., III. 70s. 

2 Cf. the Journals, Nov. 15 (p. 955). 



1 

Your Favour of the iith Novr. came duly to Hand, and was laid 
before Congress.' 

2IO. William Hooper to the Puesioent of the North Carolina 

Convention (Richard Caswell).^ 

PHiLADELriiiA November i6 1776. 
Sir 

When I closed my letters last eveninj^.* I did not imag-ine that it would 
be necessary for me to write anything- furtlier upon the motives which 
induced the Congress to send the Express who is the bearer of this. The 
Representation of the delegates of South Carolina, stating the weakness of 
that colony and its incompetency to its own defence, if attacked by a 
formidable force of the Enemy, its reliance upon North Carolina for that 
succour which it had little reason to expect from any other source, their 
Apprehensions that an attack was immediately intended by General Howe 
upon Charlestown, have induced Congress to pass a resolve which this 
incloses, and have detained the express to give an opportunity to com- 
municate it to your honourable body.' .... 

The Continental Congress have therefore thought proper to recommend 
that the Continental Troops under Genl Moore should be stationed where 
they may be in a capacity to be suddenly and most effectually useful to 
South Carolina, and at the same time not at such a distance from ourselves 
as to be incapable of rendering No. Carolina Assistance in case the Enemy 
should be infatuated enough to attenpt to penetrate it. This measure 
recommended by Congress will I doubt not obtain your approbation, yet 
as the full and perfect security of North Carolina is a first and important 
object to me the representative of it, I did not think myself at liberty to 
consent to any arrangement which might weaken our internal resources 
without a competent substitute in lieu of them. This induced my applica- 
tion that the Militia which we might have occasion to call forth should 
be at the Continental Expence which from the justice of it obtained their 
assent 

Inclosed you have another Resolve which the necessity of recruiting 
an army immediately to the Eastward has rendered proper. Congress, 
tho well convinced of the utility of enlisting men during the War, as it 
would tend to prevent the frequent calls for bounty upon new enlistments, 
and obviate the difficulties which result from troops leaving Camp when 
their services are most essential, and when perhaps the fate of America 
might depend upon their stay, that we might have an army enured to 
serv^ice and discipline, thought proper to direct them to be raised during 

3 Washington's letter of Nov. 11 is in Writings (ed. Ford), V. 19, and Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth sen, III. 638 (see no. 197, note 4, ante). 

[2io]iN. C. Hist. Comm. ; A''. C. Col. Recs., X. 904. The letter was addressed to 
" The Honourable the President and Members of the Convention of the State of North 
Carolina". That body (which was, however, called the "Provincial Congress") met 
at Halifax, Nov. 12 to Dec. 23, 1776. See ibid., X. 913-1013. 

2 Hooper's letters of Nov. 15 are in A''. C. Col. Recs., X. 903-904. One of them is, 
in fact, a postscript to his letter of Nov. 14 (see no. 206, note 2, ante). 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 16. 



November, iyy6 155 

the War. An application from the State of Mass"*, accompanied with 
information that Connecticut and Rhode Island were pursuing similar 
and equally improper means to compleat their levies, finding that these 
States urged as an excuse for their extraordinary bounties, the insur- 
mountable difficulties which they met with in recruiting Men during the 
War, suggesting that Soldiers complained of such an engagement as a 
contract for perpetual servitude; The Cont. Congress thought proper to 
relax and shorten the terms of Enlistment, agreeable to the Resolve which 
I send you herewith and which the above will fully explain.* .... 

211. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes.^ 

[November i6(?), 1776.]^ 
My dear Hezves 

.... Accompanying this and inclosed in a letter to our Convention 
I send a Resolve of Congress, from which you will learn that the Congress 
have consented that w'hatever militia we may embody as far as 5000 are to 
be at the Continental Expence.^ If General Moore has begun works at 
the mouth of Cape fear river. His situation is perhaps as convenient 
where he is as elsew^here but should the Convention think proper to move 
him farther Southward the Militia will supply his place and compleat 
what he has begun. Would you believe it and yet what can surprize you 
upon that Score, G — y * this day moved for leave to enlarge the bounty 
of the Mass"^ recruits, not satisfied with having been the occasion of 
altering the original plan of the new Army as devised by congress they 
are still attempting to have their hands deeper in our pockets, with a 
pretty excuse, that they would pay it themselves. Paltry subterfuge. 
Must it not have gone thro' the levies of all the states and the Continent 
pay it in the end. It met the opposition it deserved, and my blood still 
boils with a resentment that language \vill not find curses to express. 
I am wearied of Blood suckers. I care not how soon I am relieved 
from them. 

Now for your own department. A House of rendezvous is opened. 
Biddle has all his Guns on board and by the latter end of this Week will 
be ready for Sea. The other Ships will be prepared as soon as possible 
and proceed upon business. The Congress have appointed Nixon and 
Wharton Commissioners to execute the order of the marine Committee 
and compleat any Shipping begun or to be begun in Philadelphia, a third 
will next Week be named to assist them.^ Things go on swimmingly now 
in the marine Way. on Tuesday next We take up the propriety of 

* See the Journals, Nov. 12; also nos. 194, 197, 199, 201, ante, and nos. 211, 212, 
213, 215, post. 

[21 i]i Furnished by the courtesy of Mr. James H. Manning of Albany. 

2 The principal part of this letter was evidently written Saturday, Nov. i6 ; the 
latter part was probably written on a later day. It does not appear, for instance, that on 
the i6th the incorrectness of Searle's information had yet been discovered. 

3 See no. 210, ante. 

* Elbridge Gerry. His motion is not recorded in the Journals. See nos. 197, 210, 
ante. 

5 John Nixon and John Wharton were appointed Nov. 13, Francis Hopkinson 
Nov. 18. 



15G Continental Congress 

building' more men of War and some of largfe force. Shall I undertake 
one for North Carolina?". . . . 

I refer you to the Newspapers for Genl. Washingtons and Howes 
movements, the people here have been horridly frig-htened. The Council 
of Safety a set of water Gruel Sons of B — s told the people a damned Lie 
" that they had certain information that lOO Ships had left Sandyhook 
for this City["] — the people at first believed and trembled, the tories 
griimed. Rumour trumpeted it for a day. Searle from Shrewsbury from 
whom the report originated was mistaken, the transports seen were empty 
bound for England. I can with pleasure however assure you that upon 
tliis alarm all ranks of people Quakers and Tories excepted declared 
their readiness to turn out as soon as matters were ascertained.^ .... 

Pray hasten by every means in your power the recruiting Service 
amongst you we shall have difficulty enough this way to encounter. Urge 
the Convention to apply for Genl Washington for the Southern depart- 
ment if the Enemy go that Way. In my next I will tell you why or 
Rutledge will he leaves this on Thursday. You will judge this Scrawl 
is not for every body's perusal, but When Mr Johnston knows that 
9 Colonies compose a Congress, that 9 only are here and I one of them, 
that every moment I am out of Congress belongs to Marine Treasury or 
Secret Committee, He will take this as you must a letter in Confidence 
and addressed to both of you. the time that this costs me is stolen from 
one duty to give to another.* .... 

Believe me to be your's and your's Affectionately 

Will Hooper 

[P. S.] .... Your friends the Portuguese have interdicted us from 
any Commerce with them and stiled us Rebels — for which they are a set 
of fools — What fine pickings amongst their Southern Cargoes as soon 
as we can justify a declaration of war against them® that I hope and 
believe will be soon. 

212. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke), ^ 

Philadelphia Novr. i6th. 1776. 
Sir, 

.... By this Express you will probably receive a Resolve which Con- 
gress have been forced into by the additional Bounty and Pay which have 

^ See the Journals, Nov. 20. 

' See nos. 206, 208, 210, ante, and no. 212, post. 

^ Cf. no. 215, post. The letter was brought to a conclusion here with "Yours 
affectionately ", but not signed. The subscription and signature below are appended to 
a postscript on a separate sheet. There are two other additions after the signature. 

® See the Journals, Dec. 23 and 30. News of this tenor had appeared in America 
as early as the preceding July. See Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., I. 659, 786, 1024, and the 
letter of the committee of secret correspondence to Silas Deane, Oct. i, Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 157. Cf. Beaumarchais to the committee, Sept. 15, Deane to 
Morris, Sept. 17, Carmichael to the committee, Nov. 2, and Franklin, Deane, and Lee 
to the Portuguese ambassador, Apr. 26, 1777, ibid., II. 146, 148, 184, 307, respectively. 
See also nos. 223, 252, post. 

[212]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1776, p. 106; Staples, R. I. in Cant. Cong., 
p. 99. 



November, lyyd 157 

been ofifered by some of the New-England States, and the additional 
Bounty which hath been offered in One of them. This Measure is con- 
demned by many Members of Congress, and by our General. It will they 
say necessitate the other States to do the same, which will greatly enhance 
the Continental Debt and Expense ; or we must have an Army doing the 
same Services for different Rewards which would occasion Jealousies, 
Envyings and Discord among the Soldiers to the great Injury of the 
public Service, As We have only offered an Additional Bounty We are 
less culpable in the Estimation of those who condemn the Deviation from 
the Original Resolve than any of the Transgressors. It is now in the 
Option of Soldiers to inlist for Three years without the Grant of Land, 
or during the War with it. This Alternative, with the retiring of the 
Enemy will I hope answer the Purpose.^ 

Thursday last a gentleman of Credit in the Jersey informed Congress 
by Letter, that the preceding Morning he saw about loo Sail of Ships 
standing out from the Hook to the Southward, with the Wind at North 
West. Yesterday he came to this City, and acquainted Congress that he 
saw the Fleet bear away, after he had wrote, and sail Eastward until 
they sunk below his Horizon. That they were headed by Two Frigates, 
and their Rear was guarded by a large Ship.* .... 

213. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

[Philadelphia, November 16, 1776.] 

.... A committee from the Massachusetts Gen'l Court arrived at 
the Camp about a fortnight ago to commission the officers etc. As that 
Gen'l Court had raised the pay of their soldiers 20/ per month, the 
General choose the matter should be laved before Congress before they 
proceeded to business, accordingly one of committee ^ came here, this 
affair has perplexed Congress exceedingly, all the Southern States think 
the incouragement to the Soldiers much too great before and if this com- 
mittee are permitted to follow their instructions the pay of the whole army 
must be raised. This by no means could be consented to. Congress have 
therefore revoked their Resolution for Inlisting the army during the war, 
and recommend the inlistment for three years only, as you'll see by the 
Resolution transmitted by the President. I Heartily wish this may have 
the desired effect. I really think they (the Massachusetts) were very 
wrong in raising the monthly pay. if they supposed the encouragement 
given by Congress insufficient, why could they not have increased the 
Bounty, or have pursued some measure, that would not have effected the 
whole army ? This affair has caus'd more perplexity and uneasiness than 
any thing that has happened in my time.* .... 

2 Cf. nos. 194, 197, 199, 201, 210, 211, ante, and nos. 213, 215, post. See also the 
resolve of Nov. 21. 

3 See nos. 206, 208, 210, 211, ante. A passage in which Ellery speaks of the addi- 
tional news in General Greene's letter of Nov. 12 is here omitted. 

[213]! Henkels, Catalogue, no. 698, item 53. 

2 George Partridge. See nos. 194, 197, 201, ante. 

3 See Whipple's earlier discussion of this affair, Nov. 8, no. 197, ante. 



1 

214. William Wiiutlk to John Languon.* 

Philadelphia, i^)tli Nov. 1776. 
My Dear Sir: 

.... You have here inclosed the late Resolutions of Conj^ress so far as 
they have ofone respecting; tlie navy. I ho|)e for some further alterations, 
but you know thinj^s of this sort must be (lone by dei^^rees; the incouraj2;-e- 
ment now given to Officers and men in the Navy are in my Opinion, as 
great as they can possibly Expect, and I hope wmII be to their entire 
satisfaction.' .... 

215. Oliver Wolcott to Matthew Griswold.^ 

Philadelp*, 18. Nov. 1776 
Sir, 

The establishing the New Army is a Subject of the most interesting 
Nature, and I fear will be attended with much Dihculty. notwithstanding 
all the Encouragment offerd the Men for inlisting, the Service the People 
have been called to has been hard. They have suffered much for the 
Want of Many Things, and have been too much exposed to the Oppres- 
sions of Harpys who for Triffles have stript them of their Wages. These 
Evils I hope in future will in a good Measure be remedied, as the men 
are to be cloathed," and it is now the Deliberation of Congress how they 
shall be regularly and in the cheapest Manner supplyed in the suttling 
Way.^ and I hope also the Medical Department will undergo a Reform 
of ]\[en at least, if not of Measures, that not so much Complaint which I 
fear has been too well grounded, may be heard respecting the Conduct 
of that Department,* but after all that can be done I still fear that the 
int[er]esting Business will go on slowly, and sorry I am that the late 
Encouragment for that purpose was not earlier made. Congress appre- 
hend this matter may become more embarrassed by what the Massa- 
chusetts have done in raising the pay, and w^hich I now understand has 
been adopted by Connecticut, it is the opinion of Gentlemen here, and so 
of Genl. Washington and of all the other Genl. Officers, that no Army can 
subsist together under different continental pay. and also if the Massachu- 
setts Plan had been adopted by Congress (and which would enhanch an 
Expence which it is tho't we are not well able to bear) they could not be 
certain that any other plan would take Effect, if particular States might 
at their pleasure offer Troops other pay. in a Word they say that such 
Conduct must immediately Subvert any continental Regulation for this 

[2i^Y Letters by Josiah Bartlett, William Whipple, and Others, p. 55; Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., III. 705 (extract). 

- See the Journals, Oct. 10, 11, 30, Nov. 6, 7, 13, 18, 20. Cf. no. 196, ante. 
[215]! Furnished by the courtesy of Mr. Wolcott G. Lane, of New York. 

- See. for instance, the Journals, Sept. 25, Oct. 9, 10, 16, 31, Dec. i. Cf. nos. 182, 
ante, 2^2, post. 

3 See section VIII. of the Articles of War, Sept. 20 (the Journals, p. 794), also 
the Journals, Nov. 8, 9. Cf. nos. 203, ante, 261, post. 

* The allusion is probably to the quarrel, at this time brewing, between Dr. 
Morgan and Dr. Shippen. See their correspondence with Congress. Washington, and 
others, in Force, Am. Arch., passim, and the Journals, passim, especially Sept. 17, 25, 
Oct. 9, Nov. 26, 28, 29, Dec. 5. 



November, 1776 15t) 

purpose, and if therefore permitted it would be altogether ineffectual to 
make any Military Establishment whatsoever. 

One of the Gentlemen of Massachusetts, appointed to assist in providing 
their Quota, was sent by Genl. Washington here before he entered on the 
Business of his appointment. You will perceive that the Measure 
adopted by Massachusetts has been reprobated by Congress, the Gentle- 
man has gone back with this Errand to Genl. Washington where I under- 
stand the Gentlemen from Connecticut are upon this Business. I think 
it is Very unhappy that the Massachusetts took this step, without advice. 
R Island' I understand has offered their Men a large additional Bounty 
which may be much less Mischeivous, as it is but a temporary business, and 
Wheither Connecticut will not be finally oblidged to take some such step 
I cannot say, tho' I know many Gentlemen here and I believe a considerable 
Majority will equally reprobate this Measure as the Other, and if it is 
done it must be certainly at the Colony's expence. Such a thing has been 
mentioned in Congress, but it gave many Gentlemen much Offence, as they 
Said that every Other State must be oblidged to do the like. I mention 
these Difficulties hoping that the Wisdom of the Colony will be able to 
obviate them, tho' to me they are too perplexing to point out any particular 
Way in which it can be done, but it is certain We must have an Army other- 
wise We shall be reduced to the most Unhappy Condition.^ A Lottery is 
agreed upon by Congress, that with the Loan Office may Effect something 
considerable to reduce the Currency, but yet I think something more ex- 
tensive must Very shortly be adopted to establish the Finances.^ you will 
hear sooner than I can inform you that an offer is made to the Men to inlist 
for three years, with the same Encouragments as before exclusive of the 
Land Reward. At present the Congress are pritty thin, there have not 
been but nine Colonies represented in Congress since the first of this Month, 
which is the lowest Number necessary to make one.'^ N York will this 
day be added, and Delaware and Maryland, w-ho have been lately attend- 
ing to the affairs of their Goverment will be here in a few days. Georgia 
Members are Waiting for New Powers which will be probably soon recd.^ 
At present there is none with me from Connecticut. Col Williams 
returned the 13th. int I expect Mr. Sherman here dayly.^ .... 

216. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety.^ 

Philadelphia Nov. 19th 1776. 

Gentlemen, 

I arrived here yesday afternoon. I have seen our Commissioners. 
Congress in answer to the three P[r]opositions from our State for Raising 

5 Cf. nos. 194, 197, 199. 201, 210-213, ante. 

6 The lottery was resolved upon Nov. i. For further action, see index to the 
Journals. Concerning the loan office, see the Journals. Oct. 3, 7, Nov. 13, 15. A begin- 
ning was made toward formulating further plans on Dec. 5 and 6. Cf. no. 203, ante. 

"^ Cf. no. 211, ante. 

8 See no. 240, post. 

9 Cf. nos. 222. 244, 260, post. 

[2i6]i Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 50; Arch, of Md., XII. 459; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth sen, III. 762. 



1 

our Quota have given a copy of a Resolve, relative to the Massachusetts 
Bay, who it [sic] I am infomied, offered 30/' a Month extra for the 
privates, in which Coni^fress aqfree to give 20 Dollars bounty to each soldier, 
who will enlist for three Years. Our Coniinissioners are mucli distressed.' 



217. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 

Virginia Assembly.^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 20th. 1776. 
Gentlemen, 

I have it in Charge from Congress to forward the enclosed Resolve.^ 
and to request your Attention to it. From the great Importance of it in 
carrying on the War against our Enemies, I am persuaded, you will take 
immediate Measures for complying with it in the most effectual Manner. 

You will percieve, from the vote of Congress, herewith transmitted, the 
Sense of that Body with Regard to the Necessity of furnishing the Troops 
for the new Army as soon as possible. 

As our Ennemies will no doubt take the Field early in the Spring, it 
becomes us to be prepared to meet them ; and for this End, to exert our- 
selves the approaching Winter, to compleat, the Army, agreeable to the 
new Establishment.' 

218. The Board of War to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety.^ 

War Office 2 o'clock P : M : 
Thursday [November 21, 1776].^ 
Gentletnen 

I did myself the Honour of writing you about two Hours since inform- 
ing your honourable Body that the Members of this Board were very 
ready to confer and co-operate with you in any ^Measures you should think 
necessary for the Defence of this State. The Congress having vested us 

2 See nos. 191, 205, ante, 219-221, 226, 248, post. 

[21 7] 1 Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. Identical letters were written to New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode 
Island, Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. 
This letter is printed in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 776. The original to Maryland 
is in the Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VI. 60. A similar letter was written to New York 
and New Jersey (Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 776). The first paragraph was sent 
also to the Pennsylvania council of safety (ibid.). 

- The particular resolve referred to is evidently that of Nov. 19 (Journals, 
p. 966) concerning magazines of military stores. This letter was to be sent to all the 
states from Pennsylvania southward. In some of the letters the plural was apparently 
used (see the text in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 776). The second paragraph refers 
to the resolution of the same date in regard to recruiting, which applied to all the states. 
It would seem that the further resolution in regard to recruiting, passed Nov. 21, was 
also included (see ibid., p. 777). 

3 This letter bears the following endorsements : 

" Ref err'd to a Comm. of the whole upon the State of the Country Deer, the 6, 1776." 
" The contents, taken into consideration in a Committee of the whole House on the 
state of the Country, Deer, th 6 but no resolution come to thereon." 
[2i8]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 4039; Hist. Mag., XIII. 18. 
2 This letter bears an endorsement : " War Office. 21 Novr. 1776." 



November, 1776 161 

with all their Powers ' we beg Leave to repeat that we are and shall be 
ready at all Times to meet a Committee from your Board to consult upon 
such Steps as may require our joint Exertions. Should you be inclined to 
hold a Conference you will be pleased to signify the same to 
Gentlemen, Your most obedt. Servts. 

By order of the Board of War 

E : RUTLEDGE 



219. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety/ 

Philadelphia Novr. 21st. 1776. Thursday Evening. 
Gentlemen. 

.... I have seen your opinion to our Commissioners that they should 
proceed and inlist our Troops for three years.^ I am apprehensive you 
do not see the opinion and object of Congress in its fullest Extent. The 
Congress will agree that Maryland may raise her Troops for three years, 
but have declared, and now hold, our State bound to contribute her pro- 
portion of the Expense attending the procuring of lands for the officers 
and soldiers furnished by other States for the war. We have proposed 
and urged on Congress that the question as to the procuring Lands at the 
expense of the united States, and our claim that the back Lands acquired 
from the Crown of G. B. in the present war should be a common stock 
for the benefit of the united States, and should remain open for the 
determination of some future Congress. We have proposed that any 
State which may raise its Quota for the War and give a bounty in Lieu 
of Land sho*^. indemnify the united States from any Claim from their 
officers and Soldiers who received an allowance in Lieu of Land, and that 
such State should not be chargeable to the united States for any part of 
the Expense attending the procuring of Lands for the officers and Soldiers 
of the other States who shall furnish Troops for the War. Both these 
propositions have been rejected. This day a Resolve passed, that each 
State be at Liberty to inlist for the War or three Years.^ what our 

8 See the Journals, Nov. 14; cf. ibid., Nov. 11. No record of such a conference at 
this time has been found. See however a resolution of Nov. 23, in consequence of which 
a committee of Congress had a conference with the council and members of the assembly. 
Some resolutions taken by the committee are printed in a foot-note in the Journals 
(ed. Ford), under Nov. 23. They are also found in the proceedings of the council of 
safety of Pennsylvania, preceded by this entry : " A Committee of Congress requested 
an interview with as many Members of the House of Assembly as are in Town, and this 
Council : Whereupon a Number of the Members of Assembly attended, and the following 
Resolutions of Congress were laid before them." Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 195, 
828. Cf. no. 226, post. 

[219]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 51; Arch, of Md., XII. 469; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., HI. 787. 

2 The opinion referred to is in a letter from the council of safety to the com- 
missioners, dated Nov. 17, in Arch, of Md., XII. 454. See also the Maryland council of 
safety to the commissioners, Nov. o, ibid., XII. 434, and the Maryland convention to 
the commissioners, Nov. 10, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 627, followed by the con- 
vention resolutions of Nov. 9 ; also the proceedings of the convention, Nov. 8, 9, 10, 
ibid., HI. 174, 177, 179, and the council of safety to the delegates, Nov. 29, Arch, of Md., 
XII. 490. Cf. nos. 191, 205, 216, ante, 220, 221, 226, post. See also no. 68, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 21 ; cf. ibid., Nov. 12, 13. 



1G2 Continental Congress 

Commissioners will do I know not, nor can I advise them. I am amazed 
at the Obstinacy of Congress, 

The Pajier for our Money is sliippod this Day. Mr. Paca arrived this 
Morninq-, so that we are now represented, but if Mr. Rumsey sho*^. go to 
Camp. We shall sot)n be without a I\epre.sentation.* 

220. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety/ 

Philad, Nov. 23rd. 1776 Saturday. 
Gentlemen 

.... The Congress have resolved to encrease their Navy. Two 
frigates of 36 Guns are to be built in our State. 

Many of tlie Congress, some true Friends, are uneasy at the Powers to 
tlie Delegates of Maryland, they are apprehensive, if made known they 
will reach Lord Howe, and encourage him, and if the Courts of Europe 
should see them, it would prevent a foreign alliance, some Reasons are 
given to countenance this Opinion. I do not .see why they should not be 
published in the Journall. the powers relate to Peace and War, and can 
be of no Service to the publick. I wish You would consider This Subject.'^ 

In eight Days the Enlistment of the far greater part of our*Army 
expires. I greatly doubt if we shall be able to prevail on the Troops to 
enter into the Service. I have some Hopes of obtaining our wish from 
Congress. Our Commissioners will proceed on tomorrow I believe, how- 
ever whether they do or not is a secret.^ 

221. Benjamin Rumsey to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer.^ 

Sir, 

We have continued in this Place untill this Day in wch. We shall set 
off for the Camp not being able to proceed before neither under the 
Letter nor Spirit of our Commission. 

Our Convention had certainly two capital Objects in View that as the 
Congress had engaged the Faith of the United States to furnish the 
Soldiery with the Bounty of Lands which they were to purchase, it fol- 
lowed by Implication that the United States had None belonging to them 
in Common but must purchase of particular States who claimed a 
Monopoly in them and of Course might ruin those States who had 
None. Her View then was to have these Lands declared a common 
Stock as being purchased (if ever purchased) by the joint Blood and 
Treasure of the Confederacy or find no Land to her Ruin. 

The first Satisfaction She received on this Head was that She might 
inlist for three Years and give the 20 Doll. Bounty, but must give the 

* See no. 221, note 3, post. 
[220] 1 Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 53; Arch, of Md., XII. 475; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., III. 819. 

- See the credentials, in the Journals, Nov. 19. 
3 See nos. 191, 205, 216. 219, ante, 221, 226, 248, post. 
[221 ]i Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 54; Arch, of Md., XII. 476; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., III. 827. 



November, iyy6 163 

Soldiers the Alternative to inlist during the War on the first Conditions, 
Opening two Rolls for the Purpose. 

This not pleasing they Resolve again that the Commissioners may 
proceed to inlist for three Years upon one Roll alone keeping it always 
in View that it was better to inlist during the War, if it did not retard 
the Service 

This Resolution keeping up the first Bone of Contention the Land and 
by Implication that the States had none still not answering expectation 
The Congress further resolved that any Resolutions that had passed 
should neither operate to weaken or strengthen the Claim of the United 
States or any of them to any Back Land by which this point that has given 
such uneasiness in our Province will be saved and be discussed hereafter 
in our future Confederacy. 

The Second point they had in View was the point of Taxation which 
they thought unequal being rated on Slaves as well as Whites. This 
has been expressly named as the Mode as to 6 Millions of Dollars. As 
to 14. more the same Declaration is made as in the Article of Land, that 
the proportion of sinking it shall be adjusted hereafter on each State and 
that nothing heretofore done shall strengthen or weaken such Enquiry 
or Question. 

Our Province having in some Measure obtained a Satisfaction on those 
two Heads Nothing now remains but to consider whether the Convention 
having impowered Us to proceed and inlist for and during the War on 
the 20. Dollars we can go on the Terms of three Years and the same 
Bounty being for a less Term and in this Point we are pretty generally 
agreed to depart from the Letter to preserve the Spirit.^ .... 

24. Novr. 1776 Philadelphia wrote in the Midst of Company' 

222. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott,^ 

Phelidelp*. 24th. Novr. 1776 
My Dear 

.... I have been alone in the Connecticut Delegation since Col 
Williams went home. Mr Sherman is dayly expected, but I suppose he 
finds a good deal of Dificullty in Executing his Business which he was 
employed in by the Colony, with the Army. 

Unless Col Williams tho't the present times less dificult, than when his 
Presence here was first tho't to be so Very essential I can assign No 
Reason why he went off, except what he himself gave, which was that 
he did not know whether he should do any good if he Staid — a most 
puzzling Question, and which probably will be a Matter of everlasting 
Doupt — but the true Reason of his Return was that he did not know of 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 21, 23, and nos. 191, 205, 216, 219, 220, ante, 226, 248, 
post. 

3 Rumsey was chosen a delegate to Congress by the convention of Maryland 
Nov. 10 (see the Journals, Nov. 19), but did not take his seat until Dec. 12 (see his letter 
of Dec. 19, no. 248. post). He had however been in Philadelphia for more than a month 
(see no. 191, note 3, ante), in intimate conference with members of Congress. This 
letter is therefore essentially, even if not technically, that of a member of Congress. 

[222] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. H., no. 22. 



1 

any particular personal or Family Interest to induce him to tarry longer.* 



223. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Purviance, jr.^ 

Philadelphia, 24th Novr. 1776 

Dear Sir, 

.... Very long before your recommendation of Mr. Plunket ^ came 
to hand, a Capt. Disney ' had been appointed Capt. of Marines on board 
the Virginia, upon the recommendation of Mr. Stone. 

The Congress have determined to build in Maryland two frigates of 
36 guns each, and I make no doubt but that one at least of these will be 
built at Baltimore. I suppose, when the committee meets on next Tuesday 
that directions concerning the building the new ships will issue to the 
respective States. Not a word has been yet said in Congress touching a 
quarrel with Portugal, nor will any such thing happen, I imagine, unless 
they should confiscate any of our Vessels.* .... 

If the Tories do not mend their manners, be more modest, and less 
noisy, they will shortly be haled over the coals in such a manner as will 
make the country too hot to hold them 

224. Elbridge Gerry to [Joseph Trumbull?].* 

Philadelphia, Nov. 26, 1776 

.... The late Events at New York relative to Forts Washington and 
Lee must be known before this reaches you ; I wish they may be forgot, 
as there appeared to me Want of Generalship. I have the pleasure to 
alleviate this by informing you that the Disposition of the Court of France 
is exceedingly favorable; such proofs were given of this so long ago as 

-In his letter to Wolcott, Aug. 12 (no. 73, ante; paragraph omitted there), 
Williams expresses the wish that there had been no call for his attendance. " at such a 
Season especially", and requests Wolcott to relieve him by the end of September or 
earlier. Wolcott wrote to his wife, Oct. 8 : " Mr. Sherman goes home for a short visit 
upon his Return Mr. Williams will probably go home. I shall likely continue here till 
the Expiration of my Delegation." (Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, II. 20.) 
Nov. 12, he wrote : " This goes by Col. Williams who is returning home. Mr. Hunting- 
ton and Mr. Sherman have been absent some time the latter is dayly expected back." 
(Ibid., II. 24.) Cf. no. 162, ante. Dec. 5, he wrote: " No Delegates are yet come from 
Connecticut tho I am informed Mr. Huntington will soon return." (Wolcott Papers, II. 
26.) Cf. no. 215, ante, 244, 260, post. 

[223]iMd. Hist. Soc, Portfolio No. 8 (i) ; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. 
Ballagh), I. 225; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 826; Purviance, Baltimore in the 
Revolution, p. 206. 

- Presumably David Plunkett, lieutenant in Smallwood's Maryland regiment. 

3 James Disney was made captain, July 13, in the 3d Maryland battalion of the 
flying camp. See Arch, of Md., XII. 170, and passim; also Heitman, Hist. Reg. 

* See no. 211, note 9, ante. 
[224]! Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. The contents of the letter point to Joseph Trumbull as the person to 
whom it was written. Moreover, Gerry speaks, in his letter of Dec. 7 (no. 239, post), 
of a letter of Nov. 26 to Trumbull. 



November, iy'j6 165 

June last, (but lately discovered to Congress) as were not expected; 
I am not at Liberty to say more on this Matter at present.^ .... 

225. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 26th. 1776. 
Sir, 

.... The Congress have ordered General Mifflin to stay in this City, 
until you shall require his Attendance at Head Quarters, being well con- 
vinced that his Influence, which is very considerable over the Associators 
of this Place, will be employed to spirit them on to the most vigorous 
Measures.^ 

226. Samuel Chase to tije Maryland Council of Safety.^ 

Philadelphia. Nov. 26th. 1776 
Tuesday Morning 
Gentlemen. 

In my last I expressed some Hopes of prevailing on Congress to give 
our State some Satisfaction as to the back Lands, and the Mode by which 

2 The favorable disposition of the court of France had for some time been 
known to the committee of secret correspondence (see, for instance, the committee's 
memorandum of Oct. i, no. 153, ante), but precisely when their information was dis- 
closed to Congress is not evident. Some such disclosure was made the latter part of 
August, probably through a letter of William Bingham, agent at Martinique (see nos. 97, 
136, ante). Doubtless even prior to this the committee had received the letters of Dumas 
and Arthur Lee, together with their correspondence with Beaumarchais, written in 
April, May, and June (see Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 85, 90, 95 et seq.). The first 
of Deane's letters of which the Journals make definite record is that of Oct. i (ibid., 
II. 153), which was read in Congress Dec. 21; but earlier letters, not only of Deane, 
but also of Dumas, Arthur Lee, and Beaumarchais, had been received by the com- 
mittee. It is not, however, apparent just when Deane's letter of Aug. 18 (ibid., II. 112) 
was received, but it was after Oct. i (see the committee to Deane, Oct. i, ibid., II. I57)- 

[225]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 31; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., III. 852. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 25. Mifflin wrote to Washington, Nov. 26: 

". . . . I came into this town at eight o'clock Sunday evening, and waited on Mr. 
Hancock with your letter immediately after my arrival. Yesterday morning I was 
admitted to Congress, in general committee, and went as far in my relation of the 
wretched appointments of the Army, the dangerous and critical situation of the Jerseys 
and Pennsylvania, and the necessity of immediate vigorous exertions to oppose Mr. Howe, 
as their sensibility and my own delicacy would justify. After some debate, a requisition 
was made to the Assembly now sitting, and Council of Safety of Pennsylvania, of their 
whole Militia; and resolutions formed for the purpose of establishing wholesome and 
necessary regulations for this and the next campaign. 

" I received orders from Congress to remain in this town until your Excellency judged 
it necessary for me to join the Army. Those orders were in consequence of the divided 
and lethargic state of my countrymen, who appeared to be slumbering under the shade 
of peace, and in the full enjoyment of the sweets of commerce. 

" In the afternoon I waited on the Committee of Safety, and with much success 
addressed their passions. The Assembly are to meet this morning. Their lesson is 
prepared by the Committee of Safety and some of their leading members, who say 
matters will now go on well. 

" It is proposed to call on every man in the State to turn out. Such as refuse are to 
be fined five pounds per month, the fines to be distributed among those who inlist. 

" To-morrow the city Militia is to be reviewed. If they appear in such numbers as 

we expect, I am to give them a talk well seasoned " Mifflin's letter is in Force, 

Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 852. What purports to be his address to the Pennsylvania 
associators is ibid., III. 890. 

[226] 1 Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 55; Arch, of Md., XII. 481 ; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., III. 853. 



ICC Continental Congress 

the Proportion of the Expenses of the War was to be paid by each State. 
In this expectation 1 was delayefl and (hsappointed for two Days, by Mr. 
Jenifers mcntioninqf that (^nr Conmiissioners had your orders to proceed. 
by an obstinate perseverance tlie enclosed Resolve was obtained last 
Saturday; on Sunday afternoon our Conmiissioners left this City, on 
yesterday the Commissioners from Conefress, of which Mr. Paca is one, 
also vSett off for the camps, much depends on their Success.'' 

.... In this State it is proposed to call out all the Militia of four 
Countys and this city immediately for six weeks. Chester, Bucks, North- 
ampton and Philadelphia counties are the nearest to the Jerseys, and it 
is also proposed to call out a Company of volunteers from each Battalion 
in this State to enroll 'till loth March next. 

The preservation of this State and the Jerseys, and in great measure, 
the common Safety will depend on the success of this Requisition.' 

New Jersey is also called on for aid. and Delaware is solicited, and if 
our State could afford any assistance in time, an application would also 
be made to her.* 

If the present cloud should be happily dispersed, the new^ Levies will be 
the first object of your attention. We can neither prosecute the war nor 
obtain honorable Terms of peace without an Army. The inlistment will 
be only for three years, on the bounty of 20 dollars, and the annual 
clothinsf. or the 20 dollars in lieu thereof, by the resolves of Congress.® 
I am informed, that the recruiting officers are entitled to 10/ for each 
man inlisted and passed, and 10/ per week for provisions, till the Recruits 
arrive at some place where they can be furnished by the Continental 
Commissaries.® .... 

227. Olivier Wolcott to Timothy Edwards.^ 

Pheledelpiiia 29th. Novr 1776 
Sir, 

.... I should probably have Attended wnth you at the Indian Con- 
ferance in July had my Health permitted 

Congress does not allows the Commissioners any Thing more than their 
Expences. for my Service ^ I intend to Apply to our Assembly for pay, 
which I hope they will allow, for as the Commissioners are almost from 
every State I do not know why they may not be paid by them; Any 

~ See nos. 191. 205, 216, 219-221, ante, 248, post. 

3 See the resolutions in the Journals, Nov. 25, and cf. the resolutions of the com- 
mittee (of which Chase was a member), appointed Nov. 23, in the Journals, under Nov. 
23 (P- 975 "•)• See also no. 218, note 3, ante. 

* A letter from the committee mentioned in note 3, above, to George Read, 
Nov. 25, asking assistance from Delaware, is in Read, Life of Read, p. 216; also in 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 837. See also McKinley to Read, Dec. 4 (two letters), 
Life of Read, pp. 217, 218. Cf. the Journals, Dec. 3. 5, 9. 

5 The particular resolves alluded to are of Sept. 16, Oct. 8, and Nov. 21. Cf. 
no. 219, ante. 

6 See the Journals. Oct. 12, 1775, Jan. 17, 1776; cf. ibid., Feb. 6, May 10, Oct. 16, 
Dec 27. See also no. 228, note 2, post. 

[227]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll, no. 1570, Declaration of Independence. 

2 Wolcott and Edwards were two of the five commissioners of Indian affairs 
in the Northern department. Wolcott was chosen July 13, Edwards Nov. 24, 1775. 



November, iyy6 107 

Monies which may be Wanted for the Nortliern Department will be sent 
upon Application of the Commissioners, perhaps the Ten Thousand" 
Dollars sent last summer may have answered the Necessary Expenditures. 
Last April I was directed by Congress to Conferr with Col Francis 
respecting some Indians then in this City.' I Waited upon him the first 
Time I had seen him the three pr[e]ceeding Months I had been here tho 
I Went every Day by his House, he was Very Complesant and said he 
knew I had iDeen Appointed to attend Congress but had never heard that 
I had been in the City, after the Business was over, I tho't it best to 
Mention to him the bringing the Susquehannah AfTair into the late 
Treaty * so that he might not be able to say that I had been with him, 
but had not Honor enough to say a Word to him upon the subject. I told 
him that he had douptless been informed, that an Enquiry had been made, 
how the Susquehannah Business had been introduced into the late Indian 
Conferance. he said he had never been informed of it. which to me after 
all my Acquaintance with this Gentleman was surprizing. I then told 
him the affair particularly, he became Very angry recriminated with 
great Severety upon the Commissioners upon Genl. Schyler in particular, 
called it an ex Parte Affair etc. I let him know that the Matter had been 
conducted with great Honor and Propriety, and that as I might be sus- 
pected of some Partiality as belonging to Connecticut, I had declined 
going into the Examination myself, but left the Matter to those whose 
Impartiality and Integrity could not be suspected. This was the Sub- 
stance of every Thing that passed between him and me at that Time. 
I did not imagine I had been guilty of any Disrespect to the Commis- 
sioners or had with Impropriety mentioned the affair. Nothing but a 
mere Point of Honor induced Me to say a Word to him upon the Subject. 
Sometime after he delivered an Open Letter to Me, the Copy of which 
I enclose. I felt much Chagrined at it, and told Francis that I never had 
blamed the Commissioners for what they had done and that I would now 
inform him, if he could be under any Misapprehension that in my Opinion 
if they had neglected an Enquiry they would have been guilty of a 
Criminal Omission and that I never Signified a Lisp to him more than 
that I did not take the Examination, but that I did most cordially approve 
of what they had done, and that he never had the least Reason from any 
Thing I ever said to him to doupt of it. This was the Substance of what* 
pasd. at this Time, sometime after he put a Memorial to Congress,^ 
setting forth as tho' I had been guilty of Maltreating him and the Com- 
missioners and moved for an Enquiry, which I most heartily seconded. 
a Committee was appointed of such Gentlemen as he certainly could have 
no objection against. Fulmer ® and one of the Onondagas, who was with 

3 \VoIcott was chosen, Apr. 30, a member of the committee of Congress on 
Indian affairs, but this instruction to confer with Francis is not recorded in the Journals. 

* The Indian treaty at Albany, August, 1775. The proceedings at the treaty, 
Aug. 15-Sept. 3, are in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser.. III. 473-496. Concerning the 
incident here referred to, see a letter from the commissioners to Congress, Dec. 14, 1775, 
ibid., IV. 259; also vol. I. of these Letters, nos. 464, 715, note 2. 

^ The memorial was presented toi Congress June 4. 

® Thomas Fulmer was one of the interpreters at the treaty of Albany. See the 
Journals, June 11, 26. 
16 



lt)8 Continental Congress 

Col Francis the Evening referred to in the Repurt, when this Matter was 
first agitated by Col Francis was then in Town. Fulmer reaserted his 
former Testimony, the Onondago was Examined, who said that a White 
Man was the Occasion of the Matter being Mentioned, he was askd. who 
he was he said he did not come there to talk about Lands and declined 
giving any further Ace**. Col Francis was present during the Enquiry. 
I desired the Committee to fully Investigate the subject of Col Frances 
Memorial, but contrary to my Expectation they never proceeded farther 
with it. but made Report that they did not find the Facts stated in the 
memorial.^ I have as short as I could given you the Hystory of this 
Affair which you may probably have heard something of from another 
Qua[r]ter. So concious as I am myself of my own Innocency, I could 
not but Wonder that Col Francis Letter should make so much Impression 
upon Genl. Schyler Mind as it appeared to have done. I meant before 
now to have Wrote him upon the Subject, but for the general Reasons 
which have prevented me from answered [sic] your Favour earlier has 
hindered me I cannot think it a Crime to have mentioned the affair to 
Col Francis as I have no Apprehension that the Commissioners meant to 
keep the matter secret, if they did, I have been ignorantly faulty 

228. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety.^ 

Philadelphia, Novr. 30th. 1776 
Saturday Morning 
Gentlemen, 

. ..." I am desired by Congress to call your immediate attention to 
their Request some Time ago to our Convention, to make Enquiry of some 
Nanticoak Indians, which the Six Nations alledge came into our State, 
and have not since been heard of, and they express fears for their safety, 
be pleased to enquire of Mr. Duvall for the Letter from Congress on this 
Subject, and take effectual Measures for a speedy Enquiry. I should 
imagine the Committee for Dorset County could make the proper 
Enquiry.^ .... 

229. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Deer. ist. 1776. 
Sir, 

Your Favour of the 30th. Novr. was duely received ; in Consequence of 
which, as the Contents were of the utmost Importance, I thought proper 

^ Cf. the report as recorded in the Journals, June 17. 
[228]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., Signers, p. 12; Arch, of Md., XII. 496; Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 916. 

- Chase quotes here the resolution of Congress of Oct. 12, 1775, relative to the 
allowance for recruiting. See no. 226. note 6, ante. 

3 See no. 198, ante. The council's reply to this letter, Dec. 6, is in Arch, of Md., 
XII. 509. See also the council's letter to Brig.-Gen. Henry Hooper, Dec. 3, ibid., XII. 502. 
[229]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 34; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., III. 1026. 



December, iyy6 169 

to call the Congress together; whose Resolutions of this Day, I now do 
myself the honour to enclose. '^ .... 

230. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry.* 

Philadelphia 3rd Dec, 1776 

Dear Sir, 

.... Col Charles Harrison leaves this place to-day with 250,000 
dollars under his care for the use of our forces in Virginia, and for paying 
the bounties. Your recommendation of this Gentleman, seconded by his 
real merit, has procured him the command of a regiment of artillery, to 
be raised in Virginia,^ Congress having resolved to keep the artillery and 
engineer's departments under immediate continental inspection 

231. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.* 

Philadelphia Deer. 4th. 1776. 
Sir, 

The Congress apprehending that, in the present State of the Army, and 
Situation of our Affairs, an Exchange of Governor Franklin might be 
prejudicial, and attended with some bad Consequences, have been induced 
to come to the above Resolution, which I transmit by their Directions.* 

232. The New York Delegates to the New York Convention.* 

Philadelphia, December 4, 1776. 
Gentlemen: 

We received Mr. McKesson's letter, dated the 25th November. We 
have, according to your request, applied to Congress for leave to our 
State to raise another battalion, to be commanded by Colonel Dubois, 
which is agreed to, and a resolve to that purpose is enclosed for employ- 
ing five Aid-Majors at the expense of our State.^ .... The accounts 
of the officers of the five battalions is with you to settle. The Congress 

2 The Journals record that "Congress, on a summons, met Sunday, December i, 
1776". Two letters of Washington, dated Nov. 30, were read Dec. i. One of them 
was addressed to the board of war. The letters are in Washington's Writings (ed. 
Ford), V. 54, 58, and Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 919, 920. 

[2Zo]^ Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 227; Henry, Life of Patrick 
Henry, III. 31. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 26, 27, 30 ; cf. ibid., Mar. 19, May 18. 
[231]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 38; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser.. III. 1069. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 23, Dec. 3. 
[232]! Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 366, 1069; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 747, II. 
254; N. Y. State Lib., Minutes of the Committee of Safety, VI. 1099 (copy). 

2 See the proceedings of the New York committee of safety, Nov. 23 (including 
drafts of letters to Congress and to Washington), Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 317- 
320; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 715-716. See also no. 141, note 2, ante, and the Journals, 
Nov. 30. 



1 

does not interfere under tlie new arrangement in the rank of officers 

ajipointed by the several States 

We are. jifentlenien. your most obedient servants, 

Phil. Livingston, 
Fra. Lewis, 
Wm. Floyd. 



233. TiiK Secret Committee to the Massachusetts Assembly.^ 

Philadelphia Deer 4th 1776 
Gcntloncn 

A Committee of Congress was appointed the 25th Septr last to procure 
cloathing in all the States on this Continent for the use of our Army and 
we find they wrote to you on the loth Octr requesting the favour of you 
to employ proper persons to purchase what could be obtained in your 
State to this letter they have not received any answer and the Congress 
being very anxious and impatient to have this important business duely 
attended to and executed have directed us to send one or more trusty 
persons into the Eastern States to Collect what has been bought and to 
make such further purchases of suitable articles as they can accomplish.^ 



234. Benjamin Rush, Diary.^ 

[December 5(?), 1776.]' 

A number of Indian chiefs came from Fort Pitt (where a treaty had 
been held with them by commissioners appointed by Congress) came to 
Philadelphiain Novr 1776. They were all introduced to the congress. They 
took each member bv the hand, and afterwards sat down. One of them 
(after a pause of 10 minutes) rose up and addressed the congress in the 
following words. 

Brothers. We received your commissioners at the little counsel fire 
at Fort Pitt We wiped the sweat from their bodies. We cleansed the 
dirt from their [a]nkles We pulled the thorns from [their] feet! We 
took their Staffs from thier hands, and leaned them ag[ainst] the tree of 



1233]! Mass. Arch.. CXCVI. 426 (copy). 

- See the Journals, Dec. i. The clothing committee's letter of Oct. 10 to the 
Massachusetts assembly has not been found, but see a letter of Oct. 7 to the New York 
convention, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 925. Cf. nos. 182, 215, ante, 312, post. Nov. 
4 the committee drew an order on President Hancock for twenty thousand dollars in 
favor of the delegates of Connecticut, " to be by Them transmitted to the Governor 
and Council of Safety for that state, to be by Them improved to purchase Qoathing 
for the Soldiers in the Service of the United States ". The order, in the writing of 
William Williams and signed by Robert Treat Paine, William EUery, George Wythe, 
George Ross, Arthur Middleton, William Williams, and Lyman Hall, is in Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 58, f. 409. 

[234]! Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS., II. 

- Probably Dec. 5. See the Journals, Dec. 3, 5, 7, 9. 



December, lyyd 171 

peace. We took their belts from thier waists, and conducted them to the 
seats of peace.® 

235. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philadelpa., Dec. 6, 1776 

My dear Sir, 

I wrote to you two days ago " by a Captn. Potes. This will be deliverd 
to you by Mr. Livingston ' who is employed by a Committee of Congress 
to repair to the Eastern States to purchase cloathing for the Army.* I 
inclosd to you not long ago a Resolve of Congress relating to Shoes and 
Stockings which it is supposd can be procured in very considerable 
Quantities in those States.^ I then mentiond to you my hopes that your 
Committee had collected a good Stock of Cloaths. I had venturd almost 
to assure Congress that this had been done 

2^6. George Read to Mrs. Read.^ 

Philadelphia, 6th December, 1776. 
My dear G — , 

Attendance night and morning at committees, and all day at Congress, 
puts it out of my power to write you so frequently as I ought, and have 
had opportunities, but I have no chance of a moment but when I retire 
out of Congress to the Committee-Room, where I now am, to write to any 
person; however, be assured if any [thing] very material occurs you shall 

hear of it The troops belonging to the " flying camp ", whose 

term of enlistment had expired, left the general in whole brigades, — par- 
ticularly Jersey and Maryland, — as also Colonel Patterson's battalion — 
they would [not] serve an hour longer, so that the city is filled with the 
returning soldiers, though never more needed in the field. The Delegates 
of Maryland, with General Mifflin, harangued a great number, perhaps 
six or seven hundred of them, in the State House yard yesterday with 

3 In the original text a figure " 2 " immediately precedes the words " We wiped ", 
and a figure " i " stands before " We took ". The figures may be intended to indicate 
the transposition of the passages. In Rush's Memorial (p. 92) this passage from his 
Diary appears in the form following : " During my attendance in Congress in Phila- 
delphia, I had the pleasure of being present at an interview between some Chiefs of the 
Six Nations and Congress in their hall in the State House. After a pause of ten minutes, 
one of the Chiefs rose from his seat and pointing to the sun said, ' The business of this 
day will end well. Yonder sun rose bright this morning. The Great Spirit is propitious 
to us. Brothers, we received the commissioners you sent us. at the little council fire 
at Pittsburgh, we wiped the sweat from their bodies, we cleaned the dirt from their legs. 
We pulled the thorns from their feet. We took the staffs from their hands and placed 
them against the tree of peace. We took their belts from their waists, and afterwards 
conducted them to the seats of peace.' In retiring all shook hands with every member 
of Congress." 

[235] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 278. 

2 A letter from Samuel Adams to James Warren, Dec. 4, is in Wells, Life of 
Samuel Adams, II. 452. 

3 Abraham Livingston. See Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1501, 1518. 
* See the Journals, Dec. i. Cf. no. 233, ante. 

^ See the Journals, Nov. 27. 
[236]iRead, Life of Read, p. 219. 



1 

success, and it is expected a pfreat part will return for a month.'-' .... I 
know not when I may see you. 1 cannot stir, for the non-attendance of 
our representatives for times past has been severely animadverted upon 
since my return. 

237. Charles Carroll to the President of the Maryland Council 
OF Safety (Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer).^ 

Dear Sir 

.... We now tho in My opinion far from being- entirely Secure begin 

to be a Little More Composed The Inactivity of the People Here 

was so Great and their Disinclination to stir to oppose the Enemy so 
apparent that we were forced to offer Clothing to some of our flying 
Camp Troops Here that will amount to about four Pounds per Man to 
Induce them to Return and Join the Army for one Month only and to 
Engage tliat our Province will be at the Expence should the Congress 
refuse it. wch. Surely they will not. How many We may Get to return 
I Know not as from What they Have sufTerd they Do not seem to Have 
mucli appetite for the Service.^ We Have at Present 12 states represented 
in Congress but many of them by one Person only so that we are Thin in 
Number, if the situation of Mr Stones family are such that He Can 
Leave it We should Have much Pleasure in Seeing him and I must request 
you Will write to Mr Johnson to Join us.' .... 

PhiladelphiaDeer 7th 1776. 

[P. S.] . . . . 

238. William Paca to the Maryland Council of Safety.^ 

Gentn: 

Congress is of the Opinion that the Order from the Board of War 
extends only to such Prisoners as are Natives of Great Britain and 
Soldiers from thence in the present War and therefore the Prisoners from 
Carolina and Residents there lately taken in Arms against us are not 
comprehended and are still to be detained.^ As to the two Gentlemen 
taken by Capt. Cook whether they be Prisoners or not is a Matter our 
State must decide and not Congress. I am told by the Delegates to the 
Eastward that Persons in such Predicament are set at Liberty but the 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 3, and no. 237, post. 
[237] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Members of the Old Congress, I. 75. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 3 (p. 1003), and no. 236, ante. 

3 The council wrote to Stone and Johnson, Dec. 12, requesting their attendance 
(Arch, of Md., XII. 524)- Concerning the thin attendance of Congress, see also nos. 
211, 215. 222, ante, 251, post. 

[238]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 56; Arch, of Md., XII. 512; Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., III. 1094. 

- The opinion of Congress must have been taken informally as there is no record 
of it in the Journals. The council's inquiry, to which this letter is a reply, has not been 
found. The occasion of the inquiry was a call from the board of war, Nov. 19, for 
the collection of the British prisoners to be exchanged {Arch, of Md., XII. 456; Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 762). See Washington to the board of war. Nov. 15, ibid., 
III. 699. and the board's reply, Nov. 19, ibid.. III. 762; see also ibid., III. 778, 810, and 
Arch, of Md., XII. 486. 



December, iyy6 173 

Property taken is confiscated, but this is not a general Rule. Circum- 
stances often require them to be prisoners: you must therefore (I speak 
my own Opinion only) exercise your Discretion in the present Case.' 

• a • • 

Saturday, 7. Dec. 1776. 

239. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia 7th Deer 1776 
Dear sir 

I wrote You the 26th Novr ^ touching several Matters mentioned in 
the Letters received from You before that Time, and am informed by 
General Mifflin that he forwarded two of my Letters. You will therein 
find my Sentiments relative to a Contract, and the present Improbability 
there is that any will take place. You will also see that your Petition is 
referred to the Treasury f that Congress have impowered You to import 
Rice from the southern States, and that I have recommended your 
immediate Application in strong Terms for Liberty to import Flower. 
I find You place great Confidence in a certain Southern Friend.* had he 
Voted with Us in this Instance, It had prevented the Necessity of a second 
Application, but this he rarely omits to avoid. Mention is likewise made 
of the Fish purchased of You to import military Stores, that the Quality 
was greatly reduced by age, in so much that it must be sent to the West 
Indies instead of Europe as was first intended, and You was desired when 
Oppertunity offers to send a Bill thereof 

240. The Georgia Delegates to the President of Congress.* 

loth December, 1776. 
Sir: 

We have received accounts of our reappointment to represent the State 
of Georgia in Congress, and will be ready to take our seats in a day or two. 
In the mean time we request an order on the Treasury for two thousand 
dollars, on account of the State we are appointed to represent.^ 
We are, sir, your most obedient servants, 

Lyman Hall, 
George Walton 

To the Honourable John Hancock, Esq. 

3 The prisoners here referred to are probably the two passengers mentioned by 
Captain Cook in his letters to the council, Oct. 4, in Arch, of Md., XII. 319, 320. In the 
council minutes, Nov. 5 {ibid., XII. 421), they are mentioned by name, Mr. Milne and 
Mr. Jenkins. A letter from the council to the delegates, Dec. 27 {ibid., XII. 555) > asks 
for the opinion of Congress as to their status. See nos. 288, 318, post. 
[239]! Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 68. 

2 Probably Gerry's letter of Nov. 26, from which an extract is given (no. 224, 
ante). Cf. nos. 124, 145, 162, 164, 166, 172, 175, ante, and nos. 266, 423, post. 

^ See the Journals, Nov. 18; also no. 548, post. 

* William Hooper? 
[240]! Force Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1148. 

2 The money was granted on the day of this request, and the credentials were 
presented Dec. 20 (that is, on the day of assembling at Baltimore). Walton however 
attended Dec. 12. See no. 215, ante. 



174 Continental Con^res.t 

241. Samuel Chase to James Xicholson.^ 

PiiiLADA Deer. nth. 1776 
Wednesday morninji^ 

Sir, 

It lins been reported that you was cominq- up to this City with a Body 
of seamen and marines, one of the frit^atcs is ready for the Sea, the other 
three may be soon reaily for a short Voyaj:;'e, if men ^ could be procured. 
You would render essential Service, if You could immediately come up 
with a Body of Seamen.' and an attempt miq-ht be made to bring round 
all the frigates here to Baltimore Town. It cannot be doubted the Council 
of Safety would lend the * Hands belonging to the Defence for tliis very 
important service, you will send an Express to the Council of Safety, 
not one Moment is to be lost." I write this by the order of Congress. 

The congress will not quit this City but in the last extremity, to pre- 
vent false Reports, publish the above." 

Inform Mr. purviance, that Mrs. Hancock will sett off this Day. 

Let it be known, that arms are furnished to our Militia. Let the want 
of them be no excuse. 



242. Charles Thomson to George Washington.^ 

[December 11, 1776.] 

Sir, 

The president being necessarily engaged with his family, I have the 
honour to inform you that your letter of the loth was duly received and 

[241]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 58 (draft) ; Arch, of Md., XII. 520; Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth sen, III. 1165. Addressed to Capt. James Nicholson, Baltimore Town, Md. 

2 The words " and guns " are erased. 

3 The following is erased here : " and Marines. If you could get a clever diligent 
and trusty officer, with a sufficient Number of Sailors and others to bring up the Guns 
of your frigate and the defence." See a letter from the Maryland council to Capt. George 
Cook, Dec. 15, Arch, of Md., XII. 530; also a letter from the Baltimore committee to 
the committee at Annapolis, Dec. 12, ibid., XII. 524, and Samuel Purviance, jr., to the 
council, Dec. 14, ibid., XII. 529 (also in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 1179, 1212). 

* The words " guns and "' are erased. 

5 See the letter of the Maryland council of safety to the delegates, Dec. 15, 
Arch, of Md., XII. 530; also no. 250, post. 

^ Congress had, on Dec. 9, resolved to adjourn to Baltimore in the event that it 
became necessary to remove from Philadelphia. See also the Journals. Dec. li (erased 
resolve), 12, and nos. 242, 243, 244, post. Samuel Purviance, jr., of the Baltimore com- 
mittee wrote to the Mar>'land council of safety, Dec. 14: " Our Commie are preparing the 
Court House in the best manner the time will admit for the reception of the Congress 
shoud they be obliged to leave Philadelphia, in which case Mr. Chase writes it is intended 
to come." Arch, of Md., XII. 529; Force, Am-. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1212. See no. 340, 
note 2. post. 

[242]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 40; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser.. III. 1 164. 



December, jyy6 175 

laid before Congress, and to transmit you a resolution of Congress passed 
this day.^ 

I am Sir 

Your obedient humble servant, 

Cha. Thomson ' 

243. Samuel Adams et al. to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Deer 12 1776.^ 
Sir 

We are this Moment informd by a Gentleman who is Brother of Collo. 
Grififin ^ and has lately been at New York, that a Body of ten thousand of 
the Troops are actually arrivd at Rhode Island.* 

As Congress is now adjournd to Baltimore in Maryland, and the 
President and the Board of War are not in Town, we think it our Duty 
to send you this Intelligence; and as there is no General Officer in that 
Department, we refer it to your Consideration whether the Service does 
not absolutely require that one be immediately sent, to take the Command 
of Troops to be raisd there, to repel the Progress of the Enemy 

If Major General Green or Gates, who are greatly belovd in that Part of 
America, with a suitable Number of Brigadiers, could be spared for this 
Service, it might be attended with another advantage, that of facilitating 
the new Inlistments 

We intreat your Attention to this important Matter and are with very 
great Respect 

Your Excellcys very humble Servants 

Samuel Adams 
Elbridge Gerry 
William Ellery 
Wm. Whipple 
His Excellency Genl. Washington 

2 Accompanying this letter (on the same sheet) is the resolution calling upon 
General Washington to contradict in general orders the " scandalous report " that Con- 
gress was about to disperse. Washington wrote, Dec. 12, disapproving the resolution 
and declining to publish it. The letter was read in Congress Dec. 20, and referred to 
a committee, which reported on the following day a resolution (which was adopted) 
approving Washington's course. Both resolutions were then erased from the Journals. 
Cf. no. 241, ante. See also nos. 244, 254, post. Washington's letters of Dec. 10 and 12 
are in Writings (ed. Ford), V. 76 n., 82; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1152, 1182. 
The resolution printed in connection with Thomson's letter in Am. Arch, is, erroneously, 
that of Dec. 11 appointing a day of fasting, etc. 

3 On Dec. 12 it again devolved upon Secretary Thomson to write in Hancock's 
stead to Washington, " the President still being necessarily engaged with his family ". 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 1179. 

[243]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. II., p. 200 (original, in the writing 
of Samuel Adams). 

2 In a letter of this date to James Warren {Warren-Adams Letters, I. 279), 
Samuel Adams says : " Mr. P[aine] has this day left the Congress having leave after 
laboring in the service Sixteen Months without Cessation." 

3 Col. Samuel Griffin, who was appointed by General Putnam, Dec. 14, adjutant- 
general of the troops in and about the city of Philadelphia. See Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., III. 1214. 

^ See Robert Morris to the President of Congress, Dec. 13, 16, Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., III. 1198, 1239. See also ibid., III. 1129-1131, and passim (index, Rhode Island) ; 
also Governor Cooke to William Ellery, Dec. 22, Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 108. 



17G Continental Congress 

244. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott.^ 

Philedelphia 13th Deer. 1776 
My Dear 

.... the Congress upon the advice of Genl. Putnam and Mifllin who 
are now here to provide for the Protection of the Places as well as from 
the Resultt of their own opinion have adjourned themselves, to Baltimore 
in Maryland, a Place about no miles from this City, as it was judged 
that the Council of America ought not to Sit in a Place liable to be 
interrupted, by the rude Disorder of Arms, so that I am this Moment 
going forward for that Place.^ Whether the Enemy will succeed in their 
cruel Designs against this City must be left to time to Discover, Congress 
have ordered the Genii, to Defend it to the last extremity and God grant 
that he may be successfull in his Exertions 

No Gentlemen from Connecticut are arrived since I last Wrote to you 
upon this Head.* Majr. Elisha Sheldon is here and well ; and is appointed 
by Congress to raise a Regiment of Horse in Connecticut.* .... 

245. Robert Morris to the President of Congress 

(John Hancock).^ 

PhiladelphiaDecemr. i6th. 1776. 
Sir 

.... The sudden departure of the Congress from this place seems 
to be a matter of much speculation and People who judge by events, think 
they have been too precipitate, be that as it may, many things are thrown 
into great confusion by it, and I find ample employment in applying 
remedies wherever I can. The unfinished business of the Marine and 
Secret Committees, I intended to confine mvself to. but I hear so manv 
complaints and see so much confusion from other quarters that I am 
obliged to advise in things not committed to me. Circumstanced as our 
affairs now are I conceive it better to take Liberty's and assume some 
powers than to let the general interest suffer 

I suppose Congress will not determine on a hasty return to this place 
nor do I think it adviseable, untill the Enemy are actually gone into 
Winter Quarters, for a severe Frost may in a few hours enable them to 
cross Delaware above the Falls, so that if they remain in that neighbour- 

[244liConn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. II., no. 28. 

- See the resolution for adjournment, Dec. 12, and the erased resolution, Dec. 
II. In a letter to his wife Dec. 11 Wolcott wrote: " If the Enemy should drive us out 
of this City (which I do not really expect) you will soon hear to what Place I shall go." 
(Conn. Hist. Soc, Wolcott Papers, II. 27.) Cf. nos. 241, 242, ante. See also nos. 245, 
247-249, 253, 254, 257, 259-263, 280, 298, 302-304, 306, post. 

3 Dec. 5. See no. 222, note 2, ante, and no. 260, post. 

* See the Journals. Dec. 12. and Washington's letter of Dec. 11, Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth sen. III. 1166. Cf. ibid., fourth ser., VI. 880, fifth ser., II. 1171, III. 272, 
457, 497, 1244, 1246. 

[245]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 137, App., folio lO; Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser.. III. 1239. 



December, iy/6 177 

hood you would here be subject to perpetual alarms, at the same time if 
may be depended on, that great inconveniences will arise daily in every 
department during your absence, to remedy this as much as possible I 
think a Committee should be sent here with such powers as Congress may 
Judge proper, in order that they may regulate the business of the Con- 
tinent necessary to be done here.^ There is the greatest scene of confusion 
in the management of the Continental Horses, Wagons, and Expresses 
that ever was exhibited, it was bad enough before Congress departed 
but it is ten times worse now and Jacob Hiltziemer a very honest man 
will run mad soon if not properly assisted or relieved in this department.' 
in short the Committee you send should have full powers to do whatever 
may be necessary to put every department on a Systematic footing. Mr. 
Clymer, Mr. Walton and myself will bestir ourselves and advise or assist 
in such things as we think absolutely necessary untill you appoint a Com- 
mittee and as the Board of War did not leave any orders for their Secy 
we have desired him to stay and assist us until he receives Orders. We 
hope the Board will excuse us for taking this liberty as Mr. Peters will 
be usefull here.* The Committee must have the command of money to 
answer various purposes as the calls for it are loud, large and constant. 
Should the Enemy retire to Brunswick or New York it may and I believe 
will be best for Congress to return as soon as that is certain 

2 Morris remained in Philadelphia more than a month after the dispersion of Con- 
gress. For a few days he attended to continental business largely on his own responsi- 
bility but partly also as a member of certain committees. On Dec. 21, at his suggestion, 
Congress appointed him and George Clymer and George Walton a committee to execute 
the necessary business of Congress in Philadelphia. Besides the letters of Morris and 
of the committee printed below, see the letters to Hancock, Washington, and others, Dec. 
13-30, in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 1198, 1213, 1239, 1254, 1330, 1331, 1370, 1427, 
1471, 1485, and Jan. i, et seq.; in Sparks, Letters to Washington, I. See also nos. 254, 
255, post. 

3 In a letter of Jan. 10, 1777 (Library of Congress, Pap. Cont. Cong., no. 133, 
folio 42), the committee in Philadelphia took up the subject of the continental stables 
more explicitly: 

". . . . We mentioned some time ago the waste and destruction that was going 
forward in the Continental Stables here. The more we enquire into that Matter the 
more ruinous we find it, and the business is now in such a state of Confusion that we 
hardly know how to remedy it. Our Opinion is that no such thing as a Continental 
Stable should ever have existed. Generall Mifflin when he proposed it and established 
it we well know mean't to save mony, but the experiment will prove destructive to the 
last degree. The Horses after being worked to the Bone, become neglected because it 
is nobodys business to take care of them, the Feed is stolen wasted and destroyed, 
because nobody can tell who is intitled to it, and who is not. every Officer in the 
service crams his Horses into the Public Stables and calls him Continental, every Team 
that is hired and ought to find their own feed, say they are Continental and demand 
it as a right from the Public. Mr. Hiltzheimer does all he can to prevent waste imposi- 
tion and abuses, but they threaten his life and to burn his stables 

"We sent him a Gaurd [sic] and they were as bad as the waggoners, enclosed you 
have a Copy of the return he has made and of his note to us. In short if the Present 
Campaign was closed we should think it would be best to sell all the Continental Horses 
and waggons shut up the stables and encourage private people to provide the public 
with them on hire by good prices, for then the Horses would be taken care of and the 
feed not be wasted, and these are new very material objects." This letter is endorsed: 
" Rec'd 14 Jany 1777." See also the Journals of that date, p. 37 n. Congress took action 
upon the matter Jan. 18. 
* See no 255, post. 



1 

240. Ivoci:kt MoKKis to the Committee of Secret Correspondence.' 

Philadelphia, December i6th, 1776. 
Gentloncn: 

.... Voii have enclosed the letters from Mr. Bing^ham and Mr. 
Deane;* the latter complaining-, as I have lon.t^ expected he would, for 
want of advices and remittances. In short, if the Cong^re.ss mean to suc- 
ceed in this contest, they must pay ji^ood executive men to do their business 
as it oug-ht to be, and not lavish millions away by their own mismanage- 
ment. I say mismanaj^ement, because no man living can attend the daily 
deliberations of Congress and do executive parts of business at the same 
time. I do aver there will be more money lost, totally lost, in horses, 
wagfons. cattle, etc., etc. for want of sufficient number of proper persons to 
look after them, than would have paid all the salaries Payne ever did or 
ever will grumble at.^ Mr. Deane has had a hard situation. I foretold 
it long since; and unless you employ some man of talents to collect 
materials and keep the Commissioners abroad constantly informed of 
wiiat is passing here, you never will have that consequence, nor your 
agents that dignity, they ought to have.* 

I should be glad you would return me these letters, or copies of them, 
and I will reply from hence. They have been with me but a few minutes, 
and I will not keep the express any longer, as I expect you are hungry as 
hawks after news from France. I cannot keep a copy of this; but in 
haste remain, 



247. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry.' 

Baltimore, December i8th, 1776. 

The movements of the enemy's army in the Jerseys, by which the 
neighborhood of Philadelphia had become the seat of war, determined 
Congress to adjourn from thence to this town, where publick business 
will be entered on the 20 instant, unless a sufficient number of members 
should be assembled to begin sooner. At this place the publick business 
can be conducted with more deliberation and undisturbed attention, than 
could be the case in a city subject to perpetual alarm, and that had 
necessarily been made a place of arms. The propriety of this measure 
was strongly enforced by the continental Generals Putnam and Mifflin, 
who commanded in Philadelphia, and who gave it as their opinion, that, 
although they did not consider the town as liable to fall into the enemy's 

[246]! Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1241. 

- Bingham's letter has not been found. That of Silas Deane, dated Oct. i, is 
in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 153 ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 809. 
3 Cf. no. 185, ante, 253, 258, 272, 273, 279, 298, post. 
* Cf. no. 253, post. 
[2^y]i- Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 229; Henry, Life of Patrick 
Henry, III. 33. 



December, i'j'j6 179 

hands but by surprise, yet that possibihty rendered it improper for Con- 
gress to continue there.' .... 



248. Benjamin Rumsey to [Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer?].^ 

Sir 

Engaged in the Commission and the Business thereof in which we met 
with great Difficulties and Interruption ^ I never attended Congress till 
this Day Week and should not then as the Business remained unfinished 
had I not heard Mr. Tilghman and Mr. Carroll had gone Home and left 
the Province unrepresented. 

When I got into Congress where I came determined to stay 'till the last 
Extremity altho exceeding inconvenient to me I found that Congress had 
two or three Days before that determined by the Advice of their Generals 
to remove from thence to Baltimore Upon a presumption that the Enemy 
being possessed of the Jersey above by marching Parties opposite the 
City might make a push in the Night in Conjunction with the Tories and 
seise \^sic\ the Persons of the Congress and this might have been done 
with great Facility as the City Militia had all marched to join General 
Washington.^ .... 

JoppA 19th. Deer. 1776 



249. Samuel Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Baltimore in Maryland 
Deer 19th 1776 
My dear Betsy 

The Day before yesterday I arrivd in this Place which is One hundred 
Miles from Philadelphia. The Congress had resolvd to adjourn here 
when it should become absolutely necessary and not before. This sudden 
Removal may perhaps be wonderd at by some of my Friends, but was not 
without the advice of Generals Putnam and Mifflin, who were at Philadel- 
phia to take Measures for its Preservation from the Enemy. For my own 
part, I had been used to Alarms in my own Country, and did not see the 
Necessity of removing so soon, but I suppose I misjudgd because it was 
otherwise ruled. It must be confessed that deliberative Bodies should not 
sit in Places of Confusion. This was heightned by an unaccountable 
Backwardness in the People of the Jerseys and Pennsylvania to defend 

2 See no. 244, note 2, ante. Cf. no. 280, post. 
[248] ^Md. Hist. Soc, Gilmor Papers, vol. III., div. 3. 

2 See nos. 191, note 3, 205, 219-221, 226, ante. 

2 See no. 244, note 2. ante. 
[249]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. 
Gushing), in. 327. 



ISO Continental Congress 

their Country and crush their Enemies wlien I am satisfied it was in their 
Power to do it.^ .... 



250. The President or Congress (John Hancock) to the 

Maryland Convention.^ 

[December 20 (?), 1776.] 

.... No material news. The application to those Counties was made 
as the most Expeditious way of obtain^, it I shall address your Council 
of Safety by ord"" of Congress assigning the Reasons why the application 
was not directly made to them * 

[Endorsed :] 
Deer. 9, 1776. 

Not received till Jany. 4, 1777. 



2 See no. 244, note 2, ante. Cf. nos. 263, 298, post. 

" Upon the motion for leaving Philadelphia. Samuel Adams (who seldom spoke in 
Congress) delivered a short but very animating speech. His feelings raised him fre- 
quently upon his toes at the close of his sentences. There was nothing very oratorical in 
his manner, but what he said infused a sudden vigor into the minds of every member of 
the house." Benjamin Rush, Memorial, p. 93. 

[250]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VI. 55- 

2 This note is appended to a copy of the resolve of Dec. 9, relative to the militia 
of Cecil, Baltimore, Harford, and Frederick counties. Maryland. The note was probably 
written in consequence of a resolve of Dec. 20, which was afterward rescinded. That 
is, this note to the convention may have been despatched between the passage of the 
order for explaining the proceeding to the council and its rescinding. The resolve 
appears in the Journals erased, with the marginal notation, "Counter-ordered". On 
Dec. 15 the council wrote to the delegates of Maryland: 

" Gentn. In consequence of a verbal message from the President of Congress 
delivered to us by Colo. Ewing, we instantly gave the necessary orders to the Command- 
ing officers of Frederick Baltimore and Harford and Caecil Counties to call together 
the Militia of those Counties to be in readiness to march to the assistance of Philadelphia 
expecting that we should every moment receive orders from Congress, but no such 
order have yet come to hand." Further on in the same letter the council remon- 
strates : 

" We cannot help observing to you that applying to individuals who necessarily must 
apply to the Council of Safety from whom their power must be deputed before they 
can act is losing of time to say nothing of the want of respect to a Body of men with 
whom the Executive Powers of the State are entrusted." Arch, of Md., XII. 530. 

In a letter to Brigadier-General Chamberlaine, Dec. 14 {Arch, of Md., XII. 529), the 
council says : " Col. Ewing tells us that a requisition has passed Congress for the 
militia of Baltimore Harford, Frederick and Cecil, Counties to march, and that he was 
desired by the President of that honorable Body to give us notice thereof, we wish not 
to loose a moment's Time. As soon as we hear further Intelligence, we will write you 
by express." See Chase to Nicholson, Dec. 11, no. 241, ante; also a letter from Thomas 
Johnson to the council of safety, Dec. 19, Arch, of Md., XII. 540, and Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser.. III. 1289; a letter from the Frederick committee to Hancock, Dec. 19. together 
with the committee's resolution, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1288; Hancock's reply, 
ibid., IV. 1330; the Journals, Dec. 21; and the Baltimore committee to the President, 
Dec. 24, Force, Am, Arch., fifth ser.. III. 1396. 



December, 12/6 181 

251. Charles Carroll to the Maryland Council of Safety.^ 

Mount Clare Dec 21st 1776. 
Dear Sirs, 

By direction of the Congress, I send you the inclosed resolves.^ .... 

[P. S.] I have not as yet seen here any of your Delegates, Questions 
of the greatest magnitude every day agitated and resolves enter'd into 
and this State without a representation or voice.^ 



252. The Committee of Secret Correspondence to the 
Commissioners at Paris.^ 

Baltimore in Maryland Deer 21 1776 

Honourable Gentlemen 

After expressing our hopes that this will find you all three safely fixed 
at Paris we proceed with pleasure to acknowledge the Receipt of Mr. 
Deane's Letter of the first of October. When we reflect on the Character 
and views of the Court of London it ceases to be a Wonder that the 
british Ambassador and all other british agents should employ every 
means that tended to prevent European Powers but France more especially 
from giving America aid in this War. Prospects of accommodation it is 
well known would effectually prevent foreign Interference and therefore 
without one serious Design of accommodating on any Principles but the 
absolute Submission of America the delusive Idea of Conciliation hath 
been industriously suggested on both sides the Water that under cover 
of this dividing and aid wath holding Prospect the vast british Force sent 
to America might have the fairest chance of succeeding. And this 
Policy hath in fact done considerable Injury to the united states as we 
shall presently shew by a just Detail of this campaign for it is not yet 
ended 

All views of Accommodation with great Britain but on Principles of 
Peace as independent states and in a Manner perfectly consistent with 
the Treaties our Commissioners may make with foreign states being 
totally at an End since the Declaration of Independence and the Embassy 
to the Court of France Congress have directed the raising of 94 Battalions 
of Infantry with some Cavalry. Thirteen Frigates from 24 to 36 Guns 
are already launched and fitting and two Ships of the Line with five more 
Frigates are ordered to be put on the Stocks. We hear the Levies are 



[251]^ Arch, of Md., XII. 547; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1329. 

2 Several resolves, Dec. 21, relate to Maryland. 

3 Cf. no. 237, ante. 

[252]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1584; Haverford College, Roberts Coll.; 
Am. Phil. Soc, Lee Papers, I.; Univ. of Va. Lib., Lee Papers; Brit. Mus., Add. MSS., 
Auckland MSS., American Papers; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 226; Sparks, Dipl. 
Corr. Rev., I. 165 ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1325 ; Letters of Richard Henry Lee 
(ed. Ballagh), I. 231. There are numerous variations in the different texts. The signa- 
ture of Robert Morris is not found in other texts. 



1 

qfoinp^ on well in the difFerent states. Until the New Army is collected 
the Militia must curb the luiemics Proeiress. The very considerable h'orce 
that g;Tcat IVitain has already in X. America the Possibility of recruiting 
it here within their own Quarters by force and fraud together added to 
the Reinforcements that may be sent from Europe and the Difficulty of 
finding Funds in the present depressed state of American Commerce all 
conspire to prove incontcstibly that if France desires to preclude the 
Possibility of North America being ever reunited with great Britain now 
is the favourable moment for establishing the Glory Strength and com- 
mercial Greatness of the former Kingdom by the Ruin of her ancient 
Rival. A decided part now taken by the Court of Versailles and a vigor- 
ous Engagement in the War in Union with North America would with 
Ease sacrifice the fleet and Army of great Britain at this time cheifly 
collected about New York. The inevitable consequence would be the 
quick Reduction of the british Islands in the west Indies already bared 
of Defence by the Removal of their Troops to this Continent. For Reasons 
herein assigned Gentlemen you will readily discern how all-important it 
is to the Security of American Independence that France should enter the 
\\^ar as soon as may be and how necessary it is if it be possible to procure 
from her the Line of Battle Ships you were desired in your Instructions 
to obtain for us the speedy arrival of which here in the present State of 
things might decide the Contest at one Stroke. 

.... As all affairs relative to the Conduct of Commerce and Re- 
mittance pass through another Department we beg leave to refer you to 
the Secret Committee and Mr Thomas Morris their agent in France for 
every Information on these Subjects. 

The Neighbourhood of Philadelphia having by the Enemies movements 
become the Seat of War it was judged proper that Congress should adjourn 
to this Town where the public Business may be attended to with the un- 
disturbed Deliberation that its Importance demands. The Congress was 
accordingly opened here on the 20th Inst. 

As it is more than probable that the Conference with Lord Howe on 
Staten Island may be misrepresented to the Injury of these States we do 
ourselves the pleasure to inclose you an authentickated Account of that 
whole Business which the Possibility of Doctor Franklins not arriving 
renders proper This Step was taken to unmask his Lordship and evince 
to the World that he did not possess powers w'hich for the purposes of 
Delusion and division it had been suggested he did. 

Mr Deanes Proposition of Loan is accepted by congress and they have 
desired two Millions Sterling to be obtained if possible. The Necessity of 
keeping up the Credit of our Paper Currency and the Variety of important 
uses that may be made of this Money have induced congress to go so far 
as 6 per cent but the Interest is heavy and it is hoped you may be able 
to do the Business on much easier Terms. The Resolves of congress on 
this Subject are inclosed and your earliest Attention to them is desired that 
we may know as soon as possible the Event of this Application. 

Another Resolve of congress inclosed will shew you that Congress ap- 
prove of armed Vessels being fitted out by you on continental Account pro- 



December, 1716 183 

vided the Court of France dislike not the Measure and blank Commissions 
for this Purpose will be sent you by the next Opportunity. Private Ships 
of War or Privateers can not be admitted w^here you are because the securi- 
ties necessary in such cases to prevent irregular Practices cannot be given 
by the Owners and Commanders of such Privateers. Another Resolve of 
Congress which we have the honour to inclose you directs the Conduct to 
be pursued with Regard to Portugal.^ 

We have the honour to be Gentlemen with great Respect and Esteem 
Your most obedient and very humble Servants 

Benja. Harrison 
Richard Henry Lee 
Will. Hooper 
Jno Witherspoon 
RoBT. Morris at Philadelphia' 
P. S 

In Committee of Secret Correspondence 

253. Robert Morris to the Commissioners at Paris. ^ 

Philadelphia, 21st December, 1776. 
Gentlemen, 

I am now the only member of Congress in this city, unless Mr Walton, 
of Georgia, and Mr Clymer, my colleague, still remain, which I am not 
sure of.^ .... 

In this perplexing situation of things,' the Congress were informed, 
this day week, that an advanced party of Hessians and Highlanders had 
taken possession of Burlington, that they were pushing for Cooper's 
Ferry, opposite the city, and it was thought had the means of crossing the 
river. There were no troops to oppose them; our whole force, both by 
land and water, was above ; it was therefore deemed unsafe for Congress 
to remain here, and absolutely necessary that they should be in a place of 
safety, where they could deliberate coolly and freely without interruption, 

2 See nos. 211, note 9, 223, ayite. The resolutions referred to are of Dec. 23. 
This shows that the letter was not completed prior to that date. 

3 Benjamin Harrison wrote to Robert Morris, Dec. 25: "Inclosed you have a 
Letter from the Committee of Secret Corres[pondenc]e to the Commissioners in France 
which you'l please to Sign and send with the other Papers to those Gentn by the first 
opp'y with proper orders for their being Destroy'd rather than the Enemy should get 
them. I need not suggest to you the Prejudice it would be to us if they should fall into 
their Hands. Mr. Deane's Letter is also enclosed that you may answer the Mercantile 
parts of it, this would have been done sooner but you will see there were many Parts 

of it on which the advice of Congress was necessary, this occasioned the Delay 

For God's Sake send us some News we have none here but what a Purviance or a Rush 
Deal out to us, if you wish to please your Friends come soon to us, but if you desire 
to keep out of the Damdest Hole in the World come not here. My Complemts to my 
Friends, I wish you and them a Happy Xmas a Merry one you cannot have Divided so 
far and on such an occasion from those you Love." Copied from the original, then in 
possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia. 

[253] 1 Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 11. 231; Force, Ant. Arch., fifth sen, IH. 1332; 
Sparks, Dipl. Corr. Rev., 1. 233. In the Stevens Facsimiles are two copies (with 
omissions), addressed to Silas Deane, dated Dec. 20 and with additions Jan. 8-29, 1777. 

2 See Morris's letters to the President of Congress, Dec. 13, 14, 16, 17, 21, Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth sen. III. 1198, 1213, 1239, 1254, 1331; also nos. 246, 252, ante, 255, post. 

3 See the portions of the letter omitted here. 

17 



184 CoHlinental Congress 

and last Saturday they adjourned to Baltimore, where they are now 
sitting.* .... 

I will not enter into any detail of our conduct in Congress, but you may 
depend on this, that so long as that respectable body persist in the attempt 
to execute, as well as to deliberate on their business, it never will be done 
as it ought, and this has been urged many and many a time, by myself 
and others, but some of them do not like to part with power, or to pay 
others for doing what they cannot do themselves." 

I have Mr. Deane's favor of the 30th of September,' to myself, now 
before me; the letter, by the same conveyance from Martinico, under 
cover of Mr. Bingham's, I sent down to the committee at Baltimore, and 
wrote them my mind on the justice of your complaints for want of 
intelligence. I had often told it to them before; you know well I was not 
put in that committee to carry on the correspondence, but to find out the 
conveyances; however, I have been obliged to write all the letters that 
have been \vritten for some time past ; but as Colonel Lee, Mr. Hooper, 
and the Rev. Dr. Witherspoon are now added to the committee, I shall 
excuse myself from that task, although I have thought it proper to give 
you a just state of our affairs at this time, because I do not suppose the 
committee will be got fairly together in Baltimore yet, and when they do, 
it is probable they may not be fond of laying things before you so fully 
as I have done. Some of us are of very sanguine complexions, and are 
too apt to flatter ourselves that things are not so bad as they appear to be, 
or that they will soon mend, etc. Now my notion is, that you, gentlemen 
Commissioners, should be fairly and fully informed of the true state of 
affairs, that you may make a proper use of that knowledge, keeping 
secret what ought to be so, and promulgating what should be known. 

.... My own affairs necessarily detained me here after the departure 
of Congress; and it is well I staid, as I am obliged to set many things 
right that would otherwise be in the greatest confusion. Indeed, I find 
my presence so very necessary, that I shall remain here until the enemy 
drive me away. 

254. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Baltimore Decer. 23d. 1776. 
Sir, 

I do myself the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your several 
Favours of the 12th. 13th. and 15th. inst. in the Order of their respective 
Dates, and to inform you that they were duly laid before Congress.^ 



* See no. 244, note 2, ante. Cf. no. 302, post. 

5 Cf. no. 246, ante, eind no. 258, post. 

« Deane's letter to Morris, Sept. 30, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 601, 
and Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 150. See also his letter of Sept. 17, ibid., II. 148. 

[254]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 48; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., III. 1368. 

2 Washington's letters are in Writings (ed. Ford). V. 82, 89, 100, and Force, Ant. 
Arch., fifth ser., III. 1182, 1201, 1231. They were read in Congress Dec. 20. 



December, lyyd 185 

The Congress, upon reconsidering the vote of the nth. inst. have come 
to a Resolution expressing their approbation of your Conduct in dechning 
to publish it in general Orders.' .... 

The Multiplicity of Business which the Congress left unfinished at 
the Time of their departure from Philadelphia has induced them to appoint 
a Committee of three Gentlemen with full powers to perfect the Business 
in such a Manner as they shall judge proper.* .... 



255. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

Robert Morris.^ 

Baltimore Deer. 23d 1776, 
Sir, 

Your several Favours of the 13th. 14th. i6th. and 17th. inst. have been 
duely reed, in the Order of their respective Dates, and laid before Con- 
gress.^ In Consequence of which, I am directed to transmit you the 
enclosed Resolves.' .... 

The Congress, concurring in Opinion with you, that a Committee 
should be appointed in the City of Philadelphia to take care of the public 
Interest, and at the same Time, highly approving of the Zeal and Atten- 
tion you have particularly discovered to the Welfare of your Country 
since their Departure from that City, have nominated Mr. Clymer, Mr. 
Walton, and yourself to execute such Continental Business as it may be 
necessary to transact in Philadelphia.* .... 

Be pleased to acquaint Mr. Peters, that he is directed by the Board of 
War to repair to Baltimore as soon as possible, where his Services are 
judged absolutely necessary by Congress.® 

[P. S.] Pray forward the Inclos'd to the General by Express 



256. Robert Morris to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Deer. 23d. 1776 
Sir 

I had the honor to receive your obliging favour of Yesterday by Colo 
Moylan. the Contents give a most mellancholly aspect to our affairs and 
I wish to Heaven it may be in our power to retrieve them it is useless at 
this period to examine into the causes of our present unhappy situation, 

8 See no. 242, note 2, ante. 

* See the Journals, Dec. 21, and no. 245, ante, no. 255, post. 

[255]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, f. i; Mass. Hist. Soc, Han- 
cock Letter-Book, VL 81 ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IIL 1369. 

2 Morris's letters are in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IIL 1 198, 1213, 1239, and 
1254. See also his letter of Dec. 21, ibid.. III. 1331. 

3 Sundry resolves of Dec. 20, 21. 

* See no. 245, ante. 

5 See the Journals, Dec. 21. Cf. no. 245, ante. 
[256]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XII. 301 ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth 
ser., III. 1373. 



18r> Continental Congress 

unless that examination wou'd be productive of a cure for the evils that 
surround us. in fact those causes have lon^ been known to such as wou'd 
open their Kyes. tlie very consequences of them was often foretold, and 
the measures execrated by some of the best I'Viends of America; but in 
vain, an obstinate partiality to the habits and Customs of one part of this 
Continent has predominated in the Publick Councils, and too little atten- 
tion been paid to others. To Criminate the Authors of our errors wou'd 
not avail, but we cannot see ruin staring us in the Face without thinking 
of them. It has been my fate to make an ineffectual opposition to all 
short enlistments to Colonial appointment of Officers and to many other 
measures that I thought pregnant with mischiefs, but these things, either 
suited the genius of babbits or squared with the interests of some States 
that had sufficient influence to prevail, and nothing is now left, but to 
extricate ourselves from the difficulties in which we are involved if we 
can. let us try our utmost, man can do no more 



257. WiLLi.vM Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.* 

Baltimore 23 Deer. 1776 
My Dear Sir, 

.... I have not heard a word from New Hampshire for more than 
a month past, but I hope the new leavies are nearly compleated. I expect 
there will be another Regiment required of our state as the prevailing 
opinion is that the Army must be augmented on the new establishment.^ 
Congress adjournd from Phila* the nth inst. and met here the 20 are 
now doing business with more spirit than they have for some time past. 
I hope the air of this place which is much purer than that of Phila* \vill 
brace up the weak nerves. I think it already has that afifect 

258. Samuel Chase to John Sullivan.* 

Annapolis, December 24, 1776. 
Dear Sir: 

I thank you for your letter of the T2th November, which I received a 
few days before the Congress left Philadelphia 

I perfectly agree with you as to the impropriety of our military system. 
The several States will forever be influenced by local attachments. I am 
convinced the nomination to office will, in many instances, be very injudi- 
cious. If we expect to succeed in the present war, we must change our 
mode of conduct. The business of the Congress must be placed in 
different hands. Distinct and precise departments ought to be established. 
A gentleman of the military must be of the Board of War." .... 

[257]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. I., 1774-1778. 

- Cf. the letter to Langdon written the following day, no. 259, post. 
[258] 1 Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1395. 

2 See the Journals, Dec 26; cf. nos. 185, 246, 253, ante, 272, 273, 279, 298, note 7, 
post. 



December, iyy6 187 

259. William Whipple to John Langdon/ 

Baltimore, 24th December, 1776. 
My dear Sir: 

My last from Philadelphia I think was a day or two before Congress 
adjourned from that place, which was the nth instant.^ They met here 
the 20th, and are now doing business with spirit. The near approach of 
the enemy to that city struck such a panick in all orders of people there, 
except Tories, (of which you know there are not a small number,) that 

the contagion seized the nerves of some members of C , which caused 

a removal to this place, which I assure you was much against my inclina- 
tion ; however, I hope it's all for the best.* .... 

I should be very happy if I could hear the levies for the new Army 
were completed in the Eastern States. I expect there will be a still further 
requisition. It is absolutely necessary that we should have a very 
formidable Army in the field immediately. I hope every friend of 
America in the several States will forward this business with every pos- 
sible exertion.* 

The accounts from France, which are down to October, are very 
favourable. I wish, for the consolation of my friends, I was at liberty 
to communicate them, but circumstances will not admit of it; but I can 
say thus much, in the words of a correspondent, " A general war in Europe 
seems unavoidable." ^ , . . . 

260. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott.^ 

Baltimore Town, 25 Deer. 1776 
My Dear, 

.... I am still here alone from Connecticut which I do not very well 
know what else to attribute to, except that affairs since last July Wear 
such a benign Aspect as to render the Circumstance of a Deligation a 
Matter of a good deal of Indifferance.^ .... 

P. S At present I have no other objections against this Town 

of which in some future Letter I may give you a particular Acco. of, than 
that it is too distant from my Freinds, and is too dirty and too dear.' 



[259]! Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., Ill, 1397; Letters by Josiah Bartlett, William 
Whipple, and Others, p. 67. 

2 Actually, Dec. 12. 

3 See no. 244, note 2, ante. 

* Cf. no. 257, ante, and nos. 264, 268, post. 

5 " A general war is undoubtedly at hand in Europe." Deane to Morris, Sept. 17, 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 148. 

[260]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. IL, no. 29. 

2 Cf. nos. 215, 222, 244, ante. 

3 Such was the general wail that went up from members of Congress concerning 
Baltimore. Cf. no. 262, post. In a letter to his wife, Jan. i, 1777, Wolcott says : " How 
long the Congress will continue here will depend on Contingences. for myself I wish 
it might not be long, for it is infinitely the most dirty Place I ever was in. No one can 
Walk about here but in Boots, the Air and Paths are in the same Condition that they 
are with us the latter End of March and beginning of April." Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver 
Wolcott Papers, vol. II., no. 30. 



188 Continental Con^ircss 

261. Matthew Thornton to the Preshjent of New Hampshire 

(Meshkcil Weare).* 

Baltimore, 25111. Deer. 1776. 
Hono. Sir; 

The near Approach of the Enemy to Philadelphia, the slowness of the 
Militia, and the advice of Friends indus'd Conj:^rcss, to adjourn to this 
Town, which is about no Miles Southwest from Philadelphia.^ By our 
last advices the Militia are joining our army in great numbers, from which 
we have great hopes that G. How and his army will soon be in our power, 
or Return to New York. The Congress have encourag[em]ent of Assist- 
ance by the Spring. Nothing will be wanting on their part, to Support 
independence. Defeat the Enemy, and Render the united States, Great 
Honorable and Happy. 

An inexcusable Neglect in the OfFrs, want of Fidility, Honour, and 
Humanity, in the Drs and averice in the Suttlers, has Slain ten Soldiers 
to the Enemies one, and will Soon prevent every man of Common Sense 
from putting his Life and Fortune in the Power of Such as Destroy both 
without pity or mercy. I have proiX)s'd to Congress, that every State in 
future Should Appoint one or more Suttlers, as they think proper for 
their own men to be Supplied by a Committee Appointed by said State 
with everything Necessary for sick and well men, at a price Stipulated by 
said State, the Suttlers and Committee to be paid by and accountable to 
said State, and A Superintendent, who shall have no other Business but to 
see that every Soldier Belonging to the State is properly Supplied and 
Supported, agreeable to their Circumstances, and that proper Stopages be 
made for what they Receive when they are Receiving their wages. 

The Congress approve of the method, but say it is the Business and 
Duty of each State to take Care of their own men and they Expect they 
will.'. . . . 



262. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

Baltimore, December 25th, 1776. 

Sir, 

.... You have doubtless before this heard of the Removal of Con- 
gress to this Place. This is the first Opportunity I have had and this is 
circuitous (via Boston) to inform you of it. The Enemy was so near 
and Affairs in the City in such Confusion, that it was improper and unsafe 
to continue there, and for Reasons too long for a Letter Baltimore was 
fixed upon as the most suitable Place for holding Congress in for the 

[261]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1545; Force. Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1418. 

2 For some comments on the town of Baltimore, see a letter from Thornton to 
Weare, Jan. 23, 1777, in Charles Thornton Adams, Matthew Thornton of New Hampshire: 
a Patriot of the American Revolution, p. 49. 

3 Cf. the Journals, Nov. 8, 9, and nos. 203, 215, ante. 

[262]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 177^'^777, P- 7^', Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. no; R. I. Col. Recs., VIIL 167; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IIL 1416. 



December, 1//6 189 

present. I should like the Place well enough if it was less distant from 
the Army, less dirty and less expensive." .... 

If the army under Clinton should receive a mortal Wound from the 
brave New-Englanders it would in my Opinion bring the War to a speedy 
Close; whereas if this Opportunity, of the Division of the British Army, 
should be neglected or not improved, the War in all Probability will be 
protracted to a great Length, if not speedily issued in our Destruction, in 
the Destruction of all We hold dear ; For We have good Reason to think 
that a Reinforcement of Twenty thousand Men will be sent over next 
Spring. By a Letter from an unknown, but I suppose a good Hand, read 
in Congress this Day, it appears that the Court of London had attempted 
and were attempting by every Means they could devise to procure Aid 
from every Power in Europe, or to induce them to a Neutrality ; and the 
Writer of the Letter gave it as his Opinion that w hat they could collect in 
Germany, together with Recruits raised in England, Scotland and Ireland, 
would amount to about that Number, and that Russia would not furnish 
them with any Men.^ From hence the Necessity appears that We should 
act in every Quarter this winter with the Spirit of Men contending for 
an invaluable Prize 

263. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Baltimore in Maryland Deer 25 1776 
My dear Sir 

.... The Congress is here, scituated conveniently enough and doing 
Business. You will ask me perhaps. How we came here. I confess I did 
not see the Necessity of removing so soon; but I must think I misjudgd 
because it was ruled otherwise, not indeed until the Opinions of Putnam 
and Mifflin then in Philadelphia, had been taken. The Truth is, the 
Enemy were within seventeen Miles of us, and it was apprehended by 
some that the People of Pennsylvania, influenced by Fear Folly or 
Treachery, would have given up their Capital to appease the Anger of 
the two Brothers and atone for their crime in suffering it to remain so 
long the Seat of Rebellion.^ .... 

We have this day receivd a Letter from General Schuyler, which has 
occasiond the passing a Resolution, forwarded to you, I suppose by this 
opportunity. The General says he is informd that the Levies are making 
very tardily.^ .... 

2 Cf. nos. 240, 242, 244, note 2, 260, ante, and nos. 282, 295, 332, note 2, 347, post. 
In a letter to Governor Cooke, Jan. 4, 1777, Ellery says : " I thought that Philadelphia 
was the dearest place that ever I knew, Baltimore exceeds it. On this Account, on 
Account of its Distance from the Scene of War, and on Account of its being the dirtiest 
Place I ever saw, I most sincerely wish myself back to Philadelphia, which I left with 
great reluctance." MSS. of the late William D. Ely of Providence. 

3 There was no meeting of Congress Dec. 25, and there is no indication what 
letter is referred to. Cf. Benjamin Rush to Richard Henry Lee, Dec. 20, Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., III. 1308. 

[263]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Gush- 
ing), III. 329; Wells, Life of Samuel Adams, II. 455. 

2 See no. 244, note 2, ante. Cf. nos. 249, ante, 298, post. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 24. Schuyler's letter, dated Dec. 10, is in Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth sen. III. 1160. 



100 Continental Con^^rcss 

264. 1''kancis Lewis to Robert Morris.* 

Baltimore 26. Deccnir. 1776 
Dear Sir 

The Congress think it absokitcly necessary that a Number of Brass 
Field Pieces should be cast as soon as possible and have directed the 
Ordinance Board to request that you would direct an enquiry to be made 
for such persons as arc capable of conducting: that Branch. 

Mr. Paine informed Cong^ress that Mr Byers (who cast the Brass 
Cannon at New York) was then daily expected with his family at Phila 
and where there is an Air Furnace at which he mip^ht be employed ; Con- 
gress is therefore anxious to know if Byers is at Phila and can be there 
employed, or if any other person can be found capable of conductin*:^ that 
work. It is necessary also to inform you that at Christeen ■ I saw a quan- 
tity of Sea Coal, with some Copper, the latter said to be sent from New 
York. The Board of Ordinance imagine a Work of this kind may be 
erected in the Vicinity of this place, it being more convenient in getting 
supply of Sea Coal from Virginia, provided the Mettle can be procured 
with a proper person to conduct the Work, the latter is not to be obtained 
here; And as Congress has this Affair much at hart, they intreat you to 
make the strictest inquiry you can and inform them. 

Congress has this moment received letters from the General recom- 
mending in the most pressing terms the necessity of having a Number of 
Brass and Iron Cannon provided as early as possible for the next Cam- 
paigne on which he seems to say the fate of America in a great measure 
depends, he also strongly recommends an Augmentation of the Conti- 
nental Battallions to no — with five Battallions of Artillary ^ — Thus far 
from the Ordinance Board.* .... 

[264]^ Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 41. 

2 Presumably Christiana, Del., usually called Christiana Bridge, sometimes abbre- 
viated to Chris Bridge. 

3 In a letter to Congress, Dec. 5, Washington had pointed out the futility of rely- 
ing upon militia, and the urgent need of a larger standing army. Dec. 16 he returned to 
the subject with added emphasis. Dec. 20 he declared that, in consequence of the 
expiration of enlistments, ten days more would put an end to the existence of the army, 
suggested increasing the number of battalions to no, and also urged the augmentation of 
the artillery. On Dec. 24 he asserted that, unless there were re-enlistments, of which 
he was not hopeful, the army would be reduced to not exceeding 1500 effective men. 
Dec. 31 he wrote to Robert Morris : " To-morrow the Continental troops are all at 
liberty. I . . . . have promised them a bounty of ten dollars, if they will continue for 
one month. But here again a new difficulty presents itself : We have not money to 
pay the bounty, and we have exhausted our credit by such frequent promises, that it has 
not the weight we could wish. If it be possible, sir, to give us assistance, do it. Borrow 
money where it can be done. We are doing it upon our private credit. Every man of 
interest, every lover of his country, must strain his credit upon such an occasion. No 
time, my dear sir, is to be lost." The letter of Dec. 5 (read in Congress Dec. 6), those 
of Dec. 16 and 20 (read in Congress Dec. 26), and the letter to Morris are in Writings 
(ed. Ford), V. 66, loi, 112, 145 n., and in Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen. III., 1082, 1242, 
1310, 1514. That of Dec. 24 is ibid.. III. 1399. The Journals do not record its receipt by 
Congress. Some of Washington's letters on the subject were intercepted by the British 
(see Robert Morris to the commissioners at Paris, Dec. 21, ibid., III. 1332, and Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 231). Dec. 27 Congress authorized Washington to raise sixteen 
additional regiments. See nos. 268, 298, post. Cf. nos. 257, 259, ante. 

* Lewis doubtless means the cannon committee, of which he was made a mem- 
ber Dec. 24. He was not a member of the board of war and ordnance. Cf. no. 310, post. 



December, ly/d 191 

265. Robert Morris to George Washington.* 

Philadelphia Deer. 26th. 1776 
Dear Sir 

I have just rec'd yonrs of yesterday and will duly attend to those things 
you recommend to my consideration.' .... 

Youl observe Mr. Clymer, Mr. Walton and myself, are appointed a 
Committee to transact the Continental business here that may be neces- 
sary and proper f and I apprehend it will frequently be necessary that we 
should know the substance of your Correspondence with Congress. Your 
letters to the President if sent open under our covers shall always meet 
dispatch and their Contents kept Secret, and Vv^hen you think it improper 
we should see them before the Congress Seal them and they shall go 
forward untouched and if you do not approve of submitting them to our 
inspection at all write us freely and your wishes in that Respect shall be 
complyed with.* .... 



266. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull.* 

Baltimore 26th Deer 1776 
Dear sir 

Your Favour of the 13th came to Hand Yesterday, and this Day Con- 
gress have ordered 400,000 Dollars to be sent You forthwith ; the Residue 
can be better spared when this is expended, which You will give Notice 
of to Congress. You are also impowered to import Flower from Virginia 
or Maryland, and the Governor and Council of Virginia are desired to 
order 10,000 bbl. Flower to be provided on James, Rapahanock, York 
and Potomac Rivers and deliverd to your Order, with as much more as 
You shall direct. This is to be payed by your Order on the president of 
Congress for that purpose.^ .... 

P. S. The Treasury have not yet been able to attend to your affair, 
but I believe will soon report upon it. is there no possibility of obtaining 
full Supplies of Vegetables and Vinegar for the Army? the British 
Troops are preserved from sickness by these Means only, and I fear We 
shall never have a Healthy and Vigorous Army without them.* 

[265]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XII. 310; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), I. 310; Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen. III. 1428. 

2 Washington's letter to Morris, Dec. 25, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 
1419- 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 21, and nos. 253-255, ante. 

4 Washington's reply, Dec. 27, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 1443. Cf. 
no. 271, post. 

[266]! Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 69. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 26. Cf. nos. 239, ante, 267, 287, post. Trumbull's letter 
to Congress, Dec. 13, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1202. Cf. Trumbull to 
Washington, ibid., III. 1203. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 28. Cf. nos. 145, 162, 166, ante, 419, 450, post. 



1 

267. TuK Prksidknt of Congress (John Hancock) to 

Joseph Trumbull/ 

Baltimore, Deer. 27th 177O. 
Sir; 

After acknowledging tlie Receipt of your I'avour of 13th inst. I am 
to inform you, that some Time since I transmitted a Resolve, empowering 
you to import any Quantity of Rice from Carolina you should think 
proper.-' In Addition to that Resolve the Congress have come to the 
enclosed, authorizing you (agreeably to your own Plan) to import such 
Quantities of Flour and other Provisions from the Southern States as 
you may judge necessary for the Support of the Army. 

The Delegates of Virginia will write immediately to the Governor and 
Council of that State to contract for the Delivery of ten Thousand 
Barrels of Flour to your order, for which Purpose you will please to send 
Vessels to take them in. Your draughts on me for Payment thereof, shall 
be duly honored.* 
Joseph Trumbull, Esqr. Com^ Genl. etc. 

268. Francis Lewis to the New York Committee of Safety.* 

Baltimore 27th Decem. 1776. 
Gentlemen, 

Your favor of the 5th. Instant per Lieut. Brit I have received with 
your resolves, relative to the frigate in Hudsons River,^ which I this day 
laid before the Marine Committee * and meet their entire approbation, 
they are of opinion that whatever vessels belonging to the continent and 
are now in Hudsons river, should be also secured in Esopus Creek, or 
some other place of safety, the people belonging to the Brigantine and 
sloop may be disposed off at the discretion of your Convention. 

Congress approves of your recommendation of Lieut. Victor Bicker 
junr for the Marines, and as soon as the blank Commissions are [re]- 
ceived from Philadelphia one shall be filled up for him and forwarded 
to you.* .... 

I am also directed to inform you that congress, much approves of the 
frigates being fitted against the spring, and of your directing a sufficient 
number of Cannon to be cast at Salsbury, as none for your purposes can 
be procured from these parts. ^ I must also beg that you would represent 

[267]iConn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Coll., no. 136; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., 
III. 1438. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 28. 

2 Cf. no. 266, ante. 
[268] 1 N. Y. State Lib.. Minutes of the Committee of Safety, VIL 67 (copy). 

2 A draft of the letter to Lewis, Dec. 5, is in the proceedings of the New York 
committee of safety, Force. Am. Arch., fifth ser., IIL 357. The resolutions, passed 
Dec. 4, are ibid., IIL 354. The resolutions and the letter are also in Jour N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 734, 72,7. 

3 The copy in N. Y. State Lib. has " Company ", evidently an error of the copyist. 
* The Journals contain no record relative to the appointment of Lieut. Victor 

Bicker. His nomination by the New York convention was Dec. 4. See the resolutions 
cited in note 2, above. 

5 See Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 330, 355, 359. Cf. the Journals, Nov. 28, 
Dec. 29. 



December, ///d 193 

my present disagreeable situation to the Honble convention, which is 
that of being the only delegate from the state of New York attending 
Congress. My Colleagues Mr. Ph. Livingston and Colo Floyd departed 
for * the Northward upon the adjournment of Congress to this place, so 
that our state is now unrepresented in Congress and of which the members 
highly complain, as there was never a more urgent necessity for its being 
full than at this time, occasioned by several members being detached on 
Committees and as many as could be spared left [in] Philadelphia to 
transact the necessary business there.'' .... 

P. S. Congress has this day resolved to invest genl. Washington with 
powers for six months to regulate the armies in such manner as he with 
the advice of his general officers, shall think most conducive to promote 
the public good, of which shall transmit the convention a copy in my 
next.® The Battalions are to be encreased to no. It is hoped you will 
raise one more, i e six.® .... 



269. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

Robert Morris.^ 

Baltimore Decer. 27th. 1776. 
Sir, 

The enclosed Resolves, which I do myself the Honour of forwarding, 
will inform you of the Steps taken by Congress in the present critical 
State of our Affairs. 

Your Favour of the 23d. inst. came to Hand, and was immediately 
laid before Congress.^ The uneasiness you mention therein, with regard 
to your Want of proper powers, is, no doubt, by this time removed. Con- 
gress having authorized the Committee in Philadelphia to adopt such Meas- 
ures in the Business of the Continent, as they shall judge proper. You 
will therefore, in Conjunction with Mr. Clymer, and Mr. Walton act, not 
only in Marine Matters, but in all others, as you shall think necessary, 
and most conducive to the public Good.* .... 

270. The Committee in Philadelphia to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Decemr. 28th 1776. 
Dear sir 

.... We have received a letter from Colo Fleming ^ of the 9th 
Virginia Regiment which is on its march from the Eastern Shoar and 

8 The copy has here " from ", and " be " for by, a few lines below. 

T C/. nos. 292, 312, 329, 330, 363, 402, post. 

8 See the resolves in the Journals, Dec. 12 (p. 1027), 27, and the circular letter, 
ibid., Dec. 30. Cf. nos. 275-277, post. 

^ See the Journals, Dec. 27 ; also no. 264, note 3, ante, and no. 298, post. 
[269]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, f. s; Mass. Hist. Soc, 
Hancock Letter-Book, VL 87; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IIL 1437. 

2 Morris's letter of Dec. 23 is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., HL 1370. It was 
read in Congress Dec. 27, and the resolves enclosed were doubtless of that date. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 21, and no. 255, ante. 

[270]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington; Pap. Cont. Cong., no. 133, f. 28 
(letter-book copy) ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., HL 1458. 

2 Col. Thomas Fleming. See Morris to Fleming, Dec. 27, Force, A',n. Arch., 
fifth ser., HL 1439; also Morris to Benjamin Hogeland, the same date, ibid., III. 1439. 



11)1 Continental Congress 

we have ordered them a supply of money at the Head of Elk and the 
necessary Cloathini;- to be ^o\. in reacHness a.c^ainst they come here. We 
also expect the Pensylvania l\cj;nlars that have been lately raised in the 
back Counties of this State and we understand Militia and other reinforce- 
ments are coming from Maryland and Virginia. You may depend we 
will give every assistance in our power to forward these reinforcements 
to you and that we shall assist and advise far as we arc able in every 
Publick department here. 

We have considered that part of your Excellencys letter of the 25th 
Inst, to Mr. Morris that relates to the Seamen in the Two New England 
Battalions whose times expire with this Year,' and shou'd any of them 
obstinately persist in being discharged from your Service on New Years 
day, We think it adviseable to prevail on them to come down here and 
assist in getting the Frigates out. when they come we will make the 
best bargain we can with them and if nothing else will do, we will engage 
to send them home in one or two of those ships. If they come on these 
terins we think Capt Read and his officers shou'd come with them that we 
may if possible get away the Washington, as well as the Delaivare. Con- 
gress are very anxious to have these ships out and will be pleased if this 
measure is pursued. We cannot avoid mentioning, that we dont think it 
adviseable to exchange your Hessian Prisoners at this time. 

We think their Capture affords a favourable opportunity of making 
them acquainted with the situation and circumstances of many of their 
Country men who came here without a farthing of property and have by 
care and industry acquired plentifull Fortunes which they have enjoyed 
in perfect Peace and tranquillity, until! these Invaders have thought 
proper to disturb and destroy those possessions, it will be proper to 
seperate the Officers from the Men and to Canton the latter in the back 
Counties which may be done by the Council of Safety until! the Congress 

are consulted thereon 

We remain with perfect regard and Esteem 

Your Excellencys most Obedt and most hble Servants. 

RoBT Morris 
Geo Clymer 
Geo Walton 



271. The Committee in Philadelphia to the President of 

Congress.^ 

Philadelphia Deer. 28th 1776 
John Hancock Esqr. 
Sir 

Your Committee have opened their office and given Publick Notice of 
their daily attendance to transact such Continental business as may be 

3 See the suggestion in Washington's letter to Morris, Dec. 25, Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., III. 1419. 

[271]! Library of Congress, Pap. Cont. Cong., no. 137, f. 41, no. 133, f. 6 (letter-book 
copy) ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1458. 



December, iy/6 195 

proper and necessary in this place. ^ We wrote Genl Washington of our 
appointment and proposed that he should forward his dispatches to Con- 
gress through our hands unless when they might be of such a Nature as 
he wou'd not choose any person shou'd see them before Congress, he 
approves this plan as it will ease his Correspondence with us and at the 
same time we shall receive information that will be necessary for our 
government in many affairs that will most probably come under our 
consideration.^ .... 

272. William Hooper to Robert Morris.^ 

Baltimore December 28th 1776. 

.... I shall pay particular attention to the subject of Mr. Irwins ^ 
memorial and as I cannot perceive that there are grounds for a plausible 
pretext to refuse the prayer of it, I confide that his application to congress 
will be attended with success. I have made known the purpose of his 
errand to Middleton, Harrison and Wilson and others " who can melt 
at human woe." The Delegates from Char'town from whom opposition 
was to be expected if from any quarter, think him, too undesigning, too 
well disposed or too unfortunate to counteract his wishes, so at present 
it seems. 

I am well aware of the burden of publick business with which our 
removal hither has incumbered you. When in Philadelphia where we 
took a small share of it to ourselves I have been amazed how you waded 
thro' it, and found leisure for your own private concerns and the enjoy- 
ment of your friends. Congress seems unanimously sensible of the 
Obligations which they owe you, and you may boast of being the only 
man whom they all agree to speak and I really believe think well of. 

I earnestly wish however that we could have you here for a little while. 
The transactions of this and a few preceeding days have in my opinion 
strongly proved the necessity of it. We have moved very rapidly in 
business and while some compliment themselves upon increasing Industry 
and application, I think I can find the cause elsewhere and that the sud- 
denness of decision may be truly attributed to ignorance of the Subject. 
We have been holding forth new lines to France by offering what we have 
not to give and provided they will conquer the whole of Newfoundland 
and secure the fishing, that we will most bountifully and most graciously 
give them one half of it for their trouble. We have found out that the 
Duke of Tuscany is a potentate of much consequence, while some of us 
are such Ignoramuses as to think him very insignificant in the naval and 

2 See no. 255, ante. 

3 See no. 265, ante. 

[272]! Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 31. 

2 Thomas Irving, receiver-general of South Carolina, one of the prisoners taken 
by Commodore Hopkins at New Providence in March and brought to Connecticut. See 
Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., V. 823, 867, fifth ser., HI. 619, 79i, 838, 899; also Conn. 
Col. Recs., XV. 263. Irving's petition was considered by Congress Jan. 2, 1777. See 
no. 201, note 2, ante. 



1 

military line and in this respect not worthy attention and tliat in com- 
mercial matters his interest will attach him to us without much sollicita- 
tion But I anticipate an amusement which you have to come, the Picture 
of our follies will be the more pleasing from being viewed at full length. 

We have given Genl. Washington large and ample powers, fully 
equal to the object if America means to contend and support him. Thus 
the Business of War will for six months to come move in the proper 
channels and the Congress be no longer exercised about matters of which 
it is supremely ignorant. 

A Plan is in agitation to appoint executive powers out of doors, and 
resolve the business of Treasury, Board of War and of Commerce into 
the hands of persons not members of congress. A Committee is appointed 
for that purpose and you are a member of it.^ You will be much wanted. 
I wish if your attendance is impossible that you would reduce a few tho'ts 
to paper upon the subject of a Chamber of Commerce which is the Hobby 
Horse and for which I fancy we are indebted to the Abilities of Mr. 
P e.* 

I earnestly wish that the Congress could return to Philadelphia without 
hazarding the Ignominy of a second flight or the charge of Caprice. This 
dirty boggy hole beggars all description. We are obliged, except when 
the Weather paves the streets to go to Congress on Horseback, the way 
so miry that Carriages almost stall on the sides of them. When the Devil 
proffered our Saviour the Kingdoms of the World, he surely placed his 
thumb on this delectable spot and reserved it to himself for his own 
peculiar chosen seat and inheritance. As to the Inhabitants the congress 
can boast no acquaintance with them but what arises from their daily 
exorbitant claims upon our pockets The Congress meets tomor- 
row altho' it is Sunday. Why, Heaven knows. I cannot conceive unless 
it is to give us importance in the eyes of the very respectable Inhabitants 
of this place 

2^^. Benjamin Harrison to Robert Morris.^ 

Board of War Deer. 29th 1776. 
Sir 

.... Congress have given up most of their Power to the Generals for 
the Term of six months.^ if this don't save your City nothing we can do 
will, they have also agreed to Establish Boards of War, Admiralty, 
Treasury and a Chamber of Commerce to be composed of members out 
of Congress. I had you Named to assist in forming the Plan and wish 
it was possible you could be here, particularly to form the Latter. I can't 
indeed see the use of such a Chamber as it can have the Direction of 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 26. The committee made a report March 22, 1777. See 
no. 298, note 7, post. 

* Presumably Robert Treat Paine Cf. a resolution of March 21, and John 
Adams's Notes of Debates, in an appendix to the Journals, VI. 1072. See also nos. 273, 
298, post. 

[273]! Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 18. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 27. Cf. nos. 268, ante, 275-277, post. 



December, iyy6 197 

nothing but the Congress Trade, and that I think has been as well 
managed as it could be.° .... 

274. The Committee of Secret Correspondence to the 
Commissioners at Paris.^ 

Baltimore 30 Decemr. 1776. 
Gentlemen 

.... Upon mature deliberation of all circumstances Congress deem 
the speedy declaration of France and European Assistance so indispensibly 
necessary to secure the Independence of these States, that they have 
authorized you to make such tenders to France and Spain, as they hope, 
will prevent any longer delay of an event, that is judged so essential to 
the well-being of North America. Your wisdom we know, will direct 
you to make such use of these powers, as will procure the thing desired 
on terms as much short of the concessions now offered as possible; but 
no advantages of this kind are proposed at the risk of a delay, that may 
prove dangerous to the end in view, it must be very obvious to the Court 
of France, that, if Great Britain should succeed in her design of sub- 
jugating these States, their Inhabitants, now well trained to arms might 
be compelled to become Instruments for making conquest of the French 
Possessions in the West Indies, which would be a sad contrast to that 
security and commercial benefit, that would result from the independence 
of North America." .... 

The next oportunity will bring you the determination of Congress 
concerning the persons, that are to be sent to the Courts of Vienna, Prus- 
sia, Spain and the Grand Duke of Tuscany. In the meantime, it is hoped, 
that, through the medium of the Ambassadors from those Courts to that 
of France, you may be so fortunate, as to procure their friendly mediation 
for the purposes proposed by Congress.' .... 

Wishing you health, success, and many happy years we remain Honble. 
Gentlemen 

Your most Obedt. and very Hum^. Servts. 

Benja. Harrison 
Richard Henry Lee 
Will Hooper 
RoBT Morris, at Philadelphia 

3 See nos. 272, ante, 298, post. 
[274]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Signers, II. 9; Am. Phil. Soc, Lee Papers, vol. I., 
p. 259, no. 75 (draft) ; Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 720 (duplicate) ; Washington, 
Department of State (draft) ; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 240; Sparks, Dipl. Corr. 
Rev., I. 246; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 1480; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. 
Ballagh), I. 241 (printed from the draft in Am. Phil. Soc). 

2 See the resolves in the Journals, Dec. 30. Cf. the several letters of Silas Deane 
in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. Robert Morris wrote to John Jay, Sept. 23 : " It 
appears clear to me that we may very soon involve all Europe in a War by managing 
properly the apparent forwardness of the Court of France ; it's a horrid consideration 
that our own Safety should call on us to involve other nations in the Calamities of War. 
Can this be morally right or have Morality and Policy nothing to do with each other? 
Perhaps it may not be good Policy to investigate the Question at this time." Corres- 
pondence of Jay, I. 84. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 27, 30; also (1777), Jan. i, May i, 7, 9, 12, 19, 31, June 
4, 5, 27, 28, July I. Cf. no. 284, post. 



1 

275. William Whipple to Josiaii Bartlett.* 

Baltimore 31st Deer. 1776 
My dear Sir 

.... By a circular letter from the President you'll see that the Genl. 
is vested with almost Dictatorial Powers this Measure was thot abso- 
lutely necessary for the Salvation of America.^ there is also measures 
taken (which I hope will be effectual) to prevent the abuses suffered by 
the Soldiers last Campaign. I am in no doubt that the greviences so justly 
Complain'd off in every department will be redressed so far as is possible, 
and the Causes of them removed 



276. The Committee in Philadelphia to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Decembr. 31st, 1776 

Sir 

We have the honor to enclose herein sundry resolves of Congress just 
received from Baltimore by express. We have barely taken time to read 
them over and finding them so important we wou'd not delay the express 
one moment. We find by these resolves your Excellencys hands will be 
strengthened with very ample Powers and a new reformation of the army 
seems to have its origin therein, happy it is for this Country that the 
General of their Forces can safely be entrusted with the most unlimited 
Power and neither personal security, liberty or property be in the least 
degree endangered thereby.^ We shall loose no time in executing the 
matters assigned to us by these resolves and are most truly 

Your Excellencys obt Servts 

RoBT Morris 
Geo Clymer 
Geo Walton. 



[275]^ Library of J. Pierpont Morgan, Signers of the Declaration, I. 

- See the Journals, Dec. 27 and 30. Cf. nos. 268, 273, ante, 276, 277, post. The 
President's circular letter is printed in the Journals (ed. Ford) under Dec. 30, from a 
copy in the Library of Congress. It is also printed, with note showing some variations 
of the letter as sent to the different states, in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1478. The 
letter to Massachusetts is in Mass. Arch., vol. CXCVL, f . 85 ; to Maryland, in Md. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book, VI. 61 (printed in Scharf, Chron. of Baltimore, p. 155) ; to New Jersey, 
in N. J. State Lib. (printed, except a postscript, in A'^. /. Rev. Corr., p. 21). The letter to 
New York is printed in Jour. Prov. Cong., I. 770, II. 382. 

[276]! Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1510. 
2 Cf. nos. 268, 2y2, 275, ante, 2-/-/, 284, 426, post. 

" General Washington must be invested with dictatorial power for a few months, or 
we are undone. The vis inertiae of the Congress has almost ruined this country." 
Benjamin Rush to Richard Henry Lee, Dec. 30, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1487. 



December, 1776 199 

277. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke)/ 

Baltimore, December 31st, 1776. 
Sir 

I received your Letter of the 30th of November ^ and laid it before 
Congress, and took particular Notice of the very weak Condition of our 
State. Congress are sensible of its Situation; but as they have by a late 
resolve, which the President will by this Express transmit to you, with a 
circular Letter in which the Reasons for their Doings are contained, 
delegated to and invested Genl. Washington with the whole military 
Power for a limited Time, Application will properly be made to him in 
every Instance which respects the military Department.^ With Regard to 
the other Parts of your Letter, which were ordered to be laid before 
Congress, as they required no particular Observations none were made 
upon them either by Congress or Me. 

.... Among other things that fell into our Hands by the Victory at 
Trenton, were four Standards, One of which is now in the Room where 
the Congress is held, and directly before Me. It is an Hessian Silken 
Standard 

278. William Hooper to Robert Morris.^ 

My dear Sir 

.... Hewes no doubt in his letter to you mentions a second piracy 
committed upon his property at Sea. I shall remonstrate in the firmest 
tone to Congress against this procedure and if they will not bring the 
offender to Justice I have no business here. Pray write such a letter to 
me upon the Subject as I may make use of in Congress to assist our much 
injured friend ^ 

Baltimore Deer. 31, 1776 

279. Thomas Nelson, jr., to PIoratio Gates.^ 

Baltimore Deer. 31st 1776 
Sir, 

Being one of a Committee appointed by Congress to prepare a plan for 
establishing a Board of War and Ordnance," and not having a thorough 
knowledge of the Duties of these Boards, I have taken the Liberty to 

[277]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1776-1777, p. 82; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 113; R. I. Col. Recs., VIII. 170; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1506. 

2 Cooke's letter to Ellery, Nov. 30, is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. loi. Just 
when the letter was laid before Congress does not appear from the Journals. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 27, and nos. 268, 273, 275, 276, ante, 284, 426, post. 
[278] J^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., Signers, p. 43. 

2 In a letter to Hewes, Jan. i, 1777 (no. 282, post), Hooper says: "I laid your 
letter relative [to] the capture of the Brig Joseph before the Congress." This is evi- 
dently the " letter from Mr. Hughes " mentioned in the Journals Dec. 31. See also 
no. 358, post. 

[279]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, VII.; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 1506. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 26 ; also no. 298, note 7, post. See also Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., III. 1509, and Hancock to Schuyler, Dec. 30, ibid., III. 1477. 

18 



2 

request the favour of you. when your heahh will permit, to furnish me 
with such a plan as you shall think best adapted to answer the designs of 
Congress, My not having the pleasure of a personal acquaintance with 
you, will. I hope, be a sufficient appology for my addressing you by Letter. 

I am Sir, Your obedt h'"^ servt 

Tiios Nklson, jr. 
To 

Major-General Gates. 
Baltimore 

280. Richard Henry Lee to William Shippen.* 

Baltimore ist. January 1776 [1777] 
A/3' Dear Sir, 

.... The removal from Philadelphia was not a measure of mine, but 
had my hearty disapprobation so long as disapproving availed anything; 
but when go they would, I endeavored to put the best face on it.^ .... 

281. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Hawley.* 

Baltimore i Jany 1777 
My dear Sir 

.... The adjournment of Congress to this place I confess gave me 
pain, but the air is so much more exhilirating that some capital Measures 
touching our Foreign Affairs have been taken which I think will be very 
serviceable, and I hope it on the whole will prove serviceable.^ .... 

P. S. The Tories must be exported ; Bonds will not answer the purpose, 
prisons We have not a Sufficiency, and they are not worth hanging. I 
observe in a very good Act of yours the Word " Colony " is again used, 
does it not look like Diffidence in your Right to the Terms of an " Inde- 
pendant State "? 

282. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes.^ 

My dear Hewes 

I was favoured with two letters from you by Capt. Allon. I lament 
your hard fortune, and unless some measures are immediately taken to 
prevent the infamous practices of the Privateers, America will soon be 
in a state of general confusion — One Part w-arring against another, and 
the defenceless Southern colonies become a devoted prey to their more 
formidable Eastern neighbours. I laid your letter relative [to] the 
Capture of the Brig Joseph before the congress without any embellishment 
or reserve." The New England Gentlemen felt the force of the Imputa- 

[280]^ Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 166. 

2 Cf. nos. 247, 249, 263, ante, 286, 298, 302, post. 
[28i]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Hawley Papers, II. 

- Cf. no. 280, ante. 
[282]! Furnished by courtesy of Mr. James H. Manning of Albany. 

2 The "letter from Mr. Hughes" mentioned in the Journals, Dec. 31. 



January, 7777 201 

tion but considered it as too general. I have an order that Our President 
should write the President and Council of Mass"* requesting to make an 
immediate enquiry after the Vessell and the Pirates who have taken her, 
secure her and them and report immediately to congress.* I have also 
procured a reference of your letter to the marine Committee, who I hope 
will take some spirited resolves to avenge the Injury done you and to 
prevent the repetition of such unjustifiable depredations. Morris is not 
here, but I have requested him in a letter which I wrote him yesterday * 
enclosing yours to correspond with me upon the subject and exert his 
utmost endeavours to interest Congress in favour of your Application, 
by a publick epistle to our Honours. This is all which can be done at 
present, when I hear more particularly from you I shall prosecute every 
expedient to improve such information to your benefit.® 

The Congress upon Part of G Howes' Army advancing within 9 Miles 
of Cooper's ferry, by the advice of Mifflin and Putnam removed to this 
dirty infamous extravagant hole, where with all possible Oeconomy we 
live at the rate of 50/ per day. Every necessary of life being double what 
they cost us in Philadelphia, and before we left that everything was 



enormous.® 



Yours truly 

W H 
Baltimore Jany i. 1777 

[P. S.] .... 

283. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Baltimore Jany ist. 1777. 
Sir, 

I am to acknowledge the Receipt of your several Favours to the 27th 
Ulto.^ Your Letter of that Date, containing the very agreeable Intel- 
ligence of the Success of the Continental Arms under your Command, 
^vas last Night delivered to me by your Aid de Camp Col Baylor, together 
with the Hessian Standard. I entertain the most pleasing Expectation 
that our Affairs will henceforth assume a better Complexion. Your 
Account of the Behaviour and Spirit of the Troops, gave the highest 
Satisfaction to Congress; and manifests a Disposition which may prove 
the forerunner of future Success 

From the inclosed Resolve * you will perceive Congress have deter- 
mined, that a Horse, properly caparisoned, be presented to your Aid de 

3 No record of such an order is found in the Journals. 
* No. 278, ante. 

5 See the Journals, Feb. 4, and no. 358, post. 

^ Cf. nos. 260, 262, ante, 295, post. See also nos. 332, note 2, 347, post. 
[283]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XIII. 3; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), I. 317. 

2 Washington's letter of Dec. 27 was read in Congress Dec. 31. It is in Writings 
(ed. Ford), V. 401. 

3 See the Journals, Jan. i. 



2 

Camp Colo Baylor, and to recommend it to you to promote him to be a 
Colonel of a Rep^iment of Lipht Horse. As the Congress have been 
pleased to entrust me with the Execution of this Resolve, I must beg you 
will do me the Favour to give Directions to the Quarter Master, or other 
proper Person, to purchase as handsome a Horse for this Purpose as can 
be found. The Reason of my making this Application, is an Information 
I had received that some Light Horse were taken at Trenton, and are to 
be publicly sold for the Benefit of the Soldiery 

284. Samuel Adams to James Warren.* 

Baltimore, Jany. i, 1777. 
My dear Sir, 

.... Our Affairs in Europe look well, and additional Measures have 
been taken here, to establish them in that Part of the World on a solid 
Foundation. I assure you Business has been done since we came to this 
place, more to my Satisfaction than any or every thing done before, 
excepting the Declaration of Independence, which should have been made 
immediately after the 19th of April, '75. 

Our Ministers abroad are directed to assure foreign Courts, that not- 
withstanding the artful and insidious Representations of the Emissaries 
of Britain to the Contrary, the Congress and People of the United States 
are determind to maintain their Independence at all Events.^ .... 

By this Conveyance you will have a Resolution vesting large Powers 
in General Washington, for a limitted time. It became in my Opinion 
necessary.^ The Hint I gave you some time ago I still think very impor- 
tant. Genl. Gates arrivd here the day before yesterday. I have conversd 
with him upon it. He told me he had conceivd it before and wishes the 
Measure may be tryed. It requires Secrecy and Dispatch.* .... 

285. The Committee in Philadelphia to the President of 
Congress (John Hancock).* 

Philadelphia Jany 2. 1777 
Sir 

. . . . Lt. Colo. Johnson and Major Frazer ^ of Waynes Pensylvania 
Battalion called on us this morning, they say, the men in that corps are 
as good Soldiers as any in America, but will not reinlist on any other 

[284]^ Warren-Adams Letters, I. 281 ; Writings, III. ji,yj (dated Dec. 31, 1776). 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 30, 1776, and no. 274, ante. 

' See the Journals, Dec. 27. C/. nos. 268, 273, 275-277, ante, 426, post. 

* The allusion is probably to a suggestion, in Adams's letter to Warren of Dec. 
6 {Warren-Adams Letters, I. 278), that the enemy's ships might be burned while locked 
in the ice. 

[285]! Library of Congress, Pap. Cont. Cong., no. 137, App., f. 57, no. 133, f. 25 
(letter-book copy). 

2 Francis Johnston and Per si for Frazer. Schuyler touched upon the question 
of Wayne's battalion in his letter of Dec. 10 (Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 1150), 
referred to a committee Dec. 24. It is not found what action, if any, Congress took 
concerning the matter. This letter of the Philadelphia committee was read in Congress 
Jan. 6. 



January, i///. 203 

Condition than being permitted to return home, those terms being- 
granted them and comphed with they have no doubt of getting every man, 
and they the Officers wou'd prefer them to fresh hands. We told them 
Congress had this matter before them upon the representation of GenI 
Schuyler etc., but they pressed us exceedingly to mention the matter to 
Congress and urge in favour of the Pensylvania and Jersey Troops being 
sent dow^n soon as possible, as the Garrison can be easily maintained by 
the Eastern Militia untill the New Regiments are formed and ordered up 



agam.^ 



286. The Committee in Philadelphia to William Palfrey.^ 

January 2nd 1777 
William Palfrey Esq. 
Sir, 

Your letter to Congress of yesterday is now in our office, and which 
we shall despatch to Baltimore by Express.^ As we concur with you that 
the engagements with the soldi [e]ry should at all times be complied with, 
we shall recommend it to Congress to send you a sufficient supply of 
money. 

In consequence of a request from his Excellency the General, We 
yesterday sent him Fifty Thousand Dollars for the purpose of Paying the 
10 Dollars bounty you mentioned so that we hope the Army will suffer 
nothing untill you get a supply.* .... 

287. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Baltimore 2d Jany 1777 
Dear Sir 

Your Favour of the 23d. Deer is just come to Hand and inclosed are 
the orders of Congress for importing Flower and Rice. I should have 
wrote by your young Gentleman, but he stopped at Philadelphia. Capt 
Doughty will go of¥ the 4th or 5th with 400000 Dollars, and the Loan 
Office Certificates will either be sent by Express or under his Care to each 
of the New England Commissioners, who will also receive the necessary 
Directions.^ I will move in the Morning for a Warrant on the Loan 
offices of Connecticut and Massachusetts for 300000 Dollars, in your 
Favour; which answers all that is mentioned in your Letter relative to 
Business.^ 

3 Qjncerning the committee in Philadelphia, see nos. 245, 254, 255, ante. 
[286]! Library of Congress, Pap. Cont. Cong., no. 133, f. 24. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 6. 

3 See Washington's letter to Morris, Dec. 31, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 
1514; cf. his letter of Dec. 30, ibid.. III. 1488. 

[287]iConn. State Library, Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 70. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 28, Dec. 26, 28. Cf. no. 266, ante, and no. 331, post. A 
letter from Hancock to Joseph Trumbull, Jan. i, enclosing these resolves, is in the 
Conn. State Library, Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 137. Captain Doughty (presumably 
John Doughty; see Heitman, Hist. Reg.) and Mr. James Bate, a deputy of Trumbull, 
were sent by Trumbull on a mission to Washington and to Congress. See Trumbull's 
letters of Dec. 13, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 1202, 1203. 

3 See the postscript of Jan. 3, below. 



2 

I am informed that in the New York Papers is tlie Copy of a Letter 
from the C. G. to a Mem^ of Congress wherein Colo Reed is censured ; 
I have not seen it, or heard to whom it is ihrected — but shall not be sur- 
prizcil if to myself.* .... 

[P. S.] J any. ^d. the order proposed in the first part of this Letter 
having: passed Congress is now inclosed." I think it will be necessary to 
inform yourself from the Loan Office Commrs. who of them is or may 
be best supplyed with Money and inform the Treasurer that he may send 
an order accordingly. 

in the Evening — I am just come from a Visit to our good Friend 
General Gates who is on the Recovery, which will doubtless give you 
pleasure. I suspect that a mercenary party at Albany have endeavoured 
to gravel you in supplying the army.® .... pray inform me whether you 
can [esta]blish a Magazine of provisions at Bennington for an army of 
lOCXX) Men for three Months and keep up the usual Supplies notwith- 
stand^ opposition and without the assistance of the Albany Gentleman;^ 
and if not, whether it would be a good plan to direct a certain Quantity 
to be provided in or near Albany by the York convention or General 
Schuyler to Supply the Militia that may occasionally come in, or answer 
any other Demands that may be found necessary during the next Cam- 
paign ? and also what Quality of provisions and Quantity should be thus 
ordered ? I think your powers and Connections may render this needless ; 
but as it can be done without interfering in your Department, if you think 
there is the le[ast] Chance of it's being necessary and advise thereto, 
[it] shall be adopted, the Bearer brings the Certificates to the Commis- 
sioners of the loan offices in N England. 

288. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety.^ 

Baltimore Town, Jany. 3rd. 1777 
Gentlemen. 

.... Mr, Carroll informs Me that an Application was heretofore 
made to Congress relative to the Case of Milne and Jenkins, and declined 
Giving any opinion. I have given the State of their Case to the Georgia 
Delegates. I will write you further on this Subject.^ .... 

.... our State is as yet unrepresented.* 

* The initials " C. G." are for commissary general, that is, Joseph Trumbull. 
An intercepted letter of Joseph Trumbull to William Williams, dated Nov. i8, 1776, was 
printed in Hugh Gaine's New York Gazette, Dec. 9, and was transmitted to Congress by 
General Schuyler in a letter of Dec. 30. The Trumbull letter is in Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., III. 1497; Schuyler's letter (read in Congress Jan. 13) is ibid., III. 1495. See 
also nos. 331, 423, post. 

s See the Journals, Jan. 3. In a letter of Mar. 5 to Congress, Trumbull says 
that the warrant for this $300,000 has not been received. Duplicate orders were sent by 
Hancock Mar. 16 (letter to Trumbull, Mar. 16, Conn. State Library, Joseph Trumbull 
Papers, no. 141). 

^ The allusion is probably to Walter Livingston. See no. 124, ante. 

"^ Gerry first wrote " with or without the assistance ". The word printed " Gentle- 
man " may be Gentlemen. See note 6, above. 

[288] 1 Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, III. 2>o\ Arch, of Md., XVL 11. 

2 See no. 238, ante; cf. no. 318, post. 

' The council's reply to this letter, Jan. 10, is in Arch, of Md., XVI. 34. 



January, 77/7 205 

289. The Committee in Philadelphia to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia Jany 5th. 1777 
Sir, 

.... The uncertain rumours of your Excellency's success between 
Trenton and Prince Town and at the latter place, leave us in a most 
anxious state of suspence, hoping every moment to be relieved therefrom 
by an express with dispatches from you 

We informed Congress of your situation on Thursday Evening at 
Trenton and prepared them to expect some important event consequently 
they will have an anxious interval of suspence as we now have ^ . . . . 
We remain Your Excellencys Obed Servants 

Geo Walton 
Geo Clymer 
RoBT Morris. 

290. The President of Congress to the Committee in 

Philadelphia.^ 

Baltimore Jany. 6th. 1777. 
Sir, 

.... Your Favour of the 3d. inst.^ I reed, yesterday at two O'Clock 
in the Afternoon, and this Morning laid it before Congress, who approve 
highly of your sending the Information it contains, and are infinitely 
anxious to hear the Event. It is now one O'Clock, P. M. and no Express 
as yet arrived; a Circumstance, which, in my Opinion, augurs well. I 
have the Honour to be, with Sentiments of Esteem, 

Sir, your most obed. and very hble Sevt. 

John Hancock Presidt 

Robt. Morris Esqr. and others of the Com^. 

.... The Resolution sent you some time ago respect^ the Magazine 
at York, is superceeded by the subsequent Resolve ordering one at 
Carlile.* 

291. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Baltimore 6th Jany. 1777. 
Sir, 

The enclosed Resolves, which I have the Honour of transmitting, call 
for your immediate Attention ; and I am to request, you will take 

[289]^ Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XIIL 18. 

2 A part of the committee's letter to Congress, Jan. 2, 3, is printed ante (no. 286). 
See the Journals, Jan. 6, and no. 290, post. A letter from the committee to Congress, 
Jan. 5, read Jan. 8, is in Arch, of Md., XVL 28. See also nos. 294, 295, post. 
[290] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, f. 15. 

2 The Journals (Jan. 6) mention the letter as dated the 2d and 3d. Cf. nos. 291, 
297, post. 

' See the Journals, Dec. 21, 27 (pp. 1033, 1044), Washington to Congress, Dec. 20 
(Writings, ed. Ford, V. 112, ed. Sparks, IV. 232), and nos. 300, 321, 374, 435, post. 

[291]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XIIL 20; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), I. 323. 



'JOi) Continental Congress 

Measures in Pursuance thereof as soon as possible. Genl. Lee's Situa- 
tion seems to be extremely daiij^erous and critical; and from Genl. 
Howe's Behaviour to him. it is hig^hly probable, he will be broujj^ht to 
a Trial for Desertion, (icnl. Lee, it is said, by Mr. Eustace,* his Aid de 
Camp, having^ addressed two Letters to Genl. Howe, received them both 
back again unopened, and enclosed under a Cover directed to Lieutenant 
Colo Lee. I hope the Mag. which Congress ordered to be sent to make 
Inquiry into the Manner in which he is treated, has been di.spatched ; and 
a Remonstrance in Consequence of it, should the Information you have 
received of his Treatment, have rendered that Step necessary. 

You will please to propose an Exchange of the six Hessian Field 
Officers for him, and at the same Time, make Inquiry whether the 
Report which Congress have heard of Mr. Stockton's being confined in a 
Common Jail by the Enemy, has any Truth in it, or not."^ 

By a Letter which Congress yesterday received from Mr. Morris * we 
are informed, that Genl. Cadwalader, with the Troops under him, had 
joined your Army — that the Enemy were at Trenton — that the two 
Armies were divided only by a Creek, and that a General Engagement 
was hourlv expected. In the mean Time, Congress are infinitely anxious 
to hear the Event ; and humbly hope, that Victory has declared in Favor 
of those, wdiose sacred Cause should inspire them with Ardor, on every 
solemn Appeal to that Being, who hateth all Injustice, Tyranny, and 
Oppression. I have the honor to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem and 
Respect, Sir, 

your most obed. and very hble Servt. 

John Hancock Presidt. 

P. S. If the Desire of Congress to procure Genl. Lee's Exchange can- 
not be effected, and the Enemy, preferring the Gratification of Revenge 
to the Civility they owe their Hessian Auxiliaries, determine to keep or 
to abuse him, it will be very agreeable to Congress that their Determina- 
tion, with the enclosed Resolve be made known to the Hessians as fully 
as possible. To secure Genl. Lee as effectually as may be from personal 
Insult and Injury, Congress have come to the present Resolution; which 
you, Sir, are desired to convey to Genl. Howe, with all convenient Dis- 
patch. It will be very agreeable to Congress that the Hessian Field Officer 
intended to be exchanged for Colo. Ethan Allen be sent to notify it to 
Genl. Howe, taking his Parole to return in a fixt Time, if Colo. Allen is 
not returned in his Place. It will fall within the Wish of Congress if 
Colo. Rahl, or one of the Hessian Officers, should be also sent with the 

2 Maj. John Eustace. 

3 A part of Hancock's letter to Robert Morris on the same day (no. 290, ante) 
is almost identical with these passages. Cf. nos. 297-299, 360, post ; also Richard Henry 
Lee to Patrick Henrjs Jan. 9. in Letters (ed. Ballagh), I. 246, and Henry, Patrick Henry, 
III. 36. See also the Journals, Feb. 20, and nos. 366, 367, 371, post. 

In regard to Richard Stockton, see Benjamin Rush to Richard Henry Lee, Dec. 30, 
1776, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IH. 1487; also no. 347, note 6, post. 
* See no. 290, ante, and no. 297, post. 



January, 7777 207 

Flag proposing the Exchange of Genl Lee ; but the Propriety of it is 
submitted to you." 

Jany yth. We have an imperfect Acct. of the Engagement at Trenton, 
and anxiously wait for further Particulars. It was in Hopes of receiving 
them, that I detained the Express till this Morning. 

292. Francis Lewis to the New York Committee of Safety.* 

[January 7, 1777.]' 

I lately wrote you by an Express, wherein I informed you that the 
State of New York was not represented in Congress, nor indeed has it 
been for several months past, except at some small intervals.* I am at 
present the only Delegate for New York at this place, and the Members 
are continually urging me to request you would compleat your representa- 
tion in Congress, as business is now multiplying upon their hands, and so 
many Members detached upon Committees etc. that the business in Con- 
gress is retarded, add to this that our state sometimes suffers for the want 
of a Vote in Congress, which I beg you would speedily remmedy.* 

293. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

Baltimore, January 7, 1777. 
Sir, 

I received your Letter Yesterday by an Express from Philadelphia. 
Your Express was so fatigued that he could not proceed immediately on, 
and therefore another was sent forward with it. I laid your Letter and 
the Resolve before Congress this Morning.^ They are disposed to do 
every Thing in their Power for the Benefit of the States, and have taken 
such Measures as they thought might be effectual to secure the Assistance 
you wish for. The Measures that have been taken to prevent the Enemy 
from penetrating the Country, and for expelling them from our State 
give Me vast Satisfaction 

5 See the Journals, Dec. 20, 1776, Jan. 3, 6, 1777. There is no mention of 
Colonel Rahl. 

[292]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1577, Declaration of Independence; Cal. 
N. Y. Hist. MSS.: Revolutionary Papers, I. 605. 

2 The letter as printed in Cal. N. Y. Hist. MSS. has the date line " Baltimore 
7 Janry 1777" at the top. The letter in the Emmet Collection has at the bottom 
" Baltimore Jan. 7. 1777 ", but apparently inserted by another hand at some later time. 

3 The letter of Dec. 27, no. 268, ante. 

* The report (Jan. 22) of a committee of the New York committee of safety on 
this letter is in Cal. N. Y. Hist. MSS.; Revolutionary Papers, I. 605-606. See Jour. N. Y. 
Prov. Cong., I. 776, 779, 782. Cf. nos. 312, 329. 330, 363, 402, post. 

[293]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1776-1777, p. 113; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 115; R. I. Recs., Will. 171. 

2 The letter of Governor Cooke referred to is probably that of Dec. 22, in 
Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 108. Staples quotes (p. no) a resolve of the Rhode 
Island assembly, empowering the governor to grant commissions for privateers and 
letters of marque and reprisal to foreigners, as probably the resolve enclosed in the 
governor's letter. Congress passed a resolve relative to the matter Apr. 5. Cooke's letter 
to Ellery chiefly relates to the British invasion of Rhode Island, and measures taken 
for defense. See no. 243, ante. 



2 

294. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety/ 

Wednesday Morning [January 8(?), 1777.] 
Gentlemen. 

We remain in the most anxious suspense, Some important event has 
taken place, but we are unable to inform the particulars. 

The enclosed is a copy of a letter from the Committee of Cong-ress to 
Mr Hancock.* I have no leave to make it public. I send it to give you 
all the intelligence in my power, it may be shewn but not printed. Our 
State is still unrepresented and every day matters of the greatest impor- 
tance are debated and determined in congress 

295. Benjamin Harrison to Robert Morris.* 

Balto"' Jany 8th 1777 
Dear Sir 

.... I wish Congress may remove back with all my Heart for I am 
most horridly vex'd with this Place,' indeed I had like to have been with 
Philadelphia; nothing but the little circle of acquaintance I had there prevented 
it, but this Tryal of Baltimore will make me (if possible) set a much 
greater Value on them, but on the Town most Certainly however I am 
told the Yankeys are against it, if so w^e go not, they Rule as absolutely 
as the Grand Turk dos in his own Dominions. I could give you an 
instance of it, but it must not be committed to paper 

Your letter to the President wh came to hand yesterday ^ relieved us 
from great anxiety, there w^ere such number of P — and R — Lies circu- 
lated that we knew not what to think particularly as we had not a word 
from you, we are now in high Spirits waiting for a Confirmation of what 
you write, with Glorious additions, but know, my Dear Sir, I have my 

moments of Fear ; dispell them quickley I beg of you the Colony 

[Pennsylvania] has never yet been represented 

My compliments to Walton I have a wish that his Country was 

represented, but alas it is not* .... 

296. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 
President of Georgia (Archibald Bulloch).* 

Baltimore, Jany 8th. 1777 
Sir, 

I have the Honour to enclose you the Copy of an intercepted Letter 
from the Governor of East Florida to Lord George Germain, containing, 

[2g^]^ Arch, of Md., XVI. 27; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, III. 32. 

2 See no. 289, note 2, ante, no. 295, post. 
[295]! Copied from the original then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 407. 

2 Cf. nos. 260, 262, 282, ante, 304, 332, note 2, 340, 344, note 2, post. 

3 The letter was read in Congress Jan. 8. See nos. 289, 294, ante. 

* Walton was serving as one of the committee in Philadelphia. See nos. 245, 255, 
ante. 

[296]! Mass. Hist. Soc. Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 100; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. II., f. 102. Papers of the Continental Congress, no. 58, pt. II., to 
which frequent reference is made in this volume, are Force Transcripts (bound in two 



January, z/// 209 

among others, the most convincing proof of the treasonable Conduct of 
Mr George Mcintosh of your State. This Gentleman it seems is a 
Member of the Congress in Georgia, and under that Character is secretly 
supporting by every Art in his Power, the Designs of the British King 
and Parliament agt us.^ .... 

297. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Baltimore Jany 8th 1777 
My dear Sir 

.... This Express will carry to the Council a Resolution which I 
presume will of course be communicated to you.^ In my next I will give 
you a very particular and good reason why it is not communicated to you 
in this Letter. We understand that by the Enemies Treatment of General 
Lee there appears to be a Design to consider him as a deserter and take 
away his Life. Congress have directed General Washington to acquaint 
Howe that if this is his Intention five of the Hessian field officers now^ in 
our hands together with Lt. Coll. Campbell ' shall be detained and 
sacrificd as an Atonement for his Blood should the Matter be carried to 
that Extremity ; and this Resolution will most undoubtedly in my opinion 
be executed in full tale.* 

298. Samuel Adams to John Adams.^ 

Baltimore, 9 January 1777. 
My dear Sir 

.... I have given our friend Warren, in one of my letters to him,^ 
the best reason I could for the sudden removal of Congress to this place. 
Possibly he may have communicated it to you. I confess it was not 
agreeable to my mind; but I have since altered my opinion, because we 
have done more important business in three weeks than we had done, and 
I believe should have done, at Philadelphia, in six months. As you are 

volumes) of letters in the Letter-Book of President Hancock in possession of the Massa- 
chusetts Historical Society. The two volumes of Force Transcripts (no. 58, pts. I., H.) 
are not to be confused with Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, referred to under nos. 255, 
269, 290, ante, 308, 316, 321, post. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. i ; cf. ibid., Oct. 4, 9, 10. The letter (July 19, 1776) 
from the governor of East Florida (Patrick Tonyn) has not been found. For an 
account of the origin and outcome of the charge against George Mcintosh, see McCall, 
Hist, of Georgia (1816), H. 112-118, (ed. 1909), pp. 333-339; Jones, Hist, of Georgia, H. 
278-280. See also an article in the Ga. Hist. Quar., III. 131. Cf. no. 446, post. 

[297]! Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Gushing), IV. 340; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel 
Adams Papers. 

2 The resolution referred to is probably that of Jan. 8, relative to Nova Scotia. 
A letter from the Massachusetts council Dec. 30 (Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 
1501), recommending an expedition to Nova Scotia, appears not to have been received 
by Gongress until Jan. 23. Adams's reason for not enclosing the resolution of Gongress 
in his letter was probably the fear that it might be intercepted. See no. 298, post. 

8 Archibald Gampbell. See no. 367, note 3, post. 

* See nos. 290, 291, ante, 298, note 4, 299, 360, 366, 367, 371, post ; also a letter 
of Tench Tilghman to Robert Morris, Mar. 2, N. Y. Hist. Soc., Collections: Revolu- 
tionary Papers, I. 422. 

[298]! J. Adams, Works, IX. 448; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Gushing), III. 342. 

2 Dec. 25, no. 263, ante. 



2 

a member of Congress, you have a right to know all that has been done ; 
but I dare not commit it to paper at a time when tiie safe carriage of 
letters is become so precarious. One thing I am very solicitous to inform 
you, because I know it will give you great satisfaction. If you recollect 
our conversation at New Haven, I fancy you will understand me when I 
tell you, that to one place we have added four, and increased the number 
of persons from three to six.' I hate this dark, mysterious manner of 
writing, but necessity requires it.* .... 

We have this day passed a recommendation to the Council of Massachu- 
setts Bay of a very important nature. It will be sent by this express to the 
Council, to whom I refer you for a perusal of it. 

Our affairs in France and Spain wear a promising aspect, and we have 
taken measures to put them on a respectable footing in other parts of 
Europe: and I flatter myself too much if we do not succeed 

You have seen the power with which General Washington is vested 
for a limited time." Congress is very attentive to the northern army, and 
care is taken effectually to supply it with every thing necessary this winter 
for the next campaign. General Gates is here. How shall we make him 
the head of that army ? " 

We are about establishing boards of war. ordnance, navy, and treasury, 
with a chamber of commerce, each of them to consist of gentlemen who 
are not members of Congress. By these means, I hope, our business will 
be done more systematically, speedily, and effectually.'' 

' The reference is evidently to the resolve, Dec. 30, to send commissioners to 
Vienna, Spain, Prussia, and Tuscany, in addition to France. On Jan. i Franklin, one 
of the three commissioners to France, was chosen commissioner to Spain, leaving three 
other places to fill. May i Arthur Lee was designated commissioner to Spain; May 7 
Ralph Izard was chosen commissioner to Tuscany ; and May 9 William Lee was elected 
for the courts of both Vienna and Berlin. Cf. the letter of the committee of secret 
correspondence. Feb. 19, Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 273. 

•* A paragraph similar to that in his letter to Warren, Jan. 8, concerning the 
exchange of General Lee is here omitted. See no. 297, ante. 

* See nos. 268, 273, 275-277, 284, ante. 

® The inclination of both the Adamses in favor of Gates is marked. 

^ See nos. 185. 246, 253, 258, 272, 273, 279, ante ; also no. 305, post. A committee of 
five was appointed Dec. 26, 1776, " to prepare a plan for the better conducting the 
executive business of Congress, by boards composed of persons, not members of 
Congress ". On Jan. 9 two members were added to the committee, which is usually 
denominated the committee on departments. The first outcome of the committee efforts 
was the organization, Mar. 22, of the office of Secretary of Congress. On Apr. 8 
the committee reported a plan for a board of war and ordnance (the report is in the 
Journals, under that date), but the consideration of it was postponed, and on April 12 it 
was recommitted. On June 6 the committee was instructed to " proceed on the business 
committed to them, and make report as soon as possible ". On July 18 it was resolved to 
appoint a board of war, consisting of three gentlemen, not members of Congress, but 
to conduct the business under the direction of the existing board composed of members. 
The appointment of this board was set for July 22, was then postponed, and the next 
action recorded is the consideration, Oct. 16, of a report from the committee on depart- 
ments. The plan was adopted, after amendment, Oct. 17, and on Nov. 7 the members 
of the board were appointed. They were Thomas Mifflin, Tim.othy Pickering, and R. H. 
Harrison. Mifflin and Pickering accepted (see the Journals, Nov. 18, 21) and Harrison 
declined (ibid., Nov. 21). Upon the recommendation of the member board Nov. 24 
(see the Journals of that day, also Nov. 21, 22) it was resolved to appoint two additional 
members, and on Nov. 27 General Gates, Richard Peters, and Joseph Trumbull were 
chosen, with Gates as president (see no. 700, note 4, post). A reduction in the member- 
ship to two members of Congress and three commissioners not members of Congress 



January, ly// 211 

Great and heavy complaints have been made of abuse in the Director- 
General's department in both our armies; some, I suppose, without 
grounds, others with too much reason. I have no doubt but as soon as a 
committee reports, which is expected this day, both Morgan and Stringer 
will be removed, as I think they ought. 

to the eighty-eight battalions ordered to be raised, sixteen are to be 
added, which, with six to be raised out of the continent at large, will make 
one hundred and ten, besides three thousand horse, three regiments of 
artillery, and a company of engineers.* We may expect fifty or sixty 
thousand of the enemy in June next. Their design will still be to subdue 
the obstinate States of New England. It was the intention that Carleton 
should winter in Albany, Howe in New York, and Clinton at Rhode 
Island, that, with reenforcements in the spring, they might be ready to 
attack New England on all sides. I hope every possible method will be 
used to quicken the new levies, and that the fortifications in the harbor of 
Boston will be in complete readiness. Much will depend upon our dili- 
gence this winter. 

The attention of Congress is also turned to the southward. Forts Pitt 
and Randolph are to be garrisoned, and provisions laid up for two 
thousand men six months. By the last accounts from South Carolina, 
we are informed that late arrivals have supplied them with every thing 
necessary for their defence. 

I have written in great haste, and have only time to add, that I am. with 
sincere regards to your lady and family, very cordially your friend, 

Samuel Adams. 



was made Oct. 29, 1778 (see also the Journals, Apr. 21, 1778), but otherwise, though with 
numerous changes of personnel, the board remained thus constituted until 1781. Feb. 
7, 1781, Congress established the departments of finance, war, and marine. The post of 
Secretary at War was filled Oct. 30, 1781, by the appointment of Benjamin Lincoln, who 
accepted Nov. 26. 

The first steps of importance toward a reconstitution of the treasury were taken 
Apr. 15, 1778, when a plan was brought in proposing a board of five members not of 
Congress. On Aug. 13 there was a report by a committee upon this report, and Sept. 26 
an " arrangement " of the treasury was adopted, leaving the board however still composed 
of members of Congress. In April, 1779 (see the Journals, Apr. 13, 22, 27), further 
modifications were proposed, and July 30 an ordinance was passed establishing a board 
of treasury consisting of three persons not members of Congress and two members. 
The department remained thus constituted until February, 1781 (see above), when Robert 
Morris was appointed Superintendent of Finance (Feb. 20). The first steps toward shift- 
ing the administration of the navy to others than members of Congress were the appoint- 
ment in November, 1776, of a board of naval experts in Philadelphia, and in April, 1777, 
of a similar board for the Eastern states, both to be under the direction of the marine 
committee. Two and a half years later, Oct. 28, 1779, a board of admiralty was created, 
consisting of three persons not members of Congress and two members. Upon the 
reorganization of the department, Feb. 7, 1781, Gen. Alexander McDougall was chosen 
Secretary of Marine (Feb. 27), but he declined, and the office was never filled. 

Apparently the only outcome of the project of establishing a " Chamber of Commerce " 
was the creation, July 5, 1777, of a committee of commerce to supersede the secret com- 
mittee. This committee, with somewhat enlarged powers, was reconstituted Dec. 14, 1778. 
8 Concerning the 88 battalions, see the Journals, Sept. 16 ; concerning the addi- 
tional battalions, see the Journals, Dec. 27. See also nos. 264, note 3, 268, ante. 



212 Continental Coni^rcss 

P. S. Dr. Morg^an and Dr. Stringer arc dismissed without any reason 
assigned, which Congress could of right do, as they held their places 
during pleasure. The true reason, as I take it, was the general disgust, 
and the danger of the loss of an army arising therefrom." 



299. The Committee in Philadelphia to George Washington.' 

Philadelphia Jany 9th. 1777 

Sir 

We have just reed the dispatches from Congress delivered herewith to 
Colo. Hartley, and having reed. Copies of the Resolves of Congress 
therein enclosed to you, we cannot help saying they have been liberal in 
their offers to regain Genl Lee, and altho we have not only a high opinion 
of his merits and abilities as an officer but also a personal regard for him, 
yet we are apt to think we shou'd have opposed these offers had we been 
in Congress, at least some of us are of that opinion, however this is not 
to the purpose at present.^ We observe that Congress direct you to pro- 
pose an agreement whereby Prisoners may be supplyed with provisions at 
the Expence or upon the Credit of the States.' We recommended to Con- 
gress to appoint an Agent of their own to attend the Prisoners and see 
justice done them and to prevent their enlisting w'ith the Enemy * and if 
this is not done the plan will be incompleat, as we are inclined to believe 
our People suffer by the peculation of the Commissarys that have the 
care of them, and not by the allowance ordered by the Commander in 
Chief. We think such an agent might be admitted on each side, under 

parole not to give intelligence 

For the Committee of Congress 

• I am Your Excellencys obt Servt 

Robt Morris 

[P. S.] .... 

® Dr. John Morgan was director general and chief physician of the hospital, 
elected Oct. 17, 1775. Dr. Samuel Stringer was director of the hospital and chief physi- 
cian and surgeon of the Northern department, elected Sept. 14, 1775. See the Journals, 
Oct. 3 (report of the committee sent to camp), Oct. 9, Nov. 26, 28, 29, 1776; Jan. 4, 
6, 9, 1777; aJso the correspondence of Dr. William Shippen with Washington and with 
Congress, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III., 463, 493, 618, 1026, 1119, 1186, 1258, 1298. 
See, further, the Journals, July 31, Aug. 8, 9. The medical department was reorganized 
Apr. 7 and 8, 1777. See no. 431, post. 

[299] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XIIL 33; Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 133, f. 48 (letter-book copy). 

2 The reference is to the resolve of Jan. 2, relative to the exchange of six Hessian 
officers for General Lee, and to that of Jan. 6, relative to retaliation. See nos. 290, 291, 
297, 298, ante, 360, 366, 267, 37^, post. Cf. the committee's letter to Washington, Dec. 28, 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth sen, IIL 1458. 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 3. 

* See the committee's letter of Dec. 30, ante, and the Journals, Jan. 16, Apr. 22, 
June 6. In accordance with the action of Congress Jan. 16, Elias Boudinot was made 
commissar>- -general of prisoners by Washington in April, 1777 (see his letter to Boudinot, 
Apr. I, 1777, in Writings, ed. Ford. V. 299; also Boudinot, Life of Elias Boudinot, I. 
42). He was commissioned by Congress June 6, following. 



January, lyyj 213 

300. The Committee in Philadelphia to James Wilson/ 

Jany 9th 1777. 
James Wilson Esqr. 

Sir 

In consequence of the late resolution of Congress to erect a Magazine at 
Carlisle ^ we have applied to Mr. Nicholas Hicks, a Bricklayer of the 
first reputation here, to superintend the work, it is yet much too early in 
the Year to begin it, but we have thought it expedient to forward him to 
prepare the necessary Materials, and engage the proper workmen in which 
agreeable to your offer you will no doubt give him all the assistance in 
your power. Congress having fixed on one large Building to store their 
ammunition at Carlisle, we had some intention of suggesting to them our 
own thoughts on this matter which are that it would be safer both on 
account of Fire, a sudden surprize of an Enemy, to lodge the ammunition 
in two or more smaller buildings detached from each other at suitable 
distances, but whatever alteration this opinion of ours might induce Con- 
gress to make in their resolution, Mr Hicks present business may go on 
without interuption. 

301. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 

Massachusetts Assembly.^ 

Baltimore, Jany loth, 1777. 
Gentlemen. 

I have it in Command to forward the enclosed Resolve, and to request 
you will bestow that Attention to it, which its great Importance demands. 
To you, the Congress have submitted the Propriety of making an Attack 
upon the Province of Nova Scotia, with a View to destroy the immense 
Quantities of military Stores, that are there deposited to be employed 
against us.^ 

I need not particularise the vast Advantages, or the Glory, resulting 
from this Expedition, could it be happily carried into Execution. Nor 
need I suggest Motives to stimulate you to undertake it. Being fully 
convinced, that if it shall appear to you practicable and calculated to 
advance the Interest of America, you will most certainly adopt it. I shall 
only add that the Destruction of above Half a Million of Stores, must be 
a severe Blow on the Enemy, and may possibly prove a principal Mean of 
ridding our Country of those cruel Foes, who with impious Hands have 
been spreading Ruin and desolation over it, to the utmost of their Power, 

[300] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 133, f. 41. 

2 See no. 290, ante, a letter of Wilson to Morris, Dec. 28, in Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth sen. III., 1457, and nos. 321, 374, 435, post. 

[301]! Mass. Arch., CXCVI. 127; Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VL 112; 
Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. IL, p. 107. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 7, 8. The Massachusetts council had recommended 
such an expedition in a letter of Dec. 30 (Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., HL 1501), but 
this letter appears not to have been received by Congress until Jan. 23. Cj. no. 348, post. 



2 

302. Robert Morris to John Jay.* 

PniLADA. Jany. 12th. 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

.... You undoubtedly must have been well acquainted with the rapid 
prog^ress made by our Enemies through the Jerseys, and the danger to 
which this City has been exposed for some weeks past, and you will have 
heard of the removal of Congress to Baltimore in the midst of the pannic; 
this step has been highly censured by many of their Friends and un- 
doubtedly lost them the confidence of some valuable Men. 

I confess for my own part, I am not amongst the number of those that 
Censure them for this hasty measure, for when it is considered that the 
Enemy's Troops were within a very few miles of us and no apparent 
Force sufficient to oppose their progress, it surely was time for a public 
body on which the support of the American cause so much depended, to 
provide for their safety, mcer personal safety I suppose would not have 
induced many of them to fly, but their security as a body was the object, 
had any number of them fallen into the Enemies hands so as to break up 
the Congress, America might have been ruined before another choice of 
Delegates could be had and in such an event they would have been deemed 
criminal and rash to the last degree.^ .... 

303. Robert Morris to John Langdon.* 

Philadelphia Jany. 12th 1777. 
Sir, 

.... When the British troops made such a rapid progress through 
the Jerseys and got wnthin a few miles of us, the Congress thought proper 
to remove to Baltimore, at that time I sent my family, my books, papers 
and considerable effects into Maryland but having still a great value here 
and being desirous of spiriting up our people, all in my power, I deter- 
mined to wait until the last, happy in having done so, as I have had an 
opportunity of being very useful both to this country and the general 
cause; the Congress know this well, and have appointed myself and two 
others that remained here, a Committee with full powers to transact all 
Continental business that may be proper and necessary here." .... 

304. John Hancock to Robert Morris.* 

Baltimore, January 14th, 1777. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... I exceedingly approve your Conduct with respect to the Ships 
in your River, and think your officers discover'd the Spirit of the Men, 

[302]! >j_ Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Revolution, I. \2\ (copy). 

- See no. 244, note 2, ante. Cf. nos. 249, 253, 263, 280, ante; also nos. 303, 306, 
post. 

[303]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, IL 271. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 21 ; also nos. 255, 302, ante. 
[304] 1 Copied from the original then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 412. 



January, lyyy 215 

at same time your interference under the then circumstances was abso- 
lutely necessary; I dare say your disposition of the several Arm'd Vessels 
after you are fully convinc'd of the Removal of the Ships from your 
Capes, will fully meet the approbation of Congress. Without the least 
appearance of Flattery I can assure you your whole Conduct since our 
Flight is highly approv'd, and happy I am that you Remain'd, many agree- 
able Consequences have Resulted from it, and your continu'd Exertions 
will be productive of great good, I must therefore beg you will continue 
as long as you can tho' I sincerely wish you a happy Sight of good Mrs 
Morris, but I fear your departure from Philadelphiamight occasion relaxation 
that would be prejudicial. I know however you will put things in a 
proper way, indeed all depends upon you, and you have my hearty thanks 
for your unremitting Labours, the Publick are much Indebted to you, and 
I hope to see the Day when those publick Acknowledgments shall be made 
you.'^ 



in point of Convenience I wish to return to Philadelphia which brings me 
to the hint in your Letter. I think Sir, that as the Printing presses are 
here and set to work, and as money is so exceedingly wanted, and a 
Removal just at this Time would occasion so great a Delay, that it would 
not be prudent to think, unless thro' the greatest necessity of a removal 
at present, nor untill the last of March, by that time I hope we shall be able 
to return or to fix upon some other place for our Residence that must 
depend on circumstances. As things have turn'd out I am very sorry vy^e 
Remov'd at all, and indeed I think we were full hasty enough, it damp'd 
people much, but your Continuance there and Conducting Business there 
will give a Spring, and Join'd to the Influence of our Successes will make 
up for the Flight of Congress.* .... 

We have not yet had a Representation from New York, Delaware or 
Maryland, the latter is rather strange 

305. James Wilson to Robert Morris.^ 

Carlisle 14th. Jany. 1777 
Dear Sir 

Congress see, at last, the Propriety of distributing the executive Busi- 
ness of the Continent into different Departments, managed by Gentlemen, 
not Members of Congress, and whose whole Time and Attention can be 
devoted to the Business committed to their Charge. Measures were 
adopted, when I left Baltimore, for making the necessary Arrangements.^ 

There is an Office, which, I believe, would be of considerable use to the 
Public, if properly discharged. I will describe to you my Ideas of it. 

The Duties of the office should be — to manage all Admiralty Causes, 
on Behalf of the Continent, in the Courts of Admiralty and Appeal, where 
the Congress sets — to conduct all Enquiries and Prosecutions instituted 

2 See nos. 245, 255, 269, 270, 271, 285, 290, ante. 

3 Cf. nos. 29s, ante, 346, 347, 357. 359. note lO, post. ,.__,, , 
1305]^ Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 

Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 100. 
2 See no. 298, note 7, ante. 

19 



2 

by Congress — to give his opinions upon such Questions in the civil and 
Maritime I^ivvs. and the Law of Nations as shall be stated to him, for that 
Purpose, by Congress, the Hoard of Admiralty, the Board of Commerce, 
or the Committee of secret Correspondence — to draw, or reduce to Form, 
public Instruments, when required by Congress, or the Boards, or Com- 
mittee aforesaid. 

Several other Duties naturally fall to his Share, which cannot be enu- 
merated nor comprised under any general Head. 

The Propriety of the tirst Article is obvious. I shall suggest one 
Advantage, that will probably result from it. It will be of Importance 
that the Laws and Practice of the Courts of Admiralty should be brought, 
as soon and as well as possible, into a System. By the Intervention of 
Juries, which are unknown in the Admiralty Courts of other Countries, 
this is rendered a Matter of much Delicacy and Difficulty. The uniform 
Practice of one, whose Duty and Business it would be to make the Subject 
his particular Study, would be of considerable Use. All conversant in 
Courts know that they receive a Tincture from the Practitioners well as 
from the Judges. 

The second Head of the Duty of this Ofificer is, in my Opinion, abso- 
lutely necessary. Enquiries must be had into the management of public 
Affairs, Prosecutions also must be instituted against public Ofificers, who 
are accused of mal-conduct. When a Committee is appointed for such 
Purpose; it is every Body's Business to manage matters — you know the 
Consequence — it is no Body's Business. The Friends of the Person 
accused think themselves, and are thought by others, justified in doing 
every Thing in his Behalf. It is troublesome — it is disagreeable, without 
having an official Obligation and an official Justification, to undertake 
the Task of Prosecutor, to manage the Examination of Witnesses who 
appear, to direct others to be sent for, w^ho, from the Course of the Tes- 
timony, are discovered to be capable of throwing Light upon the Subject, 
and to take many other Steps, without which the matter cannot be sifted 
to the Bottom. The Result is, that Things are superficially passed over, 
without Satisfaction, to the Public, to those who make the Enquiry, or 
him, concerning whom it is made; provided he has been innocent. An 
Officer, appointed to manage Enquiries and Prosecutions, on Behalf of 
the Public, would prevent these ^lischiefs. 

The Third Branch of the Duty of this Officer is by far the most im- 
portant. I hope the United States will never be involved far in the Maze 
of European Politics ; but it is incumbent upon us to know something of 
them, even to steer clear of them. Every Letter from our Commissioners 
at foreign Courts almost every Resolution of Congress about foreign 
Affairs will bring into View some Principle of the civil or maritime Law, 
or of the Law of Nations. It is impossible for ^lembers of Congress, 
however enlarged their Genius, and however extensive their Knowledge 
may be, accurately to investigate Subjects of this kind amidest the Hurry 
of so much other Business, which likewise demands their Attention. 
Treaties are considered, in Europe as a Kind of Science. In our Transac- 
tions with European States, it is certainly of Importance neither to trans- 



January, lyy/ 217 

gress, nor to fall short of those Maxims by which they regulate their 
Conduct towards one another. 

All States, as far as I know, have an Office similar to that which I 
have described. It includes Part of the office of Advocate General, and 
Part of that of Attorney General in England. 

If your sentiments upon the subject correspond with mine, you will 
mention it to Congress. If they agree to institute the office, and no one 
offers for it better qualified, in your opinion, than myself, I will be obliged 
to you for proposing me. My Reading and Course of Studies have been 
such as in some Measure, to prepare me for it. One thing I can engage — 
that no Pains nor Industry shall be wanting, on my Part, to qualify 
myself as fully for it as possible. 

I have expressed myself with all the openness of a Friend to a Friend. 
I would not mention the Subject, if I did not think it of Consequence. 1 
would not mention myself, if I did not think I could be of Service in this 
Line. I have not been so unsuccessful in private Life, as to be obliged 
to obtrude myself upon the Public. 

You will make such Use of what I have written as your Judgment and 
your Friendship shall tell you is proper, 

I am Dear Sir 

Your very humble Servant 

James Wilson 
The Honble. Robt. Morris Esquire 

306. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter.^ 

Baltimore Jan. 14, 1777. 
My dear Col. 

Tho I have wrote pretty fully to Col. Tayloe, upon the present state of 
our affairs and sent him the papers, which I know you will partake of; 
yet I cant help saying a word, to convince you, that I can never forget you. 

Dont you give us credit for our good policy in removing from Philadel- 
phia? nothing else cou'd awaken the whigs of that State to a sense of 
their danger.^ the lethargy of the middle States was really alarming; 
thank God ! it is removed. Our new Army once well on foot, and all is 
safe, but I believe, my friend, we must be content with home spun the 
rest of our lives 

307. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 

Maryland Assembly.^ 

Baltimore Jany. 14th. 1777. 
(Circular) 

Gentlemen, 

.... The depreciation of the continental currency having been for 
some time past a most growing evil, it became absolutely necessary to 

[306]! Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Papers, IV. 25. 

2 See no. 244, note 2, ante. 
[307]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VI. 16. 



2 

provide smiie remedy against it. With this view and in hopes of estabh'sh- 
ing- the crecht of it, tlie Congress have adopted and recommended to the 
several states such measures, as if proi)erly and vigorously executed, will 
most undoubtedly be attended with success.'^ .... 

308. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 
Committee in Philadelphia.^ 

Baltimore Jany. 14th. 1777. 

.... The Sentence of the Court Martial in the Case of Colo. Camp- 
bell, which was formerly referred to Genl. Schuyler, you will perceive, 
from the enclosed Resolve, the Congress have again referred to Genl. 
Gates ; who being on the Spot in Baltimore has given his Opinion (a Copy 
of which I enclose) that the Court Martial acted in an unprecedented 
Manner, and that Colo. Campbell did not deserve to be cashiered for the 
Crimes laid to his Charge.' .... 

309. Tpie Secret Committee to the Commissioners in Paris.^ 

Philadelphia January 14th. 1777 
Honorable Gentlemen 

I have the Honor to inclose you here a Copy of two Resolves of Con- 
gress passed the 19th and 29th November by which the Secret Committee 
are directed to import Two hundred and Twenty six Brass Canon and 
Arms and equipage compleat for Three Thousand Horse. You'l observe 
they are also directed to confer with the Canon Committee as to how many 
they can provide here of the Field Pieces, but we pay little regard to that 
part well knowing they will not be able to procure proper Metal for many 
of them. 

Therefore I must request in the name and on behalf of the Secret Com- 
mittee that you will contract immediately for these necessary Supplies 
and send this out to these States by various conveyances as quick as pos- 
sible; indeed I hope you may procure [some line]^ of Battle Ships to come 
out with them, [and then there] ^ will be little danger of their coming 
Saf[e] 

2 The resolves of Jan. 14. 
[308]!^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. II., f. ig. 

2 The letter is addressed to " Robert Morris Esqr. and Commie ". 

' Donald Campbell was appointed deputy quartermaster-general for the New 
York department July 17, 1775. The determination on the sentence of the court-martial 
had been dragging since July, 1776. See Arnold to Gates, July 14, Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., I. 340; Gates to Arnold, July 15, ibid., I. 915; Gates to Schuyler, Nov. 10, 
ibid.. III. 607; Schuyler to Washington, Nov. 11, ibid., III. 641; R. H. Harrison to 
Schuyler, Nov. 20, ibid.. III. 780; and Campbell to Congress, Dec. 10, ibid.. III. 1149. 
See also the Journals, Aug. 19, Oct. 16, 1776, and Jan. 11, 18, 29, Feb. 13, 1777. Campbell 
and Gates were both in Baltimore at this time. See Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 1509. 
[309] 1 Library of Congress, Stevens Facsimiles, no. 6; Brit. Mus., Add. MSS., Auck- 
land Papers ; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 246. 

2 In the facsimile these spaces are blank. The words are found in the text as 
printed in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr. 



January, lyjy 219 

I have the Honor to be with great regard and esteem, Honorable 
Gentlemen your most obedt hble Sevt. 

RoBT. Morris, 
Chairman of the Secret Committee of Congress. 

P. S. These resolves would have been sent long since but our ports 
have been Blocked up by the British men of war and the confusion we 
were put in on the Rapid March through the Jersey, and near approach 
to this City by the Enemy, put it totally out of our power to forward any 
dispatches for some time past. 

R. M. 

310. Francis Lewis to Robert Morris.^ 

Baltimore 15 Janry. 1777 
Dear Sir 

I have been favoured with your letter of the 7th Inst, and as it prin- 
cipally related to the business of the Ordinance Board, I am now to inform 
you that the members who at Phila. constituted that Committee are at 
present absent, and from the pressing applications of Generals Washing- 
ton, Schuyler and Col Knox for Cannon, the Congress has appointed 
Messrs. Haywood [Heyward], Whipple, and Self to that department,^ 
a department that is quite new to us and therefore cannot be executed with 
the prescision we could wish, especialy as Mr. Paine (the former Chair- 
man) has taken with him all the documents relative to that board. 

Pursuant to the aforesaid applications, Congress has directed the Com- 
mittee to procure Ten six Inch Brass Howitzers, forwarded to Tycon- 
deroga as soon as may be,^ we are therefore of opinion that Mr. Byers * 
be immediately employed in casting those Howitzers, and the Council of 
Safety at Phila. be desired to agree with him upon the best terms they can, 
but should Mr. Byers for want of proper Moulds or by other obstructions, 
be incapable of casting Howitzers, [in] that case he should be employed 
in casting as many brass Field Pieces as he may be furnish'd with Mettle 
for that purpose .... 

311. Samuel Adams to James Warren.* 

Baltimore Jany 16 1777 
My dear Sir, 

.... I observe that our Assembly have made it necessary that three 
of their Delegates should be present and concurring in Opinion, before 
the Voice of our State can be taken on any Question in Congress. I could 

[3io]iBrotherhead, Book of the Signers (1861), pp. 49, 276; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 
loii, item 138. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 24, 1776. Heyward and Whipple were added to the 
committee on the Northern army, and Lewis to the cannon committee, which is doubtless 
the committee which is here called the ordnance board. Cf. no. 264, note 4, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 28, 29, 1776; cf. ibid., Jan. 6, 13, 1777. The remainder of 
the letter is in regard to making contracts for cannon. 

* James Byers. See no. 20, ante, also Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 369. 
[ZiJ-V Warren-Adams Letters, I. 285; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Gushing), 
III. 346; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 



2 

wish it li.id been otherwise. Three only of your Delej:jates arc now 
present. It may so happen at otlier Times. One of them may be sick, 
lie may he on a Committee or necessarily al)scnt on pubHck Husiness, in 
which Case our State will not be efifectualiy represented. While I am 
writing at the Table in Congress a worthy Colleague' is unavoidably 
employd on Business of the Publick at home, and the two present cannot 
give the Voice of the State upon a Matter now in Question, Were all the 
three present, one of them might controul the other two so far as to oblige 
them to be silent wlien the Question is called for. But I only mention the 
matter, and submit, as it becomes me, to the Judgment of my Superiors.' 



312. Fr.\xcis Lewis to the President of the New York Convention 

(Abraham Ten Broeck).^ 

Baltimore, i6th January, 1777 

I was favoured with your letter of the ist inst. together with sundry 
resolves of the Honourable the Convention, and their printed Address 
to their constituents, all which I have communicated to Congress, and 
they highly approve of your measures. 

I am directed bj' Congress (at their expense) to get a sufficient number 
of those Addresses reprinted here, in order to be dispersed through this 
and the Southern States, as also, a number to be struck oflf in the German 
language, 300 copies of the latter to be forwarded to the Honourable 
Convention, at Fishkills. As there is no press with types for the German 
language in this town, I have this day sent one copy to the Council of 
Safety, at Philadelphia, requesting them to get it translated into that 
language, and when printed, to send the first 300 copies to you, the rest 
to be dispersed through that and the neighbouring States." 

Permit me Sir to repeat my sentiments on the necessity of having the 
State of New York fully represented in Congress, which has not been the 
case for many months past, and tho' Congress in their collective capacity 

2 The text in Adams's Writings reads, " IMr. Gerry ". 

3 The Massachusetts credentials (dated Dec. 10) are in the Journals, Jan. 9. The 
provision complained of was altered Feb. 4 (see the Journals, Mar. 12). Cf. no. 326, post. 

[212]^ Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., II. 385. 

- " We observe in one of the Resolves of Congress Mr. Lewis is directed to have 
the address of the Convention of New York translated and published in the German 
Language and as we had wrote the Congress that we had undertaken that business here, 
we consider this Resolve as a reproof, therefore shall take care not to be so officious 
again, the work of translating however is done and we believe either in or ready for the 
Press." (Committee in Philadelphia to the President of Congress, Jan. 26, Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 137, App.) The address of the New York convention, dated Dec. 23, is in 
Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 1382, and the letter to Congress in which it was enclosed, 
dated Dec. 28, with an addition of Jan. i, is ibid., III. 1465. " As two of the delegates 
from this State, Mr. Livingston and Colonel Floyd, have left Philadelphia, and the 
Convention did not know whether Mr. Lewis was certainly there, I am directed, sir, 
to enclose you a copy of an Address of this Convention to their constituents." See the 
Journals, Jan. 13, 16, Feb. 6. also the Bibliographical Notes, ibid., IX. 1081. Besides the 
letter of Dec. 28, see the convention's letter to Congress, Dec. 21, Force, Am. Arch., 
fifth ser., III. 1350. See also no. 315, post. 



January, lyyy 221 

has ultimately the public good in view, yet such is the depravity of human 
nature, that partiality will often (and perhaps impreceptably [sic^ ) influ- 
ence the minds of indeviduals when the interest of a particular State is 
immediately concerned.^ 

I have the pleasure to inform you that Congress has seriously con- 
sidered your late application relative to clothing the troops raising in 
your State, and they have promised to exert their utmost abilities to effect 
that necessary business. In September last, Congress requested the 
Legislatures of the several States to appoint to their respective States a 
Commissary, for the purpose of purchasing all necessary clothing, and 
in November the Secret Committee sent of¥ two agents (one of them 
Mr. Abm. Livingston) with instructions to confer with those commis- 
saries in each State, as far eastward as New-Hampshire, to assist in the 
purchasing and procuring said clothing, to make returns of the quantity 
and quality, both to Congress and Genl. Washington, to be distributed to 
such troops as shall be enlisted upon the new establishment, but we have 
not as yet received any advice from those gentlemen.* .... 



313. Richard Henry Lee to the Governor of Virginia 

(Patrick Henry ).^ 

Baltimore, 17th Jany, 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

I am favored with yours by Maj. Johnston, and I should certainly have 
served him to the utmost of my power in Congress, if the appointment 
you proposed for Maj. Johnston had not now been in another channel. 
You know Sir, that by resolve of Congress the General is to fill up all 
vacancies in the Continental troops that shall happen for six months from 
the date of the resolve.^ I have recommended it to the Major to get a 
letter from you and the council, with one from Colonel Harrison, to the 
General in his favour, and if he is very intent on success, to carry them 
himself. I think this will not fail to procure him the commission he 
desires, and in the mean time, the Liutenants \_sic'\ and Ensign may be 
recruiting the company.^ .... 

s Cf. nos. 268, 292, ante, and nos. 329, 330, 363, 402, post. 

* The reference is probably to the resolution of Sept. 25. Cf, an erased resolve 
of Oct. 9. Concerning the action of the secret committee, see the Journals, Dec. i, and 
no. 233, ante; also a letter of the Massachusetts council to the President of Congress, 
Dec. 30, in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1501, and the council to General Lincoln, 
Dec. 31, ibid., III. 1518. 

[313]^ Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 40; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), 
I. 250. 

2 The resolution of Dec. 27, vesting General Washington with practically dicta- 
torial powers. 

3 George Johnston, major 5th Virginia regiment, became lieutenant-colonel 
and aide to Washington Jan. 20, 1777. See Heitman, Hist. Register. Hancock's letter 
to Brigadier-General Lewis, Jan. 18 (no. 317, post), was sent "By Major Johnson". 
Meanwhile (Jan. 9), Washington had requested of Col. R. H. Harrison his opinion of 
Johnston's qualifications. See Fitzpatrick, Calendar of the Correspondence of Washington 
with the Oihcers. 



222 ContificHtal Congress 

314. The Committee in Piin.AOELPiiiA to Richard Dallam.* 

PiiiLADA. January 18, 1777 

Sir, 

It appears reasoiiahk- and jii^t to us that all officers and soldiers in the 
Continental Service should be entitled to their Pay while they remain 
Prisoners in the Hands of the Enemy, and this Pay to continue such a 
number of days after their Discharge as may be sufficient for their return 
home. And wherever it appears to you from proper Proofs and Testi- 
monials that this has been the Case of any Officers or Soldiers within your 
department as Paymaster we are of opinion you ought to make good their 
Pay to the times above mentioned, previously taking care to deduct such 
sums as they may have already received. 

Richd Dellam Esqr. 

D pay Master Genl. to the Flying Camp ' 

315. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.* 

Baltimore Jany. i8th, 1777. 
Sir, 

The enclosed Copy of a Letter from the Convention of New York, I 
am directed by Congress to transmit to you, and to request your Attention 
to it The very great Distress of the Troops in that State for Want of 
Cloathing and Blankets calls for the most speedy Relief; and the Con- 
gress in Order to afiford them every Assistance in their Power have 
ordered the Continental Agents to furnish the Commissary of Cloathing 
with an Account of such Cloathes. or Materials for making them, as may 
be in their Possession. These, it is the Desire of Congress, you will dis- 
tribute among the Troops, in the different Departments, in the Proportion 
you may think proper ; paying, however, a particular Regard to the State 
of New York, which, from its present unfortunate Situation, is precluded 
from all Possibility of procuring those Necessaries for the Troops raised 
there.^ . . . 

[P. S.] The enclosed Copy of a Letter from Genl. Gates, relative to 
Monsieur Da. Liene [De Luce]' I am directed by Congress to transmit 
to you, with a Request that you will employ him // you think proper. 
I have paid him 40 Dolls, to defray his Expences to you. 

(The Copy since inclos'd in a Letter sent by Monsr. De Luce) 

[314]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 133, f. 57. 

2 Richard Dallam was elected deputy paymaster-general of the flying camp 
July 17, 1776. 

[3i5]iLibrary of Congress, Letters to Washington, XIIL 90. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 13, 16, and no. 312, ante. The President's letter to the 
New York convention, Jan. 18. is in the N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, IX. 9 ; 
Jour. N. y. Prov. Cong., IL 386 ; Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VL 151 ; and 
Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. H., f . 146. See also no. 402, post. 

3 Guillaume de Luce. See the Journals, Jan. 2, 17, Mar. 21. Hancock's copyist, 
misreading the name, wrote "Da. Liene". Hancock wrote with his own hand that 
part of the postscript beginning : " I have paid him " ; accordingly, in the second instance 
the name is written correctly. 



January, lyy/ 223 

316. The President of Congress to the Committee in 

Philadelphia.^ 

Baltimore Jany, i8th, 1777. 

Sir, 

I do myself the Honour to transmit you the enclosed Resolves, by which 
you will percieve [sic'] the Steps taken by Congress since my last. 

The Affairs of our Country were perhaps never so critical, as they 
seemed to be by your last Accounts which were dated the loth. inst.^ and 
yet, some how or other, it has happened, we have not heard from Philadelphia 
since that Time, nor from the General for two or three Days before. 
This Interval, you may suppose, we pass in the greatest Anxiety and 
Suspence, and wish to be relieved from it in any Manner, rather than be 
tormented with Doubt, and Uncertainty. I hope therefore, for the future, 
you will not let us be so long without hearing from you, but will send us 
an Express, if it is only to inform us, that our Affairs have undergone no 
Alteration since your last. 

I am, with great Respect 

Sir, your most obed Servt. 

John Hancock Presidt 
Robert Morris Esqr. and Com^^ 

317, The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

Andrew Lewis.^ 

Balto. Jany i8th, 1777. 
Sir, 

Your Favour of the loth inst' was duly reed, and immediately laid 
before Congress. In Consequence of which I am directed to inform you. 
that it is their opinion, your Continuance for the present in Virginia will 
best promote the Interest of American Liberty." Your Attention to the 
recruiting Service, and forwarding it as much as lies in your Power will 
be a most effectual Means, in the present Situation of Affairs of serving 
your Country : and should any Movements of our Enemy threaten to 
disturb the State of Virginia, you will be ready to act in its Defence. 

While the Congress highly approve the Steps you have taken to hasten 
the March of the Troops, they doubt not your Zeal and Attachment to the 
Welfare of your Country will induce you to exert yourself in the same 
Manner until the whole of the Troops are forwarded 

Brigadier Genl. Lewis, Virginia 
By Major Johnson. 

[316]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. II., f. 31. 

2 The letter is not mentioned in the Journals, but was received Jan. 14. See 
the Journals, p. 37 n. 

[3i7]iMass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 121; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. II., f. 115. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 10, 17. 



2 

317A. The Secret Committee to Robert Morris.* 

Baltimore Jany. 18, 1777 
Sir, 

The inclosed resolve ^ of Concfress cannot he executed without the 
books and papers of the Secret Committee. And if the wishes of many 
Members be j^ratified, it will be profK-r to make known what prospects 
we have of g^etting- the things ordered, and for this purpose what are our 
prospects of remittance etc. This latter cannot be complied with at 
present, unless we had the pleasure of your company here. Will you be 
so kind then Sir, as to order the books here, and when it is convenient for 
the public, and your private, affairs, we have no doubt but that we shall 
have your assistance at this place. 

We are with regard, Sir 

Your most obedient and very humble Servants 

Richard Henry Lee 
Fra : Lewis 
Wm Whipple 



318. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety.* 

[January I9(?), 1777.]- 

.... I laid a petition from Capt. Campbell before Congress, they 
declined having any thing to say to it. All persons taken by the Ships of 
War or privateers of any State, are deemed the prisoners of such State, 
and are generally applied to the redemption of their own Subjects; on 
the contrary all persons taken by Continental vessels are deemed the 
prisoners of the Congress and subject to their disposal. 

The Georgia delegates object to the discharge of the Gentlemen, whose 
cases you referred to Congress." 

Unless in future all prisoners taken by vessells of our State are detained, 
such of our people, as fall into the Enemies' hands, cannot be redeemed. 
This subject is of consequence, and demands the attention of your Board. 

Your obedt Servt 

Saml Chase. 

[317 a] ^ Library of Congress, Morris Papers, Accession 2505 (in the writing of 
Richard Henry Lee). 

- See the Journals, Jan. 17. 
[318]! ^rcA. of Md., XVI. 62. 

2 This communication from Chase is attached to a letter of Capt. George Cook 
to the council of safety, dated January 19, 1777. 

3 Cook's letter concerns the prisoners taken by the British in the snow George (or 
Georgia). The vessel was captured from the British by Captain Cook of the ship Defence, 
retaken by the British frigate Camelia, and once again captured by an Am.erican privateer 
under Capt. William (?) Campbell (see especially Arch, of Md., XIL 510). Cook says: 
" I have applied to Mr Chase and Mr Carroll for their assistance to get them exchang'd, 
but they say its a business particularly belonging to this State. I do not doubt was 
but your Honorable Board to write the Congress, but what they would get them 
exchang'd as soon as possible." See nos. 238, 288, ante. 



January, i/// 225 



i) 



319. Samuel Chase to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston)/ 

Baltimore Town, Jany. 23d. 1777 
Sir, 

The Committee appointed by the enclosed Resolution of Congress, 
request your Excellency to appoint some Gentleman of the State of New 
Jersey to enquire into, and take the Depositions of credible Witnesses on, 
the several Matters contained in the Resolve, and to direct them to trans- 
mit the Testimony, as taken, to the Committee that they may report to 
Congress as soon as possible.'' 

The Committee have been informed that some of the Prisoners of the 
17th or 55th Regiment, taken at Princeton, have said that their Major 
had given them Orders " to stand till they were cut to pieces and to take 
no Prisoners." — It is reported here that several of our Officers were shot 
or stabbed with the Bayonet, after they had surrendered. Genl. Mercer ^ 
and Lieut. Yeates are mentioned among that Number. It is also said that 
several Bodies have been found in the Jersies hanging on Trees. 

I am, with great Respect, 

Your Excy^ most obedt. Servt. 

Saml. Chase. 

320. Thomas Nelson, jr., to Robert Morris.^ 

Baltimore Jany 25th 1777 " 
My Dear Sir 

.... The great demand for Money from every quarter has kept our 
Treasury so low that I have not had it in my power to send you any ; There 
will however be 200,000 dollars sent in two or three days at farthest, and 
Loan Office certificates to Mr. Smith to the amount of 300,000 Dollars. 
Indeed my dear friend the state of our Treasury is such that I hate to 
think of it. When I could give satisfactory answers to Congress upon a 
requisition being made for a Sum of Money I took the greatest pleasure 
in transacting the business of the Treasury Board, but of late we have 
been so circumstanced that I had almost as live go to a Jail as go near the 
Treasury. The Period is not far distant, when the last five millions of 
Dollars will be exhausted, and by your accounts the Loan Office in your 
State, will not do much for us unless the Interest be raised, which I fear 
Congress will not do, and what is to be done then I know not to pay the 
innumerable claimants against the Continent. Some of our Members 
have great dependance upon the Lottery, at best it is but a game and 

[319]! Harvard Univ. Library, Sparks MSS., no. 49, II. 203 (original). 

2 The resolution referred to is in the Journals, Jan. 16. See also ibid., Jan. 18, 
Feb. IS, Apr. 18, July 19, and the Bibliographical Notes, ibid., XI. 1085. 

^ See no. 411, post. 
[320] 1 Copied from the original then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 86. 

2 This letter may have been written as late as Feb. 5, for the statement is made 
at the close that Hooper has leave of absence, and this was not granted until Feb. 4. 
On the other hand, Hooper says in his letter of Feb. i (no. 332, post) : " Nelson by 
advice of a Physician goes to morrow." 



2 

when I consider that the Tickets are equal in number to any State Lottery 
in Great Britain and that they have all Europe to vend their Tickets in 
and we are confin'd to America, where we arc not much acquainted with 
these tiiinf^^s. I confess I have no p^reat expectation of it being drawn; 
perhajis an experiment of half the Ticketts might have succeeded. We are 
greatly in want of able Financiers to supply our Treasury. 

Harrison and Hooper have taken to their Horses. The former when 
mounted looks like a Commander in chief. The latter would make a good 
Aid de Camp to him ; He has Leave of absence on account of his health. 

321. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Baltimore Jany. 29th. 1777. 
Sir, 

.... [P. S.] As some Steps have been Taken with Respect to the 
Magazines at Brookfield and Carlile the Congress judge it best they should 
be erected there in preference to the other places mention'd by Genl Knox.^ 

322. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety.^ 
Gentlemen 

I am directed by Congress to lay the enclosed copy of a letter from 
Mr. Bingham before our General Assembly.^ 

The privates of capt Smiths Company petitioned the Congress and I 
am ordered to enclose the papers to your Board. ^ 

I am. Respectfully 

Yr. Obed. Servt 

S. Chase 
Balto. Town. Jany. 29, 1777 

323. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke) .^ 

Baltimore Jany. 30th. 1777. 
Sir, 

The Time of Congress, since my last, hath been principally taken up 
in devising Ways to prevent the Depreciation of the Continental Money, 

[321]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 83; ibid., Papers Cent. Cong., 
no. 58, pt. IL, f. 39. 

2 On the same day Hancock wrote to the committee in Philadelphia : " You will 
please to proceed to Erect the Magazine etc. at Carlisle, Congress not judging it proper 
to fix on any other place in preference." Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 58, pt. IL, f. 39. See nos. 290, 300, ante, 374, 435. post. See also Washington to Knox, 
Feb. II, and to Congress, Feb. 14, Writings (ed. Ford), V. 230, 236, (ed. Sparks), IV, 
316, 322. 

[322]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 85 ; Arch, of Md., XVI. 102. 
- See the Journals, Jan. 28. and nos. 2)23, 338. post. 

^ A remonstrance of the men of Capt. Nathaniel Smith's company, Jan. 24, 
containing a threat to take their grievances to Congress, is in Arch, of Md., XVI. 73. 
Cf. ibid., XVI. 25. 

1323]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, lyyt-iyyy, p. 142; Staples, R. I. in 
Cont. Cong., p. 116. 



January, J/// 227 

and to provide for the future army. The Resolves ordered to be trans- 
mitted to the Several States must have reached you before this, which 
renders it unnecessary to give the Substance or transmit copies of them. 

Governor Trumbull hath transmitted the doings of the Comm*^. of the 
New-England States to Congress. They will be taken up tomorrow, and 
I dont doubt approved.^ 

A Letter sent by Mr. Jarvis to the Secret Committee reopening his 
furnishing our State and the Massachusetts with Arms taken out of the 
Hancock and Adams, and desiring to know whether they approved his 
conduct or not, and how in future he was to act in Similar Instances, was 
by them laid before Congress a few Days ago.^ This brought on a severe 
Inquiry into the Propriety of Rhode-Island's asking for those Arms, a 
Review of her former Conduct respecting the Cannon etc.* as well as 
into the Propriety of the Conduct of Agent Jarvis. After a smart Storm, 
the Conduct of the Agent was approbated. I hope our State will take 
special Care that the Arms be returned as soon as the Necessity for taking 
them shall cease 



324. The President of Congress to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Baltimore, Jany. 30th. 1777 

Sir 

Some Complaints against your Deputy Mr. Carpenter Wharton having 
reached Congress, I am directed to give you this Information of it, with 
a View that you may make Enquiry into the Matter, and take proper 
Measures, in due time, to prevent any Inconvenience or Loss, either to 
yourself, or the Public. Your Prudence and Discretion in the Conduct of 
this Affair, I can rely upon with the utmost Confidence.^ Wishing you 
the Compliments of the Season, and every Prosperity, I am, with Esteem, 
Sir, 

Your most obed. and very hble Servt. 

John Hancock Presidt. 

Jos : Trumbull Esqr. 
Commissy. General. 



2 See the Journals, Jan. 28, 31, Feb. 4-6, 12-15. Cf. nos. 326, 334, 336, 340, 347, 
353. 355-357. 359. 360, 368, 370, post. The Convention of the four New England States 
was held in Providence, Dec. 25. 1776, to Jan. 2, 1777, to consider the questions of cur- 
rency, prices, etc. Its proceedings are printed in Hoadly, Records of the State of Con- 
necticut, I. 585-599- 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 23 ; also ibid., Nov. 12, 13, 15, 1776, and a letter from 
the board of war to Washington, Nov. 18, 1776, Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 746. 

* For the episode respecting the cannon, see vol. I. of these Letters, no. 630, note 2. 
[324]! Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 140. 
2 See the Journals, Jan. 29. Cf. no. 423, post. 



22S Continental Congress 

325. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 

Maryland Assembly/ 

Baltimore Jany 31st 1777. 
(Circular) 

Gentlemen, 

As there is not a more distin.c^uislied Event in the History of America, 
than the Declaration of her Independence — nor any, that, in all probabil- 
ity, will so much excite the Attention of future Ages, it is highly proper, 
that the Memory of that Transaction, together with the Causes that gave 
Rise to it, should be preserved in the most careful Manner that can be 
devised, 

I am therefore commanded by Congress to transmit you the enclosed 
Copy of the Act of Independence, with the List of the several Members 
of Congress subscribed thereto — and to request that you will cause the 
same to be put upon Record, that it may henceforth form a Part of the 
Archives of your State, and remain a lasting Testimony of your Approba- 
tion of that necessary and important Measure.^ 

326. The Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the 

Massachusetts Council.^ 

Baltimore, 31st Jany 1777 

The Removal of Congress to this Place and the Interruption Occasioned 
thereby in the affairs of the Treasury, have prevented an early Reimburse- 
ment of the Money applyed for by the State of Massachusetts Bay, an 
Order was obtained at Philadelphia for £50,000 lawful,^ which with 
300,000 Dollars for supplying the military Chest of the eastern Depart- 
ment and payment of the Bounties to the new Levies of your State, will 
be sent from hence in about ten Days.^ We have obtained an Order on 
the Loan Office at Boston for £50,000 in addition to the Sums already 
mentioned, which will be sent by the president and compleats the £100,000 
required by the State.'* We are concerned to find that the Interest on the 
[Loan Office] Certificates must continue at the Rate of 4 per Cent, being 
fully persuaded that this unreasonable Oeconomy will impede the Success 
of the Loan, and burthen the Continent with a greater Expence by the 
Depreciation that will result from further Emissions.^ 

[325] ^Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VI, 69; id. to Massachusetts, Mass. Arch., CXLII, 
21 ; to New York, N. Y, State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, IX. 52, Jour. N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., II. 379 ; to North Carolina, A''. C, State Recs., XI. 371 ; to New Jersey, Votes of 
Assem. of N. J., 1776-1781, p. 80. 

2 See the Journals. Jan. 18, 

[326]! Mass. Arch. CXCVI. 183 (in the writing of Gerry) ; Hist. Soc. Pa., Conarroe 
Coll., I. 7 (copy with autograph signatures, dated Jan. 30). 

- See the Journals, Nov. 22, 1776. The order was for i66,666f dollars. 

3 The money ordered to Ebenezer Hancock, deputy paymaster-general in the 
Eastern department, Jan. 10. Cf. no. 348, post. 

* See the Journals, Jan. 30. 
5 See below, note 8, 



January, lyyy 229 

The Measures wisely adopted by the Convention of the New England 
States, are transmitted to Congress by Governor Trumbull, and a Day is 
appointed for considering the same, when a similar Mode for giving 
Stability to the Currency will probably be recommended to the Southern 
and middle Departments of the Continent." 

We think it necessary to suggest to the honorable assembly, that in 
consequence of the commission with which they have lately honored us, 
providing that " any three or more " of their Delegates shall be present 
to make a representation, the state has been several Days unrepresented 
and Congress has once been obliged to adjourn/ The Inconvenience from 
the first cannot be better stated than by mentioning, that the Question on 
raising the Interest of the Certificates was lost by the Indisposition of 
one of the Mass^ members, and the want of a Vote in consequence thereof.* 

When anything material to the State occurs We shall pay due attention 
thereto being 

Sir with great Respect 

Yours' and the General Assembly's most hum. Servts 

Samuel Adams 
Elbridge Gerry 

I 

Hon^ James Bowdoin, Esqr. 

President of the Council of Massachusetts Bay 



T,2y. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety.^ 

Baltimore Town. Jany. 31st. 1777 
Gentlemen. 

I sent you yesterday by Mr John Gassaway nineteen thousand dollars.' 
I must again press you to solicit a Representation for our State.^ The 
order of this Day is to appoint a Number of General Officers.* Are we 
uninterested in the Choice of Generals? I shall endeavor to put off this 
Business for a few Days. Three of the middle States, N. York, Deleware 
and Maryland, unrepresented. N. Carolina will be so in a day or two. 
Complaints are so loud in Congress on this Subject, that Expresses are 
sent to N. York and Delaware, and I expect our Assembly will be intreated 
to send their delegates. It is not only necessary to be represented, but be 

® See no. 323, note 2, ante. 

'' Probably Monday, Jan. 27, when Congress only met and adjourned. Cf. no. 
311, ante, and nos. 327, 329, 343, post. 

8 This was probably Jan. 14. See, further, the Journals, Feb. 8, 20, 26, and nos. 
332, 340, 344-346. 349, 350, 352, 357, 375, 382, 384, 385, post. 

[327]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, III. 34; Arch, of Md. XVI. 104. 

2 Presumably a part of the 60,000 dollars appropriated Jan. 10. See the council's 
letter to Chase, Jan. 27, Arch, of Md., XVI. 82. 

3 " We observe what you say about Delegates to Congress, and shall use our 
endeavours to have it complied with when the General Assembly get together." Council 
to Chase, Jan. 27, Arch, of Md., XVI. 82. The reference is to a letter of Chase, Jan. 26, 
which has not been found. Cf. no. 338, post. 

* The Journals do not record such an order of the day for Jan. 31, but on 
Feb. 7 the election of general officers was set for Monday, Feb. 17. See, further, the 
Journals, Feb. 18, 19, 20, 21. Cf. nos. 364, 365, post. 



2 

assured the Business, the Interest of these States require a full Represen- 
tation. We have not 30 Members in Conp;^ress, and it is not only improper, 
hut impossible, for so small a Number to conduct so very important 
Business, be pleased to communicate these my Sentiments to our General 
Assembly." 

We hourly expect to hear of some important News from Camp. 

I am, Gent, with Regard and Respect, 

Saml. Chase 

328. Robert Morris to George Washington.* 

Philadelphia Jany 31st. 1777 
Sir 

.... I wrote to Congress respecting the removal of the stores from 
hence they are averse to it unless absolutely necessary but as the acct we 
then gave of Genl. Putnams Force at Prince Town was too sanguine I 
will mention it again and be governed by their orders for I confess I 
think such removal at this time would have a bad effect and retard many 
usefull operations.* .... 

329. Francis Lewis to the President of the Nevv^ York Convention 

(Abraham Ten Broeck).* 

Baltimore 31st. Jany. 1777. 
Sir 

My last was of the i6th. Instant to the Honble the Convention in answer 
to your favor of the ist. Currt. I therein advised the urgent necessity of 
sending a sufficient number of Delegates to represent our State in Con- 
gress, myself being the onely member attending for above six Weeks 
past, our State have been deprived of their vote on Questions in my 
opinion of some concequence, and altho' Congress endeavors to avoid 
partiality as a collective body, yet it will imperceptably Steal into the 
minds of individuals, perhaps without their thinking so. permit me to 
observe that the four N. E. States are allways represented.^ .... 

330. Francis Lewis to John McKesson.* 

Baltimore 31st. Janu[a]ry. 1777 
Dear Sir 

Your favor of the 17th. Instant and am concerned to find that the 
appointment of Coll. Warner should give umbrage to any Gentlemen in 
our State; when it was moved in Congress several objections was made 
to the motion, was at length put to the Vote when a majority appeared 

5 Cf. nos. 326, ante, 329, 343, 351, post. 
[328] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XIIL 156. 

- See the Journals, Jan. 28. 
[329]! N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, IX. 48 ; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., II. 378. 

2 See nos. 268, 292, 312, 326. 327. ante, and nos. 330, 363, 402, post. 
[330]! N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, IX. 49; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., II. 378. 



January, lyjj 231 

to be for the question." this I can venture to assure you that in all debates 
of this kind Congress seems determined to put all disputes between 
individuals, and even between States about property out of sight, as 
debates of this kind the last year between the States of Connecticut and 
Pensylvania took up the whole attention of Congress to the great detri- 
ment of the service and but to very little effect. I am well satisfied in my 
own mind that Congress has not the least Idea as a collective body of 
suffering any State to be dismembered whatever the secret views of indi- 
viduals may be, but permit me to say that to leave our State so long 
unrepresented in Congress is a fault when I observe to you that the four 
N E States allways keep a full representation when in some debates those 
States may be injured who are not represented; Congress has often com- 
plained to me of this neglect, and indeed urged it in their public resolves 
but to no effect hitherto ; — I hope the Convention will Speedily remedy 
this Evil. I liave for this six weeks past been the only member to repre- 
sent our State in Congress, let me beg you would make this known to 
the Convention,^ and believe me to be sincerly 

Dr Sir 

Your very Humble Servt. 

. F : Lewis 

John McKesson Esqr. 

331. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Baltimore 31 Jany 1777 
Dear Sir 

I find by your Favour of the 6th. that the order for importing Flower 
was at Hand; the other for Rice was sent by Capt Doughty.^ With 
respect to the Quantity, I think it was not the Intention of Congress to 
limit either. The affair of the Salt is extraordinary, and which cannot 
be easily justifyed upon any principle of authority or expediency.' 
inclosed is your Brothers Commission in Consequence of his Appoint- 
ment as Dep. Ad. General ; * Mr Hancock informs me that he has sent 
one before and supposes it miscarryed. I am in Haste 

Sir your very hum Ser. 

E. Gerry 
Joseph Trumbull Esqr. 

2 Seth Warner was elected, July 5, 1776, colonel of a regiment to be raised out of 
the officers who served in Canada. A difficulty soon arose concerning the major of his 
regiment, Elisha Painter (see the Journals, Sept. 12, 1776, Jan. 10, 18, Apr. 7, 22, 25, 
T^777)i and dissatisfaction with Warner's commission soon made its appearance in New 
York. See no. 193, ante; also Schuyler to Congress, Nov. 21, Dec. 10, in Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., III. 796, 1160; to Governor Trumbull, Dec. 19, ibid.. III. 1301 ; and the 
N. Y. convention to Washington (undated), ibid., III. 1264. See also ibid.. III. 503. 
Cf. the Journals, June 30, and no. 532, post. 

3 Cf. no. 329, ante. 

[331]^ Conn. State Library, Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 71. 

2 See no. 287, ante. 

3 Cf. nos. 113, 145, 162, 166, 172, ante. 

* See Trumbull's letter, Nov. 18, 1776, to William Williams, in Force, Am. 
Arch., fifth ser., III. 1497 (cf. no. 287, note 4, ante), and Schuyler to Congress, Dec. 
30, ibid., III. 1495. John Trumbull was elected deputy adjutant-general Sept. 12, 1776. 
See nos. 123, 124, ante, nos. 415, 419, post. 

20 



2 

332. William Hooper to Rohkrt Morris.' 

Baltimore February i. 1777. 
My dear Sir, 

.... I lament, my dear Sir, the very small representation which 
America presents in Conq-ress the members will soon be reduced to the 
number of 22. ' how unequal to the importance of its councils ! I am sorry 
to say that I think they already savour of the truth of an Observation 
contrasted to that in holy Writ. That in the Multitude of Counsellors 
there is wisdom. Some of the middle and Southern colonies have much 
to answer for in their want of representation. It is a Crime however 
which carries its own punishment with it, and if there are two Interests 
in America, that must necessarily prevail which always has its advocates 
on the spot to promote it. while the other is deserted by those whom every 
tie of honour, Duty and publick virtue should induce to a different conduct. 
New York Delaware, Maryland may almost as well desert the Cause as 
so lamely support it by their appearance in its publick Councils.' .... 

I wish some expedient could be fallen upon to put our monied matters 
in a proper train the demands upon us at present are immense and must 
continue so, like beginners in every thing else we want Oeconomy or 
rather want System. Unless officers are appointed competent to the 
management of our funds we must be ruined, from a false parsimony in 
saving hundreds in salaries of proper Officers we are sporting away 
millions in the w^ant of them. I wish the Loan Office may suceed at 
4 p Cent the Southern Colonies will not consent to raise it they consider 
the Eastern Governments as in possession of almost all the Continental 
currency, and the rise to 5 as only a prelude to a higher demand and that 
in proportion to our necessities.* .... 

333. The Committee of Secret Correspondence to 

William Bingham.^ 

Baltimore in Maryland ist. Feby. 1777 
Sir 

As we shall write you shortly again our attention at present will be 
confined chiefly to your favor of Decemr. 6th. 1776, in which you mention 
the misconduct of Captn. Patterson. We have laid your letter before Con- 
gress, and they have appointed a Committee to consider the most proper 

1332]! Stan. V. Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item ^2 (facsimile) ; N. Y. Hist. Soc, 
Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 415; Hist. Mag., XIV. 87. 

2 In the earlier part of this letter Hooper says, after speaking of a recent severe 
illness : " I am now recovering, and God willing propose moving southward in a few 
days. Nelson bj' advice of a Physician goes to morrow. He is in a bad state of Health. 
Harrison is still ill and unless he is more attentive to Exercise and Regimen I fear the 
consequences will be serious. With one united voice we ascribe this catalogue of Ills 
to this place. I declare to you the Congress presents such a scene of yellow death like 
faces, that you would imagine Rhadamanthus had shifted his quarters and was holding 
court in Baltimore." Cf. nos. 260, 262, 282, 295, 304. ante, 340. 344, note 2, post. 

3 In the passage omitted Hooper discusses the Pennsylvania delegation, charac- 
terizing in particular Wilson and Ross, with some comment upon the course of John 
Dickinson. 

* See no. 326. note 8, ante. 
[333]^ Collection of the late Garrett D. W. Vroom, Trenton; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. 
Corr., II. 256; Sparks, Dipl. Corr. Rev., I. 255. 



February, i^yy 233 

steps to be taken in this business, that speedy and condign punishment 
may be appHed to Capn. Patterson, when his crime shall be duly enquired 
into and established ^ — The Congress having an utter abhorrence of all 
irregular and culpable violation of the law of nations, and that friendship 
and respect, which they entertain for the French Nation. We wish, you 
would communicate this to their Excellencies the Governor and General 
of Martinique — Congress has referred the matter of remittance for dis- 
charge of the obligation you and Mr. Harrison have entered into, to the 
State of Maryland, from whence you will no doubt receive remittance as 
soon as the British Ships of War now in Chesapeake Bay will permit. 

• • • • 

Your most obedt. hum^. Servts. 

Benja. Harrison 
Richard Henry Lee 
Will Hooper 
RoBT Morris, at Philadelphia 

334. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Baltimore Feb. i, 1777. 
My dear Sir, 

The Proceedings of the Committee of the four New England States 
have been read in Congress and are now under the Consideration of a 
Committee of the whole. They are much applauded as being wise and 
salutary.^ .... 

P. S. I forgot to tell you that, a fair Occasion offering, I moved in 
Congress that the Eldest son of our deceasd Friend Genl. Warren might 
be adopted by the Continent and educated at the publick expense. The 
Motion was pleasing to all and a Committee is appointed to prepare a 
Resolve. A Monument is also proposd in Memory of him and Genl. 
Mercer whose youngest Son is also to be adopted and educated. But these 
things I would not have yet made publick.^ 

335. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 

Maryland Assembly.^ 

Baltimore, Feb'y. ist, 1777. 
Gentlemen, 

In Consequence of Information that a Number of disaffected People 
in the Counties of Somerset and Worcester in the State of Maryland had 

2 Capt. ^VilHam Patterson of the schooner Dolphin captured and detained, near 
St. Pierre, Martinique, an English vessel bearing a flag of truce from the governor of 
Dominica to the general of Martinique. See Arch, of Md., XVI. 121, 122, 127-128, 136, 
151. See also the Journals, Jan. 28, no. 322, ante, and no. 338, post. Bingham's letter 
of Dec. 6 has not been found. 

[334]^ Warren- Adams Letters, I. 286; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Gushing), 
III. 350. 

- See no. 323, note 2, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 31, Feb. i, Apr. 8, 12, and no. 411, post. Adams also 
mentions his motion in a letter to his wife, Feb. i, adding : " Communicate this only to 
a few Friends till you hear further of it." N. Y. Pub. Library, Samuel Adams Papers. 

I335] ^Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 134; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cent. Cong., no. 58, pt. II., f. 127. 



2'>^ Contiucntql Congress 

proceeded such Leug^ths, as to take up Arms agl. their Country, I am 
directed by Coti^ress to transmit to you a Memorial from the Inhabitants 
of those Counties, together with the Depositions which accompanied the 
same. The dangerous Nature and Tendency of this Insurrection, refjuire 
that the most vigorous and effectual Measures be immediately taken to 
suppress it. I am therefore to request you will comply with the enclosed 
Resolves of Congress for this End. Should the Exertions of your 
Militia be apprehended to be inefTectual, the Congress on your represent- 
ing the Matter to them, will readily order any additional Assistance that 
shall be thought necessary.^ .... 

336. Benjamin Rush, Diary. ^ 

[February 4, 1777.] 

Upon Motion in Congress whether the meeting held by the four New 
Engd States by deputies at Providence Decemr 25 1776 was a proper one 
and wdiether it did not stand in need of the Approbation of Congress to 
make it valid. 

It was said by Mr Saml Adams. That a right to assemble upon all 
occasions to consult measures for promoting liberty and happiness was 
the priviledge of freemen — that it was contested by Govr Hutchinson and 
that it was dreaded only by tyrants. 

Mr Richd Henry Lee. It was said on the same side of the question 
that we were not yet confederated — therefore no law of the Union 
infringed. 

Col: Wilson on the negative said that the design in the committee of 
the 4 New England States in sending their proceedings to Congress was 
to demand their approbation 

That the same was clearly intimated by the tenor of the appointments 
from Rhode Island and Connecticut — that the committee had commanded, 
and countermanded continental troops — that the said troops were to be 
paid by the continent — therefore that the business the Committee trans- 
acted was wholly continental and of course required the approbation of 
Congress. 

Mr John Adams said that he lately travelled thro' New Eng"^ and 
that he was sure that the approbation of the Congress of the meeting 
would give pleasure to the committee and their constitutents. That their 
meeting was founded in necessity, that Altho' we were not confederated 
the same principles of equity and reason should govern us as if we were 
united by a confederacy — that the four New England States bore the same 
relation to the Congress that four counties bore to a single State. These 
four counties have a right to meet to regulate roads, and affairs that relate 
to the poor, but they have no right to tax or execute any other branch of 
legislation. In like manner the four New Eng*^ States, or any other four 

2 See Arch, of Md., XVI. 109-112, and passim (index, Somerset County, 
Worcester County) ; also the Journals, Jan. 31, Feb. i, 4, 6, 10, 12, 17, and nos. 341. 
347. 443, 463. post. 

[336]^ Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS. 



February, 7777 235 

States have a right to meet upon matters wholly indifferent, but they 
have no right to touch upon Continental Subjects — that the committee 
from the 4 New Eng"* States have touched upon continental Subjects, 
therefore the Meeting stands in need of the Approbation of the Congress. 

Dr Rush. The desire of independance is natural not only to individuals 
but to communities. There was a time (near 200 years) when it was 
wrong to say a word agst. the dependance of the colonies upon Great 
Britain. A time came when it was equally criminal to enforce that depen- 
dance. The time may come and probably will come when it will be the 
interest of the united States to be independant of each other, but I can con- 
ceive of no temporal punishment to be severe eno' for that man who 
attempts to dissolve, or weaken the Union for a century or two to come. 
I admire the proceedings of the committee assembled at Providence. 
They are full of political virtue and wisdom, and I think the other States 
will act wisely and virtuously in proportion as they resemble them. But 
I think the Meeting is full of great and interesting consequences, and 
should be regarded with a serious and jealous eye. Their business was 
chiefly continental, and therefore they usurped the powers of congress as 
much as four counties would usurp the powers of legislation in a state 
shd. they attempt to tax themselves. The committee have in one instance 
in regulating the price of goods counterved [contravened?] an express 
resolution of congress, and lastly tho' the meeting was necessary and no 
injustice intended or done by it to any state, yet it becomes us to remember 
that arbitrary power has often originated in justice and necessity. 

This question was decided by a majority in the Committee of the Whole 
house in the aMrmative, but in the negative a few days afterwards. It 
was reconsidered Feby 13rd. ^ 

337. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

Baltimore Feb'y 4th 1777. 
Sir: 

.... I intend hereafter to trouble you with a letter every post, and 
shall give my sentiments of the different political principles which I shall 
perceive to actuate the several States, the measures intended to be pursued, 
the intelligence we receive and the important decisions in Congress. I 
find a considerable jealously is entertained of the Northern States, I know 
not how justly, at present I must refer you to Mr. Hooper who is much 
better qualified to give you satisfaction on all these matters than I am. 
Our situation here is unsettled, uncomfortable, and incredibly expensive. 
These circumstances will I doubt not occasion another adjournment of 
Congress 

Feh'y ^th ^ — This day it was resolved in Congress that Col. Nash 
should be appointed a Brigadier General, that he should proceed to the 

2 See no. 355, post', also the references in no. 323, note 2, ante. 
[337]' A'. C- State Rccs., XI. 37.3- 

2 This letter, found ibid., p. 374, is evidently only an addition to the letter of 
Feb. 4. See no. 359, post. 



28G Continental Congress 

Western part of the State, and expedite as nnicli as possible the recruiting 
service, and that the several Battalions of Continental Troops in North 
and South Carolina should join General Washington as soon as may be 
after the fifteenth of March. It was proposed to request your assistance 
in forwarding- the recruiting business, but we observed that you were 
already sensible of the necessity of such an exertion of your interest and 
influence, and being so well inclined to serve to your utmost power the 
cause of America, there is no need to remind you of it.' .... 

338. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety.^ 

Baltimore Town Febry. 6. 1777 

Thursday Noon 
Gentlemen. 

Congress are very anxious that some immediate Steps should be taken 
by our State, not only as to the person of Captain Patterson, but as to the 
Payment of the Engagement entered into by the Continental and your 
Agent. Capt. Patterson is viewed as a pirate and after examination, if 
the facts should appear to you to be well founded, it may be well to con- 
sider, if it would not be proper to send him to Martinico for trial there, by 
the law of nations. If our State shall pay the value of the vessel and 
goods seised by Patterson, would it not be proper to inform the Governor 
of Martinique that the whole would have been returned, but for the 
Risque. If no remittance can be made but by produce, it will be an equal 
risque to send back the vessel. Could not Mr. Morris pay the money for 
our State? An opportunity of writing will present itself in a few days. 
Would it not be proper for our State to write a letter, disavowing the con- 
duct of Capt. Patterson, and engaging payment as soon as possible and 
mentioning the men of war in our Bay, which may delay the remittance.* 

.... I must again repeat the necessity of a Representation.* 

339. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Baltimore Feby. 6th 1777. 

This will be delivered to you by Mr. Burke - from the Island of Jamaica 
a Gentleman of Spirit, and wxll affected to the American Cause, who had 
applied to Congress to be taken into the Service of these States. They 
have directed that his Application be referred to you, that you may do 
therein as you shall think proper. The Congress have received very 

3 Cf. the Journals. 
[338]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 87; Arch, of Md., XVI. 122. 

2 See nos. 322, Z2>3, a»'^- 

3 See no. 327, ante. 

[339]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 86. 

2 Bartholomew Burke. See the Journals, Jan. 22, 30, Feb. 4, Apr. 7. The draft, 
dated Mar. 4, of Washington's authority and instructions to Captain Burke to raise a 
company is in the Washington MSS., as is also a letter of introduction from Robert 
Morris, dated Feb. 14. 



February, ly/y 237 

favourable Accounts of the great Attachment Mr. Burke has to the Cause 
of America, and of his Zeal to do every Thing in his Power to support 
her Liberties. 

340. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Baltimore, 7 February, 1777. 

I am at last, after a great deal of difficulty, settled in comfortable 
quarters,^ but at an infinite expense. The price I pay for my board is more 
moderate than any other gentlemen give, excepting my colleagues, who 
are all in the same quarters and at the same rates, except Mr. Hancock, 
who keeps a house by himself. The prices of things here are much more 
intolerable than at Boston, The attempt of New England to regulate 
prices is extremely popular in Congress, who will recommend an imitation 
of it to the other States.^ For my own part I expect only a partial and a 
temporary relief from it, and I fear that, after a time, the evils will break 
out with greater violence. The water will flow with greater rapidity for 
having been dammed up for a time. The only radical cure will be to stop 
the emission of more paper, and to draw in some that is already out, and 
devise means effectually to support the credit of the rest. To this end we 
must begin forthwith to tax the people as largely as the distressed circum- 
stances of the country will bear. We must raise the interest from four 
to six per cent.* We must, if possible, borrow silver and gold from 
abroad. We must, above all things, endeavor, this winter, to gain further 
advantages of the enemy, that our power may be in somewhat higher 
reputation than it is, or rather, than it has been. 

341. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety.^ 

Baltimore Town Febry. 7th. 1777. 
Gentlemen 

The marine Committee are very desirous, that the Tender of the 
Defence should be well manned, and under a bold active prudent officer, 
sent down with the Troops destined for Som*. and Worcester County. 

[340] 1 FawtViar Letters, p. 239. 

2 In his diary he writes : 

" February 6. Thursday. Lx»dged last night, for the first time, in my new quarters, 

at Mrs. Ross's, in Market Street, Baltimore, a few doors below the Fountain Inn 

The Congress sits in the last house at the west end of Market Street, on the south side 
of the street ; a long chamber, with two fire-places, two large closets, and two doors. 
The house belongs to a Quaker, who built it for a tavern." Works, II. 433. 

Adams arrived in Baltimore Feb. i (see his leter to Mrs. Adams, Feb. 2, Familiar 
Letters, p. 237), and took his seat in Congress Feb. 4 (see the Journals, Feb. 4, and 
no. 336, ante) ; cf. Warren-Adams Letters, I. 288. Concerning conditions at Baltimore, 
cf. Adams's letter of Feb. 2, mentioned above, and nos. 260, 262, 282, 295, ante. See also 
no. 344, note 2, post. 

In regard to the house in which Congress sat, see Scharf, Chronicles of Baltimore, 
pp. 141, 153, and Scharf, Baltimore City and County, p. 74. In the latter volume is a 
picture of " Congress Hall ". 

3 See no. 323, note 2, ante. 

* See nos. 326, note 8, ante, 344-346, 349, 352, 357, 375, 382, 384, 385, post. 
[341]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 86; Arch, of Md., XVI. 124. 



2 

Congress will afford every Assistance in their i)0\ver to prevent any Com- 
munication between the Insurj^ents and tiie Men of war. and any jjkmder 
of our Islands or Coasts, it is earnestly wished and expected that our 
State will order every Vessel they have and can obtain on the same Duty. 
I shall sj)cak to Captain Cook about his tender. - 
No Letters from General Washing^ton The Post is not yet arrived. 

With Respect your Obedt. Servt. 

S. Chase 

342. WiLLi.\M Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Baltimore. Feby. 7, 1777. 

.... There is more unanimity in Conj^ress than ever, the little 
Southern jealousies have almost subsided and the Dickinsonian politics 
are Banished. J. Adams and Lovell are arrived from Massac** and 
exceeding- good representatives from Virginia, and a new member from 
N. Carolina, (one Mr. Burke), who I think is the Best man I have seen 
from that country." .... 

343. Thomas Burke, Abstract of Debates.^ 

February 7, 1777. 

Motion in Congress that the President write to every State excepting 
Virginia and Masechusett's Bay recommending a fuller representation, 
proposed to leave out the Exceptions, passed in the Negative Amend- 
ment proposed, that when ever any State was unrepresented the President 
should write requesting a full representation agreed by a Majority, 
motion to be reconsidered. Amendment proposed that when ever any 
State was represented by less than three President should write etc. 
rejected. Question upon the whole as amended, Nos 5 Ayes 4 i Divided, 

In this Debate the States fully represented insisted on tlie Exceptions 
that, it might appear they had no need of a Memento. Several other 
States insisted that no state ought to be permitted to Commit a Vote in 
the General Council of the States to less than three. That less nor even 
that Number would supply Committees it was Answered to the first that 
every State had made her representation as best Suited her Circumstances, 

2 Cf. no. 335- ante, nos. 347, 443, 463, post. 

[342]! A/a^. of Hist., VIII. 371 ; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 969, item 144. 

2 Cf. John Adams to James Warren. Feb. 17, Warren-Adams Letters, I. 293. 

[343]^ N. C. Hist. Soc. Chapel Hill. Burke evidently made two partially distinct 
sets of abstracts. Besides the fragment. Feb. 7 and 8, in possession of the North Carolina 
Historical Society, and the abstracts, Feb. 8-26, printed in the North Carolina State 
Records, vol. XL, there is in the Emmet Collection in the Xew York Public Library a 
fragment covering the debates of Feb. 20-27 (see no. 367, note i, post), with some 
account of debates about Mar. 14 and Apr. 8. For some dates the texts show only 
minor variations ; for others they are quite distinct. The Emmet copy apears to have 
been drafted subsequently to that used in the A''. C. State Recs., and some of the abstracts 
are more extended. It is probable that the Emmet fragment and that at Chapel Hill 
are parts of the same manuscript. The original from which the text of the A'. C. State 
Recs. was derived has probably been lost, as that text was printed from an executive 
letter-book copy. 



February, j/// 239 

that many were unable to spare or support one more Numerous, that each 
was best Judge how many of her citizens She would Trust, and to what 
length she would Trust them, that there was no need of publicly calling 
on them for a representation more full because they had already wished 
the same thing but found it Inconvenient to be Effected that therefore 
those who had any representation at all [had] done what their circum- 
stances permit [ed] an [ ?] for greater Exertions, to the second that the 
represent [atives of] the States who had few refused nor [ | That 

the weight and Trust were certainly too great for any one person but it 
was an evil that could not at present be remedied, and therefore it must 
be born, that requiring three to form a Quorum would Embarass several 
states and leave such states often without any representation at all, 
because if any Accident prevented the attendance of one, the Vote was 
Necessarily lost, and any state would prefer a Vote by one of her 
Del[eg]ates rather than No Vote at all. 

North Carolina having only one Delegate present urged that the argu- 
ments [aimed at?] the Insufficiency of One Delegate for so Important 
a Trust were sensibly felt by the Delegate who already tho' but a very few 
days in Congress found his Experience and abilities far Inferior to his 
Duty, but this was not the fault of his Country, who could not prevail on 
lier abler men to undertake a Business so arduous and Inconvenient, 
that She had Indeed appointed three but never Expected that they should 
be always in Service at Once, because the absence was too long from their 
private Families and Affairs, and She had not Funds to support a greater 
Number, that One who Expected to have been here w^as prevented by 
Illness, the other had Just departed and after a long attendance was per- 
mitted to return home that the Single Representation of that State was 
the Misfortune of the Delegate on whom, all Incompetent as he is, the 
burthen of so high a Trust had fallen and also the misfortune of his 
Country who in the absence of his more able Colleagues could not be so 
well served, that Considering it as a matter which each state had an 
Exclusive right to Judge of, the Delegate could not agree that Congress 
should at all Interfere with it, that having Just informed the Congress 
that one of the [delegates had been] permitted by his Countr>' to return, 
and that the [consequence is] that only two would be in service the 
Delegate considered the Ammendment relative to three is [as] implying 
a Censure on his Country and he must therefore protest against it. The 
Intention to Censure was disclaimed.^ 

344. Benjamin Rush to Robert Morris.^ 

Baltimore Feby. 8th 1777 
Dear Sir 

I have the pleasure of informing you that your letter to Congress of the 
4th instant produced a Motion this day for adjourning to Philadelphia. 

2 See no. 351, post. Cf. nos. 311, 326, ante. 
[344] 1 Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels 
of Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 92. 



2 

After some debate it was resolved by a majority of one State only not to 
put the (Question. One State was accidentally unrepresented for a few 
minutes or it would have been carried in the Affuinative. The principal 
desig^n of this letter is to request that you would urge the necessity of our 
returning to Philadelphiain your next letter. By our Absence from Philadelphia
we not only depreciate the money there, but we likewise depreciate it by 
our residence here. The scarcity of Artificers, the want of sufficient 
number of boarding houses, the constant accession of Strangers who have 
business with the Congress and who create a fluctuation in the Quantity 
of provisions brought into the town have rendered the price of living, and 
transacting business of all kinds three times as high in this place as it is 
in many parts of the Continent, and Nearly twice as high as in Philadel- 
phia. But there are other considerations which ought to influence us. 
Our return will have the same effect upon our politicks that General 
Washington's late successes have had upon our Arms. Its operation per- 
haps may not be confined to the Continent. It may serve our cause even 
in the Court of France.^ 

Your letter produced another motion in Congress of greater conse- 
quence than the one just now mentioned, namely to raise the interest of 
money received into our loan Offices to 6 per Cent. It produced a very 
long, and serious debate. The question was postponed 'till Monday next 
at the request of Connecticut. There is good reason to believe from the 
part the several States took in the debate that it will be carried in the 
Affirmative by a majority of two or three States. Col. R. H. Lee has 
changed his mind upon this subject, and was one of the warmest Advo- 
cates for raising the interest upon the floor.* 

We live here in a Convent, we converse only with one another. We are 
precluded from all opportunities of feeling the pulse of the public upon our 
measures. We rely upon the Committee of Philadelphiato feel it for us, and 
we expect once more to hear thro' you how it beats upon the subject of 
returning to Philadelphia. 

From Dr. Sir your Most humble Servt 

Benjamin Rush 

345. Thomas Burke, Abstract of Debates.^ 

1777 Feb. 8th. 

Motion for offering 6 per ct. in the Loan Office.^ 

For it, — was agreed the necessity of money for carrying on the war, 
which four per cent had not yet procured, the expediency of borrowing on 
this interest to prevent further emissions, and of alluring moneyed men 
to embark in our interest. Against it. — that the public, being the only 

2 The motion to adjourn to Philadelphia is not recorded in the Journals Feb. 8; 
see however the Journals, Feb. 17, 25, 27; also nos. 345, 347. 357, 359. 361-363, 368, ^77, 
378, 382-384. 387-389, 392, 393, post. Cf. nos. 282, 295, 304, 222, 340, ante. 

3 See no. Z^^, note 8. ante. Cf. nos. 345, 346, 349, post. 
[345]! iV. C. State Recs.. XL 389. 

2 Another account by Burke of this debate is given under no. 346, post. See 
no. 326, note 8, ante ; also nos. 349, 352, 357, 375, 382, 384, 385, post. 



February, 7777 241 

borrower, must get the money at the interest already offered, if there was 
any to be lent ; that those who withheld money, only did it in hopes our 
necessity would compel us to give a higher interest, and that they would 
withhold it as long as they had any prospect of forcing us to offer higher 
interest; that the interest would be a heavy and unequal burthen on the 
State, because those who now possess the money would lay the rest under 
a heavy tax under the name of interest ; that there was little money to be 
borrowed, because men speculated and found they could lay it out to 
better advantage; that the necessity for money made it more expedient 
to seek a more certain resource. The delegate of North Carolina could 
not be satisfied that Loan Office certificates, and bills of credit, where both 
had the same security for their redemption, were not in effect the same 
thing : he therefore thought Loan certificates another emission in bills of 
another denomination, with this unjust inequality, that one part of the 
community would thereby be taxed for the others. He also thought that 
much money would not be borrowed on them at any interest, unless it 
was for the more convenient purposes of exchange, and he thought it 
would give our enemies too convenient a machine for affecting our hopes 
and fears. He would vote against a Loan altogether if it were now the 
question, and the same reasons induced him to vote against the increase 
of interest. Question put, Aye 5, no 5. Aye, — New Hampshire, M. Bay, 
N. Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia. No. — Rhode Island, Connecticut, 
North Carolina, Georgia, S. Carolina. 

346. Thomas Burke, Abstract of Debates.^ 

Fehy 8th. An adjournment to Philadelphia was moved for and post- 
poned ^ A Resolve was moved for offering 6 pet. Interest in the Loan 
Office the Debate took up greatest part of the Day, and the determination 
was postponed at the request of Connecticut.' 

The Arguments chiefly were that money was absolutely Necessary for 
carrying on the War, that four per ct which was already offered could not 
procure it and it was therefore Necessary to Increase the Interest, that 
this mode was more eligeable than a farther Emission because it would 
draw out of Circulation that superfluous quantity which occasioned the 
Rise of all prices, that the alluring monied men to embark in one Com- 
mon Interest with the other orders of men would greatly add to the 
Security of our Independence. 

In answer it was urged that the Offering a higher Interest would not 
more certainly procure the money, for those who had it to lend would 
find no borrower but the public, and those who had not could not lend it 
on any Interest, that the Interest would be an Accumulating Debt (if it 
could be borrowed) under which the Country must Sink, that the States 
would be very unequally burthened because those who now possessed the 
greater part of the Money would lay the other States under a heavy Tax 

[346]! N. C. Hist. Soc, Chapel Hill. 
2 See no. 344, note 2, ante. 
^ See no. 345, ante. 



2 

to them under the name of Interest, that [when] tliere were in the 
Country no money Lenders [every] man found that every (hiy's Occur- 
rences [ofTered him] Opportunities of layinj^ out his money to much 
i,'reater advantage, tliat however Necessary the money might be it was 
still the more Necessary to fall on some Expedient that might procure it 
with certainty, that the Increase of Interest having been tried in many 
States without EfTect very clearly proved money was not to be borrowed. 
North Carolina urged that it was a clear Truth that money was Necessary, 
it was equally clear that it was advisable to prevent further lunissions and 
to reduce the quantity in circulation if it was possible to Effect it. the 
Delegate declared that when he ofTered his thoughts before that Illus- 
trious assembly he did it with the greatest Diffidence and deference that 
he should not trouble them with any on so abstruce and Intricate a Sub- 
ject as the present, but that he perceived the matter had not Struck any 
other in the same point of View that it did him, that he felt himself 
Oppressed with the weight of the Question, and having the misfortune 
Singly to have the vote of one State to give he wished to do it on Estab- 
lished Principles, and the clearest conviction, he therefore beged their 
Indulgence and candor if he should ofTer objections which had been 
answered in some former Debates (for there had been many on that 
Subject) which he had not the Good fortune to Hear, he urged that he 
had not been able to derive any Satisfactory Information from the Debate 
that the money could be had by way of Loan on any Interest, or that 
money raised by way of Loan would not be a further Emission in Efifect, 
that he perceived there were few or no money lenders in the Country, 
that Farmers and Gentlemen speculated, and reserved their [money] for 
purchases, and Merchants, always reived on employing. 



347. Abraham Clark to the Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly 

(John Hart).^ 

Baltimore Febry 8, 1777. 

Dr Sir, 

I lately heard the Assembly of New Jersey had met but cannot learn 
where ^ am therefore unable to give a proper direction. The four New 
England Colonies have had a meeting of Committees from their Legisla- 
tures to consult measures for their mutual defence and for regulating 
Trade and Commerce. Their proceedings are before Congress, and I 
expect will soon Obtain their Approbation, and recommendation will 
thereupon be sent to N. York, N. Jersey Pensa. and Maryland to appt. 
Com^" to meet at Phila. for the purpose of regulating the Price of all 
Articles of Trade etc. the Southern States will also be desired to meet 
for that purpose, those matters if passed you will soon have notice of.^ 

l347]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll.. no. 2862; N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 24; N. Y. Pub. 
Lib., Bulletin, vol. IL, no. 7, p. 247. 

- .See the postscript of this letter. 
3 See no. z^Z^ note 2, ante. 



February, lyjy 243 

I am much alarmed with Gen^' Washington's Prod", of the 25th 
Janry. he hath assumed the Legislative and Executive powers of Govern- 
ment in all the states. I moved Congress to pass a Resolution I produced 
for preventing its fatal Consequences and the Establishing such a prece- 
dent. My motion was Com^'^. and is now before the Com^.* I hope our 
Legislature will take proper Notice of it, whatever issue it may have in 
Congress, and not tamely Submit their Authority to the Controul of a 
power unknown in our Constitution; We set out to Oppose Tyranny in 
all its Strides, and I hope we shall persevere. 

A Regulation for providing Carriages for the Army and to prevent as 
much as possible the Custom of impressing hath long been before Con- 
gress Com^*^. and recom*'^. and so it remains. I Wish you will not delay 
passing a Law for Regulating impresses of this kind.° .... The Devas- 
tations of New Jersey by the Enemy will I think make it Necessary to 
prevent Cattle etc. running at large, as fences on the main road are mostly 
destroyed and cannot soon be made, and I think, no person ought to be 
compelled to fence agst. street Cattle at any Time. Mr. Sergeant talks 
of resigning and i\Ir. Stockton by his late proceedure cannot Act.® I wish 
their places may be Supplied by such as will be reputable to New Jersey, 
not only by their integrity but Abilities. 

The Tories in the two lower Counties of Mar3dand on the Eastern 
shore and Sussex on Delaware, are very troublesome and C[ollec]ting 
forces Aided by several Men of War in Delaware, but more Especially 
in Chesopeek Bay. The Militia and two Contin'. Regiments are marching 
Against them.'' 

I expect Congress will soon remove from hence to Lancaster, tho' it 
is not yet determined.* if that should happen I shall be greatly perplexed 
with the Chests. One Chief reason for removing is the Extravagant price 
of Living here, the poorest of board without any Liquor, a Dollar a day 
horse keeping 3/6 or 4/ Wine 12/ a bottle, Rum 30/ per Gall, and every- 

* See the Journals, Feb. 6, 27, and no. 397, post. Washington's proclamation of 
Jan. 25 is in Writings (ed. Sparks), IV. 297. 

5 See the Journals, Oct. 2, 10, 1776, Jan. 11, 22, 30, Feb. 22, 1777. 

^ See nos. 290, 291, ante. The allusion to Stockton's " late proceedure " is doubt- 
less to a step taken during his imprisonment, the nature of which has been left in ob- 
scurity. From a statement made to the editor by the late Mr. William Nelson of 
Paterson, N. J., it is understood that he had at one time seen a document which revealed 
the nature of Stockton's act. Since the foregoing was put in type there has come to 
light a letter from John Witherspoon to his son, David Witherspoon. written from 
Philadelphia, Mar. 17, 1777. which casts additional light upon the case of Richard Stock- 
ton. The pertinent passage is as follows : " I was at Princeton from Saturday s'en 
night till Wednesday. Your uncle is well. Old Mr. Serjeant is dead of the Small Pox. 
Judge Stockton is not very well in health and much spoken against for his conduct. He 
signed Howe's Declaration and also gave his Word of Honour that he would not meddle 
in the least in American affairs during the War. Mrs. Cochran was sent to the Ennemies 
Lines by a Flag of truce, and when Mr. Cochran came out to meet his wife he said to 
the Officers that went with the Flag that Judge Stockton had brought evidence to 
General Howe to prove that he was on his Way to seek a protection when he was taken, 
this he denies to be true yet many credit it, but Mr. Cochran's known quarrel with him 
makes it very doubtful to candid persons." Catalogue, no. 5 (April, 1922) of the 
George D. Smith Estate (item 102). 

7 See nos. 335. 34i. ante, 443, 463, post. 
' 8 " Lancaster " perhaps written inadvertently for Philadelphia. Cf. nos. 344, 
note 2. 346, ante, 386, 396, post. 



2 

thii\e; else in proportion and likely soon to rise.' I am Dr Sir, with great 
Regard to your House, 

Your Obedt. and Hunib. Servt. 

Abra : Clark 
John Hart Esqr : 

P. S. The Price of living I only gave you as a piece of intelligence and 
not to Opperate in our favour, as upon Recollection I feared you might 
look upon it as interested. 

I pd. for bringing one Chest here £ 22 : Msrs Scudder and Patterson 
Consenting, at Writing thus far I hear you are sitting at Haddonsfield. 

348. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 

Massachusetts Assembly.^ 

Baltimore, Febru^ 8th, 1777. 
Gentlemen, 

I have been honour'd with your favrs of Decemr 30th : and Janu^ 13th : 
which I laid before the Congress. I hope before this the Honl. Council 
have rec'd my Letter of Janu^ loth : which they will find a full answer to 
yours of 30th Decemr. brought by Mr Throop, to which I beg leave to 
Refer you, and therefore need not Add anything more on that Subject.^ 

The Removal of Congress from Philadelphia and the consequent Stagna- 
tion of all Business for a Season, has Occasional the Delay in forward^ 
the Money, so much wanted in our State. However by this Oppor^ Three 
hundred thousand Dollars is Sent to the Deputy Pay Master Gen'l. in 
Boston for the purpose of paying the Bounties and Defray^ the Expences 
of Raising the New Levies in the Eastern Departments subject to the 
Warrants of General Ward, to whom I w^ite by this Oppor[tunit]y. One 
hundred thousand Dollars is also Sent to the State of Connecticut and 
One hundred thousand Dollars to the State of New Hampshire for the 
same purposes. 

I am exceedingly sorry, that we have not untill now been able to comply 
with your Requisition, long since made for Money, in consequence of your 
Advances for the Service of the Continent.^ .... 

349. Benjamin Rush, Diary.^ 

Feby. 10. on motion to raise the interest of money to 6 per cent for 
loan office tickets," it was said in the negative — 

I That there was no other way of laying out money. 

» Cf. nos. 260, 262, 282. 295, ante. 
[348]! Mass. Arch., CXCVI. 197; Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 142; 
Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. II., f. 137. 

2 See the letter of Jan. 10, no. 301, ante. A letter of Jan. 13, from the Massachu- 
setts council, was received Jan. 28. 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 10, 18, 20; cf. no. 326, ante. Hancock's letter to General 
Ward is in Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1297, item 507. The deputy paymaster-general was 
Ebenezer Hancock. 

[349]^ Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS. 

2 The motion was made Feb. 8, but the discussion was continued on the loth. 
See the Journals, p. 103, note i. Cf. nos. 345, 346, ante. See nos. 326, note 8, 344-346, 
ante, 357, 375, 382, 384, 385, post. 



February, lyyy 245 

2 That loan office tickets are the same as money, and therefore in case 
of the want of money new emissions are equally proper. 

In the affirmative it was said by Mr Sergant That loan office tickets 
would be confined only to one State. 

By Mr. Jas. Wilson — That Bonds, lands etc. were transferrable as well 
as loan office tickets, and therefore the argument of their being the same 
as money is without force. That the money lenders had all their money 
paid into them, that 3 millions had been received by the usurers in Pen- 
sylvania all of which was probably in thier hands, and that if the interest 
was raised to 6 per cent it wd. procure money. 

Mr John Adams. That loan offices tickets would not circulate because 
they bore an interest. That Massachusetts bay in the last war emitted 
50,000 in notes bearing an interest of 6 per cent which were immediately 
locked up and withdrawn from the circulation even tho' gold and silver 
was plentiful among them. That new emissions would only encrease the 
difficulty, that the continent would bear only 7 millions. That Unless 
the interest was raised, the money holder would employ his money in 
speculation in buying lands, and in monopolising goods, by which means 
the necessaries of life were enhanced in thier price. That this alone 
would regulate the price of goods, that no other wisdom [two lines torn 
out] 

emission he would rather see our army disbanded, and Howe let loose to 
ravage the whole country.^ 

Upon calling the question The States (10 in number) divided equally. 

As a proof of the impropriety of each state having a seperate Vote, it 
is remarkable that there were 18 members for raising the interest and 
10 only against it. The States that voted in favor of it were New-Ham- 
shire, Massachussettsbay, New Jersey, Pensylvania, and Virginia. The 
inhabitants of these states collectively make near two thirds of the whole 
inhabitants of the united States.* 

Mr John Adams [Tzvo lines torn out^. 
political character in the same light as they do a suit of cloaths. They put 
it on and off at pleasure. But we trifle with all morality, we trifle with 
the happiness of millions, by not holding up ^ to [ ] unrea[sonable.] 

350. Benjamin Rush to Robert Morris.^ 

Baltimore Feby. 11. 1777 
Dear Sir 

I am sorry to inform you that, from the accidental Absence of One 
State, and the tergiversation of another, the congress divided upon the 

3 Adams's ideas of the consequences of new emissions are expressed strongly 
but somewhat more soberly in his letter to Warren, Feb. 12, no. 352, post. 

* Cf. nos. 352, 375, post. 

5 The next leaf of the Diary has been torn out almost entirely, only a narrow 
strip of the left-hand margin and a small piece of upper right-hand corner, containing a 
few words and fragments of words, being left. On the second line appears " 1777 ", 
with what appears to be the fragment of "11" preceding it. Most of the destroyed 
entry was, therefore, probably under date of Feb. 11. 

[350]^ Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 426. 



2 

important question of raising- the interest upon loan office tickets to half 
cent. We are all in confusion. Nothing can save us but a reconsideration 
of that question.* It is rumoured here that you do not intend to serve in 
congress in consequence of your late Ai)pointment. For God's Sake do 
not desert them ! — The post is just on the wing. 

Yours 

B. Rush. 

351. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 

I\I.\RYL.\ND CoUNCn. OF S.\FETY.^ 

Baltimore, Febry. nth. 1777 
Gentlemen 

I have it in Charge from Congress to Request that the State of Mary- 
land may be fully and constantly Represented in Congress, the Necessity 
of every State being fully Represented to Add weight to the Council of 
America, as well as to keep up that Union and good Correspondence so 
essential to our Country, will naturally Suggest the propriety of this Ap- 
plication, which I have no doubt you will immediately comply with, more 
especially as Business of the utmost moment is before Congress.* .... 

352. John Adams to James Warren.* 

Baltimore, 12 February, 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

The certificates and check-books for the loan-office I hope and presume 
are arrived in Boston before this time, and, notwithstanding the discourag- 
ing accounts which were given me when I was there, I still hope that a 
considerable sum of money will be obtained by their means. 

It is my private opinion, however, that the interest of four per cent, 
is not an equitable allowance. I mean that four per cent, is not so much 
as the use of the money is honestly worth in the ordinary course of busi- 
ness, upon an average for a year ; and I have accordingly exerted all the 
little faculties I had, in endeavoring, on Monday last, to raise the interest 
to six per cent. But after two days' debate, the question was lost by an 
equal division of the States present, five against five.* New Hampshire, 
Massachusetts Bay, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Virginia on one side, 
and Rhode Island, Connecticut, North Carolina, South Carolina, and 
Georgia, on the other. Here was an example of the inconvenience and 
injustice of voting by States. Nine gentlemen, representing about eight 
hundred thousand people, against eighteen gentlemen, representing a 
million and a half nearly, determined this point. Yet we must not be 
startled at this.' 

2 See no. 326, note 8, ante. Rush appears to have made notes of the debates of 
Feb. ir, but afterwards (he or another) tore the leaf from his Diary. See no. 349, 
note 5, ante. 

[351]! Md. Hiat. Soc, Red Book, VI. 22; Arch, of Md., XVI. 130. 

- See the Journals, Feb. 7. Cf. nos. 327, 343, ante. 
[352]! Works, IX. 452. 

2 Cf. no. 340, ante. See the postscript to this letter, also no. 326, note 8, ante. 

3 Cf. no. 349, ante. 



February, lyyy 247 

I think it my duty to mention this to you, because it must be astonishing 
to most people in our State, that the interest is so low. I know they are 
at a loss to account for it upon any principles of equity or policy, and 
consequently may be disposed to blame their delegates; but you may 
depend upon it, they are not in fault. 

I tremble for the consequences of this determination. If the loan 
officers should not procure us money, we must emit more, which will 
depreciate all which is already abroad, and so raise the prices of provisions 
and all the necessaries of life, that the additional expense to the continent 
for supplying their army and navy will be vastly more than the two per 
cent, in dispute, besides all the injustice, chicanery, extortion, oppression, 
and discontent, which is always occasioned everywhere by a depreciating 
medium of trade. I am much afraid of another mischief. I fear that for 
want of wisdom to raise the interest in season, we shall be necessitated, 
within a few months to give eight or ten per cent., and not obtain the 
money we want after all. 

I have been so often a witness of the miseries of this after-wisdom, 
that I am wearied to death of it. 

Had a bounty of twenty dollars a man been offered soldiers last June, 
it would have procured more than the enormous bounties that are now 
offered will procure. Had government been assumed in the States twelve 
months sooner than it was, it might have been assumed with spirit, vigor, 
and decision, and would have obtained an habitual authority before the 
critical time came on, when the strongest nerves of government are 
necessary ; whereas now, every new government is as feeble as water, and 
as brittle as glass. 

Had we agreed upon a non-exportation, to commence when the non- 
importation commenced, what an immense sum should we have saved! 
Nay, very probably we should have occasioned a very different House of 
Commons to be chosen, the ministry to have been changed, and this war 
avoided. Thus it is. You, who will make no ill use of these observations, 
may read them, but the times are too delicate and critical to indulge freely 
and generally in such speculations. It is best, I believe, that no mention 
should be made that the rate of interest has been again debated, lest some 
saving men should withhold their money in hopes of compelling the public 
to raise the interest. If the interest should never be raised, those who lend 
in our State will fare as well as others ; if it should, the interest of all will 
be raised, that which is borrowed now as well as that which shall be 
borrowed hereafter. I sincerely wish that our people would lend their 
money freely. They will repent of it if they do not. We shall be com- 
pelled to emit such quantities that every man, except a few villains, will 
lose more by depreciation than the two per cent. Not to mention again 
the scene of anarchy and horror, that a continuation of emissions will 
infallibly bring upon us. 

The design of loan-offices was to prevent the farther depreciation of the 
bills by avoiding farther emissions. We might have emitted more bills 
promising an interest, but if those had been made a legal tender like the 

21 



2 

other bills, and, consequently mixed in the circulation with them, they 
would instantly have depreciated all the other hills four per cent., if the 
interest was four, and more than that, too, by increasing; the (juantity of 
circulating cash. In order to prevent these certificates from circulation, 
and consequently from depreciating the bills, we should give them such 
attributes as will induce men of fortune and others who usually lend 
money, to hoard them up. The persons who usually lend money are, 
I. Men of fortune, who live upon their income, and these generally choose 
to have a surplusage to lay up every year to increase their capitals. 2. 
Opulent merchants who have more money than they choose to risk, or can 
conveniently employ in trade. 3. Widows, whose dower is often converted 
into money and placed out at interest, that they may receive an annual 
income to live upon, without the care and skill which is necessary to 
employ money advantageously in business. 4. Orphans, whose guardians 
seldom incline to hazard the property of their wards in business. 5. A few 
divines, lawyers, and physicians, who are able to lay by a little of their 
annual earnings. 6. Here and there a farmer and a tradesman, who is 
forehanded and frugal enough to make more money than he has occasion 
to spend. Add to these, — 7. Schools, colleges, towns, parishes, and other 
societies, which sometimes let money. All these persons are much attached 
to their interest, and so anxious to make the most of it, that they compute 
and calculate it even to farthings and single days. These persons can get 
six per cent., generally, of private borrowers, on good security of mort- 
gages or sureties. 

Now. is it reasonable in the State to expect that monied men will lend 
to the public at a less interest than they can get from private persons ? 

I answer, yes, when the safety of the State is not in doubt, and when 
the medium of exchange has a stable value, because larger sums may be 
put together, and there is less trouble in collecting and receiving the 
interest, and the security is better. But the case is otherwise, when men 
are doubtful of the existence of the State, and it is worse still, when men 
see a prospect of depreciation in the medium of trade. All governments 
in distress are obliged to give a higher interest for money than when they 
are prosperous. 

The interest of money always bears some proportion to the profits of 
trade. When the commerce of a country is small, lodged in few hands, 
and very profitable, the interest of money is very high. Charles the Fifth 
was necessitated to give twenty-four per cent, for money; afterwards it 
fell in Europe to twelve, and since to six, five, four, and three. 

I think I shall never consent to go higher than six per cent., as much as 
I am an advocate for raising it to that, and in this I have been constant for 
full nine months. The burden of six per cent, upon the community will 
very soon be heavv^ enough. We must fall upon some other methods of 
ascertaining the capitals we borrow. A depreciating currency we must 
not have, it will ruin us. The medium of trade ought to be as unchange- 
able as truth, as immutable as morality. The least variation in its value 
does injustice to multitudes, and in proportion it injures the morals of 
the people, a point of the last importance in a republican government. 



February, ij/j 249 

15 March, 1777. 

Thus far I had written a long- time ago, since which, after many days 
deHberation and debate, a vote passed for raising the interest to six per 
cent. If this measure should not procure us money, I know not what 
resource we shall explore.* 

To read this will be punishment enough for your omission to write to 
me all this while. I have received nothing from you since I left Boston. 

353. Thomas Burke, Abstract of Debates.^ 

Feh'y. 12th. Maryland and Pennsylvania were very solicitous to pro- 
cure a vote of Congress, approving a meeting lately held by committees 
appointed by the four New England Governments, to the end that this 
approbation might imply a right to disapprove. It occasioned very long 
and interesting debates. At length the general opinion was that Congress 
had necessarily a right to inquire into the cause of any meeting and to 
require to know what was transacted at any such meetings, and also to 
require an explanation of anything that was dubious, and satisfaction for 
anything that was alarming to the whole, or any one of the States ; that 
this right necessarily existed in their power to take care each for his 
respective State that no injury happened to her from without. But that 
Congress had no right to prohibit meetings, or censure them if the transac- 
tions in them were not injurious to others. The delegate of North 
Carolina refuse [d] to say what his State could not do, declaring he 
thought she could do every thing which she had not precluded herself 
from by plain and express declaration : to yield up any of her rights was 
not in his power, and very far from his inclination : that by the Law of 
Nations she had a right to demand a satisfactory account and explanation 
of any transaction of one or more States, and she had appointed him to 
watch lest any injury should come to her from without. In this he would 
use his best endeavours. The question put, the approbation was denied, 
many voting against it lest its ambiguity should create further disputes ; 
of this number was North Carolina.^ 

354. The Medical Committee to George Washington.^ 

Baltimore Feby 13th 1777 
Sir 

The Congress Apprehending that the Small Pox may greatly endanger 
the Lives of our fellow Citizens who compose the army under your 
Excellency's Command, and also very much embarrass the Military Oper- 
ations, have directed their Medical Committee to request your Excellency 
to give orders that all who have not had that Disease may be Inoculated, 
if your Excellency shall be of Opinion that it can be done without preju- 
dice to your Operations.^ 

* See the Journals, Feb. 26. 
[ZSZVN. C. Siate Recs.,X.l. 2^^. 

2 See no. 323, note 2, ante, and especially no. 357. post. 
[354]^ Library of Congress. Letters to Washington, XIII. 244. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 12. 



2 

Some Battalions from Virgfinia are now on their march to Join you, 
and are orclcrctl to take the upi)cr rout, in order to avoid Philadelphia 
where the Infection now prevails. It is submitted to your Excellency 
whether they oug^ht not to stop somewhere in order to undergo Inocula- 
tion. The Committee request your Excellency to g^ive the Necessary 
orders if it be your Opinion that they can be so long; spared from Service. 

We bei? leave to remind you tliat the Southern Troops are greatly 
alarmed at the Small Pox, and that it very often proves fatal to them in 
the Natural way. This Suggestion we doubt not will, with regard to this 
object, draw your particular attention to the Troops who may be ordered 
to Join you from those States We hope Sir this attention may prevent 
the Danger and Inconvenience apprehended by Congress, and we have the 
most perfect reliance on your Excellencys w^ell known Humanity, and 
singular regard to your Troops for carrying their Intention into Effect, 
if it be adviseable. 

I have the Honor to be with the utmost respect (in the name of the 
medical Committee) 

Your Excellency's most obedient Servant 

B : Rush. Chairman 

355. Benjamin Rush, Diary. ^ 

Feby 14, i777- 

Upon the question whether the Congress should recommend to the 
States to adopt the plan for reducing and regulating the price of labor, 
Manufactures, imports, and provisions which had been adopted in the 
four new England States.^ 

It was said in the negative by Mr Jas Smith. That such a recommenda- 
tion would interfere with the domestic police of each State which were 
of too delicate a nature to be touched by the Congress. 

Dr Rush. I am against the whole of the resolution. It is founded in 
the contrary of justice, policy and necessity as has been declared in the 
resolution. The wisdom and power of goverment have been employed in 
all ages to regulate the price of necessaries to no purpose. It was 
attempted in Eng*^. in the reign of Edward II by the English parliament 
but without effect. The laws for limiting the price of every thing were 
repealed, and ]Mr Hume who mentions this fact records even the very 
attempt as a monument of human folly. The congress with all its 
authority have failed in a former instance of regulating the price of goods. 
You have limited Bohea tea to f of a dollar, and yet it is daily sold before 
your eyes for 30/. The Committee of Philadelphialimited the price of West 
India goods about a year ago. But what \vas the consequence? The 
merchents it is true sold their rum, sugar and molasses at the price limited 
by the committee, but they charged a heavy profit upon the barrel, or the 
paper which contained the rum or the sugar. Consider Sir the danger 

[355]! Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS. 
2 See no. 336, ante, also the references in no. 323, note 2, ante. 



February, 7777 251 

of failing in this experiment. The Salvation of this continent depends 
upon the Authority of this congress being held as sacred as the cause of 
liberty itself. Suppose we should fail of producing the effects we wish 
for by the resolution before you. Have we any charecter to spare ? Have 
we committed no mistakes in the management of the public Affairs of 
America? We have Sir. It becomes us therefore to be careful of the 
remains of our Authority and charecter. It is a common thing to cry 
aloud of the rapacity and extortion in every branch of business etc. among 
every class of men. This has led some people to decry the public Virtue 
of this country. True Sir there is not so much of it as we could wish, 
but there is much more than is sometimes allowed on this floor. We 
estimate our Virtue by a false barometer when we measure it by the price 
of goods. The extortion we complain off arises only from the excessive 
quantity of our money. Now Sir a failure in this Attempt to regulate 
the price of goods will encrease the clamors against the rapacity of dealers, 
and thus depreciate our public virtue. Consider Sir the consequence of 
measuring our virtue by this false standard. You will add weight to the 
Arguments used at St James's to explode patriotism altogether, and by 
denying its existence in this country destroy it forever. Persuade a 
Woman that there is no such thing as chastity, and if there is that She 
does not possess it, and She may be easily seduced if She was as chaste as 
Diana. Sir, The price of goods may be compared to a number of light 
substances in a bason of water. The hand may keep them down for a while, 
but nothing can detain them on the bottom of the bason but an Abstrac- 
tion of the Water. The continent labours under a universal malady. 
From the crown of her head to the Soal of her feet She is full of disorders. 
She requires the most powerful tonic medicines. The resolution before 
you is Nothing but an Opiate. It may compose the continent tor a night, 
but She will soon awaken again to a fresh sense of her pain and misery. 

Col: Richd Henry Lee, in the affirmative. Mr President, The learned 
Doctor has mistook the disorder of the continent. She labours under a 
spasm, and Spasms he knows require palliative medicines. I look upon 
the resolution before you only as a temporary remedy. But it is absolutely 
necessary. It is true the regulations formerly recommended by Congress 
were not faithfully carried into execution, but this was owing to the want 
of regular governments. New and regular goverments have been insti- 
tuted in every part of America, and these will enable all classes of people 
to carry the resolutions into execution. 

Mr Saml Chase, in the Affirmative. Mr President This is a necessary 
resolution. It is true it failed formerly in Philadelphia because it abounded 
with tories. But it succeeded in Maryland. It must be done. The mines 
of Peru would not support a war at the present high price of the neces- 
saries of life, your Soldiers cannot live on their pay. It must be raised 
unless we limit the price of the cloathing and other articles necessary for 
them. 

Mr Seargant — Negative. The price of goods cannot be regulated while 
the quantity of our money and the articles of life are allowed to fluctuate. 



252 Cont'mcntal Congress 

This is and must be the case with us, therefore we cannot regulate the 
price of anything. 

Col James IVilson, Negative. Mr President, I differ from the gentle- 
man from Virginia about the possibility of carrying the resolution before 
you into execution. The modern goverments I am sure have not half the 
vigilance or authority that the conventions and committees formerly had, 
and yet these failed in this business. Connecticut where the influence of 
good laws prevail greatly, adopted this plan with diffidence. There are 
certain things Sir which Absolute power cannot do. The whole power 
of the Roman Emperors could not add a single letter to the Alphabet. 
Augustus could not compel old batchclors to marry. He found out his 
error, and wisely repealed his edict least he should bring his Authority 
into contempt. Let us recommend the resolution to the consideration of 
the States only without giving our Opinion on it, that they may discuss 
it with unbiassed minds. Foreign trade is absolutely necessary to enable 
us to carry on the war. This resolution will put an end to it, for it will 
hang as a dead weight upon all the operations of external commerce. 

Dr Witherspoon, negative. Sir, It is a wise maxim to avoid those 
things which our enemies wish us to practise. Now I find that our 
enemies have published the Act of the Asembly of Connecticut for regula- 
ting the price of necessaries in the New York paper in order to shew our 
distress from that Quarter. I believe the regulations would be just, if the 
quantity of money and the scarcity of goods bore an exact proportion to 
each Other. But the price of goods is by no means proportioned to the 
quantity of money in every thing. The encrease of price began ist upon 
the Luxuries 2ly Necessaries, 3rd Manufactories and 4ly grain, and Other 
produce of the earth. Now the reason why it has reached the grain etc 
last, is owing to thier quantity being plentiful and to an overproportion 
of money. Remember laws are not almighty. It is beyond the power of 
despotic princes to regulate the price of goods. Tea and Salt are higher 
in proportion than any Other Articles of trade owing entirely to thier 
price being limited. In Pensylvania salt was limited to 15/ but was sold 
for 60/ per bushel, w^hile at the same time it was sold in Virginia where 
there was no limitation for 10/ a bushel. I fear if we fail in this measure 
we shall weaken the Authority of Congress. We shall do mischief by 
teaching the continent to rest upon it. If we limit one article, we must 
limit every thing, and this is impossible. 

Mr John Adams, Negative. Perhaps I may here speak agst. the sense 
of my constitutents, but I cannot help it, I much doubt the justice, policy 
and necessity of the resolution. Its policy and necessity depend upon its 
practicability, and if it is practicable, I beleive it \\\\\ be unjust. It amounts 
to the same as raising the value of your money to double its present value 
and this experiment was tried in vain even in the absolute goverment of 
France. The high price of many Articles arises from their scarcity. If 
we regulate the price of imports we shall immediately put to \_sic\ stop 
to them for ever. 

Dr Rush. Sir, It has been said that the high price of goods in Philadelphia 
arose from the monoplies, and extortion of the tories. Here I must say 



February, lyyy 253 

the tories are blamed without cause. A similar Spirit of Speculation pre- 
vails among the Whigs in Philadelphia They are disposed to realise thier 
money in lands, or goods, But this is not owing to any timidity or disaf- 
fection among them. They fear the further depreciation of your money 
by future emissions. Stop your emissions of money and you will stop 
Speculation, and fill your treasury from the loan Offices. I beg leave to 
inform Congress that the committee of Philadelphia was supported by the 
country people in thier Attempt to regulate the price of West India goods, 
but were notwithstanding unsuccessful. Now Sir, the country people are 
equally concerned with the merchants in keeping Up the price of every 
thing, and in eluding laws for reducing them. I am not apt to reply to 
words much less to play upon them. The gentleman from Virginia has 
miscalled the malady of the continent. It is not a spasm, but a dropsy. 
I beg leave to prescribe two remedies for it. i Raising the interest of the 
money we borrow to 6 per cent, this like a cold bath will give an immediate 
Spring to our affairs — and 2 taxation. This like tapping, will diminish 
the Quantity of our Money, and give a proper value to what remains. 

The resolution was amended. The plan of the 4 New England States 
w^as referred only to the Other States, to act as they tho't proper.' 

356. Thomas Burke, Abstract of Debates.^ 

Feb. 15th. Yesterday was consumed in desultory debates upon a report 
of a special committee upon the proceedings of the four New England 
Governments above mentioned, and it was recommitted.^ This day it was 
brought in under a form agreeable to what was the sense of the House on 
what was yesterday considered. At first it expressed the opinion of Con- 
gress, that the proceedings were founded in justice, policy and necessity, 
and merited the warmest approbation. The second declared neither appro- 
bation or opinion, except particularly relating to the New England 
Governments, because of their peculiar circumstances, but proposed laying 
it before the other States for their imitation if they thought proper, avoid- 
ing as much as possible any expression that might suggest to the States 
that Congress approved or disapproved. In this form it passed without 
a negative, and it w-as voted that several States should be advised to confer 
with each other on this subject : viz : New York, New Jersey, Pennsyl- 
vania, Maryland and Virginia : North Carolina, South Carolina and 
Georgia. Nothing very remarkable happened in this debate except that 
Virginia insisted on being connected with Maryland, and refused to be 
connected with the Southern States. The delegates present from Virginia 
w^ere Richard Henry Lee, Francis Lightfoot Lee and Man. Page, all 
residing on Rapahanock and Potomack rivers. The Delegate from 
North Carolina represented that great part of the exportation of North 
Carolina was through Virginia, that her market was therefore in that 
State, and that she ought undoubtedly to be consulted in regulating the 

8 The resolve in its final form was passed Feb. 15. Cf. nos. 356, 368, post. 
[356]! iV. C. State Recs., XL 390. 

2 See no. 355, ante; also no. 323, note 2, ante. 



2 

prices since she was so much interested therein that it was unjust and 
ungenerous in \'irj^inia to endeavmir to rci,uilate them without her, and 
evidently shewed she was wilhnj;- to do what wouhl affect the interest of 
North Carolina without her knowledge or consent. Virginia persisted, 
and the vote passed for her conferring with Maryland etc. The question 
was now proposed for the conference of the Southern States; the Dele- 
gates opposed it, alledging that their articles of exportation would be 
always very low, by reason of the danger and difficulty of exporting; 
that none had provisions to spare but North Carolina, and her market for 
them being chiefly to Virginia she was precluded from regulation in that 
article by the regulation made in Virginia, of which as she would have no 
notice she could not accomodate herself thereto, and her Delegate declared 
she had too much vigilance and sagacity to make regulation since it might 
preclude her from taking advantage of circumstances to defend herself 
from the injustice of her neighbor Virginia; that since Virginia chose to 
confer with other States in making regulations which might affect North 
Carolina, and refused to confer with her where her interest was so nearly 
concerned, Virginia was entitled to no attention from North Carolina, 
and she ought to have it in the power of her citizens to avail themselves 
of all advantages which circumstances might throw in their way. The 
question put — all voted for the conference of the Southern States except 
their own Delegates.* R. H, Lee privately told the Delegate from North 
Carolina that he need not be disturbed on this occasion, because Virginia 
could make no regulation but what must affect herself. The Delegate 
replied that it was arrogantly assuming to judge of her affairs, and affect 
them without her consent ; it was taking advantage of her situation to be 
arbiter of the commerce of North Carolina, and it was shewing an entire 
disregard to her interest and circumstances, and having them entirely to 
depend on the decisions of the Northern States, without even being con- 
sulted. The Delegate declared he thought this such an instance of con- 
tempt and disregard in Virginia, that he could not but receive it with 
indignation.* 

Thos. Burke. 

357- William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke)/ 

Baltimore Febry. 15th. 1777. 
Sir 

Before this Time the Loan-Office Certificates sent to our State I hope 
have reached it. I should be glad to be informed as early as possible W'hat 
Sum will probably be collected among Us ; and w^hat the Sentiments of 
the Assembly are on the Interest which Congress have ordered to be given 
for Money borrowed by them. It seems that the Committee of the States 
of New England tho't the Interest of Four pr. Cent sufficient for the 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 15, and no. 368, post. 
* Cf. no. 359, post. 
[357]^ MSS. of the late William D. Ely, Providence, Declaration of Independence, III.; 
Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks AISS., LIX. 145 (copy of part). 



February, j/// 255 

Purpose, and mean't when the States should borrow Money to emit it at 
five pr. Cent., thinking that there was the Difference of One pr. Cent 
between continental and colonial Security. As there may possibly be a 
Question about Increase of Interest hereafter I should be glad to be 
informed how high the Assembly thinks it would be proper for Congress 
to go in Order to answer their Purpose of collecting Continental Dollars 
by Loan-OfTfice Certificates in our States ; for by their Sentiments I mean 
to be governed. At present it stands at Four per Cent, and I hope that an 
Increase of Interest will never become necessary ; for thereby the Public 
Debt would be enhanced. Its continuing at four per Cent, depends greatly 
upon the Encouragement that the Assemblies of the Several States shall 
give to the Loan Office. Our State will I dont doubt pay as they have ever 
done a due Regard to the Resolutions of Congress ; for it is her Interest 
to stand well with the superintending Power of these States.^ Congress 
have taken into Consideration the Doings of the Committee of the New- 
England States, and have approved of the Measures taken for the Defence 
of the State You govern, of the Regulation of the Prices of Articles of 
Produce etc., and have recommended it to the other States in the Union 
to take such Measures for regulating and fixing the Price of Provisions 
etc as they may think expedient ; they approved also of the Embargo ; but 
disapprove of the Emission of Paper Money by the States. This is, as 
well as I can recollect, the Substance of the Resolves, for they past this 
Day and I have not been able to get a Copy of them. They will be pub- 
lished ; but as I know it will give the State great Pleasure to be assured 
that Congress approve of the Measures taken for its Defence, as that 
Approbation involves in it the Idea of pa5ang the Expence thereof, I can- 
not forbear giving you the earliest Intelligence of it.' 

A Question of considerable Importance was started on considering the 
Doings of the Committee. A Resolve was moved for in some such Form 
as this, — Resolved that as the Communication between Congress and the 
New-England States was interrupted, and the State of Rhode-Island v/as 
threatend with an Invasion or actually invaded Congress considering the 
Necessity of their taking Measures for their Defence approve of their 
Meeting etc. The Advocates for the Motion went upon this Principle 
that none of the United States have a Right to meet without the prior or 
subsequent Approbation of Congress; those that took the other Side of 
the Question asserted that any Two or more of the States have a Right 
to meet for the Purpose of consulting upon Matters relative to themselves ; 
and after a long metaphysical Debate which took up Part of three Days 
Congress were equally divided. All the Members agreed that the meeting 
was right considering the Circumstances; but split upon the Question of 
Right hinted at.* 

.... Congress talk of returning to Philadelphia. I hope my next 
will be dated at that City. I shall rejoice when I get near the Scene of 
War, and out of this expensive dirty Town.^ .... 

2 See nos. 340, 344, 345, 349, 352, ante, 375, 382, 384, 385, post. 

3 See no. 323, note 2, ante. Cf. no. 458, post. 
* Cf. no. 353, ante. 

■* See no. 344, note 2, ante. 



25G Continental Congress 

358. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes.' 

Halifax Monday February 15. 1777 
Dear Joseph 

Here I arrived late yesterday after a most fatiguing Journey all the 
way on Horseback from Baltimore hither. An unremitting attendance 
upon congress all day and uj)on committees on Evenings during the 
solitary representation of North Carolina by degrees impaired my accus- 
tomed stock of health and at length brought on a fever which for several 
days bafHed the skill of Doctor Wirzenthall and the power of medicine. 
It had a crisis which proved fortunate, I took the advantage of an Inter- 
mission and resumed my seat in Congress — a Relapse was the Conse- 
quence and I had very nearly measured my length under Ground in that 
worst of all terrestrial places, a situation bad as it is yet preferable to 
being above it long in that wretched place. I have not yet recovered. I 
was broiling in a fever all last night and I can scarce muster strength to 
get on Horseback tho I propose to go on this day.^ 

Burke came to my relief on Saturday the first day of February and 
your express delivered me your packet about two hours before Burke 
appeared. Your Express with the fatigue of his Journey and from other 
causes found himself much indisposed and from this and his apprehension 
of the Small pox was averse to proceeding to Philadelphia. Fortunately, 
the next morning two congress expresses set ofT one for Philadelphia to 
return the next Saturday — the other for Boston to return as soon as might 
be. Your letters for Philad. I gave to the former and wrote R Morris 
,who was there and your Brother to dispatch answers by the return 
Express under Cover to Mr Hancock for you. Your Letter to the Gover- 
nour of Mass'"* went by the Boston express. I gave directions to Mush- 
raw to call upon Mr Hancock on Saturday for any letters which might 
come to him for you and if they were not arrived to wait till they did and 
then proceed immediately to Edenton. I apprized Mr Hancock of this 
measure so that no mistake can occur in the Conduct of it. Your Letter 
to the President etc. were layed before Congress, a Committee at my 
request appointed, and by Mushraw or soon afterwards in a letter by 
Burke you will know the Result.^ .... 

The North Carolina Regiments as well the 6 in So Carolina as the three 
new ones here are ordered to join G Wash°". as soon as it can be effected. 
He is distressed for want of men, has not I fear 7000 and many of those 
are militia, when the Enemy are loooo Strong and are prevented attacking 
him only from want of Cannon 

[P. S.] .... I forgot to tell you that Era® Nash was made a Brig: 
Genl and is to 2:0 to the Northward 



&^ 



[358]^ Furnished by the courtesy of Mr. James H. Manning of Albany. 

^Cf. Hooper to Robert Morris, Feb. i, N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolu- 
tionary Papers, I. 415. 

3 See no. 282, ante, and the Journals, Feb. 4, June 4; see also the journal of the 
North Carolina Provincial Congress, Dec. 21, 23, 1776, in N. C. Col. Recs., X. 980, 996. 
Copies of the North Carolina memorial, etc., are in Mass. Arch., CXCVH. 256-265. 
See also no. 549, post. 



February, jyy/ 257 

359. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina/ 

Baltimore Feb'y. ioth.[i6?] 1777.- 
Sir: 

my last to you was by Mr. Hooper, and I suppose you have received it 
long before this.' I then announced my intention of troubling you every 
post, and I now sit down in order to perform, in some part, my promise. 

Of the political principle [s] of the respective States I am not yet able to 
speak very clearly, for they are kept as much as possible out of view. I 
conjecture, however, that all are under some apprehensions of combina- 
tion in the Eastern States to derive to themselves every possible advantage 
from the present war, at the expense of the rest. I am not yet satisfied 
that there is any combination amongst them. I rather think that they only 
combine when they have one common interest, which is seldom the case, 
and I am sure this is not peculiar to them. On some late questions I 
observed they divided ; one was relative to the interest to be paid on loans, 
another relative to the meeting of several States. In the sequel of this 
letter I mean to give you an abstract of the debates on these questions, 
and therefore shall say no more of them here. But, sir, I am more con- 
cerned to find that Pennsylvania, Alaryland, Jersey and some others are 
exceedingly jealous of the states whose bounds to the westward are yet 
unascertained, and I am much mistaken if they do not upon all occasions 
endeavour to fix very extensive power in a mere majority of Congress in 
order to get resolutions unfavorable to the claims of such states entered 
into. To be more explicit, I believe they will endeavour by degrees to 
make the authority of Congress very extensive, and when it shall be fully 
established and acknowledged, to make such a party in it as will pass 
resolves injurious to the rights of those states who claim to the South Seas. 
You will see by some matters in the abstract of debate which I shall sub- 
join that this conjecture is not quite void of foundation.* I am clearly 
of opinion at all events that those states who, like ours, have such claims 
should be explicit in declaring they will give no power to their Delegates 
to bind them in any thing that regards their Bounds. I am not yet able 
to be particular with respect to the measures intended to be pursued. We 
are endeavouring to forward, by every expedient, the recruiting service, 
and also the putting our Frigates to sea. Our greatest difficulty is in 
supplying the Treasury. This requires the nicest management. If we 
go on emitting money the quantity in circulation so enhances the prices 
of things that we shall only make money without being able to get for 
it more commodities, and it will, of course, destroy its own purpose. The 
Loan Office is at length considered as little better than new emissions, and 
a Tax seems the only adequate expedient. There is a plan under consider- 

[359]^ A^ C. State Recs., XI. 376. 

2 This leUer was probably written Feb. 16 (Sunday) and finished on the 17th. 
There are several references to matters occurring Feb. 14, 15, and at the close of the letter 
is mentioned the resolution of the 17th for adjournment to Philadelphia. 

3 The letter of Feb. 4 and 5, no. 337, ante. 

* See the abstracts of debates concerning the New England conference, Feb. 12, iS, 
nos. 353, 356, ante. Cf. no. 465, post. In regard to the attitude of Maryland and other 
states toward the claims " to the South Seas ", see no. 68, note 2, ante. 



2 

ation for this purpose; when it shall be deteriiiined I will be more explicit.* 
You will receive from the President a copy of some transactions in the 
New Eng^Iand Governments together with the Resolutions of Congress 
relative thereto. You will perceive that the intention of sending them 
to the difTerent states is to suggest to them to fall on methods something 
similar if they see it proper and necessary. Tho' no States are more in 
need of such regulations than where the armies march through, yet they 
opposed it, under the pretence that regulating prices would be imprac- 
ticable; but a majority of Congress were of opinion that it might be 
rendered so far effectual as to prevent engrossers and forestallers, and 
speculators, who purchased in hopes of a rising price, and thereby rendered 
necessary articles very scarce and difificult to be obtained. For my 
thoughts on the subject, I will refer you to the abstract of debates, that 
is so far as regards our own State. I indeed have no great opinion of an 
attempt to regulate prices in a country where the holders are under no 
necessity of selling; but knowing our own State was not much interested 
in this business I voted for it. in order to damp the practice of speculative 
monopoly which prevails in all the Northern States. You will see in the 
abstract my reasons for not approving it in ours.* I really feel myself 
much displeased at the disregard Virginia showed to our interest in the 
matter, and I believe, were I a member of your Assembly I should move 
that she might be desired to avow or disavow the conduct of her Delegates 
in Congress. But this I need not urge to you who are so good a judge of 
her interest, so jealous of her honour, and so careful to maintain her 
rights." 

We have just received some very agreeable intelligence from the army, 
but I expect it will be in the paper before I can close this letter. If not I 
will procure abstracts and enclose them to you. There are some Tory 
disturbances on the Eastern shore of this State, and the Civil Power do 
not seem to proceed with sufficient vigour against them. There [were] 
some Troops however sent against them, and I suppose my next will 
contain something final relative to them. I take abstracts of all the impor- 
tant debates in Congress, principally with a view of transmitting to you. 
I think i-t right that my country should know how I give her voice, and 
upon what principles I determined for her. If I am right her approbation 
will not only determine me, but others also, to proceed with firmness. 
If I am mistaken she, only, can correct me, and by correcting me inform 
others more fully of their duty. I doubt not the candor of my country- 
men, they will believe I act for them to the best of my judgment, and 
when that judgment errs I am desirous it should be better instructed by 
them, or if they find it defective, and unfit for their service, 'tis surely 
right they should have an opportunity of substituting a better in so impor- 
tant a trust. The intelligence above mentioned is in the paper; it is that 

^ See the Journals, Feb. 20, 22, 26 ; cf. nos. 345, 346, ante, 382, 384, post. 

* See no. 356, ante. 

7 See his statement concerning Richard Henry Lee in the abstracts of Feb. 15, 
no. 356, ante. Burke's idea of Congress as a body of diplomatic representatives of 
sovereign states was pronounced though not by any means singular. Cf. his opinions 
(undated), in .V. C. State Recs.. XI. 701. 



February, z/// 259 

under the Philadelphia head, February the 15th, but I am sorry to tell 
you it is contradicted by later accounts.* We have received authentic 
intelligence from London that Chesapeake Bay is next campaign to be 
the seat of v^ar, and the enemy mean to land first on the Eastern Shore.' 
The Tories in Somerset and Worcester are broken, and the persons who 
chiefly excited them are taken prisoners. The Congress have resolved to 
adjourn on Tuesday from this town to Philadelphia, to sit there on the 
Tuesday following.^" 

I have the honour to be your Excellency's most obe'd. serv't. 

Thos. Burke. 
His Excellency Gov. Caswell. 

360. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Baltimore, Feb. 16, 1777 
My dear Sir, 

.... General Howe has declared that he intends that General Lee 
shall be tried by the Laws of his Country. So he is considered as a 
deserter from the British Army. You know the Resolution of Congress 
concerning this Matter. It is my Opinion that Lt. Colo. Campbel ought 
immediately to be secured. He is to be detained as one upon whom Retal- 
liation is to be made.^ .... Congress is now busy in considering on the 
Report of the joynt Committees of the Eastern States. A curious Debate 
arose on this Subject, which I have not time now to mention. I will 
explain it to you in my next.* 

360A. Robert Morris to William Bingham.^ 

Philadelphia Feby. i6th. 1777. 
William Bingham Esqr. 

Dear Sir 

.... I must also request you to spare me all you can in the Introduc- 
tion of French Officers to me. I do not speak their Language and being 
so exceedingly employed as I am the time they take from me in Visits and 
applications can very ill be spared and is really very troublesome to me 
coud I speak the Language and had spare time it woud be a pleasure but 

8 The newspaper referred to was probably the Maryland Gazette, of which no 
copy of a date approximating Feb. 16 has been found. In a letter to James Warren, 
Feb. 17 {Warren-Adams Letters, I. 293), John Adams speaks of a rumor of an engage- 
ment in which the enemy left 327 dead on the field. This was probably based on a 
letter from the committee in Philadelphia, Feb. 13, read in Congress Feb. 17. The 
committee gives an account of the affair at Quibbletown, New Jersey, as related by 
Major Ottendorff, concluding: "This is the Substance of what Genl Gates could collect 
from the Major's bad French-Dutch-English Lingo." (Papers Cont. Cons no i^7 
App., f. 155.) Cf. no. 369, post. ^" ■ ■"" 

^ See the Journals, Feb. 17. 

10 See the Journals, Feb. 17, 25, 27 (pp. 164, 168). Cf. no. 344, note 2, ante, nos 
362, 363, 368, 377, 378, 382-384, 387-389, 392, 393, post. 

[360]! Warren-Adams Letters, I. 291; Writings (ed. Gushing), III. 360. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 6, and nos. 290, 291, 297-299, ante, 160, 366, 367, 371, post 

3 See no. 323, note 2, ante. The discussion had closed on Saturday, the day 
preceding the date of this letter. 

[36oa]^ Library of Gongress, Morris Papers, Accession 2233. 



2G0 Continental Congress 

it is now too much the reverse. I know very well you cannot avoid it 
somotinies and I shall always j)ay attention to them when you do reconi- 
nienti, hitherto 1 have j:jot all of them Apix^intments but really they are 
flocking over in such Numbers from every Port and by every Ship that 
I don't know what we shall do with them (all this in Confidence) and 
when you recommend any of them to the Secret Committee of Corre- 
spondence dont put those letters under my Cover but give them directed to 
the Committee or else they fasten on me at once in this way each Member 
will have his Chance for the Trouble.' .... 

361. John Adams to James Warren.* 

Baltimore, Feb. 17, 1777 
My dear Sir, 

I have the melancholly Prospect before me of a Congress continually 
changing, untill very few Faces remain, that I saw in the first Congress. 
Not one from South Carolina, not one from North Carolina, only one 
from Virginia, only two from Maryland, not one from Pennsylvania, Not 
one from New Jersey, not one from New York, only one from Connecti- 
cutt, not one from Rhode Island, not one from New Hampshire, only one, 
at present, from the Massachusetts. Mr. S. Adams, Mr. Sherman, and 
Coll. Richard Henry Lee, Mr. Chase and Mr. Paca, are all that remain. 
The rest are dead, resigned, deserted or cutt up into Governors, etc. at 
home." .... 

Congress have this day voted to return to Philadelphia tomorrow 
Week 



362. John Hancock to Robert Morris.* 

Baltimore Febry 18, 1777 
My Dear Sir 

Yesterday I rec'd Directions from Congress, to Adjourn on Tuesday 
next, 25th inst, from the Town of Baltimore to the City of Philadelphia^ 
this I dare Say will afford you pleasure, and I am to Request that immedi- 
ately on Receipt of this you will please to issue orders to Mr. Hiltsheimer 
for four good cover'd Waggons, with four good Horses and a Sober 
Driver to each, to be Sent to me, with all possible Dispatch to Convey 
Down to Philadelphiathe Public Papers etc. do let them be well Chosen and 
I beg your immediate attention to this.^ .... I Judge I shall be in 
Philadelphiaby Saturday week. God bless you 

- See no. 136, ante; also the Journals, Mar. 13, 14, 19, and nos. 407, 410, 418, post. 
[361] 1 Warren-Adams Letters, I. 293. 

- There is further comment on the new state governments and new delegations. 
[362]! Copied from the original then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 9. 

2 In a letter written later tlie same day Hancock says : " Pray do hurry on the 
waggons I wrote you for this mors. I cannot move without them, nor can Thompson — 
four will be enough — do let them be good and well Cover'd, with good horses and 
drivers." N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 419; copy, from the 
original, in possession of the Carnegie Institution of Washington. The removal to 
Philadelphia was a few days later suspended. See the Journals, Feb. 25, and nos. 277, 
382-384, post. Cf. nos. 344, note 2, 359, note 10, ante. 



February, z/// 2G1 

363. Francis Lewis to the President of the New York 
Convention (Abraham Ten Broeck).^ 

Baltimore 18 Febry. 1777 
Dear Sir 

I have repeatedly wrote pressing letters backed by resolves of Congress 
for a full representation of our State.' but have as yet not been honoured 
with an answer. Permit me still to remind you that in my opinion our 
State may suffer for the want thereof, for Instance, the General has 
recommended to Congress the promotion of three Majors Generals from 
Brigadiers, and Ten Brigadiers from Colonels, and has given in a list of 
some persons as a hint to Congress ; the mode and persons has occasion'd 
many days debate, and is this day to be brought on again, and notwith- 
standing many declarations to the contrary, Colonial prejudices sway the 
minds of individuals, that each state appear interested in the debates, for 
promotion in the line of their respective State [s]^ from this Sir you may 
judge how the State of New York is circumstanced, having no vote in this, 
and many other weighty points, and which I hope the Honble Convention 
will speedily rectify 

I am also to informe you that Congress have appointed the 25th. Instant 
for the day on which they will adjourn to the City of Philadelphia,* so that 
the Delegates you shall send to Congress may meet them there. 

364. Thomas Burke, Abstract of Debates.^ 

Feb. 1 2th to 19th 1777. 

Several days of this week were consumed in debates on the appointment 
of General Officers.^ The debates were perplexed, inconclusive and irk- 
some. The Delegates of several States were desirous of fixing a rule of 
promotion, and several were offered and rejected. Maryland, Virginia, 
and North Carolina desired that each State should recommend officers in 
proportion to the men they furnish : three Battalions, one Brigadier, nine 
[battalions], one Major General. This was rejected. It was then pro- 
posed to promote General Officers as they stood in rank, and rejected. To 
all the rules a saving was added, that the Congress might deviate 
from any, in favour of merit eminently distinguished and generally 
acknowledged. 

North Carolina argued that some rule should be observed, and entered 
on the Journals. That the Congress would be an object of very jealous 

[363] IN. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, VIII. 367; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., 
II. 358. 

2 See nos. 268, 292, 329, 330, ante ; also no. 402, post. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 7, 18-21, and nos. 364, 365, 372, 376, 392, 419, 599, post. 
Cf. no. 327, ante. 

* See nos. 359, 362, ante. " Congress are about return to Philadelphia. I believe 
they will adjourn thither next week." Whipple to Langdon, Feb. 18, Force Transcripts, 
Whipple, p. 285. The resolve had already passed the preceding day. The date given to 
Whipple's letter may however be an error. 
[364V N. C. State Recs., XI. 380. 

2 See no. 363, note 3, ante; also Gouverneur Morris to Washington, May 27, 1778, 
in the next volume of these Letters. 



2 

api)rchcnsion, unchecked and unlimited as it is, if the officers of the army 
hekl their honor at the precarious pleasure of a majority. Officers hold 
their honor the most dear of anything. Setting them aside when they 
were entitled to promotion would wound that honor very sorely. Their 
attention would therefore he entirely to that authority which had so much 
power to wound it, or to cherish it. This policy was always ohserved by 
monarchs, and the end was to keep the army dependent on them : but 
such policy was unbecoming^ in Congress, who ought to give no room for 
jealousy. The rule of succession is most familiar to officers, and there- 
fore most agreeable to them ; but the proportion would give greatest 
satisfaction to the States, and the satisfying them was of greatest impor- 
tance and ought to be adopted. 

At length it was proposed to resolve, that regard be had to the rank, to 
the quota, and to merit. It was agreed to, but no notice was taken of it 
in the nomination or appointments. N, Carolina did not vote for Major 
Generals ; because the delegate found, no rule was observed, and he knew 
nothing of the merit of any officers in nomination, and did not choose to 
give a vote in Congress, for which he could give no reason. 

365. Benjamin Rush, Diary.^ 

Feby 19 1777 

Upon the question for referring the appointment of three major gen- 
erals to the general officers of the army ^ it was said in the negative 

Dr Rush 

I have heard the congress more than once called a republic. I love to 
realize the idea, and I hope it will inspire us with the virtuous principles 
of republican goverments. One of the most powerful and happy com- 
monwealths in the world Rome called her general officers from the plough 
and paid no regard to rank, service or seniority. We have of late been 
successful it is true, but I despair of our country being saved 'till the 
instrumentality of military wisdom and virtue are employed for that 
purpose, and these can never be had 'till we use a soverign power in calling 
them forth where ever we find them. It is to no purpose to talk of the 
practice of despotic princes. They promote acording to seniority it is 
true, but they possess an absolute power of recalling, disgracing, or break- 
ing their general Officers as soon as they make them, and we find they 
are fond of exerc[is]ing this pow^r upon the least neglect, inattention, or 
want of Success. The case is different with us. A general may loose a 
battle or a province, and we possess no power to recall or to displace him. 
If the motion is passed I shall move immediately afterwards that all the 
civil power of the continent may be transferred from our hands into the 
hands of the army, and that they may be proclaimed the highest power 
of the people. 

[365]^ Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS. 
2 See no. 363, note 3, ante. 



February, 1777 263 

Dr Wetherspoon. 

Mr President, I am against the motion. It will produce faction, and 
disputes among your generals. I once left the honors of the college over 
which I preside to the choice of the senior class, But it produced so much 
confusion and ill blood, that I was obliged to resume that power again, 
and have since excercised to the satisfaction of my pupils as well as my 
own. 

Col Richd Henry Lee. 

I wish the learned Doctor would distinguish between the practice of 
children and men. Our generals would certainly make a judicious choice, 
and would not be governed by the principles which actuate boys at schools. 

Mr. John Adams. 

Mr President, I differ from the gentleman who spoke last. There are 
certain principles which follow us thro' life, and none more certainly than 
the love of the Urst place. We see it in the forms on which Children sit 
at Schools. It prevails equally to the last period of life. I am sorry to 
find it prevails so little in this Assembly. I have been distressed to see 
some members of this house disposed to idolise an image which thier 
own hands have molten. I speak here of the superstitious veneration that 
is sometimes paid to Genl Washington. Altho' I honour him for his good 
qualities, yet in this house I feel myself his Superior. In private life I 
shall always acknowledge that he is mine.' It becomes us to attend early 
to the restraining our army. This we shall find the next difficult thing to 
prevent : the depreciation of our money. I have no fears from the resig- 
nation of Officers if junior Officers are preferred to them. If they have 
virtue they will continue with us. If not, thier resignation will not 
hurt us.* 

366. Benjamin Rush, Diary.^ 

[February 20, 1777.] 

Congress received a letter Feby 20th 1777 from Genl Lee a prisoner in 
New York (written by permission of Lord and general Howe) requesting 
a conference with two or three members of congress upon matters of the 
last importance to himself, and his opinion to Ameri[c]a. upon which it 
was said by 

Dr Rush. 

Mr President, In considering of the propriety of this request it becomes 
us I to attend to the present situation of the Court of Britain, 2ly to the 
conduct and charecters of Lord and general Howe, and 3 to the conduct, 
and charrecter of general Lee. i The court of Britain is alarmed with 
the fear of a french war. They wish to terminate the present war in 
america by a negociation as well as by the sword. They have no terms to 

3 Adams's remarks to this point are quoted by Rush in his Memorial, p. 104. 
* Cf. no. 372. post. 
[366] 1 Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS. 
22 



2 

offer us. They mean only to deceive and divide us. 2 Lord and genl 
Howe were chosen as fit instruments for seducing and deceivinj.,' the col- 
onies. Tlicy have practi.sed many Arts for that purpose. Witness the 
conference they extorted from the conj^^ress thro' Genl Sullivan last 
summer. They have been told by the reinforcement of tories that lately 
joined them its effect upon the people of America, and they expect thro' a 
better instrument (Genl Lee) to produce greater and worse effects by a 
conference with the members of congress set on foot at their request by 
the general. 3 General Lee with all his great qualities possesses the 
weakness of being easily imposed upon. His charecters of men are dic- 
tated by caprice or passion. I have seldom known him give a true 
charecter of any man. He is fond of negociations and conferences. He 
tried to bring about an interview with Genl Burgoyne at Cambridge for 
that purpose. He urged a second interview with Lord Howe last summer. 
I beleive Genl Lee to be honest and sincerely attached to our cause, but 
some people suppose he threw himself in the way of being taken prisoner. 
Considering all these things I maintain that a compliance with the general 
request would be impolitic, and highly dangerous to the union and safety 
of the united States. 

Mr. Jno Adams. 

Mr President, I am against the proposed conference. It will do mis- 
chief. The last conference wnth Lord Howe did no good. The Whigs 
were alarmed with it, and the tories complained that the reason why it 
did not end in a negociation was because improper men were sent, and 
because the congress did not relax eno' from its dignity. I admire Genl 
Lee for his military talents, but he possesses an unbounded Share of 
Vanity. This Vanity led him to correspond with Genl Burgoyne, and 
induced him to propose himself as one of a committee to confer with Lord 
Howe. His Lordship has no terms to offer us. The kings Speech is 
decisive against us. It lets loose all the dogs of war and corruption upon 
us, But it carries a remedy to its terrors along with it. it holds out the 
probability of a war w'th. France. 

Mr Chase. 

I am against the conference, but I move for the publication of Genl 
Lee's letter to the congress in order to satisfy our constituents who have 
heard that it contains propositions of peace. 

Mr. Mid die ton. 

I am against the conference for the reasons that have been given. 
Lord Howe has made use of Genl. Lee as a decoy duck to take in the 
colonies. I am against the publication of the General ['s] letter to the 
congress. Unless you publish with it his letter to Genl Washington in 
which he requests the company of his Aiddecamp and his dogs. 

Col Harrison. 

I suspect Lord and General Howe have offered Genl Lee his life on 
condition of his bringing About this conference which is designed to 



February, lyyy 2G 



o 



betray us into a negociation. It will suspend our military Operations, 
and injure us in the court of France where our commissioners are now 
soliciting an Alliance for us. The last conference wth Lord Howe had 
this effect.^ Let us suppose that he means only to confer with us about 
his private affairs, and let us pass a resolution declaring our determination 
to support him and our willingness to hear and transact any thing that 
related to his safety or interest. 

This resolution was unanimously agreed to.^ 

367. Thomas Burke, Abstract of Debates.^ 

Feh'y. 20th A Committee on a letter from General Howe to General 
Washington reported,^ that five Hessian Field Officers, and a Col. Camp- 
bell ^ should be confined in order for retaliation, and that they should have 
copies of the resolutions and letters relative to this matter, in order to 
manifest the reluctance of Congress to this severity; which became 
necessary, being the only means whereby they could teach their enemies 
to regard the Law of Nations and the rights of humanity. Some severe 
epithets were prefixed to enemies in the report, and they were objected to 
as unbecoming the dignity of Congress. A debate ensued in which some 
Gentlemen pointed out the impropriety of a bold figurative style in public 
Instruments, and the beauty and propriety of simplicity. R. H. Lee, of 
Virginia (as usual) insisted strongly on retaining the epithets, because 
they expressed only what our enemies really are, and urged that the best 
writers always used such terms on the like occassions. The Delegate from 
North Carolina observed that simplicity of style was true beauty, and 
dignity, in the language of public bodies. Embellishments of splendid 
epithets and figures, if proper at all, w^ere only for rhetoricians and such 
as write for amusement, that he could wish our Energy might appear in 
our Actions, and that our Language might be simple and unadorned, he 
said he admired the Peasants of Switzerland who in their Struggles for 

2 See, for instance, Deane to the committee of secret correspondence, Nov. 28, 
1776, Wharton, Rez: Dipt. Corr., II. 196. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 20, 21, and nos. 367, 371, 375, 376, 386, 390, 395, 403, 404, 
407, 428, post, also nos. 290, 291, 297-299, ante. Lee's letter to Washington, Feb. 9, and 
that to the President of Congress, Feb. 10, are in New York Hist. See, Collections: 
Lee Papers, II. 357, 358; the latter is also found in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
I. 350 n. ; Washington's Writings (ed. Ford), V. 239 n., (ed. Sparks), IV. 324 n. For an 
extensive study of the whole episode, see G. H. Moore, The Treason of Charles Lee, 
reprinted in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, IV. 335-427. 

[367]iN. Y. Pub. Library, Emmet Collection, no. 1162; N. C. State Recs., XI. 380. 
The Emmet copy begins with the words " for amusement ", near the middle of this 
abstract for Feb. 20. Up to that point the text is that of A'^. C. State Recs., thereafter 
it follows the Emmet copy. See no. 343, note i, ante. 

2 Howe's letter was enclosed in a letter of Washington, Feb. 5. See the 
Journals, Feb. 14, 15, 20; cf. ibid., Jan. 2, 6, and no. 291, ante. See also no. 366, 
note 3, ante. 

3 Lt.-Col. Archibald Campbell. See the Journals, Jan. 6, Feb. 29, Mar. 14, June 2, 
6, July 22, Aug. 7, 19; also nos. 291, 297, 299, 360, ante; see also Washington to the 
Massachusetts council, Feb. 28, to Lieutenant-Colonel Campbell, Mar. i, to the President 
of Congress, Mar. i, 6, in Writings (ed. Ford), V. 254, 257, 257 n., 274, (ed. Sparks), 
IV. 330, 333, 334, 349. A letter from Campbell to General Howe, Feb. i, setting forth his 
situation, is in the Remembrancer, V. 138. Cf. nos. 403, 407, post. 



2G6 Continental Congress 

Freedom were as remarkable for Modesty in their Languap^e, as for Vigor 
in their Exertions, that he wished the Congress would Imitate them in 
both, on the Question the Exceptionable passage was exi)unged. the 
Debate now turned on the Question whether the Law of Nations was 
proper to be mentioned. Some Gentlemen Argued that it was improper 
to apply it to the proceedings against General Lee because they proposed 
trying him by the Laws of liis own Country, but others Insisted that they 
had no power to try him more than any other Prisoner by those Laws, 
many Distinctions were attempted which I did not understand, at length 
the North Carolina Delegate declared he thought all Laws were to be 
laid aside but what both Parties were subject to in Common, these were 
only the Laws of Nature and Nations, the Municipal Laws of all Coun- 
tries at War were silent with respect to the mere Transaction that relates 
to. or were the Consequence of War. That it was the proper Policy of 
Britain still to regard the Americans as subjects and to Insist on the 
Execution of the Municipal Laws, but it was the proper policy of America 
to maintai[n] that the American States stand in no other reIat[ion] 
[to] Britain than as an Independant Empire * at War with her, and there- 
fore that the Law of Nations alone ought to be observed betvveen them, 
that retalliation is the only Instrument whereby Nations can Compell the 
observance of that Law. and America ought therefore firmly to retalliate 
when the Law of Nations was Violated, the Question was carried in 
favor of the Insertion of the Law of Nations. 



368. The President of Congress to the Maryland Assembly.^ 

Baltimore Feby 20th. 1777. 
Gentlemen, 

In Consequence of the Proceedings of the several Committees from the 
States of Massachusetts Bay Connecticut, New Hampshire and Rhode 
Island being laid before Congress, they have come to the enclosed Resolves, 
which I am commanded to transmit to you. together with those Parts of 
the Minutes that relate to the Price of Labour and other articles. 

Altho Congress approve the Measures adopted by the Body to prevent 
the Depreciation of their Currency, (except striking Bills to bear Interest) 
yet they have referred to the Consideration of the other States the Pro- 
priety of regulating the Prices of Goods, and at the same Time recommend 
to them to devise such Expedients as they may think will be most likely 
to remedy the Evils occasioned by the exorbitant Prices of Manufactures 
and all other Articles of Trade. I am therefore to request you will 
appoint Commissioners to meet at York Town in Pennsylvania on the 
third Monday in March next then and there to confer with other Com- 

* The word " State " first written was erased and " empire " substituted. 

[368]! Md. Hist. Soc. Red Book, VI. 24; id. to Massachusetts, Mass. Arch., CXCVI. 

246, Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 145; id. to New York, N. Y. State 

Lib., Revolutionary Papers, IX. 2, and Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., II. 301 ; id. to New 

Jersey, Votes of Assent, of N. J., 1776-1781, p. 84; to North Carolina, N. C. State Recs.. 

XI. 394. 



February, 7777 267 

missioners from the States of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, 
Delaware, and Virginia,^ on the Subject of adopting such a System of 
Regulation as may be most suitable to those States. I beg Leave to 
request your Attention to the whole of the enclosed Resolves and have 
the Honour to be, 

Gentlemen, 

Your most obed. and very hble. Serv. 

John Hancock, Presidt.' 

Honble Assembly of the State of Maryland. 

369, Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety.^ 

Baltimore Town Febry 20th. 1777. 
Gentlemen. 

I am sorry to inform you that the Report of the Engagement on Fryday 
Week is without any other Foundation than a little Skirmish, which the 
General barely mentions in his Letter to our Committee in Philadelphia.^ 

Congress are anxiously expecting a Reinforcement to our brave and 
worthy General from the new Levies, above Six weeks ago Congress 
directed General Smallwood to take a tour thro the State, and exert his 
Influence in raising our Quota, and they called on all our public Bodies, 
and every Friend to America, to yield him their Assistance.^ I mention 
this because Congress flattered themselves with great Success from this 
Measure and it is said it has been neglected. 

A little attention to our public Affairs, and the State of our Army will 
convince any Man that the most vigorous Exertions are necessary and 
must be adopted to procure our Quota. I shall not enlarge on this impor- 
tant subject. I beg leave to call your immediate attention to it, and if a 
Moment's delay can be granted, be pleased to consider the following 
Extract of a letter from Genl. Washington to his friend Colo. Harrison, 
of 12 Instant. " with great Truth I can add, that Heaven alone knows 
upon what principle they (the enemy) act, or by what means, they are 
kept quiet. That we are not able to make the least stand, if they move, 
is as clear as the Sun in its Meridian Brightness. Whilst you are at an 
expence equal to the maintenance of a large army and expect that we are 
very strong, we have scarce men enough to mount the Common Guard " 

2 The letter to North Carolina reads : "' to meet at Charlestown in South 
Carolina, on the first Monday in May next then and there to confer with other Com- 
missioners from the States of South CaroHna and Georgia ". A variant form was sent to 
the New England States. See nos. 323, 326, 334, 336, 340, 347, 353, 355, 356, 357, 359, 
360, ante, 370, post. 

3 To the Massachusetts copy of the circular letter is appended the following 
note : 

" Your f avr. of 30th Jany and i Feby have been Just Rec'd. 

" I have Rec'd Directions from Congress on Tuesday next to Adjourn Congress to 
Philadelphia and shall set off for that Place on Wednesday morn&." See nos. 377, 378, 383, 
post. 

[369] iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 88; Arch, of Md., XVI. 147. 
2 See no. 359, note 8, ante. 
s See the Journals, Dec. 21, 31, 1776. 



2G8 Continental Congress 

I thouglit this Iiilcllij^ence necessary for your Information, but the 
Conitnunication of it to our General Assembly must be made with every 
Caution of Secrecy. The knowledp^e of it may brinj^ Destruction on our 
Country. 

I wish it was in my power to advise in the jircsent Crisis. The Mode 
in the Resolve of Congress to Genl Smalhvood may be of some Service. 
The Gentlemen of this County have not as yet assisted, by public meetings 
and associations, to carry any public Measures into Execution. I beg 
leave to submit the enclosed proposal to your Consideration, if adopted 
it ought to be late in tlie Session, and after all other Exertions have been 
made. I am, Gent, with Regard and Respect, 

Your Obedient Servant, 

Saml. Chase. 

370. John Adams to Joseph Palmer.^ 

Baltimore Feb. 20, 1777 
Dr Sir 

.... Congress have been upon the subject of regulating the Prices 
of Labour and Provisions. I shall inclose you, what they have done. 

Are not these mere temporary Expedients, and palliation Remedies. 
We must aim at a radical Cure. The success of our Camp appears to me 
to depend intirely, (under God,) on our Supporting the Credit of our 
Currency. This must be done at all Events but cannot be done long by 
regulating Prices. We must cease emitting. We must borrow, and We 
must import if possible a Fund of Gold and Silver to redeem the Bills as 
they become payable." .... 

371. Thomas Burke, Abstract of Debates.^ 

Feby 21 A Letter from General Lee requesting a Committee of Con- 
gress to be sent to New York to whom he might, with Permission of Lord 
and General How, impart something of great Consequence to himself and 
of no less, in his opinion to the public, his letter was in very pressing 
Terms. It was the General Sense of Congress that no Conference ought 
to be held with any but Embassadors properly authorised by the Court 
of Britain to treat of Peace That Lord and General How could have no 
Powers on such a subject by Virtue of their Commissions which was par- 
ticularly Limitted by Parliament to other Purposes. That any Conference 
with them would be Impolitic and degrading, degrading because beneath 
the Dignity of Congress to Tr[e]at with persons whose very Powers sup- 
posed them objects of their Dominion,^ and even of their Mercy. Impol- 

[370] J^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Distinguished Americans, p. 554. Addressed to 
" The Hon. Joseph Palmer Esqr. Braintree Massa. Bay ". 
2 See no. 323, note 2, ante. 
[371]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1162; N. C. State Recs., XL 382; Harvard 
Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 36, p. 458 (copy). 

2 In the A''. C. State Records the reading is : " degrading, because their powers 
supposed Congress objects of their dominion". 



February, lyy/ 269 

itic because it would give an Opportunity of circulating Stories ' in the 
Courts of Europe that the Congress were on Treaty of reconciHation with. 
Britain and by this means suspend for sometime their Intention of 
befriending us. but it was also agreed that the C[ong]ress ought to give 
every possible attention to Genera [1] Lee's personal Safety, the Difficulty 
was in the mode, Some being of opinion it ought to be by permitting any 
person he pleased to go and Confer with him on any matter relative to 
his private Business, others that it ought to be by ordering the General 
to send an Officer for that purpose.* at length the Congress came to a 
resolution to Direct General Washington to Inform General Lee of the 
Measures they were taking for his safety, and to request him to inform 
them of any thing which they could farther do, but that they could not 
think it Consistant with the Dignity of Congress to send a Committee to 
Treat with him on any public Business.* 

372. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Baltimore, 21 February, 1777. 

.... We have made General Lincoln a continental Major General. 
We shall make Colonel Glover a Brigadier. I sincerely wish we could 
hear more from General Heath. Many persons are extremely dissatisfied 
with numbers of the general officers of the highest rank. I don't mean the 
Commander-in-chief, his character is justly very high, but Schuyler, 
Putnam, Spencer, Heath, are thought by very few to be capable of the 
great commands they hold. We hear of none of their heroic deeds of 
arms. I wish they would all resign. For my part I will vote upon the 
genuine principles of a republic for a new election of general officers annu- 
ally, and every man shall have my consent to be left out, who does not 
give sufficient proof of his qualifications.^ .... 

373. The Board of War to George Washington.^ 

War Office Feby 21st 1777 
Sir 

I am directed by the Board of War to inform you that it is the Opinion 
of Congress that the Men of the Corps of Virginia Light Horse under the 
Command of Major Bland ^ receive the usual Bounty on their reinlisting 
for three Years or during: the War into the Continental Service.' .... 



'& 



3 The text in A''. C. State Records is : " impolitic, because it would give opportunity 
for representing". 

* " The Difficulty .... purpose " is not in N. C. State Records, and there is a 
variation in the beginning of the next sentence. 

^ See no. 366, note 3, ante ; also a letter of Tench Tilghman to Robert Morris, 
Mar. 2, in N. Y. Hist. Soc. Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I, 422, 
[372]^ Famt/iar Letters, p. 248. 

2 See no. 363, note 3, ante. 
[373]^ Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIV. 203. 

2 Theodorick Bland. 

' Cf. the Journals, Jan. 14. 



2 

374. John Adams, Diary.* 

[February 21, 1777.] 

21. Friday This niorning, received a long card from Mr. H. 

expressing great resentment about fixing the magazine at Brookfield, 
against the bookbinder and the General.^ The complaisance to me, and 
the jealousy for the Massachusetts, in this message, indicate to me the 
same passion and the same design with the journey to Boston in April.* 

375. Benjamin Rush to Robert Morris.* 

Baltimore Feby. 22. 1777 
Dear Sir 

The question for raising the interest of our loan office tickets to 6 per 
cent, was attempted again the day before yesterday in Congress but was 
lost as formerly by a division of the States. Every post and express that 
arrives brings us complaints of the want of money, and asurances of the 
impossibility of getting it as the low interest of 4 per cent. These com- 
plaints are echoed daily from every corner of the room but to no purpose. 
The States that oppose the raising of the interest are Rhode Island, Con- 
necticut, North and South Carolinas, and Georgia. Maryland is divided. 
It is worthy of notice here that only seven members of the congress who 
represent five of the above States decided the above question, contrary to 
the inclinations of not less than 17 members who represented the States 
that voted for raising the interest, and who represent at least jrds of 
the people of America.* This unjust mode of representation I hope will 
be altered in the confederation. If it is not it will end sooner or later in 
the ruin of the Continent. We shall attempt the important question once 
more before we adjourn to Philadelphia If we fail we are undone. Another 
emission of money will in my opinion be a public fraud which no State- 
necessity can justify. The loss of two or three provinces would not hurt 
our cause half so much as the news of our bankruptcy. 

The Congress have concluded unanimously not to send a deputation 
of their body to General Lee. The present distracted situation of the 
Court of Britain, the characters and conduct of Lord and General Howe, 
and the disposition which Genl. Lee always shew^ed for negociations, and 

[ZlAY^orks. II. 436. 

2 See nos. 290, 3(X). 321, ante, the Journals, Feb. 20, and no. 435, post. The "book- 
binder " was Gen. Henry Knox. 

3 In his Diarj', for Feb. 17, .^dams wrote: "Mr. Hancock told C. W. [Colonel 
Whipple?], yesterday, that he had determined to go to Boston in April. Mrs. Hancock 
was not willing to go till May, but Mr. Hancock was determined upon April. Perhaps 
the choice of a governor may come on in May. What aspiring little creatures we are! 
How subtle, sagacious, and judicious this passion is! How clearly it sees its object, 
how constantly it pursues it, and what wise plans it devises for obtaining it ! " Works, 
II. 436. See no. 383. post. 

[STS]'- Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 93. 

2 See nos. 326, note 8, 340, 344, 346, 349, 352, 357, ante; cf. nos. 382, 384, 385, 
post. 



February, lyj'j 271 

conferences with the General Officers belonging to the british Army 
induced the Congress readily to adopt a suspicion that the royal Commis- 
sioners had suggested the maneuvre in order to suspend our military 
operations, and to divide and deceive the States. This suspicion was 
rendered the more probable from the circumstances of this, being about 
the time in which our Commissioners at the Court of France will urge the 
necessity of a speedy declaration in our favor, and which can only be pre- 
vented by the news that we are negociating with Great Britain. It is well 
known the conference with Lord Howe last summer had well nigh ruined 
our interest at the Court of France. The Congress have passed a resolu- 
tion that will we hope satisfy the General that while we are jealous of our 
honor, we are determined to neglect nothing that concerns his safety, or 
private affairs.* 

We have yesterday appointed Colonels Poor, Glover, Patterson, Var- 
num, Wayne, Dehaes, Muhlenberg, Weedon, Jno. Cadwallider and Wood- 
ford Brigadiers General. Lord Sterling, with Messrs Mifflin, Sinclair,* 
Steven and Lincoln are Majors General. 

376. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Baltimore 22d Feby 1777 
My Dear Sir 

.... after repeated requisitions of Genl : Washington, Congress have 
made a number of Genl Officers. The Genl : Proposal is, that there sho*^ 
be a Major Genl: to every three Brigades and a Brigadier to every three 
Regiments, he also proposed three Lieut Genls : but this I believe will 
not be speedily comply'd with, as its the General opinion in Congress that 
the Senior Major Genl : may answer the purpose for the Present. Five 
are added to the list of Major Genls : and ten to the list of Brigadiers 
among the latter is Col : Poor who was strongly recommended by Genl : 
Gates as well as by the Commander in chief this will make a vacancy in 
your late arangement which I hope will be well fill'd. I only wish that 
real merit may influence the choice.^ I am fearful that sending men off in 
small Parties wall be injurious to the recruiting service, as sending part 
of a company will backward the enlistment to complete it. I hope proper 
care will be taken to send good surgeons as much depends on them. 
Morgan and Stringer are both displaced, and the Medical Department 
will be put on a very different footing from what it was last Campaign 
You are sensible of the necessity of a reformation perticularly in that 
department and I hope great care will be taken in the appointment of 
Regimental Surgeons * I also hope proper measure [s] will be persued by 
each state to furnish their respective Soldiers with cloathing for notwith- 
standing every method that can be taken by Congress, there will be but 

3 See no. 366, note 3, ante. 

4 Arthur St. Clair. 

[376] 1 Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Correspondence, vol. I., 1774-1778. 
2 See the Journals, Feb. 18-22. Cf. no. 363, note 3, ante. 

5 See the Journals, Feb. 14, 20, 27; also no. 298, ante, no. 431, post. 



2 

a scanty supply unless the difTercnt states pay perticular attention to their 
own men liiclosM is a copy of a letter from Genl. Lee which j^ave me no 
small uneasiness when I first heard uf it least some mi^jht think it expe- 
dient to comply with the request, but to my great joy when it came before 
Congress there did not appear one advocate for the measure, it evidently 
appearing to be a scheme of those incendiaries (the two Howe's) to 
amuse, and slaken our measures, but they are disapointcd ! I.ee at the 
same time wrote to Genl : Washington desiring him to send one of his 
aids de camp to him and his dogs which I suppose the Genl : has comply'd 

with, soon after Lee was taken Genl: W. was directed to offer six 

Field officers for him, that being the price of a Major Genl : and at the 
same time to assure Howe that the treatment that Lee received sho** be 
exactly retaliated on them, which promise I hope will be religiously 
adheer'd to ! * . . . . 

377. The Committee in Philadelphia to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Feby 22d. 1777 
Sir 

We have dispatched an express to Congress this morning with your 
letter of the 20th which will be with them in time to prevent their adjourn- 
ment next Tuesday from Baltimore.^ We have had a conference with the 
Council of Safety and after communicating to them the intelligence con- 
tained in your Excellencys letters to Genl Gates and that to Congress ' 
We requested them to give immediate orders for putting all their Forces 
by Water into the best posture they possibly can, we also advised their 
collecting such of the Militia as have not been in actual service into such 
readiness, as to be subject to immediate orders, this can be done without 
giving any alarm, or at least any general alarm. Genl Gates will station 
proper Ofificers at New Town and give orders respecting the Boats on the 
Jersey side of Delaware, the present Cold Weather had made so much 
Ice in the Rivers and Creeks that they cannot be brought over, therefore 
if any sudden movements of the Enemy make it necessary, they must all 
be destroyed. We read with much concern one paragraph in your Excel- 
lencys letter to Genl. Gates relative to the removal of the Public Stores, 
in which you are pleased to cast a blame, that we do not deserve every 
requisition and recommendation of yours has been strictly and instantly 
attended to by this Committee, we have complyed with your wishes in 
every instance and done all that our situation wou'd enable to promote 
the Public Service in every line that came under our notice, 'tis true that 
our judgement was against removing the Public Stores from this city 
since your success at Trenton and Prince Town for various reasons that 
are not necessary to enumerate at this time, but not depending on our own 

* See no. 366, note 3, ante. 
[377]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XIIL 306. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 24, 25, 27, and nos. 382, 384, 387-389, 392, 393, post. See 
also no. 344, note 2, ante. 

3 Washington's letters to Gates, Feb. 19, 20, are in the Library of Congress, 
Washington Papers. 



February, lyjl 273 

judgement or inclination, we stated to Congress your recommendation's 
on that Subject and our opinion with some reasons in support of it and 
they were pleased to order them to remain untill other events shou'd 
happen that might make a removal necessary,* and Now Sir that you 
again recommend this business, We will give immediate orders to every 
department to hold the Stores in readiness to be carried away at an hours 
warning.'' thus much we thought necessary to say in our own defence, 
assuring your Excellency at the same time that no board ever did or will 
pay more attention to your recommendations than this Committee. 
With the most ardent wishes for Your success and glory 
We remain your Excellencys Most devoted and Obedt hble Servants 

RoBT Morris, 
Geo Clymer 
Geo Walton. 

378. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Baltimore Feby. 23d. 1777. 
Sir, 

.... As I am empowered to adjourn the Congress from Baltimore 
to Philadelphia on next Tuesday, and shall set out myself on Wednesday, I 
must request you will please to direct your Letters to me at Philadelphia the 
Powers of the Committee of Congress in that Place expiring on our 
Arrival there.^ .... 

379. The President of Congress to Horatio Gates.^ 

Baltimore Feby. 23d. 1777. 
Sir, 

As the State of the Army is by no Means such as could be wished, and 
in Point of discipline and Order has suffered much since you relinquished 
the Department of Adjutant General; In Confidence therefore that you 
will retrieve it, and place it again on a respectable Footing, I am directed 
by Congress earnestly to solicit you to reassume the Office of Adjutant 
General, with your present Rank and Pay.^ 

* See the Journals, Jan. 28. 

5 Such an order, to James Mease, is in the Library of Congress, " U. S. R." 
In a letter to Washington, dated " Feby. 29th ", the committee says : " We Issued orders 
in writing to every Department here, that have the care of Public Stores to be prepared 
for the removal of them and to the quarter Master General to supply the Number of 
Waggons necessary for each departmt. but we felt distressed exceedingly at the 
necessity of doing so, because the expence and destruction occasioned thereby is 
terrible." Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XIV. 39. 
[378] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 92. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 17, 25 ; also nos. 344, note 2, 377, note 2, ante. 
" The Inclos'd for Genl. Washington, I leave open for your perusal as also the Resolves 
Inclos'd after Reading please to Seal and Send by Express to him with the other 
letters for the Genl Officers. The letters to Gates and Mifflin, please to deliver them." 
Hancock to Morris, Feb. 23, Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 11. 

[379]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, VIII.; Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, 
VI. 148 ; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. II., p. 143. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 20. 



2 

The Good of the Service, which is so essentially concerned in your com- 
plvinj^ with the Desire of Cungfress on this Occasion, will, I make no 
Doubt, induce you to p^ratify their Wishes. At the same Time I am jier- 
suaded, you will always add to your own Happiness, whenever you can 
any Ways promote the Cause of American Liberty and Independence. I 
have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir 

your most obed. and very hble Serv. 

John Hancock Prest 

Honble Major Genl Gates 

380. Thomas Burke. Abstract of Debates.* 

Feby 24th A Letter from General Washington ^ was read Informing 
Congress that General How and Lord Piercy had come over from New 
York to Brunswick with a reinforcement of Troops and heavy Artillery, 
that he apprehended the Enemy Intended to enlarge their Quarters and 
procure Forrage in Jersey or to march towards Philadelphia, that he was 
not in a Condition to prevent either, the Congress went into a Committee 
of the whole hereupon, and General Washington was Ordered to call to 
his aid all the Continental Troops under General Heath on the North side 
of the River, and all that were in Providence, to write letters to all the 
Collonels in the States North of Maryland ordering them to send the 
recruits to Join him as fast as they were raised, except such Regiments 
as were Destined for the Northern Department, the Board of War was 
ordered to write similar letters to all the other States North of North 
Carolina, and the state of New York was requested to supply the place of 
General Heath with Militia.^ New Jersey and Pensylvania were also 
requested to reinforce General W^ashington with Militia from each.* 

To this Report of the Committee of the whole was subjoined a Declara- 
tion of Congress that it was their Intention to reinforce the General so 
as to enable him not only to Curb and Confine the Enemy within their 
present Quarters but with the Blessing of God Entirely to subdue them 
before they are reinforced. This pompous Paragraph was very much 
Condemned by some Gentlemen as an unworthy Gasconade, and it was 
warmly debated. North Caroli[na] observed that Threats were unbecom- 
ing a Private Gentleman, and much more unbecoming a Political Body 
That this pompous boast if not realised would render the Congress exceed- 
ingly rideculous, and there was great reason to fear it would not, that our 
vigor ought to appear by Efforts, not Words, that at best it w^as an useless 

[380]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll.. no. 1162; N. C. State Recs., XL 383; Harvard 
Univ. Lib.. Sparks MSS., no. 36, p. 459 (copy). 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 24. and no. 377, ante. Washington's letter, dated Feb. 20. 
is in Writings (ed. Ford), V. 240, (ed. Sparks), IV. 325. See Hancock to Washington, 
Feb. 25, Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), L 347. 

3 Hancock's letter to the New York convention, Feb. 25, is in Calendar of N. Y. 
Hist. Manuscripts: Revolutionary Papers, I. 640. See the convention's reply, by Abraham 
Ten Broeck. its president, ibid.. I. 641. See also Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 829, 830. 

* There are several considerable variations between this text and that in N. C. 
State Records. The summary of the resolves there given is not quite accurate. 



February, J/// 275 

superfluity and ought to be expunged, the Question was put and Jersey 
Pensylvania North Carolina and South Carolina voted for expunging, the 
rest for retaining. N : B. Maryland was not represented.^ there appeared 
upon this whole debate a great desire in the Delegates of the Eastern 
States, and in one of New Jersey to Insult the General." Georgia always 
votes with Connecticut and is no other use in the Congress.'' 

381. Thomas Burke, Abstract of Debates.^ 

Feb'y 2^. This day there was a very interesting debate on some 
amendments proposed to a report of a Committee, appointed to consider 
of some means for preventing desertion ; - but the main question was con- 
cerning the jurisdiction of Congress and the States. The decision was 
postponed. The debate lay chiefly between Mr. Wilson, of Pennsylvania, 
and the Delegate from North Carolina. The opinion of a great majority 
was with the latter; but it was not deemed prudent to decide. N. B. This 
is all that I can now transmit: but as you know the opinion of your 
Delegate on such questions, you can judge the opinion of Congress; and 
for this reason it is that I mention that a majority was in his favour. 

382. Thomas Burke, Abstract of Debates.^ 

Fehy 25th. The Question of Interest was again debated, and post- 
poned ^ A Report was taken up relative to Deserters.^ it stood Orig- 
inally a recommendation of Congress to the several states to Enact Laws 
Empowering all Constables Ferry keepers and Freeholders to take up 
persons suspected of being Deserters and carry them before any Justice 
of the Peace. An Amendment was moved the purport of which was that 
the Power should go Immediately from Congress — without the Interven- 

s The statement concerning the " pompous paragraph ", as given in N. C. State 
Records, might be construed to mean that the declaration was passed and then expunged. 
The account here given indicates that the declaration was in the report of the committee 
of the whole, but was rejected by Congress on a final vote. The votes for retaining the 
paragraph are explicitly mentioned as those of the " four Eastern States, Virginia, and 
Georgia". The absence of Maryland is not mentioned. 

6 The New Jersey members were Richard Stockton, John Witherspoon, Jonathan 
Dickinson Sergeant, Abraham Clark, and Jonathan Elmer. Stockton had been taken 
prisoner by the British and did not return to Congress (see no. 347, ante), and Elmer 
had obtained leave of absence Feb. 14. Only Witherspoon, Sergeant, and Clark therefore 
were present at this time. Sergeant's known hostility to Washington suggests him as the 
member alluded to by Burke. See however no. 347, ante. 

"^ The phrase in A'^. C. State Records is : " of no further use in Congress ". Cf. 
the abstract for Feb. 26, no. 384, post, and see Burke's explanation in his letter to 
Governor Caswell, May 23, no. 503, post. 
l38i]i AT. C. State Recs., XL 384. 

2 The committee was appointed Feb. 12, and brought in its report Feb. 13. See 
Burke's extended account of this debate, no. 382, post. The resolution as passed is in 
the Journals, Feb. 25. 

[382]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1162. 

2 See nos. 326, note 8, 340, 345, 349, 352, 357, 375, ante, 384, 385, 388, 392, 394, post. 

3 See no. 381, ante. Cf. this discussion with that concerning the adjournment to 
Philadelphia (Feb. 26, 27, nos. 384, 387, post), and with Burke's disquisition, in his 
letter to Caswell, Mar. 11 {N. C. State Recs., XL 417), on the dangers of entrusting too 
much power to Congress. 



2 

tion of the states, many Gentlemen were inattentive and it passed. The 
Delepfate from North Carohna desired to bo infonned if he niijj^ht enter 
his Protest ajjainst it. he was informed by the cliair that he could not. he 
then desired to have his dissent entered on the Journal, declaring^ he was 
not Apprehensive of any Injury from it in the state he represented because 
he knew it would never be there observed the People too well knowing 
the Maxims of their Government, but that as it was as much as his Life 
was worth to consent to the Congress exercising such a Power, he desired 
that he might be able to prove from the Journals that he did not. he 
said it appeared to him that Congress was herein assuming a Power to give 
authority from themselves to persons within the States to sieze ard 
Imprison the persons of the citizens and thereby to endanger the person 1 
Liberty of every man in America. A motion was now made for recon- 
sidering, on the reconsideration the Debate lay chiefly between Mr. 
Wilson of Pensylvania, and the North Carolina Delegate Mr. Wilson 
argued that every object of Continental Concern was the subject of Con- 
tinental Councils, that all Provisions made by the Continental Councils 
must be carried into execution by Continental authority. That the Army 
was certainly a Continental object, and preventing Desertion in it was 
certainly as Necessary an object as the raising of it, that nothing could 
be more Necessary to prevent Desertion than to take Effectual Measures 
for Apprehending Deserters, that this Power must Necessarily be in the 
Congress, and that they certainly had Power to authorise any persons in 
the states to put them in Execution. That the Power of taking up 
deserters was in every soldier and officers of the army, and that the Con- 
gress might make any Justice of Peace in any state such an Officer and 
thereby give him that Pow-er, and if by making him an Officer they could 
give him that Power, they surely could without, that the officers and 
soldiers of the army were certainly not subject to the Laws of the states. 
That this was no more than what was every day done in appointing 
commissari [es] to purchase provisions and other things under the resolves 
of Congress. That the Congress had always directed their resolves to 
be put in Execution by Committess of Inspection and it was never denied 
that they had Power 

The Delegate of North Carolina answered that he admitted Continental 
objects were subjects of Continental Councils but denied that the pro- 
visions made by Continental Councils were to be enforced by Continental 
authority. That it would be giving Congress a Power to prostrate all 
the Laws and Constitutions of the states because they might create a 
Power within each that must act entirely Independant of them, and might 
act directly contrary to them that they might by virtue of this Power 
render Ineffectual all the Bariers Provided in the states for the Security 
of the Rights of the Citizens for if they gave a Power to act coercively 
it must be against the subject of some State, and the subject of every state 
was entitled to the Protection of that particular state, and subject to the 
Law^s of that alone, because to them alone did he give his consent, that 
he hoped the Gentleman would not Insist on this Principle which in its 



February, 1777 277 

Nature was so very Extensive and alarming. That the states alone had 
Power to act coercively against their Citizens, and therefore were the only 
Power competent to carry into execution any Provisions whether Conti- 
nental or Municipal, that he was well satisfied no Power on Earth would 
ever obtain authority to act coercively against any of the Citizens of the 
state he represented except under their own Legislature; unless it was 
obtained by Violence, that His fellow Citizens were struggling against 
unlawful exertions of Power, and they would submit to them from no 
authority, that he admitted the army to be a proper object to be governed 
and directed by Continental Councils, and that it is proper the Congress 
should provide for punishing Desertion, and that Desertion was a very 
[great] evil, but that who is a Deserter or who is not is a Question that 
must be determined previous to any Punishment, and who ever can 
determin it has a Power over the Life and Liberty of the Citizens, for as 
much as any man may be accused of Desertion but every one accused may 
not be Guilty, that If the Congress has the Power to appoint any Person 
to decide this Question the Congress has Power unlimitted over the Lives 
and Liberties of all men in America and the Provisions so anxiously made 
by the respective States to Secure them, at once Vanish before this Tre- 
mendous Authority, however proper it might be for Congress to punish 
Desertion it was Necessary for the states to prevent arbitrary and unjust 
punishments and Imprisonments of their Citizens, and unless some mode 
were provided for trying the above Question every man was liable to be 
imprisoned at the Discretion of Officers and servants of the Congress 
no power could be competent to this but such as is created by the Legis- 
lature of each state, and if any Question releated [sic'] to the Internal 
Polity of a state it certainly was this which Involved all the Rights of 
the Citizen's personal Freedom He would not speak for other states, but 
for his own he would declare that the Constitution had anxiously provided 
that no man should be Imprisoned or in any Degree Injured in his Person 
or Property but under the authority of the Laws of the state that it was a 
fundamental Maxim well understoo[d] there that no Magisterial author- 
ity could be given, but by the Legislature, and none could be exercised 
beyond what was expressly laid down in the Laws. The Congress cer- 
tainly could not give a Power within any state to hear and Determin 
Offence or to sieze and Imprison the Persons of the Citizens, yet most 
assuredly the Power contended for was no less, unless every Deserter was 
branded in the Face so that it could be determined without [doubt] who 
was Deserter and who was not. he was sorry to hear the Gentleman say 
that the Officers and Soldiers of the Army were not subject to the Laws 
of the States, and hoped the Gentleman would retract it, for assuredly the 
army must always be in some State and might be in every State, and if 
they were not subject to the Laws of the respective States, it would 
follow that a powerful Body of men within any State might Violate with 
Impunity all the Rights of the Citizens and subject them to the worst of 
Oppressions, that being contrary to all the purposes for which men enter 
into Society, the admission of it must dissolve all Society and Government, 



278 Coutinentijl Congress 

and being peculiarly detested by the Americans who were struggling at 
the risque of Life and property against Oppression, it never could take 
place among them, until they lost all Common Sense, and all Love of 
Freedom That tiie Power of taking up deserters if it was in every officer 
and soldier it did not follow that every officer and soldier might call whom 
he pleased a deserter, and Imprison and punish him as such, that there 
must be a Power to determin whether deserter or not, and the Congress 
could give no such Power without giving authority to some Individuals 
within the states to exercise Magisterial Discretion and subject the citizens 
to that discretion, he could not conceive a state Independant if any 
Power could do this except their Internal Legislature who had their 
authority for that purpose from the People, he would declare firmly it 
could not be done in North Carolina by any other, if their Bill of Rights 
and Constitution were of any Effect, and not meer Waste paper, for 
they, provided that no free man within the state should be in any way or 
Degree restrained of his Liberty or damaged in his Property except under 
the Laws of the state to which h[is] consent must be given, because every 
freeman had a Voice [in the] Legislature. That in North Carolina no 
Military Officer could act in any civil department whatever, and he 
believed they could not in any state where Government was Established, 
yet if it were otherwise his civil authority must be derived from the state 
and not the Congress, and the rules and Limits whereby it was to be 
exercised must be expressly laid down by the state and could not be altered 
or extended by the Congress unless they had a Power over the Internal 
Laws of the states which Power never would be given, and no one pre- 
tended to. That the Difference was manifest between giving Commis- 
sions to purchase within the states, and giving Magisterial authority that 
one was only empowering some Individuals to exchange money for com- 
modities in fair contract which each party must previously agree to. here 
was not the shadow of restraint but was founded on the most liberal Idea 
of Consent, no Contract being valid unless all the Transactions are bona 
fide consented to by all the contractors, and it was every day done by 
Individuals of the states the most remote, and unconnected with each 
other that the other was enabling Individuals to hear and determin 
accusations against other Individuals, to pass Judgement, and to subject 
them to punishment, which surely was the highest act of Dominion, and 
could be Justified only by the Laws of the state which had the consent 
and authority of the People (here he Illustr[at]ed by quoting the case of 
the Negro Somerset).* That it was true the Congress directed their 
resolves to the Committees of Inspection to be put in Execution, but surely 
it must be remembered that the Congress recommended to the states to 
appoint such for that purpose, and the states did appoint them accordingly, 
their authority was certainly derived from that appointment, and not from 
the Congress, in North Carolina the matter was beyond dispute for the 

* For the case of the negro Somerset, decided by Lord Mansfield in 1772, see J. C. 
Hurd, Law of Freedom and Bondage, I. 189-193, 373-3S2. 



February, I'/yy 279 

resolves which constituted Committees expressly empowered them to 
execute the resolves of the Continental Congress. 

Mr. Wilson in reply admitted that he laid down the Principle too 
largely, and that when he said the officers and soldiers were not subject 
to the Laws of the states he meant only that in their Military duty they 
were subject only to the Congress he did not directly answer the argu- 
ment from North Carolina but argued ah inconveniente that the Power 
was Necessary he said if the states alone were competent to this Power 
it would follow that no deserter could be punished or apprehended but in 
the state where he inlisted, and consequently by keeping out of that state 
he was sure of Impunity — that this was in Effect declaring that desertion 
could not be punished and consequently that the army might be imme- 
diately disbanded, that he did not contend for giving the Power to 
Justices of the Peace etc. as such, but as Individuals proper to execute the 
resolution he moved to amend by taking out the words suspected of 
being, which would leave it deserters which he hoped would remove all 
objections. 

Mr. R. H : Lee from Virginia said it was a Misfortune to be too learned, 
that he could see no more in it, than he saw every day in the Newspapers 
which was advertising and offering a Reward for Deserters, and this 
was certainly exercising no Magisterial Power. 

Mr. J. Adams from Massachusetts confessed the matter passed him 
without his attention, that he was inclined to think from what passed 
that the articles of War must be enacted into Laws in the several states, 
and he believed the officers thought so or they would proceed with greater 
Vigor. 

The Delegate from North Carolina rejoined to all these. — to Mr 
Wilson. That Necessity was never to be admitted as an argument for 
assuming a Dangerous and improper Pow[er] tho it might be admitted 
as an Excuse for some particular unlawful exercise of authority, and then 
the Necessity must appear striking and Inevitable, to the Power which 
Judges an[d] Excuses the act. that otherwise the Plea of Necessity 
woul[d] subvert all restraints laid on persons entrusted with p[ower 
and?] authority, and always had been used by T[yra]nts for [that] pur- 
pose. Instance ship money, dispensations, and the presen[t] oppressive 
Proceedings of Britain, but even that Plea had no foundation here, the 
states were competent to enact Laws for the apprehending deserters, and 
there surely was no reason to doubt but that they would on a recom- 
mend [ation] for that purpose, that the Inconvenience the Gentleman 
mentioned was Imaginary. It will not follow that desertion could not be 
prevented or punished altho it should be admitted that the states alone 
were competent to give the Power of arresting suspected persons, and 
trying the Question deserter or not, nor could it be concluded from this 
that deserters could be apprehended nowhere but in the states where they 
enlisted. That desertion was a Crime and like all other Crimes to be 
punished whereever it should be committed, and by the Power who had 
competent Jurisdiction, that the Crime once committed the offender 
23 



2S0 Continental Congress 

might be apprehciuled in any state and removed to tlic Jurisdictifin vvlio 
had power to puiiisli. but every In(Hvidu[al] who might be ai)prehended 
had a right to call for the Iiiterposi[ti]on of the state where he was appre- 
hended to Enquire whether he was a person liable to suspicion, and 
whether the restraint of his Liberty was lawful or not. but the Power to 
Interpose in this manner could only be derived from the Internal Legisla- 
ture so [ ?] the Power to arrest must be derived from the same source, 
or it would follow that the citizens of each state might be restrained of 
their Liberty by an authority not derived from themselves which could 
not subsist witli freedom and Independance. tis plain from these con- 
siderations that desertion was no more secure of Impunity, than Murder, 
for in both the offender must be assisted by Virtue of an authority derived 
from the state where found, and each must be tried by the competent 
Jurisdiction and punished according to the Laws of the Community 
against which he offended. The amendment would [not] rem[ove the 
ojbjection because whether the word suspected was in or not [the 
objecjtions must remain the same, no one could be more than suspect [ed 
befjore conviction, and the Question of Guilt or Innocence must be 
[determined] some where previous to punishment 

The Distinction between Magistrates as Magistrates, and as persons 
proper to execute resolves was incomprehensible, if any thing render 
them more proper than freeholders it was what distinguished them from 
Freeholders which certainly was being Magistrates, and what but their 
authority as Magistrates rendered them fitter for Executing the resolve? 
twas surely their Power that was considered as rendering them more fit, 
and whence could they derive their Power but from their Quality as 
Magistrates? in fact it Avas an attempt to convey authority from the 
Congress to the Magistrates of the states, which would Involve the Per- 
sonal right of every citizen and which could be derived from no Power 
but the People of the respective states. 

To Mr Lee The Difference is certainly very perceptable between offer- 
ing a reward to any Individual who shall apprehend Deserters and subject 
them to the proper tribunals for deciding concerning Guilt or Innocence 
(for the advertisements could have no other Effect) and Impowering 
persons in the States to decide this Question, and to Imprison and remove 
out of the state in consequence of such decision, the One was no more 
than Inviting people to run the hazard of an action for being mistaken, 
and to be delligent in looking out for deserters by hopes of the reward, 
but the other was giving Power to Exercise discrition in deciding Guilt 
or Innocence, and consequently of freedom and Imprisonment, and Event- 
ually Life and Death, that in the latter case no remedy could be had for 
the Injury, if the Congress could give the Power because the Magistrate 
must decide Judicially, and must be subject to no punishment for being 
^listaken, because every Judge undertook to use his best endeavours to 
discover Truth, but did not promise to be Infallible, but the states would 
undoubtedly punish the IMagistrate, for acting without Jurisdiction, which 
would prove they did not admit the power of Congress 



February, lyjy 281 

To Mr. Adams. The Congress was Impowered by the several states to 
levy an Army, and to conduct the War, and the Government of the army 
v^^as Incident to that Power the army could not be governed without rules 
and such rules were the articles of War, which the Congress undoubtedly 
had a right to make, and every soldier was particularly] bound to submit 
to them, because he consents to be governed by them, and tried and pun- 
ished by them not by representation merely but by actual person — consent, 
for they are read to him at the time of Inlistm[ent.] But the Power of 
Congress could not extend to subject any other but such as enlisted and 
personally consented to the articles of War, and it was the Duty of the 
states to Interpose whenever the Question arose whether soldier or not, 
because otherwise their citizens might be subjected to Martial Law against 
their Consent, and when ever any soldier apprehended the courts martial 
exceeded their Jurisdiction he had a right to bring the matter before the 
civil Tribunal of the State where he was, because other wise the Military 
might become absolute and Independant of the civil authority. 

During this Debate Mr. Wilson Instanced a case where the Congress 
had committed a man by their own authority, and no objection made. 

The Delegate from N. C : declared he was sorry to hear it, but would 
excuse it because he would suppose some special circumstances of Neces- 
sity, he declared had he been present it should not have passed without 
Opposition, and he hoped it never would be repeated for since no Power 
could call the Congress to account, if they could Imprison, they might do 
the greatest wrong without any remedy, and the Liberty of America 
would be at the mercy of a Majority in Congress which mig[ht] not 
Exceed five members, because nine states make a Congress, and there are 
more than five represented by a single member. 

The Question for adjournment to Philadelphia was carried in the 
negative.^ 

383. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

Robert Morris.^ 

Baltimore, Febry. 26th 1777. 
Dear Sir 

In Consequence of yours by Express respecting the State of our Army, 
and the Reinforcements of Howe's Army at Brunswick, and yr opinion 
that at present it would not be prudent for Congress to Return to Philadelphia 
the Congress have determin'd to suspend their Remove for some days, at 
least untill we hear from you, which I hope will be soon, and that the 
way is clear for us to pursue our own course.^ .... 

5 See the Journals, Feb. 25 ; also no. 377, note 2, ante. Cf. nos. 384, 387, post. 
[383]^ Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 421. 

2 " In consequence of your letters, and one from Mr. Morris, Congress have 
suspended their move to Philadelphia for a few days." Hancock to Washington, Feb. 25, 
Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 347. See no. 277, ante, and the Journals, Feb. 24, 
25, 27. See also nos. 384, 387-389, 392, 393, post. ^ 

" I left Philadelphia the 13th of Deer. When I shall return is uncertam but I believe 
it will be soon ; for Congress have the Matter of a Removal thither in Contemplation." 
William Ellery to William Vernon, Feb. 26, R. I. Hist. Soc, Publications, VIII. 203. 



2 

I refer you to my Letter to the General, and the resolves of Congress 
therein. I have left the letter open for your perusal, after which please 

to Seal and forward to the Genl. by a special Express Send us 

good news and let us go on to Philadelphiaand Dispatch what Business we 
have on hand, that I may have Leave to Return to Boston the last week 
in April.' 

384. Thomas Burke, Abstract of Debates.^ 

Feby 26th. The Question came on again relative to Interest on Loan 
certificates and it was determined to give the six per cent, Connecticut 
assenting and giving a Majority, because it drew Georgia with it.^ 

There was an attempt to extend the Interest to the certificates which 
should be given in payment of Lottery prizes, but it was rejected, the 
debates were long and troublesome, but unimportant. North Carolina 
was always against the Increase of Interest because the delegate con- 
sidered it a resolution to carry on the War at 6 per cent Interest rather 
than four, and that any sum of money which might be accumulated in the 
great cities even if they could be borrowed at six per cent yet the advantage 
arising from that acquisi [ti]on by no means compensated for the increased 
interest at which the War must be carried on.' 

The Question was put in the morning for an adjournment to Philadelphia* 
all the southern Delegates were against it except Georgia who always 
votes with Connecticut.^ the reasons were given that so much business 
of Consequence was before the Congress it was improper to suspend that 
Business by an adjournment at so busy a season that the weather w^as so 
bad. and several states so circumstanced there was very little probability 
of the Congress meeting at Philadelphia in several Weeks, that the 
General was of Opinion that the Enemy Intended an attack on Philadel- 
phia and if they attempted it he had no force to stop them, in fine that it 
w'ould be foregoing a certainty of doing Business for a very great uncer- 
taint}'. for it.^ the only reason of any weight came from the Board of War 
which was that for want of ]Mechanics, and Waggons the Business of 
their department went on verj' heavily at Baltimore, this was answered 
by observing that an adjournment would cause an entire suspension of 
that and all business, and there was no probability of an early meeting at 
Philadelphia, there was a peevish altercation on the ]\Iatter, and the 
delegate from North Carolina moved to put off the Question on behalf 

3 See no. 374, ante. 
[384]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1162; N. C. State Recs., XI. 384; Harvard 
Univ. Lib.. Sparks MSB., no. 36, p. 460 (copy). 

2 Cf. no. 380, note 7, ante. 

3 See no. 382, ante, nos. 385. 388, 392, 394, post. Whilethis paragraph is essen- 
tially the same in substance as the corresponding paragraph in A^. C. State Recs., it 
differs in form of expression. 

* See the Journals, Feb. 17, 25, 2j. There is no record in the Journals of such a 
debate on Feb. 26. See no. 387, post ; also no. 377. note 2, ante. 

5 Cf. no. 380, ante, and no. 503, post. 

6 The text in N. C. State Recs. reads : " For if the only reason ", etc. " For it " 
is a customary phrase with Burke for introducing affirmative argument. 



February, lyyy 283 

of the Colony, a Fierce debate ensued J : Adams, Doctr Weatherspoon 
Mr Wilson, Mr Sherman and some others alledged that it must be refered 
to a Majority whether the rule could apply to this case, and in short 
whether the Colony should be permitted to exercise the right of post- 
poning the Question. R : H : Lee with great pirspicuity and force of 
argument urged the violent Impropriety of putting such a Question at a 
time when a state attempted to avail itself of a Privilege reserved to each 
by the original Rules of the Congress which certainly formed ^ its Con- 
stitution, and that if the rule was thought inconvenient the proper way 
would be to let the stat[e] first av[a]il itself thereof and afterwards con- 
sider the rule and alter and amend it if thought Necessary. F. L: Lee 
observed that the rule was originally intended to prevent a Majority from 
deciding on any matter with too much precipitation and if it was to be 
submitted to a Majority when it was proper to apply the rule, or when a 
state might avail itself of it, the Majority would always determin against 
applying it at all. Mr Haywood from S. Carolina urged that he thought 
it a very extraordinary kind of proposition to submit to a Majority 
whether that Majority should be checked by a Power apsolutely reserved 
for that purpose in the Constitution of the Congress. The Delegate from 
North Carolina declared that he would enter into no Debate on the subject 
whether he should avail himself of a right which was reserved to every 
state in the Original Constitution of the Congress, that those rules must 
have been entered into by Common consent, and nothing but common 
consent could dispense with them that if a Majority of Congress could 
vote away the rules of the Congress which common consent had Estab- 
lished, they were a Body bound by no rule at all and only Governed by 
arbitrary discretion, that if this was the Case no state was secure, a 
Majority might vote that two three four or five states should form a 
Congress, altho the present rule required nine, that the votes should not 
be by states but by voice Individually, in short any the smalest Number 
of the Delegates might take upon them the whole authority of the Con- 
gress, that putting the right of the state to the Question was assuming 
to exercise an arbitrary tyrannical discrition and if it was done he should 
consider it as a most violent Invasion of the right of his state which he 
would endeavour to resent as became him. that [if] the Question was at 
all put he should be at no loss how to conduct himself, that he would 
always to the best of his Judgement make a prudent use of any privilege 
with which he was Invested, but he hoped he should always have firmness 
enough to maintain every the smallest Privilege of the state he represented, 
that gentlemen were exceedingly mistaken if they deemed him a Man who 
would tamely suffer any Invasion or encroachment on its Rights, that, 
if that Assembly proceeded to so arbitrary and Tyrannical an Exertion of 
Power he would consider it as no longer That which ought to be trusted 
with the Liberties of their Fellow Citizens, and he would shape his conduct 
accordingly.® The Delegates of New Hampshire Maryland, Virginia and 

"^ In N. C. State Recs. the word is printed " framed ". 

8 See Burke's letter to Governor Caswell, Mar. ii, no. 400, post. A part of that 
letter which is omitted is a further exposition of Burke's views on this point. 



2 

South Carolina Joined in this very strenuously insisting that it was a 
most violent and arbitrary act of Power to put any Question at all on 
this niattcr, and the others (some Individuals among them being of 
Opinion also with N: C: [)] perceiving the determined resolution of 
N : C : to withdraw from Congress if any such Question should be put, 
they waved their Opixjsition, and he exercised his right." 

385. Benjamin Rush, Diary. ^ 

[February 26, 1777.] 

The Question for raising the interest of loan office certificates from 
4 to 6 per ct was determined in the affirmat[iv]e by the following states 
NH : MB : C- NJ. P : V. and G : In the negative RI :- N and S. C :- Mary- 
land divided.'' 

386. The Committee in Philadelphia to George Washington.^ 

PhiladelphiaFeby 26th. 1777 
Sir 

VVe have this night rec'd from Congress the dispatches sent herewith, 
by these you will see the promotions that have taken place and that no 
deputation of Members of Congress are to meet Genl Lee, who I suppose 
will be much disapointed but surely he shou'd have pointed out more 
clearly the design of his request, as the consequences of complyance or 
even of the refusal may be important. It woud appear from what we 
have lately heard that Genl. Howe intends sending him to England which 
we shall be sorry for, as such a measure may possibly involve in its con- 
sequences more destruction than either side really wnsh for.^ We have 
recommended to Congress either to remain where they are, or if they do 
remove to let it be to Lancaster which we think wou'd be much more con- 
venient than Baltimore, the Public business meets great obstructions 
from their distance and the difficulties of getting dispatches backwards 
and forwards, they are exceedingly retarded by bad roads and the 
frequent stoppage at Susquehannah Ferry and in our oppinion when they 
did move they shou'd have gone to Lancaster, if they remove again 
before Genl. Howes designs are clearly evinced or frustrated, it shou'd be 
there. We Issued orders last Week to have all the Public Stores in readi- 
ness to remove from this place and are now urging to every department 
the propriety of carrying those orders into execution not only so far as 
relates to their being in readiness but as to the actual removing of them 

* There are only minor verbal or phrasal variations between this abstract of 
debate on the adjournment and that in A''. C. State Recs. To the latter is added the 
sentence: "The next day the adjournment was carried." Two typographical errors 
which affect the sense have been noted above. 

[385]^ Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 26, and no. 384, note 3, ante. 
[386]^ Library of Congress, letters to Washington, XIV. 13. 
2 See no. 366, note 3, ayite. 



February, z/// 285 

which we shall insist on in complyance with your repeated requisitions on 
this head.* We are 

Your Excellencys Most obedt hble Servts 

RoBT Morris, 
Geo. Clymer 



387. Thomas Burke, Abstract of Debates.* 

[February'] zy. the Question for adjournment came on again and Vir- 
ginia South Carolina and Maryland strenuously opposed it as exceedingly 
impolitic and Improper, their arguments were very conclusive but 
entirely ineffectual. North Carolina only observed that he would give 
his dessent in such Terms as might make an Impression on the memory 
of the Gentlemen present that he would spare this could he enter it on the 
Journal but since he could not he must provide by this means for his 
Defence, in case he should be Impeached hereafter for any thing passing 
in Congress, he must expect to call on the Gentlemen as Witnesses how he 
v^oted, since he could not produce the Testimony of the Journals — that he 
was sorry to perceive that a predetermined Majority was as much a ratio 
ultima in Congress as in the British Parliament — that he was no way 
anxious for the personal safety of Congress, he believed if they were all 
killed or Captivated public Business wou[ld] suffer no other Injury except 
the delay until other members could be chozen, that he knew his country 
had much better men than himself, and he believed every state has as good 
as any in Congress, but he would give his Negative for the plain reason 
that it was very Imprudent to put a certain stop to Important Business, 
and run a very precarious hazard of resuming it agai[n] even after an 
Interval of some Weeks which would be an Inevitable delay, the adjourn- 
ment was carried, for it M : B : R : I : Connecticut N : J : Pennsylvania, 
Georgia again [st] it New Hampshire Maryland Virginia, N: Carolina, 
S : Carol [ina]^ The same day Mr Chase from Maryland offered a resolu- 
tion for entering all the Proceedings whether passing in the negative or 
affirmative on the Journals, and the yeas and no's if any state required it, 
also that the Congress doors should be opened, except on particular Occa- 
sions — and all Debates held in public — he was seconded by North Carolina 
who observed it was very proper the Congress should have the public 
check on them, and that as every member was liab[le] to be impeached 
by the state he represented, it was a Justice to him and to the state that 
his votes should be entered on the Journals, that the state might be furn- 
ished with Testimony to prosecute, and the Delegate with Testimony to 
defend himself — postponed.' 

^ See no. 377, ante. 
[387]! N. Y. Pub. Lib.., Emmet Coll., no. 1162. 

2 See no. 384, ante. 

3 Chase's motion is given in a foot-note in the Journals (ed. Ford), VII. 164, 
although as there given it is not quite so inclusive as here represented. A resolve of this 
character was passed Aug. 2, 1777. Cf. a resolve of Aug. 28. See also nos. 400, 585, l)ost. 



2 

388. John Hancock to Robert Morris.^ 

Baltim'. Febry. 27th 1777 
My Dear Sir. 

\ enclose you the Resolves of Congress, respecting the Augmentation 
of the Interest, I hope will now have the Effect of Taking off all the 
Certifficates at the Loan Offices. I think if Monied Men will not give in 
their Money it will argue a want of Patriotism at least. ^ My Dr Friend, 
you have Reduced me to a most distress'd Scituation as I find by a Letter 
this moment Rec'd from Mr. Tailor my Sec'y that you had Counter- 
order'd my Waggons ; what I shall do, I know not. I can't get away here. 
Congress is Adjourned to Philadelphiaand I must be there on Wednesday 
next 10 O'clock a. m. and I cannot Remove my Papers, and by this Stop- 
page of the Waggons am oblig'd to leave the whole of my Family behind. 
For God's Sake, hurry the Waggons along. I know you did it for the 
best, but it has distress'd me immensely, let me intreat you to order the 
Waggons on instantaneously. Thompson is oblig'd to stay behind for 
want of those Waggons. I shall set off on Saturday alone to my great 
Mortification and hope to meet the Waggons on the Road. Aid me all 
you can, pray hurry the Waggons, or Business will suffer amazingly.' 

God Bless you I am 

Yours Sincerely 

John Hancock 

You will print the Resolves as to the Interest 



389. James Wilson to Robert Morris.* 

Baltimore 28th Feby 1777 
Dear Sir 

.... The adjournment to Philadelphiawas not carried without some 
Difficulty and some Warmth. The Measure, I am persuaded will have 
an happy Effect upon public Affairs. The Encrease of Interest will, I 
hope, give a Spring to the Sinews of War." 

390. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter.^ 

Baltimore Febry 28, 1777 
My dear Colonel. 

.... Genl. Lee lately wrote to Congress desiring a com*^^ to confer 
with him on his and public affairs. It was considered as a sneaking trick 

[388] 1 Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 13 (extract). 

2 See nos. 382, 384, 385, ante, 392, 394, post. 

3 See no. 377, note 2, ante. 

[389]^ Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item lOi (extract). 

2 See nos. 377^ 382, 383, 384, 387, 388, ante, 392, 393, post. 
[390]! Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Transcripts, II. 4. 



March, ijjj 287 

of Howe's to hold out the delusive idea of treaty and reconciliation and 
thereby throw a languor upon our preparations ; and therefore instantly 
and unanimously, rejected, but the tories are making their use of it by 
asserting that honorable terms of peace have been offer'd us. But surely 
our people will not always continue to be the dupes of these infamous 
wretches.^ .... 



391. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina,^ 

Baltimore March 2nd 1777. 
Sir: 

The bearer has permission to go to your State to solicit the discharge 
of the prisoners taken after the defeat at Moores' Creek. He being a 
simple unobnoxious creature, I consented to his going, at their request, 
tho' their endeavour was to get some more knowing one. I believe his 
embassy will not be very successful ; for I told them they must not expect 
ever to live in North Carolina on any other terms than swearing allegiance 
to the State and giving security for their good behavior : but this they do 
not relish. They are desirous of knowing whether their families and 
property will be reserved for them, if they are exchanged. Farquhard 
Campbell speaks with much resentment and hautiness; he seems to think 
the State ought to court him to become her subject. I found they were not 
at all secure in close confinement, and the guarding them was exceedingly 
expensive. I therefore consented to their being on parole in Frederick 
Town in this State. They are incessant importimers, and I believe every 
Delegate is glad they are removed from the residence of Congress. Angus 
McDonald, the bearer, is to return to them if you think proper.^ 
I am, Sir, with due respect and esteem. 

Your Excellencv's most obed't. serv't. 



Thos. Burke. 



Governor Caswell. 



392. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, March 4th, 1777. 
Honored Sir, 

The Congress adjourned from Baltimore last Thursday to meet in this 
city yesterday, but a sufficient number of members did not come in to pro- 
ceed to business. It was found very inconvenient to set at so great a 

2 See no. 366, note 3, ante. 
[391]^ A'^. C State Recs., XL 401. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 17, 25 ; also Mar. 27, June 10, t8 ; cf. ibid., Feb. 5, 22, 
Mar. 22, and no. 190, ante. A letter from Farquhard Campbell to Governor Caswell, 
Mar. 3, is in N. C. State Recs., XL 403. See also a letter from the board of war (by 
Richard Peters, secretary) to Governor Johnson of Maryland, Apr. 15, in Arch, of Md., 
XVL 213. 

[392]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 25; Library of Congress, Force 
Trans., Trumbull, VI. 56. 



2 

distance from the seat of war, especially at a time when a new army is 
forming.* .... Congress never gave any orders at any time not to risque 
a general battel, as was reported last fall, but always left that matter to 

the discretion of the commanding officers It seems to be the 

present opinion of the Congress that there be no further emission of bills 
than what is already ordered, if it can possibly be avoided, and tiiat the 
most effectual measures be taken to support the credit of those already 
emited. Accordingly a tax is recommended to the several States, and as 
the rule to determine the quotas is not yet established by the legislatures 
of the several States (which is to be done by the Confederation) each 
State is called upon to raise as large a sum as circumstances will admit, 
with an engagement to allow interest at 6 per cent for what any State may 
raise more than its just quota of the whole sum tliat shall be raised.' .... 
Your Honr has doubtless been informed of the promotions lately made 
of general officers in the army; previous to the choice the Congress 
resolved, " That in the appointment of general officers due regard shall be 
had to the line of succession, personal merit, and the number of troops 
raised or to be raised by the several States." We mentioned Brigadiers 
Wooster and Arnold as candidates for Major Generals on the two first 
principles, and Brigadier Wadsworth and Colo Huntington, who were 
both recommended by General Washington, as fit persons for Brigadiers; 
but the last principle prevailed to pass them all by — viz, That Connecticut 
had more general officers than in proportion to the number of troops 
furnished by that State.* .... 

393. Mann Page, jr., to George Weedon.^ 

Dear Sir: 

.... We have nothing worth telling you of in this place, except that 
Congress has been so mad as to return to Philadelphia 

Baltimore, March 5, 1777. 

Brigadier General George Weedon. 

2 See nos. 344, note 2, 377, note 2, ante. Cf. no. 400, post. 

3 In the Mass. Hist. Soc. (C 81 A 4) is a draft of this letter which varies greatly 
from the letter printed in the Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, which was the letter sent. 
In this draft is the following paragraph : " Congress has increased the interest of money 
borrowed and to be borrowed in the loan offices to 6 pr cent, having Information from 
Boston and Philadelphia that money could not be procured at a lower interest. Men who 
live on the interest of their money are unwilling to lessen their income when their 
expenses are increasing by the rise of every necessary. Congress has recommended to 
the Legislatures of the States to raise as large a Sum by a Tax the current year as their 
circumstances will admit. It is hoped that each State will raise its Quota of 3 million 
Dollars at least, [if] they be allowed six per cent pr. annum for what any of them raise 
more than their Quota." See the resolves relative to the proceedings of the New England 
committee, Feb. 15; also Burke's abstract, Feb. 26 (no. 384, ante). Cf. the Journals, 
Feb. 20, 22, 26, and 27 (p. 167, note 3). 

* See the Journals, Feb. 19-21, and nos. 363-365, 372, 376, ante; also no. 419, post. 
[393]^ Seventy-six Society, Publications: Maryland Papers, p. 77. 



March, i/// 289 

394. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

Philadelphia, March 6th, 1777. 

Sir: — 

.... As a State Lottery is one of the Measures that Congress hath 
taken to put a Stop to the Torrent of Depreciation, I hope it will be 
countenanced and encouraged by the State of Rhode Island and that the 
Loan-Office too will be patronised and promoted.^ The Interest on the 
Loan-Office-Certificates was lately raised to Six per Centum, which I 
should think would be a sufficient Inducement to Money Lenders to lend 
their Money ; especially when it is considered that if large Sums of 
Money can be borrowed it will tend greatly to check the sinking Credit of 
Continental Money, and thereby benefit them as well as others.' Congress 
have Resolved that the Paper Bills issued by the States might be received 
at the Loan-Office and exchanged for Certificates ; and that the Bills so 
received should remain there, and go as far as they might toward the 
Payment of the continental Debt due to the respective States ; * and 
accordingly Letters to this purpose have been transmitted to the Keepers 
of the Loan-Offices in the Several States. I mention this the more particu- 
larly ; because it will probably prevent Congress from ordering the Com- 
mi* of the Loan Office in our State to issue Notes for the Payment of the 
Debt due to it ; which is a Mode pointed out by you in Case it should be 
impracticable to supply Messrs. Greene and Howell with the Money asked 
for. I returned here the Day before Yesterday. The Weather hath been 
so bad as to prevent Members enough from coming up to make a Congress. 
As soon as they meet I shall use my Influence to procure an Order on the 
Treasury for the Money ; ® but not with any Hopes of Success at present ; 
for there is not more than a Million Dollars in the Treasury, and that 
Sum is already mortgaged.^ 

1394]^ R- I- Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1777, p. 25; Staples. R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 120. 

- See the Journals, Nov. i, 1776, and passim (index, Lottery). 

3 Cf. nos. 382, note 2, 384, 385, 388, 392, ante. 

* See the Journals, Jan. 14. 

5 See Cooke to Ellery, Feb. 18, in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 118, and the 
Journals, Mar. 12 ; also no. 405, post. Concerning the mission of Jacob Greene and 
David Howell, see Cooke's letter of Feb. 18, the Journals, Mar. 12 (p. 171, note 3), and 
no. 420, post. 

^ In the same letter Ellery adds : 
" I wish I had been notified of the intention of the State to send persons here for money, 
before they had sent them. In that case I would have advised to postpone the matter 
until the five millions of dollars which are ordered to be struck should have been com- 
pleted. However, I will do all I can in this, as well as every matter directed by the State 
of Rhode Island, etc., and hope I shall be able to get some money, although I utterly 
despair of obtaining a quarter part of what is now due. The President will, I presume, 
transmit to you the resolves recommending it to the States not to emit more money ; nor 
borrow at a higher rate of interest than six per cent., etc.'' 



2 

395. Robert Morris to George Washington.* 

PiiiLADA. March 6th. 1777 
Dear Sir 

.... It is truly lamentable that we have never been able to this day to 
Conquer that h""un(laniental error made in the outset, by short enlistments, 
it was not untill Conviction of the absolute necessity of it stared every 
man in tiie Face that the wholesome measure of enlisting for three years 
or during the War, could be carried in Congress and since it was carried 
there, it meets with insuperable obstacles raised by the former practice, 
for the Bounties, high wages and short Service has vitiated the Minds of 
all that Class of people and they are grown the most mercenary beings 
that exist.' .... 

In the mean time the public Stores are removing, and Congress have 
adjourned back to this place many of the Members are come up and the 
rest on the road. I dont expect they will make a House sooner than 
Monday, but your late dispatches shall be delivered to the President soon 
as he arrives. I wish with you Sir that they had complyed w'ith General 
Lee's request, and when I sent forward those dispatches to Baltimore I 
wrote my sentiments to some of the Members and altho it woud have 
been inconvenient for me and I urged not to be appointed on that errand 
yet I would have gone rather than he shoud have been disapointed. 
Whether they will take up the matter again or not I don't know, but I 
much doubt it as from the little conversation I have had with some of the 
Members now here they seem very averse to it. however I expect this 
matter as well as the confinement of the Hessian Field officers will at 
least be referred to the Consideration of a Committee in consequence of 
your letters on the Subject and if I can influence a Complyance with your 
wishes it will give me pleasure for my own Sentiments coincide with yours 
exactly in these two points at the same time I must hint to you what I take 
to be one of the most forcible arguments that probably has been used in 
Congress against this Measure. I have not heard that it was used, but as 
it occurred to myself on reading Genl Lee's letters I mean the effect it may 
have at the Court of France shou'd they hear as they undoubtedly woud 
that Members of Congress visited Genl Lee by permission of the British 
Commissioners. The meeting with Ld. Howe at Staten Island last Sum- 
mer injured Air Deane's negotiations much and retarded supply's intended 
for us.^ I am now at the 15th of March and must appologize to you Sir 
for not answering fully your letter and for not having sent this away long 
since; but I have been attacked by a weakness in my Eyes, and writing is 
the most dangerous thing I can do whilst it continues. On this account I 

[395P Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XIV. 66; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), I. 348. 

2 In a letter to the commissioners in Paris, Mar. 28, Morris discusses at some 
length the evils of short enlistments. A copy of the letter is in the Am. Phil. Soc, 
Franklin Papers, vol. V. (n.), no. 134, and also in the library of the University of 
Virginia, Lee Papers. 

3 See no. 366, note 3, ante. Morris is replying to a letter from Washington, dated 
Mar. 2, in Writings (ed. Ford), V. 262. Cf. Washington to the Presideni of Congress, 
Mar. I, 6, ibid., pp. 257, 274. Cf. the Journals, Mar. 14, 24, 29, June 2. 



March, ly// 291 

am oblig-ed to absent myself from Congress and refrain from business but 
in all situations of life I shall ever remain with the sincerest esteem your 
Excellencys, 

most obedt hble Servant 

RoBT Morris. 

396. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, 7 March, 1777. 

The President, who is just arrived from Baltimore, came in, a few 
minutes ago, and delivered me yours of February 8, which he found at 
Susquehannah river, on its way to Baltimore 

We may possibly remove again from hence, perhaps to Lancaster or 
Reading. It is good to change place; it promotes health and spirits; it 
does good many ways ; it does good to the place we remove from, as well 
as to that we remove to, and it does good to those who move 

397. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton.^ 

Phila. Friday evening March 7th 1777. 
My Dr Friend 

.... You tell me you might inform me what you have been doing etc. 
but for certain reasons refrain. You have been unfortunate in the Line of 
Promotion happening from certain Circumstances, last summer several 
Promotions were made. Mr. Maxwell was proposed by the Canada Com- 
missrs. as a person deserving of particular Notice. You had been placed 
in a obscure part of the world and Gen!. Schuyler had never mentioned 
you as having done any thing good or bad, he is alway Sparing of Praise, 
however, tho' I highly esteemed Mr. Maxwell I did not think him 
altogether qualified for a Genl. and proposed you, N. York joined me, 
but the Delegates of Jersey Divided between you two and thereby neither 
Obtained it then " towards fall I was at home sick when Genl. Maxwell 
was apptd. as I am told, by desire of some Jersey Delegates then present ; 
this apptment gave N. Jersey two Generals Ld. Stirling having been apptd 
before, and this is more than our Quota. You stood in Nomination at 
the last promotions but we could not with any face insist upon another. 
I esteem Genl. Maxwell and am rejoiced to hear of his behaving well last 
Sunday Week at Woodridge tho' before I find he was not greatly esteemed 
by a Certain General. You ask my advice with regard to yourself. Your 
Chance of promotion soon you may judge from what I have above related.' 

[Z^^]^ Familiar Letters, p. 249. 

[397]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. II., p. 215 (original). 

2 The occasion alluded to was probably Aug. 9, 1776. See the Journals ; cf. ibid., 
May 29, June 3. William Maxwell was appointed brigadier-general Oct. 22, "1776. 

3 Dayton was not made a brigadier-general until Jan. 7, 1783. See the Journals, 
Aug. 14, 1780, Mar. 8, 1781, May 8, June 3 (p. 315 n.), 5, Nov. 25 (p. 753 n.), Dec. 
12, 1782, Jan. 7, 1783. Cf. no. 742, post. See also Qark to Dayton, Dec. 19, 1780, and 
July 29, Dec. 16, 1782, and Boudinot to Dayton, Dec. 25, 1782, and Jan. 7, 1783, in vols. IV. 
and V. of these Letters. 



2 

I assure you I never was fond of your entering into the Service, I most 
earnestly wished you employed in the Civil Line, this was prevented long 
ago by your Averseness to it, or your timidity, we really want you more 
in this way than the Military, hut how to effect it I cannot tell ; If you 
should now decline the Service I fear it would place you in an unfavour- 
able Light with the Public, and to remain Llle will neither be profitable 
to you or the Public, that upon the whole I cannot advise you how to Act. 
You inquire how Jonathan * can get his Com"" this you can Obtain 
from Genl. Washington, he hath the Comm"^ to give out and also the 
Nomination. 

I came to Philadel*. last Tuesday evening. Congress Adjrd. to meet 
here last \\'e(lnesday but a sufficient Numr. to proceed to business have 
not yet come in unless they have got here this evening. Our Assembly is 
sitting at Haddonfield about 7 Miles from hence, by a Letter reed, this 
day from the Speaker I am desired to attend there a few days and shall 
go to morrow, If I can leave Delegates to represent our State in my 
Absence, otherwise stay till I can. as I am not sure there is any but my 
self in Town, when I shall have an Oppertunity to visit Eliz. Town I 
cant say. I have not seen any of my family since Novr. and shall not I 
believe verv soon. 

Our Friend Mr. Caldwells Services I am particularly Attentive to, but 
the wheels drag heav}% a Presbyterian Clergyman is not with some a 
Popular Name, and tho' I have the assurance of Congress in his favour 
I can promise Nothing but my best endeavours.^ 

You say some of our Eliz'Town Gentry want the Genrl. to alter his 
Proclamation. It must render any man Unpopular to Speak in favour 
of those who joined the Enemy and took Protection, but I think the 
Genrls. proclamation a Violation of our Civil Rights and Ventured to 
call it in question in Congress. My ]\Iotion was committed to a Com*, 
who reported favourable of the Procla. but foreseeing their report would 
be contested they desired that the same might lie for consideration ; " 
That I suppose was with design that it should never be called for, and I 
Suppose never will unless I do it, for it is Notorious the Genrl. directly 
counter acted a Resolve of Congress of the 9th. of March last. Strictly 
forbidding any officer to impose or require any Oath of the Inhabitants, 
and he requires an oath of Allegiance to the United States when such an 
Oath is Absurd before our Confederation takes place. Each State requires 
an Oath to the Particular State, in many other instances the Procla". is 
exceptionable, and very improper, and I believe was the Production or at 
least set on foot by some too much in the Genrls. Good Graces, he is too 
much incumbered to attend to every thing, and tho' I believe him honest, 
I think him fallible. My Paper suffers me only to add, that I am with 
great regard most Affectionately yours etc. 

Abra : Clark. 

* Dr. Jonathan Dayton, brother of Elias Dayton. He was elected regimental 
paymaster of Colonel Dayton's battalion Aug. 26, 1776. 

6 See no. 398, post. 

* See the Journals, Feb. 6 and 27, and no. 347, ante. 



March, lyyy 29;5 

398. Abraham Clark to James Caldwell.^ 

Philadelphia Friday Evening March 7th 1777. 

My Dr Sir 

Congress have once more Ventured to this Town, where I shall be glad 
to hear from you when Opportunity Presents. I have Nothing interesting 
either to the Public or your self to Communicate. I was in hopes before 
this to have been able to inform you Congress had to some purpose con- 
sidered your extraordinary Services. The com^ apptd. for that purpose 
reported a reward for you, not great, but such as would have been useful 
to you at this Time, Congress allowed your Merrit and desert but seemed 
loath to make a pecuniary reward, and recommitted the report, desiring 
the Com^ to keep it for the Present to see if something worthy for them 
to give and you to receive would not fall in the way. Some began to think 
it right to Suffer you to hold the Office of Paymaster to that of Chaplain 
and they Agreed to raise the Chaplains pay to 40 dollars — but nothing 
is yet determined. I can assure you of nothing but that you have some 
hearty friends in Congress, and would have more were you not a Presbyt" 
Clergyman. If any thing arises I hope it will be Acceptable, but till it 
does come don't Appropriate it, nothing is more uncertain than a depen- 
dance upon public bodies, they are moved like the wind, but rather more 
uncertain. I shall watch for a favourable gale.^ .... 
I am Dr Sir with great regard yours etc. 

Abra : Clark. 
[Addressed :] 
To 
The Revd. 

Mr. James Caldwell,^ 

at head Quarters 

Morristown 

399. John Hancock to Mrs. Hancock.* 

Philadelphia loth March 1777 
My Dear Dear Dolly: 

My detention at the Ferry and the badness of the Roads prevented my 
arriving here untill Fryday evening. ... I have been exceedingly busy, 
since I have been here, tho' have not yet made a Congress, are waiting 
for the South Carolina gentleman.^ .... 

[398] 1 Library of J. Pierpont Morgan. Declaration of Independence, II. 

2 See the Jotirnals, Feb. 5, Mar. 15; cf. ibid., Apr. 14, May 27. See also nos. 52, 
53, ante. 

3 Some account of Rev. James Caldwell is found in N. J. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, 
first ser., III. 77-89; Hatfield, History of Elisabeth, New Jersey, pp. 513-536; and Boudi- 
not, Life of Elias Boudinot, I. 187-189. See also an article in N. J. Hist. Soc, Pro- 
ceedings, 1916. There are also many newspaper extracts concerning him in X. J. Arch., 
second ser. 

[399]! Sears, John Hancock, p. 215 ; Crawford. Old Boston Days and Ways, p. 237. 

2 Possibly this should be gentlemen (that is, Thomas HeyAvard and Arthur Mid- 
dleton). The attendance of Middleton after the adjournment to Philadelphia is not 
however recorded in the Journals until May 29. In a letter to his wife, Mar. 11, Hancock 
says : " No Congress to-day, and I have been as busily employ'd as you can conceive " 
( Crawford, op. cit., p. 241 ) . 



2 

400. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).* 

Philadelphia March nth 1777. 
Sir 

Our adjournment from Baltimore has put all our Proceedings to a 
stand and our unsettled Situation has prevented my writing to you as 
often as I at first Intended. I believe you have no cause to regret it, for 
I had nothing to communicate worth your attention. 

The more experience I acquire, the stronger is my Conviction, that 
unlimited Pozver can not be safely Trusted to any man or set of men on 
Earth. No men have undertaken to exercise authority with Intentions 
more generous and disinterested than the Congress and none seem to 
have fewer or more feeble motives for increasing the Power of their 
body Politic. What could Induce Individuals blest with peaceable domes- 
tic affluence to forego all the enjoyment of a pleasing home, to neglect 
their private affairs, and at the expence of all their time and some part of 
their private fortunes, to attend public Business under many Insurmount- 
able Difficulties and Inconveniences? What but a generous Zeal for the 
public ? And what can Induce such men to Endeavour at increasing the 
Power with wdiich they are Invested, when their Tenure of it must be 
exceedingly Dangerous and precarious and can bring them Individually 
neither pleasure or profit? this is a Question I believe cannot be answered 
but by a plain declaration that Power of all kinds has an Irresistible pro- 
pensity to increase a desire for itself, it gives the Passion of ambition a 
Velocity which Increases in its progress, and this is a passion which grows 
in proportion as it is gratified. I hope sir you will pardon me these Reflec- 
tions. I know they have not escaped you. but I find my attendance in 
Congress, short as it has been, obtrudes them on me every day. great 
part of our time is consumed in debates, whose object on one side is to 
increase the Power of Congress, and on the other to restrain it. The 
advocates do not always keep the same side of the Contest, the same 
persons who on one day endeavour to carry through some Resolutions, 
whose Tendency is to increase the Power of Congress, are often on an 
other day very strenuous advocates to restrain it. from this I infer that 
no one has entertained a concerted design to increase the Power; and 
the attempts to do it proceed from Ignorance of what such a Being ought 
to be. and from the Delusive Intoxication which Power Naturally imposes 
on the human Mind.^. . . . 

These and many other considerations make me earnestly wish that the 
Power of Congress was accurately defined and that there were adequate 
Check provided to prevent any Excess. I am also exceedingly desirous 

[400] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm. ; N. C. State Recs., XL 417. The letter in possession of the 
North Carolina Historical Commission is endorsed in Burke's writing : " Copy letter 
to Govr. Caswell. No. i ", and contains, besides minor variations, some passages not found 
in the letter as printed in jV. C. State Records. To one passage (omitted here) is attached 
this note : " This thought is expressed in a more concise manner in the original." 

2 Some further reflections upon the dangers of unlimited power and the possi- 
bilities of combinations among the larger states, which would endanger the independence 
of the lesser, are here omitted. 



March, i/y/ 295 

to have particular Instructions relative to some Heads which I shall 
Inclose to you to be laid before the assembly. One thing now embarasses 
me very much, it is this. Whenever any Matter wherein the Jurisdiction 
or authority of Congress is contested is debated, it is usual to lay it over 
undetermined, by the rule of secrecy you know, Sir, I am not at liberty 
to communicate anything before it is determined and therefore cannot 
Consult the State upon it. in these cases all our time is lost, for nothing 
is entered on the Journals, and nothing therefore can give Testimony 
hereafter that such points were contested, and even reject [ed] by a 
majority as is indeed the usual case.^ Relative to the measures Intended 
to be pursued by Congress I have nothing new to add. they are Endeav- 
ouring at a foreign alliance, and have some hopes of success, they will 
Increase as much as possible their Naval Force, and are using every 
Endeavour to recruit a strong army to take the Field early in the Spring, 
their Endeavours in this respect will be ineffectual if not earnestly 
seconded by the States. I have no doubt Sir of your most particular 
attention to this Important object. I am often suggesting to Congress 
that the Civil Power of the States is the best Instrument for calling forth 
their Proportion of Exertions in this or any Cause, but they hear with 
reluctance any thing that looks like the Interposition of such a Power in 
Military affairs, tho' no one will venture directly to oppose or reject it. 
I need not repeat to you my own Thoughts on this subject, you have 
often heard me deliver them. I have not yet altered my Opinion. With 
respect to Intelligence I will enclose you the papers and anything not 
contained in them I will subjoin. 

I enclose you an abstract of the Debates in Congress on every Question 
of any Consequence that has been determined in Congress since my last. 
By these you will see what has been decided, and why. You will from 
them also better Judge of the various Opinions, or rather the fluctuations 
of Opinion in Congress, this is an Evil from which nothing but experi- 
ence, and a better Constitution of Congress can deliver us. my own 
Opinions, being those in which my Country is particularly Interested. I 
wish her to be fully informed of. I shall submit them to you Sir as her 
principal Guardian, with all the simplicity of unadorned Truth, and when 
they are reprehensible I wish them to be reproved, that the public servants 
in this Department may better learn their Duty, and that I in particular 
may be Instructed not to give the sense of the State in a Manner which she 
may not approve. The last Matter in the abstract will shew you that even 
thus early, men so eminent as members of Congress, are willing to explain 
away any Power that stands in the way of their particular purposes.* 
what may we not expect some time hence, when the Seat of Power shall 
become firm by Habit, and men will be accustomed to Obedience, and 
perhaps forgetful of the Original principles w'hich gave rise thereto. I 
believe Sir the Root of the Evil is deep in human Nature, its growth 

^ Cf. Burke's abstract for Feb. 27 (no. 387, ante). 

* See Burke's abstract of debates on the question of adjournment, Feb. 26, 27 
(nos. 384, 387, ante). 

24 



2 

may be kept clown but it cannot be entirely extirpated. Power will some- 
time or other be abused unless men are well watched, and checked by some- 
thinqf which they cannot remove when they please 

Our expenses here Sir are incredible, every Horse is ten Shillings a 
Day, and every thing else is in proportion. It is now the 19th of March 
and since our arrival in this City we have done nothing, we had barely 
a Congress for a few days last week, but none this week yet." the few 
members in Town are closely engaged in Committees, and what I write 
is done in the time when other People are asleep. You will therefore not 
wonder, should you find it very Incorrect. 

There are letters from Doctr. Franklin in France of the loth of decem- 
ber. they represent a War in Europe as certainly iminent and we have 
received very particular marks of the Favor of the French Court, which 
I am not at liberty to disclose." 

You will See a Resolution in the Papers recommending to the States 
to assess Blankets for the soldiery.^ This is absolutely Necessary, because 
such things can not otherwise be had in our State 

Tis probable. Sir, the Assembly may make choice of some more able 
men to serve in this Department. I should be very far from deeming it 
an Injury to me, and I am certain it could be none to the State. I have 
resolved very early in this Dispute to decline no service that my country 
require me to perform altho almost all offices are equally out of my way, 
and none are desirable to me. But if the Assembly shall think proper to 
direct me to continue in this Department, I hope I may be allowed to 
return to my private affairs for a few weeks in the Summer, if I have 
this permission I promise Sir that I will not avail myself of it to the delay 
or prejudice of public Business.^ . . . • 

401. The President of Congress to the New York Delegates.^ 

Philadelphia March nth. 1777 
Congress Chamber 

Resolved as the Opinion of the Representatives of Eight of the United 
States now Conven'd at the State house in Philadelphia, that the critical 
State of our Affairs requires the immediate Meeting of Congress, and that 
the President be, and he is hereby Requested to Send a Message by 
Express to the Delegates of the Delaware State, and another to the 
Delegates of the State of New York desiring their Attendance in Con- 
gress, that for w^ant thereof the Business of the Continent may no longer 
be delay'd.^ 

5 The letter in A''. C. State Records reads : " Since our arrival in this city we 
have done very little in Congress. Untill within a few days We had no Congress, and now 
we have but nine States." See no. 401. post, and cf. the Journals, Mar. 17, 18. 

6 Cf. no. 409, post. 

7 See the Journals, Mar. 12. 

8 The manuscript from which these extracts are printed ends here, but in N. C. 
State Recs. are two brief additions of Mar. 22 and 24, and a further postscript of two 
lines, written after Mar. 26. 

[40i]iN. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, IX. 187; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., 
II. 409. 

2 See nos. 392, 395, 399, 400, ante. 



March, lyyj 297 

Gentlemen 

In Consequence of the foregoing Resolve, I am most earnestly to 
Request you will be pleas'd to give your Attendance in Congress at this 
place as speedily as possible; our affairs require immediate Attention, and 
it is absolutely necessary there should be a full Representation. I there- 
fore hope to have the pleasure of Seeing you here immediately I am 
much hurried, can only Add that I am with much Esteem, 

Gentlemen 

Your most Obedt Servt 

John Hancock Presidt 
Hon* Delegates in Congress 
from New York 



402. Francis Lewis to the New York Convention.^ 

Baltimore 12th. March 1777 

Gentlemen 

I wrote you the i6th. 31st Janry. and i8th. Febry. addressed to the 
President,^ since which I have been honoured with his of the 13th. Febry. 
directing several articles to be purchased out of the Montgomery's Prizes 
for the use of the State, which, it was not in my power to execute for the 
following reasons vizt. upon an application of Congress setting forth, 
that as several hundred Recruits for the new Battalions were daily com- 
ming into this town from the States of Virginia, and Maryland in order 
to reinforce Genl. Washingtons Army, and these being destitute of proper 
Cloathing etc. it would be absolutely necessary that the several articles 
captured by the Montgomery and suitable for the Soldiery should be 
applyed here, and requested my assent, which I perremptory refused. 
The next day it was moved in Congress that an order should Issue 
appointing four persons to appraise all the Woolen and linnens etc. suit- 
able for the Soldiery captured by the Montgomery armed Vessell. upon 
the motions being read I objected to the proceeding as partial, and gave 
the following reasons, that as the property was on condemnation vested 
in the State of New York, together with the Captain and Crew, of the 
Montgomery, and that the latter insisted upon having their property 
dissposed off in the customary manner at public Vendue, and urged the 
evil that might attend such a precedent, especially as I had directions from 
your Convention to purchase those Articles and forward them to you for 
the Cloathing your Troops, who they (the Congress) well knew that the 
State of N'' York in its present circumstance had no port open through 
which they could introduce any supplys ; but maugre all my objections the 
Question was put, and carried nemine Con. for the motion, and four 

l402]iN. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, IX. 126; copy, signed by Lewis, ibid., 
V. 21 ; Minutes of the New York Council of Safety, VIIL 138 (copy) ; Jour. N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., I. 858, II. 396. 

2 See nos. 312, 329, 363, ante. 



2 

Gentlemen of this Town appointed appraizers;' The Members of Con- 
gress having left this a few days afterwards by adjournment to Phila, 
the appraizers when met, declared themselves inadequate to the appoint- 
ment, being totally unacquainted with the value of those goods, which 
together with the Capt. and Crew's opposition to that mode, produced an 
agreement between the Parties that all should be sold at Auction except 
the Woolens and course Linnens. which the Congress was to take at the 
Rates of a dollar Curr^ for what cost one shilling sterling, for the 
Woolens ; and 4/6 p yard for the course Linnens. the rest of the Cargo 
that sold at Vendue I compute upon an average went of¥ at abt. one 
thousand p Cent, as a specimen, yard wide Irish Linnen that cost 2/8d. 
p yd sterling sold for 24/ Currency p yd. a dollar is a 7/6. Cordage Sold 
at'£i4 5/ii. 

I forgot to mention that in answer to my arguments against the motion. 
Congress availed themselves of a letter from General Washington advis- 
ing them that the Convention at Fishkill had there stopped (as I think) 
thirty six Waggons laden with Cloathing for the Army immediately under 
his Command, he says " indeed I cannot blame them knowing their dis- 
tressed situation " however of this a handle was made to obviate my 
objections.* .... 

Our State being still unrepresented in Congress, it was thought neces- 
sary I should remain here a few days longer to transact some business in 
the Marine department, in that time I shall get the sales of the prizes 
etc. compleated and set of for Phila. from thence transmit you the 
Acco*^ ; please to furnish me with your directions in the disposal of the net 
proceeds, and permit me again to remind you of having our State repre- 
sented in Congress it has suffered by the omission.^ I am respectfully 

Gentlm. 

Your very Humble Servt 

F : Lewis 



403. Thomas Burke. Abstract of Debates.^ 

Philadelphia [March 14?] 1777 

There was a Debate on the subject of Retaliation soon after the arival 
of the Congress at Philadelphia, occasioned by a suggestion of General 
Washington that our circumstances made it impolitic to use such Lan- 
guage, the Enemy have a superiority over us in captive officers at least 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 25, 27. The Journals contain no record concerning this 
matter on Feb. 24, the day on which, according to Lewis, the application was made. Feb. 
27 Congress appointed three appraisers for the purpose. The resolution of Feb. 25 had 
authorized the board of war to appoint appraisers. See further, no. 441, note 2, post. 

* The letter of Washington here referred to is no doubt that of Jan. 26, 
Writings (ed. Ford), V. 203, (ed. Sparks), IV. 298. The letter is in reply to Hancock's 
letter of Jan. 18, ante. 

5 See no. 406, post. 
[403]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1162. 



March, 7777 299 

six to one, that there is still subsisting an agreement for exchange which 
the resolutions of Congress for retaliation might violate.^ 

Some extraordinary Opinions were thrown out by Mr, Loval and 
Doctor Weatherspoon, tending to the Doctrine that we were bound by 
no such agreements no longer than we found them convenient. Several 
Gentlemen denied this Doctrine, but maintained, that the Enemy's treat- 
ment of General Lee was an infringement on their part, and the agreement 
was therefore become void. North Carolina vehemently opposed the 
Doctrine alledging that it violated all public Faith, and was in a word 
declaring to mankind that we ought never to be trusted, that it was good 
policy even abstracted from all moral consideration, to keep inviolate the 
Faith of Nations, because on that alone was founded all compact between 
them, that to a young country the reputation of Fidelity was as Essential 
as that of Immaculate chastity to a young Beauty the smallest blot in 
either must sink the subject for ever in the Estimation of mankind, that if 
the Cartile (which he was not enformed of) was violated by the Resolu- 
tions of Congress, he was clearly of Opinion that they ought to be 
rescin[d]ed. the Debate now turned on the Question whether the Treat- 
ment of General Lee was an infringement, the Facts produced to prove 
it were the confinement of the General under Custody of the Provost at 
New York, and the Evasion of General How to the Question whether 
he should be considered as a prisoner of War or not North Carolina was 
of Opinion this did not amount to a Direct Breach, but that a Catigorical 
answer ought to be demanded and the Enemy informed that a refusal 
would be deemed a Breach, but that all farther proceeding was premature, 
the Congress were of a Different Opinion, and it appeared some days 
afterwards that General Washington thought of it in the same manner 
with the Congress.^ 

404. John Adams to Nathanael Greene.^ 

[March — , 1777.Y 

.... You ask why General Lee is denied his request. You ask. Can 
any injury arise ? Will it reflect any dishonor upon congress? I do not 
know that it would reflect any dishonor, nor was it refused upon that 
principle. But congress was of opinion that great injuries would arise. 
It would take up too much time to recapitulate all the arguments which 
were used upon occasion of his letter. But congress was never more 

2 The letter of Washington to which Burke alludes was that of Mar. i, supple- 
mented by a letter of Mar. 6. Both letters were under discussion in Congress Mar. 14. 
Cf. no. 367, note 3, ante, and nos. 404, 407, post. See also the Journals, Feb. 20, June 9, 
10 (p. 449). 

^ Cf. Washington's letter to Howe, Apr. 9, Writings (ed. Ford), V. 311, (ed. 
Sparks), IV. 380. The latter part of the abstract probably relates to the discussion 
Mar. 24. 

[404]! Works, I. 260 ; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, IV. 421. 

2 This letter was written in reply to a letter of Greene, dated Mar. 3, 1777 (Greene, 
Life of Greene. I. 334). Greene was in Philadelphia several days from Mar. 20, there- 
fore Adams's letter must have been written sometime after the 3d and before the 20th 



oOO Continental Congress 

unanimous than upon that question. Nobody, I believe, would have 
objected against a conference concerning- his private affairs or his par- 
ticular case. But it was inconceivable that a conference should be neces- 
sary upon such subjects. Any thing relative to these might have been 
conveyed by letter. But it appears to be an artful stratagem of the two 
grateful brothers to hold up to the public view the phantom of a negotia- 
tion, in order to give spirits and courage to the Tories, to distract and 
divide the Whigs at a critical moment, when the utmost exertions are 
necessary to draw together an army. They meant, further, to amuse 
opposition in England, and to amuse foreign nations by this manoeuvre, 
as well as the Whigs in America, and I confess it is not without indigna- 
tion that I see such a man as Lee suffer himself to be duped by their policy 
so far as to become the instrument of it, as Sullivan was upon a former 
occasion.'. . . . 



But further. We see what use government and the two houses make 
of the former conference with Lord Howe. What a storm in England 
they are endeavouring to raise against us from that circumstance. 

But another thing. We have undoubted intelligence from Europe that 
the ambassadors and other instruments of the British ministry at foreign 
courts made the worst use of the former conference. That conference 
did us a great and essential injury at the French court, you may depend 
upon it. Lord Howe knows it, and wishes to repeat it. 

Congress is under no concern about any use that the disaffected can 
make of this refusal. They would have made the worst use of a confer- 
ence. As to any terms of peace, look into the speech to both Houses, the 
answers of both Houses. Look into the proclamations. It is needless to 
enumerate particulars which prove that the Howes have no power but to 
murder or disgrace us. 

The retaliation that is to be practised on Lee's account, was determined 
on when I was absent, so that I can give no account of the reasons for that 
measure. Yet I have no doubt of the right; and as to the disagreeable 
consequences you mention, these, I hope and presume, will not take place. 
If they do, they will be wholly chargeable on the enemy. The end of 
retaliation is to prevent a repetition of the injury. A threat of retaliation 
is to prevent an injury, and it seldom fails of its design. In Lee's case, I 
am confident, it will secure him good treatment. If Lee's confinement is 
not strict, that of Campbell and the Hessians ought not to be. The inten- 
tion was that they should be treated exactly as Lee is. 

Our late promotions may possibly give disgust; but that cannot be 
avoided. This delicate point of honor, which is really one of the most 
putrid corruptions of absolute monarchy, I mean the honor of maintaining 
a rank superior to abler men, I mean the honor of preferring a single step 
of promotion to the service of the public, must be bridled. It is incom- 
patible with republican principles. I hope, for my own part, that congress 
will elect annually all the general officers. If, in consequence of this, some 

8 See no. 366. note 3. ante; also Washington to Arnold, Apr. 3, Writings (ed. 
Sparks), IV. 377. Concerning the Sullivan incident, see the Journals, Sept. 2, 17, 1776, 
and no. 102, note 2, ante. 



March, ly// 301 

great men should be obliged, at the year's end, to go home and serve their 
country in some other capacity, not less necessary, and better adapted to 
their genius, I do not think the public would be ruined. Perhaps it would 
be no harm. The ofificers of the army ought to consider that the rank, the 
dignity, and the rights of whole States are of more importance than this 
point of honor ; more, indeed, than the solid glory of any particular officer. 
The States insist, with great justice and sound policy, on having a share 
of the general officers in some proportion to the quotas of troops they are 
to raise. This principle has occasioned many of our late promotions, and 
it ought to satisfy gentlemen. But if it does not, they, as well as the 
public, must abide the consequences of their discontent. 

I shall at all times think myself happy to hear from you, my dear Sir, 
and to give the utmost attention to whatever you may suggest. I hope I 
shall not often trouble you to read so long a lurry of small talk. 

405. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

Philadelphia M'h 15th 1777. 
Sir. 

I have the Pleasure to inform you that, beyond my Expectation, I have 
procured a Resolve of Congress, in favour of our State, for an Order upon 
the Auditor General for Two hundred thousand Dollars, upon the Loan 
Office for Sixty Thousand Dollars, and upon the Treasury for One 
hundred and forty thousand Dollars to be paid out of the new Emission 
order'd to be issued.^ Before Congress left Baltimore, they order'd a 
Million of Dollars to be deliver'd to the Auditor General subject to 
Draughts from Congress.® The Money is on the Road, and so soon as it 
arrives the Order upon him will be paid, and your Commis'rs dispatch'd. 



406. Lewis Morris to the President of the New York 

Convention.^ 

Sir, 

I had the pleasure of receiving your letter by express, and should 
immediately, in compliance with your request have laid the papers it con- 
tained before congress, but for some reasons that I flatter myself will be 
very obvious to you, I thought it prudent to defer it for some time.^ 

From the circumstance of the adjournment of Congress from Baltimore 
to this place, there is now a very unequal representation. I am alone from 
the state of New York, as Mr Lewis has not yet come up,* and it being of 

[405]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1777, p. 33; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 122; Hist. Mag., XVIII. 46. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 12, no. 394, ante, and no. 420, post. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 22. 

[406]! N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, IX. 165 ; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., IL 404. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 7, 8, and no. 445, post. The convention's letter, Mar. i, 
is in Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., 1. 820; the enclosures of Jan. 20 are ibid., pp. 777, 77%. 

3 See no. 402, ante. 



3 

the utmost importance to that state as well as individuals thereof, for 
whom I have the highest esteem. I have declined risquing the event of so 
important an affair, until in a full and equal assembly the justice of it 
may have its proper consideration and effect 

You may depend, sir, I will be watchful to introduce your letter, and 
the subject of it into congress upon the first dawning of a favorable chance 
for its success, and then as it will be supported by such powerful influence 
as I have mentioned, I think I may give you an assurance that, though not 
speedily, yet eventually, it will terminate in a manner agreeable to your 
wishes. 

I have the honor to be, sir. 

Your most Obedient humble servant, , 

Lewis Morris. • 

Philadelphia March i6th. 1777 

To Abraham Ten Broeck Esq. 

407. The President of Congress to George Washington/ 

Philadelphia March 17th. 1777. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to transmit to you sundry resolves of Congress of a 
very important Nature, to which I beg Leave to solicit your Attention.^ 

The Congress having had your Letters of the ist and 6th Inst, under 
Consideration, have come to the inclosed Resolve on the subject, by which 
you perceive they decline making any Alteration in the Resolve of the 
6th. January, and that it was not their Intention that Colo. Campbell 
should experience any other Hardship than such Confinement as is neces- 
sary to his Security for the end they had in View when they passed that 
Resolve. 

The obvious Distinction made by Genl. Howe in his Treatment of 
Genl. Lee who is notoriously committed to the Custody of the Provost 
and denied his parole, while our other Officers are admitted to it, w^as the 
ground on which Congress proceeded when they passed that Resolve, the 
Intention of which was to shew that in Proportion as Severities against 
him were increased the same Treatment should be exercised on six Field 
Officers 

The Principle of Retaliation was early adopted by the States of Amer- 
ica, and if adhered to, will be the most likely Way to prevent our Enemies 
from making Distinctions, which have no other Foundation but the Grati- 
fication of their Revenge, Genl. Lee having an undoubted Right to every 
Indulgence that our other Officers, Prisoners among them, may receive.^ 

I have wrote to the Governor and Council of Virginia, and likewise to 
Colo. Stephen on the Subject of the enclosed Resolves.* 

[407] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 104; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), L 357. 

2 Presumably the resolves of Mar. 13, 14, 15, which concerned General Washington. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 14, and nos. 366. note 3, 367, 371, 376, 386, 390, 395, 403, 
404, ante. See also the Journals, Mar. 24. 29. Cf. no. 576, post. 

* See the Journals, Mar. 13. "Colo. Stephen" was Col. Edward Stevens. See 
the Journals, Apr. 15. 



March, 7777 303 

The Congress have endeavoured to put a Stop to Foreigners coming over 
to America to enter the Service, not only by directing the Committee of 
Secret Correspondence to write to the Agents abroad to discourage them 
from such Views, but by declaring that they shall not be employed, unless 
they are well acquainted with our Language.'* 

Your several Favors of the 20th. 23d. and 28. Feby. and ist. and 6th. 
of March have been duly received and laid before Congress. I am also 
this minute honored with your Favour of the 14th. which shall be laid 
before Congress as soon as possible.® I have the Honour to be with Senti- 
ments of the greatest Esteem, Sir, 

Your most obed and very hble servt. 

John Hancock Presidt. 

408. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.* 

Philadelphia 17th March 1777 
My Dear Sir, 

My last was the 22d Feby ^ since which I have not been favor'd with 
any of Yours. 

Congress adjourn'd the 28th and did not meet here till the nth inst ' 
and have now but a thin House, which makes the Business extreemly 
Laborious for those that attend, the whole time of the Members being 
taken up on Committees when the House is not setting. The expence of 
living here is beyond all Bounds, every thing has risen more than double 
since you left this, unless some effectual stop can be put to the sinking 
Curr^. I dont know what will be the Consequence, and how that is to be 
effected, I cannot devise, unless by taxation. ' why has not N. H. adoptd 
this measure? she is exceedingly fond of following the example of 
Massachusetts and Connecticut; in some things why not in this? which 
in my judgment is the wisest they ever set her. 

How goes on Your recruiting service? .... 

409. John Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philadelphia, 18 March, 1777. 

I had this morning the pleasure of your favor of February 22d,- by 
the post. This is the first letter from you since I left you. 

You are anxious to know what expectations are to be entertained of 
foreign aid. I wish. Sir, it was in my power to communicate to you the 

5 See the Journals, Mar. 13, 14, 19, and nos. 410, 418, 489, 501, note 2, post. Cf. 
nos. 136, 360A, ante. 

8 The first five of these letters were read in Congress Mar. 12. See the references 
in the Journals (p. 171, note i). The letter of Mar. 14 was not presented until Mar. 19, 
as there was not a quorum on either the 17th or the 18th. 

[408] 1 Copied from the original then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 No. 27^, ante. 

3 Properly Feb. 27 and Mar. 12, respectively. Cf. no. 401, ante. 
Uo9]iH^orjfe.y,IX.456. 

2 Warren's letter is in Warren-Adams Letters, I. 294. 



3 

little that I know of this matter; hut I am uiuler such injunctions and 
engagements, to communicate nothing relative to foreign affairs, that 1 
ought not to do it ; and, if I was at liberty, such is the risk of letters by 
the post or any other conveyance, that it would be imprudent. 

Thus much I may say, that we have letters from Dr. Franklin and Mr. 
Deane; both agree that every thing is as they could wish; .... Thus 
much you may depend on, that you may have any thing that France affords 
in the way of manufactures, merchandise, or warlike stores, for sending 
for it. I can go no further as yet.' .... 

410. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philadelphia March i8th. 1777. 
Sir, 

I have the Honour to transmit you sundry Resolves of Congress in 
Obedience to their Commands. 

The Number of Foreigners already employed in the Army of these 
States, is a prodigious Weight upon the Service; and the Evil is likely 
to encrease unless a speedy Stop can be put to it. For this Purpose, the 
Congress have not only determined that no Commissions should be 
granted to any foreign Officers who are ignorant of the English Language 
but have directed the Committee of Secret Correspondence to write to 
their Agents abroad to discourage Gentlemen from Coming to America, 
with expectation of being taken into the Service, unless they are acquainted 
with our Language.^ 

The Sense of Congress relative to some Expressions in your Letter of 
the [4 February] is so clearly conveyed in the enclosed Resolves, that I 
shall only add, it is their Expectation you will be more guarded for the 
future; and that you write in a stile better adapted to their rank and 
Dignity, as well as your own Character.^ 

3 A letter from Franklin, Dec. 8, was read in Congress Mar. 12, It is in Wharton, 
Ret.'. Dipl. Corr., II. 221. See also numerous letters of Silas Deane, ibid., II., passim. 
Cf. no. 400, ante, nos. 421, 422, post. In a letter to John Jay, Mar. i, Washington raises 
the question whether it would not be wise to make public some of the " important pieces 
of intelligence " received from Europe. The letter is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 277. 
[410]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 162; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cent. Cong., no. 58, pt. II., p. 156. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 13, 14, 19 ; cf. no. 407, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 12, 15. Cf. no. 287, ante, and no. 423, post. The perti- 
nent part of Schuyler's letter of Feb. 4 which occasioned this action is given in Tucker- 
man, Life of Schuyler, p. 156. Cf. Lossing, Life of Schuyler, vol. II., ch. viii. In a 
letter to Jonathan Trumbull, jr., Mar. 16, Schuyler says: 

" On Monday the 21st [24th] Instant I propose to begin my Journey to Philadelphia, 
how long I shall be absent is Impossible Even to Guess at. I am something more 
Certain on another point — that is I shall not return a General. I find Congress will have 
no Occasion for me I am happy that they have persons capable of advising them on 
every thing to be done In this department so much so that It does not Even appear 
necessary to Consult me on any Matter whatsoever, they spare me much trouble but 
I shall have still much less when retired at Saratoga Indulging myself In rural amuse- 
ments unperplexed by business, undisturbed by laws and freed from the disagreeable 
Importunity of their Mightenesses the princes of the Wilderness." Conn. Hist. Soc, 
Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. II., no. 73. Cf. no. 461, post. 



March, 7777 305 

411. Samuel Adams to Miss Mercy Scollay.^ 

Philadelphia March 18, 1777 
My dear Miss Scollay 

.... While I was in Baltimore, an opportunity presented of making 
a proposal which, if agreed to, would be honorary to my Friend and 
beneficial to his son. General Mercer having been slain in battle, or rather 
barbarously murdered,^ a motion was made in Congress for a monument 
to be erected to his memory, and that his youngest son should be educated 
at the expense of the continent. I did not think myself partial in judging 
that the services and merit of General Warren considered as a patriot or 
a soldier were not inferior to those of General Mercer, and therefore added 
to the motion that the same honor should be paid to his memory and that 
one of his sons should be educated. I proposed the eldest. It was agreed 
that my motion should be first entered on the journal, and a committee 
was appointed to consider of both. Congress soon after adjourned to this 
place. The Gentlemen of the Committee are not all of them arrived. I 
am persuaded it will be agreed to in the Committee, but as the determina- 
tion in the house may be uncertain, I think it best that it should not be 
made known abroad till we see the Events.' . . . . ' 

412. Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, jr.^ 

Philadelphia March 20th 1777 
Sir 

I received your favour of the loth Instant, by Mr Brown with a Copy 
of your account as settled by the Commissioners. 

After I saw you at Kingsbridge I returned to Congress but tarried there 
but a few days, the day before I went home Congress agreed to augment 
the Pay of the Regimental Officers.^ I supposed they would consider the 
Pay of the Stafl before they dismissed the subject but it seems they did 
not. their principal object at that time was to establish a new Army. 
When I left Congress there was as full a representation of the State of 
Connecticut as the Assembly allowed to attend at one time. I was detained 
at home by sickness some considerable time, while at home I received 
your letter of the 22d of October but could not give you a satisfactory 
answer till I returned to Congress. 

I arrived at Baltimore the 2d of January when General Wolcott shewed 
me your Letter to the Delegates, dated the i6th of Novr. with the repre- 

[411]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks, MSS., no. 49, vol. I., p. 159 (copy). 

2 Cf. no. 319, ante. 

3 See no. 334, note 3, ante; Gen. Joseph Warren left four orphan children, of 
whom the two younger were in the family of John Scollay of Boston, under the particular 
care of his daughter, Mercy Scollay. See the Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Gushing), 
IV. 167, 169, 171, 236. In regard to a movement to have Gongress provide for the three 
younger as well as the eldest of the Warren children, see vol. III. of these Letters, under 
Sept. 16, 1778; also the Journals of that date and July i, 1780. Something of the history 
of the matter may be found in Frothingham, Life of Joseph Warren, pp. 542-546 ; I. N. 
Arnold, Life of Benedict Arnold, pp. 216-221 ; and Sparks, Life of Arnold, pp. 126-129. 

[4i2]iGonn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. II., no. 74. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 7, 8, 1776, Jan. 30, 1777 (p. 74). Cf. no. 166, ante. 



3 

sentation you had made to the Commissioners of Congress in the Northern 
department. 1 took the earhcst opportunity to move Congress on the 
Subject, upon which the Pay of the Staff officers was referred to the Board 
of War. On the 27th of January the Board reported as their opinion that 
your Pay ought to be augmented to 75 Dolhirs per month which was 
agreed to by Congress.^ Upon which I immediately wrote to you enclos- 
ing a Copy of the resolution,* but I suppose you were absent when the 
Letter arrived at Albany, as I understand by Mr Brown you have been 
at Lebanon about two months. There was also about the same time a sum 
of money, I think 500,000 Dollars, sent to the military Chest in your 
department. The Board of war reported in favour of augmenting the 
Pay of your Assistants and some other staff officers which lies before 
Congress not acted upon. I will move Congress to consider it.^ the Pay 
of your Assistants I am sensible is too low for the present times. I have 
had the pleasure of a personal acquaintance with Mr Pierce. ° I know him 
to be a Gentleman of Abilities and Merit, and strict Integrity, such 
persons I wish may always meet with proper encouragement from the 
public. A Deputy Paymaster General is allowed 6 rations and a Regi- 
mental Paymaster 3, by a resolution of Congress of the loth of October 
last.'' 

As to what you mention of a neglect to give you information of the 
resolutions of Congress respecting the duties of your office, I am sure 
there has been no intention to treat you with Neglect, from any disesteem 
of your person or services, for I believe you have executed your Office to 
as good satisfaction as any Officer in the public service.^ The resolutions 
of Congress should be published monthly at least, for the information of 
all concerned, but Congress has not yet been able to procure it to be done : ' 
I understand by the President that he transmits to General Schuyler what 
respects the Northern department, expecting that he would give the need- 
ful information to others. Perhaps General Schuyler did not know but 
that the resolutions which respect your office had been transmited to you 
from Congress, which I think would be the proper way. I have sent you 
copies of some resolutions in time past but know not whether they came 
to hand. 

5 See the Journals, Jan. 20, 30. The board of war may have held its meeting 
Jan. 27, but Congress only met and adjourned on that day. .See, further, no. 757, post. 

* There is a letter of Jan. 30 from Sherman to Trumbull in Conn. Hist. Soc., 
Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. II., no. 67, mentioning other resolutions but 
not this one. The appropriation mentioned further on was for 300,000 dollars on Jan. 30. 

5 See the Journals, Jan. 20, Feb. 14 (p. 121), Apr. i. Cf. ibid., June 12, July 2, 
Aug. 28 (p. 693). 

6 John Pierce, jr., assistant paymaster. 

" By a resolve of Oct. 10, 1776, regimental paymasters were given the rank 
of first lieutenants and allow'ed the same rations as captains. The allowance to a captain 
rested upon a resolve of Jan. 10, 1776. The rations of a deputy paymaster general 
and several other officers were fixed by a resolve of Oct. 21, 1776 (see also the Journals, 
Oct. 7, Dec. 21, 1776). In Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 1505, is a table of the 
pay and rations of the staff prepared in the war office Dec. 31, 1776. See no. 422, post. 

8 See Trumbull's letter to the President of Congress, Nov. 16, 1776, Force, 
Am. Arch., fifth sen, III. 731. 

9 See no. 387, note 3, ante. 



March, i/// 307 

I must do General Wolcott the Justice to say that his not Complying 
with your request in your letter of the i6th of November sooner was not 
from any disposition to treat it with neglect, for he seemed really con- 
cerned to have the matter accomplished, but he was left alone, and the 
Congress moved from Philadelphia to Baltimore about the time he re- 
ceived the letter which necessarily occasioned the delay. 

I shall always take pleasure in rendering you any service in my power, 
and especially when it will promote the public good. I am Sir due regards 

Your humble Servant 

Roger Sherman 
Jonathan Trumbull Junr. Esqr. 

413. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, March 21st, 1777. 
Sir, 

.... I forgot to mention in my last the affair of the cannon which 
Congress requested the loan of ; ^ some gentlemen seemed much surprized 
at the prices of 70 and 80 pounds per ton, as some had been purchased and 
more engaged here at £40 this currency per ton. I understand the Salis- 
bury cannon are not so heavy as these ; therefore the difference of price 
is not so great as was imagined. When it was proposed to borrow them, 
we represented that they were wanted for the defence of the State of Con- 
necticut, and if lent others must be immediately provided in their stead, 
therefore we conceived Congress would not think such a requisition 
reasonable, but lest giving so high a price should make a bad precedent 
and raise the price here, it was resolved to apply to borrow them. We 
gave as a reason why they could not be afforded cheaper, that the furnace 
was rebuilt and put in blast at a great expence for the purpose of casting 
some cannon for the use of that State, the scarcity of wood, the high price 
of coal and the distance it was carted, etc 

414. Daniel Roberdeau to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

.... Being a Committee of Congress appointed to confer with Major 
(jeneral Greene now in this city, we find it is General Washington's settled 
opinion that Genl. Howe may suddenly attempt to gain this Capital.^ We 
wish that the new levies in your State may be forwarded with the utmost 
expedition possible : so that they may either join our troops already in 
the Jersies, or at least be at hand to arrrest the enemy at the Delaware, 
in the supposed attempt to pass it 

Philadelphia March 22d 1777. 

[413]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 35; Mass. Hist. Soc, C 8r A 6 
(draft). 

2 See the Journals. Feb. 12. Cf. ibid., Nov. 28, Dec. 23, 29, 1776. 
[4i4P Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IX. 11 ; Arch, of Md., XVI. 187. 
2 See the Journals, Mar. 13, 20, 21 (pp. 189, 191 ) , 24, Apr. 2, 4. 



3 

415. Jamf.s Lovem, to John Trumbull.' 

J. 'I'ruiiibull Esqr; 

March 22(1 [1777.] 

Sir: 

I wrote you a few T.ines, by Mr Bates, in regard to yr. manner of 
returning- your Commission. I was not aware of some circumstances, 
attending your appointment, which have upon this occasion been can- 
vassed. I shall not accurately enter upon any discussion, of the propriety 
or Impropriety of your resignation ; I sliall only, as an affectionate friend, 
give you this early Intelligence of a number of facts, which will enable 
you to make a final Determination in this Matter. 

The Commissions of several Inclos'd in Letters of less apparent resent- 
ment than your's had been readily admitted for resignation, some very 
cutting resolutions had been made, on insolent passages of the late Letters 

of S r.^ especially on those parts which called for stigmas on you or 

your Brother. Immediately your Letter is open'd, and by your friends 
committed, instead of the resignation being instantly accepted; a favour- 
able report was made, but overuled by a motion to postpone the considera- 
tion. Upon this G G ^ sent in a recommendatory letter, 

explaining the circumstances of your appointment.* But this would not 
do; Congress are highly piqu'd at the style and manner of your demand, 
in a Case which will appear to you now, in the line of favour, and not of 

strict right. You are to know, that G G 's power was in 

Canada,^ so that your appointment before his entrance there, was not 
strictly proper. Whether your first Commission was dated after any 
formal Debate upon this point, I cannot say, but that, and the late one are 
of one Date, founded on your nomination in Congress,* I suppose. Every 
Member is entirely willing to accord you a Commission agreeable to the 
Date you expect ; but they are as determin'd on the other Hand, to lose, 
even your acknozuledg'd abilities^ if they do not receive a Different Request 
from what is now before them. 

You were certainly unacquainted with the Criticisms which may take 

place on G G s power of appointment out of Canada. You 

are also unacquainted with the provocations which have been given to 
Congress for attention to the Style of the Letters of their officers, prior 

to the Receipt of your's. Gen : G is attach'd to you, the Congress 

admit your Merit ; and, while they are dispos'd to give you a Rank which 

[415]^ Conn. Hist. Soc. Papers of Jonathan Trumbull. Commercial (copy) ; L. I. 
Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers (copy) ; S. C. Hist. Soc, vol. of copies, p. 263; Hist. Mag., 
I. 290. 

' Schuyler. See the resolves. Mar. 15; cf. no. 410. anfe. 

3 General Gates. 

* See the Journals, Mar. 14, 19, 20. 

5 See the Journals, June 17, July 8, 1776; also nos. 6, 18, 75, anie. 

^Trumbull's appointment by Gates was June 28, 1776; his election by Congress 
was Sept. 12. See nos. 123, 124, anie. 



March, 7777 309 

shall save you from any appearance of demerit, they think that you your- 
self will Judge the Commission more valuable for proceeding from a body 
attentive to their own Honour. 

No Time will be lost by this Accident, if you Determine to procure the 
Commission, by the Method I shall take the freedom to point out ; because 
you may go on to act, from an absolute certainty to receive it, by the first 
Opportunity, after your Letter shall arrive here. 

To the Hon* J : H : Esqr etc.^ 

Sir: 

Since I address'd a Letter to yr: Honour from Providence, enclosing 
my Commission, I have been led to find I was mistaken in the Apprehen- 
sion that my Appointment to the office of De. A. Genl. — on the 28th of 
June, from which time I have acted, was so much in the usual manner, as 
to render my Commission bearing an after Date, a decisive Degradation, 
when compared with usual practice ; but, the same desire of serving my 
Country in the most effectual Manner, which had govern'd all my actions, 
in the course of my Adjutancy, since the day of my first Appointment, 
leads me to be anxious that I may not be under any appearances of Dis- 
grace, from any circumstance in my Commission as this would lessen the 
Efficacy of my most vigorous Exertions. Therefore I entreat your Honor 
would move the Honble Congress to favor me with a Commission con- 
sonant in Date to my Appointment from Genl. Gates ; assuring them of my 
Zeal for the Service of the United States, and of the greatest Respect for 
their Body. 

I am 

Hon* Sir, etc. 

I do not afifect to point out a verbal exact model for you. It is the tenor 
only. With something similar you may be assur'd of an instant comply- 
ance here; The Delay therefore depends on yourself. I hope you will 
make none * 

I am etc etc. 

J: LOVELL. 

^ Lovell is suggesting to John Trumbull that he write a letter of this character 
to President Hancock. 

8 Cf. no. 419, post, and see the Journals, Apr. 19. The file of letters in the 
Jonathan Trumbull Papers, from which this letter is taken, is endorsed by John Trum- 
bull : " Copy of Letters, to and from Congress and Mr. Lovell on the Subject of my 
Resignation." The letters extend in date from Feb. 22 to Apr. 6. Among them is 
that mentioned in the beginning of this letter. It is dated Mar. 16. Affixed to the file 
is the following memorandum, in the writing of James Lovell : 

" After Mr. Lovell reed the last Letter before mentioned, some Member moved thai 
it should be reflferred to Genl Gates to fill his place On which Dr. Witherspoon rose 
and said he had no objection, in case he was restrained from re-appointing Mr. Trumbull. 
On which some Person replyed that there was no Danger of that young Gentleman's 
Spirit stooping to accept that office now." Cf. no. 466, post. The group of letters is 
printed in Hist. Mag., I. 289-292. 



3 

416. William Whipple to John Langdon.' 

Philadelphia 24th. March 1777 
My Dear Sir, 

.... We have been in great want of arms to put in the hands of the 
new levies and were this day considering of means to obtain them, when 
in the midst of debate on that subject, news were brought us that 1 1,000 
stand and a number of locks was that minute arrived ; this is the most lucky 
circumstance that could have happened. This vessel is from Nantz and 
had a long passage. She brings no public news nor have I yet heard of 
any private.* 



417. John Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philadelphia, March 24, 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

This Morning a Vessell has arrived in this City with 6800 stand of 
excellent Arms and 1500 Gun Locks, belonging to Congress, and 1500 
more private Property. These last We have ordered to be bought. 

This News you may depend on. The Letters were brought into Con- 
gress, in the Midst of a Debate concerning a Resolution to impower the 
General to procure Arms wherever he could find them.^ 

Thus it is. On how many Occasions when We have been unable to see 
any Way to help ourselves has Providence sent Us an unexpected Relief ! 
Thus it has been, and thus it will be. I am. etc., 

John Adams 



418. The Committee of Secret Correspondence to the 

Commissioners in Paris.^ 

Philadelphia March 25, 1777 
Sir, 

We are commanded by Congress to transmit Copies of their Resolve 
of the 13 instant to all the Gentlemen abroad that hold correspondance 
with any of their Committees The Necessity of such a resolution and 
due attention to it, is fully evinced by the heavy expence america has been 
put to by many Gentlemen received into their Service, who have found it 
impossible to render themselves usefull for want of the Language and we 
think this the most likely means to save others the charge and trouble of 
a long voyage, as well as the mortification of being disapointed in their 
expectations. 

[416]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 315; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks Coll., no. 52, vol. IL, p. 1781. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 24; cf. nos. 417, 421, post. 
[417]^ Warren-Adams Letters, I. 306. 

2 See the Journals (p. 197) ; cf. no. 416. ante. See also Robert Morris to John 
Jay, Apr. i. Correspondence of Jay. I. 125. 

[418]! Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, vol. V. (11.), no. 122. 



March, 7-777 311 

You will therefore serve all such and oblige us by discouraging their 
coming to America for Military employments ' 

We are Sir 

Your Obed. Servants 
By order of the Committee of Secret Correspondence 

RoBT Morris 

[Addressed :] 
To 
The Honorable Doctr Benjn Franklin 
Silas Deane and Arthur Lee Esqrs. 
Paris 

419. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull/ 

Philadelphia March 26. 1777 
Dear Sir 

I am favoured wth yours of the loth. and as far as Time will permit 
Shall reply to the several Matters therein hinted. 

With respect to General Arnold, he is considered by Congress as a brave 
and deserving Officer, and had it been possible to have proceeded in the 
line of Succession in appointing officers would undoubtedly have been 
promoted. This cannot be done with°. giving great Dissatisfaction to the 
States that had no officers in the army in the beginning of the War ; who 
claim a Right to their proportion, agreable to the Number of Men wch. 
they furnish for the Service, of Major and Brig. Generals. The principles 
of appointmt. are therefore reduced to three Heads, and a Regard will be 
had to each of these, " the present Rank of the officers, their Merit, and 
the proportion already mentioned ", and upon the two first I think General 
Arnold will meet a timely promotion.^ 

I am informed that upon a report of the Board of War upon your 
Brother's Letter, Congress discovered a Resentment at the disrespectful 
Freedom expressed therein, and would not consent to give him a Comm. 
of an earlier Date. I think he had a Right to his Claim, but cannot 
altogether approve of the Stile in which he addressed the Legislative 
authority of the Continent. It is the fixed Determination of Congress to 
preserve the civil above the military, and the authority of that will not be 
surrendered, should it be necessary to disband the army in preserving the 
same. Your Friends will endeavour to reconcile the Matter, and if Meas- 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 13, 14, 19, and nos. 136, 360A, 407, 410, ante, 489, 501, 
note 2, post. 

[419] 1 Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 72. 

2 See Washington to Richard Henry Lee, Mar. 6 (Writings, ed. Sparks, IV. 
251), Arnold to Washington, Mar. 26 (Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, I. 359). and 
Washington to Arnold, Apr. 3 (Writings, ed. Sparks, IV. 377). Arnold was elected 
major-general May 2, 1777, in recognition of his conduct at Danbury. See the Journals, 
May 2, Aug. 8, Nov. 12, 29, and nos. 476, 497, 582, 583, 585, 607, post. In accordance with 
instructions of Congress, Nov. 29, Washington sent to Arnold. Jan. 20, 1778, a new com- 
mission. See Washington's Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 289, (ed. Sparks). V. 215. 
According to Heitman, Historical Register, Arnold's commission bore date of Feb. 17, 
1777. Concerning the principles of promotion, see nos. 363-365, 372, 376, 392, ante. 

25 



3 

ures slioukl be adopted by your Brother to explain and set it right, which 
by revising: his Letter might to him appear expedient, I think they will 
be able to obtain their Wisiies.' 

Your proposals relative to a Q. M. G. cannot be attended to at present, 
as General Mifflin is desired to retain tlic office. When he can be spared, 
an attention will be paid to the Gentleman whom you mention. 

I am glad to hear of your Success in procuring Supplies, and wish that 
Measures may be immediately pursued to provide Gardens for Supplying 
the army daily with Vegetables, and also to procure large Quantities of 
Vinegar. Without these the Soldiery will be sickly and dispirited and the 
Service injured, if not ruined — pray attend to them as Matters of the last 
Im{X)rtance * — few Men can subsist upon Bread, Meat, and Water. Your 
Application for Cash was immediately attended to, as the Treasury had 
recovered from the Inconveniences wch. resulted from the adjournmt. to 
Baltimore.'^ 

Your application to Congress relative to your Salary shall be considered 
by the Treasury this week and reported to Congress as soon [as] deter- 
mined.® .... 

Colo Trumbull. 



420. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

Philadelphia March 30th, 1777. 
Sir: 

Agreeable to the Directions in your Letter, by Messrs. Greene and 
Howell I have exerted myself to the utmost of my Power and have been 
happy enough, by the kind Offices of the President and others in Conse- 
quence of my Application, to procure a very great Part of the Ballance 
due to the State of Rhode Island, etc. which I wish may go safe to our 
Treasury. The Commrs. will inform you into the unhappy Cause of their 
Detention; " they will also acquaint you with the monie they paid Messrs. 
Purviances out off the monie received from the Treasurer in Baltimore, 
and when it was expected that Capt. Coffin ^ would sail, and with every 
Article of Intelligence. If the Monies paid by them to the Purivances 
should not amount to the Ballance of their Account, I shall improve that 
Circumstance to obtain a Resolve for an additional Sum, and take the 
Money along with me, if I can, when I return to our State 

- see nos. 123, 124, 331, 415, ante, 466, 496, post. 
* Cf. nos. 145, 162, 166, 266, ante, 450, post. 
° See the Journals, Mar. 15. 

^ See the Journals, June 10 (p. 448) and 16. Cf. no. 175, ante. 
[420]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1777, p. 51 ; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Ccng., 
p. 123. 

2 See nos. 394, 405, ante ; also no. 538, post. The " unhappy cause of their 
detention" was probably the interval between the adjournment of Congress from 
Baltimore and its reassembling in Philadelphia. 

3 Capt. Charles Coffin. See the Journals, Apr. 16. 



March, lyyj 313 

421. John Adams to James Warren/ 

Philadelphia, March 31, 1777 

Dear Sir, 

We have this clay received Letters from Europe, of an interesting 
Nature.^ We are under Injunctions of Silence concerning one very im- 
portant Point : and indeed I don't know how far I am at Liberty concern- 
ing some others : but thus much I may venture to communicate : That We 
have an offer of three Millions of Livres in Specie, without Interest, and 
to be paid when We shall be settled in Peace and Independence ; that all 
Europe wish Us well, excepting only Portugal and Russia ; that all the 
Ports of France and Spain and Italy and all the Ports in the Mediter- 
ranean, excepting Portugal, are open to our Privateers and Merchant 
Ships. That there is no danger of our wanting Arms or Ammunition for 
the future — between six and seven hundred Barrells of Powder having 
arrived in Maryland, and indeed, We had plenty of Powder before. In 
short, my Friend, altho We have many grievous Things to bear, and shall 
have more; yet there is nothing wanting but Patience. Patience and 
Perseverance, will carry Us through this mighty Enterprize — an Enter- 
prize that is and will be an Astonishment to vulgar Minds all over the 
World, in this and in future Generations. An Enterprize however, which, 
Faithfullness to our Ancestors who have sett Us Examples of Resistance 
to Tyranny, Faithfullness to the present and future Generations, whose 
Freedom depend upon it laid us under every moral and religious obliga- 
tion to undertake. Our Accounts from Europe are that great Prepara- 
tions are making for War and that every Thing tends to that Object, but 
when or where, or how Hostilities will commence is yet unknown. France 
and Spain, will act in concert and with perfect Amity, neither will take 
any Step without the other. 

The American Ministers abroad, advise Us to exert ourselves in every 
Respect, as if We were to receive no Assistance from abroad. This is 
certainly good Advice and if We have Wisdom enough to follow it, a 
Division by a War in Europe will be a more effectual Relief to us.' 
I am, etc. 

[421]! Warren- Adams Letters, I. 307. 

2 They were probably Arthur Lee's letter of Jan. 3 (practically identical with 
that of Dec. 31), Franklin's letter of Jan. 4, and that of Franklin, Deane, and Lee, 
dated Jan. 17 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IL 242, 244. 248). A paragraph which 
appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet, Apr. 8, and in the Pennsylvania Gazette, Apr. 9, 
suggests all three of these letters: "By the last advices from France we learn that 
Arthur Lee, Esq. who is appointed by the United States to act in concert with Dr. 
Franklin, was arrived at that court, where he with the Doctor were received and* 
treated with all respect shewn to European Ambassadors, and that they have already 
negotiated a loan of two million livres, for and on account of the United States." 
Cf. no. 422, 423, post; also Samuel Adams to his wife, Apr. i (Writings, IIL 367), and 
Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henr}^, Apr. 7 (Letters, I. 268). 

3 Cf. no. 409, ante. 



3 

422. Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, jr.* 

Philadelphia April i. 1777 
Sir 

I received your favour of the 20th Ultimo, am sorry to hear that the 
recruiting service goes on so slow in Connecticut at this time when we 
ought to have an Army in the Field sufficient to subdue the Enemy. 
General Gates is ordered to Tycondaroga. he sets out to morrow. It is 
not determined what other General officers are to be sent there. General 
St Clair is talked of for one.^ Congress has this Day passed some resolu- 
tions for regulating the payment of the army which are ordered to be 
published in the News Papers. The Pay of the Assistant Paymasters in 
the Northern Department was this Day augmented to forty Dollars per 
month and 3 rations per Day. The Pay of the Regimental Paymasters 
is the same — that was fixed last Saturday the 29th Ult.^ We have Letters 
from our Ambassadors at Foreign Courts as late as the 27th of January. 
The accounts are favourable beyond our expectation, they have been 
offered the loan of large sums of money without Interest to be repaid 
when these States shall be settled in Peace. It was not certainly known 
wiiether a war would soon take place between France and Great Britain, 
tho' very probable.* .... 

I shall move to have a further supply of Money immediately sent to 
Albany.^ I should think it advisable for you to return there as soon as 
your affairs will admit. 

423. Roger Sherman to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia April 2d. 1777. 
Sir, 

I suppose the President has informed you what was done in Virginia 
relative to the purchase of Flour and Indian Corn. William Aylet Esqr. 

[422] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. II., no. 77. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 25, Apr. i, 29. The resolve ordering St. Clair to 
Ticonderoga was passed the same day on which this letter was written. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 29, Apr. i ; cf. no. 412, ante. 

*" Letters from France of the 21st January bring many pleasing intelligences. 
Some part must not yet be communicated. Two millions of livres are in bank in Paris, 
ready to answer our drafts. France and Spain are exceedingly friendly to us." Thomas 
Burke to Governor Caswell, Apr. r, 1777, N. C. State Recs., XL 437. Cf. no. 421, note 
2, ante, 436, 439, 470, 473, post. Burke and Sherman appear to have in mind particularly 
the letter of Franklin, Deane, and Lee, dated Jan. 17, with a postscript of January 22 
(Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 248). What letters from the commissioners had been 
received by the committee of secret correspondence cannot be determined from the 
Journals; Feb. 2 nothing later than Deane's letter of Oct. i had been received (see the 
committee to the commissioners, Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 258). The Journals 
mention, Feb. 24 (erased entry), letters from Deane dated Oct. 8 and 25, and on Mar. 
19 one from Franklin dated Dec. 8. The next record in the Journals is June 3, men- 
tioning letters of Nov. 27 and Feb. 6, brought by Du Coudray, although a letter of 
May 2 (no. 473, post) from the committee of foreign affairs, successor of the com- 
mittee of secret correspondence, mentions the receipt, " about the middle of April ", of 
letters of Feb. 6 and 8. See, further, the Journals, June 3, 30, Aug. i, 2, 3. Sherman's 
letter to Joseph Trumbull, Apr. 2 (no. 423), post, contains a fuller statement of foreign 
news. 

5 See the Journals, Apr. 8. 
[423] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 



April, lyyj 315 

Deputy Commissary General (who is a very honest discreet man) is 
directed to purchase and store sufficient quantities of those articles and 
have them ready to deliver to your order ^ the highest price he had given 
for Corn when he wrote was half a Dollar per Bushel. Much depends 
upon your employing none but persons of Strict Integrity, and great 
prudence and discretion in your department otherwise the greatest Frauds 
and peculation may take place, your Credit, and I fear the public Interest 
has suffered much from your employing a Gentleman in this place to pur- 
chase provisions, there are great Complaints against him that he gives 
very exorbitant prices and that the prices of articles have been much 
increased by his indiscretion I have no personal knowledge of these things 
but they are publicly talked of by persons of the best Credit. Congress did 
not think proper to displace him because he is your Deputy and you 
accountable for his conduct, but the President was twice directed by Con- 
gress to inform you of the complaints. Mr Wharton is the person. 
Enclosed is a Copy of an Advertisement Posted up by one of his Deputies.' 
It is said that last winter Mr Wharton made public declaration in this 
City that he was employed to purchased a large Quantity of Rum for the 
Army and the highest price would be given, and that he gave like notice 
to the people in the Country as to the purchase of Pork and Beef and other 
provisions. I don't know on what terms you employ people but sure I am 
it will not do to employ them to purchase on Commissions unless you limit 
the prices : For the greater prices they give the more will be their profits, 
which is such a temptation as an honest man would not wish to be 
led into.* 

A Gentleman at Baltimore has made proposals for supplying the army 
by Contract at a certain price per ration not to risque more than his own 
time and trouble. He has also proposed another plan by which all the 
provisions for the Army and those purchased for exportation either by 
the public or private merchants should go through the same hands, so 
that they may govern the prices by not interfering one with another, a 
Copy of both are Enclosed I wish to have your opinion on them and 
whether you would be willing to undertake in either way. I am one of 
a Committee to whom it is referred. Mr Smith of Baltimore and Mr 
Gerry are the other two we thought it not best to do any thing upon it 
'till we knew your thoughts on the Subject. I wish you would write to me 
whether you think either of those ways preferable to the present rnode.^ 



P. S. General Schuyler about 2 months ago transmitted to Congress 
the Copy of a letter published in Gain's New York Paper, said to be 

2 See the Journals. Mar. 29. 

3 The enclosure referred to is a copy of an advertisement of George Eichelberger. 
* See no. 324, ante, and the Journals. Jan. 29, Mar. 14, Apr. 18. 26, June 26. 

5 The Baltimore gentleman was William Buchanan. See the Journals, Feb. 20. 
He was elected deputy commissary-general of purchases June 18, and commissary- 
general of purchases Aug. 5, after the resignation of Joseph Trumbull. Cf. nos. 145, 
162, 164, 165, 172, 175, 239, ante. The proposals for victualling the army are found 
with this letter. 



3 

Written by you to Colo. Williams, and requested that Justice !nijj;-lit be 
done to his Character, l)ut no answer was returned he has lately re|)eated 
his Complaint, C()mi)lainin^- that Conti^ress has not done him that Justice 
in the affair which they might and ought to have done, on which the 
President was desired to Inform him that it was improper for Con- 
gress to interfere in Disputes between officers in the Army, but that 
they ought to be settled agreable to the Rules of the Army — withal admin- 
istring- a Gentle reproof to him for the indecent Stile in which he wrote 
to Congress on that as well as some other Occasions. I am sorry your 
Letter was intercepted (if you wTote such a one) — though I think the 
authority of Gains Paper is not sufficient proof to support any charge 
whatever." 

R. S. 

424. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 
Governor of Maryland (Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philadelphia April 2d 1777 
Sir, 

.... You will perceive from the inclosed Copy of a Letter from 
General Washington that the Information it contains is of the most 
serious Nature, and that our Enemies are meditating an Invasion of the 
State of Maryland. In this Situation of Affairs, I am earnestly to request 
you will take such ]Measures. as will have a Tendency to Defeat their 
designs, should any Attempts be made in Consequence of this Intelligence 

The inclosed Resolve of Congress respecting the removal of the public 
Stores to the places therein mentioned, I am to request you will pay the 
utmost Attention to, and give orders for removing the same as soon as 
possible.^ 

425. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

Philadelphia, Apl 6th, 1777. 
Sir 

.... Inclosed is a Resolve of Congress respecting your granting 
Commissions, which I transmit because in the Multiplicity of the Presi- 
dents Business it may be forgot by him. I laid the Paragraph of your 
Letter which related to that point before Congress immediately upon the 
Receipt of your Letter. Congress did nothing in the flatter which 
amounted to an Acquiescence. A Day or Two ago a Letter from the 
President of So. Carolina was read in Congress representing that for the 
Want of Commissions Instructions etc. he had issued Commissions, and 

^ See no. 287. note 4, ante ; also the Journals. Mar. 12, 15. Schuyler's second letter 
referred to is that of Feb. 4. See no. 410, ante. 

[424]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VI. 26 (copy) ; Arch, of Md., XVI. 196. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 2. Cf. Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 289. Washington's 
letter of Alar. 31 is ibid., V. 290, and Arch, of Md., XVI. 197. Cf. ibid., XVI. 206. 

[425]! R. I. Arch.. Letters to the Governors, 1777, p. 59; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 124; Hist. Mag., XVIII. 47. 



April, 7777 317 

desiring that a Resolve might pass which might give VaHdity to his Com- 
missions. This brought to my Mind your granting Commissions, and 
induced me to move the Resolve which is now inclosed.^ If Cont'l Com- 
missions should be wanted you will send for them in Time 

426. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, 6 April, 1777. 

You have had many rumors propagated among you which I suppo>e 
you know not how to account for. One was, that Congress, the last 
summer, had tied the hands of General Washington, and would not let him 
fight, particularly on the White plains. This report was totally ground- 
less. Another was, that at last, Congress untied the General, and then he 
instantly fought and conquered at Trenton. This also was without 
foundation, for as his hands were never tied, so they were not untied. 
Indeed, within a few days past, a question has been asked Congress, to the 
surprise, I believe, of every member there, w'hether the General was bound 
by the advice of a council of war? No member of Congress, that I know 
of, ever harbored or conceived such a thought. " Taking the advice of 
a council of war " are the words of the General's instructions, but this 
meant only, that councils of war should be called and their opinions and 
reasons demanded, but the General, like all other commanders of armies, 
was to pursue his own judgment after all." 

Another report, which has been industriously circulated, is, that the 
General has been made by Congress, dictator. But this is as false as the 
other stories. Congress, it is true, upon removing to Baltimore, gave the 
General power to raise fifteen battalions, in addition to those which were 
ordered to be raised before, and to appoint the officers, and also, to raise 
three thousand horse, and to appoint their officers, and also, to take neces- 
saries for his army, at an appraised value. But no more. Congress never 
thought of making him dictator, or of giving him a sovereignty.^ I wish 
I could find a correspondent, who was idle enough to attend to every 
report, and write it to me. Such false news, uncontradicted, does more 
or less harm. Such a collection of lies w'ould be a curiosity for posterity. 

The report you mention in your last, that the British administration 
had proposed to Congress a treaty and terms, is false, and without a color. 
On the contrary, it is now more than ever past a doubt, that their fixed 
determination is, conquest and unconditional subjugation. But there w^ll 
be many words and blows too, before they will accomplish their wishes. 
Poor, abandoned, infatuated nation ! Infatuation is one of the causes to 
which great historians ascribe many events, and if it ever produced any 
effect, it has produced this war against America 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 4, 5. 
[426]^ Familiar Letters, p. 255. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 24. The question was propounded to Congress by 
Washington through General Greene. See ibid., Mar. 21. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 12, 27, 1776. Cf. nos. 268, 275-277, 284, ante. The number 
of additional battahons authorized, Dec. 27, was sixteen, not fifteen. 



3 

427. John Adams to Jamks Warren.* 

I'liiLADELriiiA, April 6, 1777 
My Friend, 

The Business of the naval and marine Department will I hope be soon 
put in a better Train than it has been. A Board of Assistants has been 
appointed here consisting^ of three Gentlemen, not Members of Cong^ress, 
whose whole Time is devoted to the Service, Mr. Ilopkinson, Coll. Nixon 
and Mr. John Wharton are the Men. The first is a Gentleman of Letters, 
the second an able Merchant, the third an eminent shipwright.^ 

There is a Talk off appointing a similar Board at Boston and a Com- 
missioner at every considerable Port in N. England. Who would be 
proper Persons for those Places? They should be well acquainted with 
Navigation. They should be well informed in Trade. They should be 
Men of Character and Credit.' 

The Marine Committee have lately reed. Letters from Captn Thomp- 
son, McNeal * and several others, pointing out Defects, Abuses and Mis- 
managements, and proposing Plans of Improvement, Redress and Refor- 
mation. These will do good. This is the Way to have things go right ; 
for Officers to correspond constantly with Congress and communicate 
their Sentiments freely.^ .... 

[427]! Warren-Adams Letters, I. 312. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 6, 13, 18, 1776. See also C. O. Paullin, The Navy of 
the American Revolution, pp. 96-101. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 19. May 3, 6. and nos. 449, 457. 459, 480, 485, post. 
* Thomas Thompson and Hector McNeil. 

5 Another letter from Adams to Warren, written in the evening of the same 
day (Warren-Adams Letters, I. 310), discusses marine affairs, and should be read 
in connection with this letter. Following is the significant part of it : 

" Complaints are frequently brought here from Boston and from Providence con- 
cerning the Continental Agents and other Officers. T am sorry for this, but cannot help 
it. At Providence I fear, by what I have lately heard, there has been a System of 
Selfishness, and at Boston of Incapacity. I had the Honour of belonging to the first 
Naval Committee, which set all our maritime agoing ; and they did it with a Vigour, 
Assiduity and Dispatch, which precluded all Censure and Complaint : But I went home 
last December was twelve Month, and Advantage was taken of that Opportunity, one or 
two other Members being absent at the same Time — Coll. Lee went home, and Gadsden 
and Langdon and Deane was left out — to choose a new Committee. Since which 
there has been nothing but Languor, Censure and Complaint. Upon my Return they did 
me the Honour to put me upon the Board of War, which takes up my whole Time, 
every Morning and Evening, and renders it totally impossible for me to look into the 
marine Department, which if I had Leisure to do, ignorant as I am of every Rope in the 
Ship, I would perish if I did not put that Department in a respectable order. There 
is nothing wanting but some one Person whose Vigour, Punctuality, and Constancy, should 
draw the Committee together every morning and Evening, direct their Attention to the 

Object, and keep it fixed there The Fracas between Manley and McNeal had 

reached this Place before your Letter, hope it will do good." (C/. Warren-Adams 
Letters, L 304, 311. 3I2, 317, 319. 329, 350, 372; also no. 624, post.) 

Adams appears thus early to have fallen into some errors of recollection as regards 
the marine committee. Similar errors found in his autobiographical statements, written 
many years later, have been pointed out in the preceding volume of these Letters (see 
vol. I., no. 316, note 3. and no. 390, note 2), where the principal stages in the develop- 
ment of the marine committee are mentioned. Adams was probablj' a member of the 
committee appointed Oct. 5, 1775, "to prepare a plan for intercepting two vessels", 
but he was not a member of the committee appointed Oct. 13 to execute the plan. When, 
however, the plan was enlarged, Oct. 30, and the membership of the committee was 
increased from three to seven, Adams became a member of this enlarged naval committee. 
This was not, however, the permanent or standing marine committee. The latter was 



April, ijyj 319 

428. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett,^ 

Philadelphia 7th Apl 1777 
My Dear Sir, 

. . . . N. York I expect will give an Infinity of trouble, a long letter 
was laid this morning before Congress from that Convention respecting 
the N. Hampshire Grants, a deputation is also arrived from the Green 
Mountain Boys, but their matters are not yet laid before Congress ^ I 
sho'd not much care if the Devil had them all 

What advantage could have arisen from a compliance with Genl. Lee's 
Request? Genl Howe certainly would not agree to the conference unless 
he Expected to reap some advantage by it he surely wo'* not permit an 
interview that co*^ possibly opperate to his disadvantage, if he has powers 
to treat with America as Independent States, the door is always open for 
him, we know very well he has no new powers, nor nothing to offer but 
Pardon on submission at the same tjme that we co*^ receive no possible 
Benefit by complying with the Request, the Enemy wo'* profit much by it. 
A Packet wo** be immediately dispatched, and all the Courts in Europe 
amus'd with our negociations and the strongest assurences given that 
peace wo^ soon take place in America, this was the use made of the Con- 
ference last faul by which means the stores that are now arriving, have 
been delayed at least 4 months. The insidious designs were so very evi- 
dent that there was not a single advocate for the measure.' .... 

I am very glad I am like to be relieved and hope it will be by the 
Gentn. you mention since you are determined not to spend another summer 
in Phila^ — I hope they will be here by the middle of may. 

Please to present my Respects to all Friends and be ass[ured] you have 
the best wishes of 

Your very affec*^ Friend and Hum'^ Sert 

Wm. Whipple 



429. Benjamin Rush, Diary.^ 

The declaration of independance was said to have divided and weak- 
ened the colonies. The contrary of this was the case. Nothing but the 

created Dec. 14. (In the appendix to the Journals, vol. VI.. the committee of Dec. 11 
is erroneously given as the standing marine committee.) Of this committee Adams 
was not a member, for he had taken his leave Dec. 9. Adams seems to have confused 
the creation of the new committee, Dec. 14, with the filling of vacancies. Mar. 6, 1776. 
Moreover, he is in error in suggesting that he was absent when these vacancies were 
filled; he had returned to Congress Feb. 9. John Langdon was a member with Adams 
of the earlier naval committee (he was appointed Oct. 13, 1775). but was not a member 
of the standing marine committee. 

[428] 1 Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. I., 1774-1778. 

2 A petition from the inhabitants of the New Hampshire Grants was presented 
to Congress Apr. 8. See also the Journals, June 23, 25, 28, 30, and nos. 431, 445, 453, 
464, 465, 524, 526, 532, 533, post. Concerning the New York letters, see the Journals, 
Apr. 7, and cf. no. 406, ante, and nos. 431, 445, 453, 464, 465, 524, 526, 532, 534, post. 

3 See nos. 366, 367, 371, 376, 386, 390. 395, 403, 404, 407, ante. 
[429]! Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS. 



3 

sif^iiinp, and rcco<^ni/iii<^ of the declaration of iiidepciulance preserved the 
congress from a dissolution in Dccenir 1776 when Howe marched to the 
Delaware. Maryland had instructed her delegates to concur in an accom- 
modation notwithstanding any measure (meaning independance) to the 
contrary. But further tlie declaration of independance produced a seces- 
sion of tories — timid — moderate and double minded men from the coun- 
sels of america in conseciuencc of wliich the congress as well as each of the 
States have possessed ten times the Vigor and Strength they had formerly. 

April 8, 1777. 



430. Thomas Burke, Abstract of Debates.' 

[April 8, 1777.] 

Motion from Pennsylvania for recommendation to Governor of Jersey 
to excuse 40 persons employed by Pennsylva. in saltworks in the Jersey, 
proposed by North Carolina to ammend by adding if not Inconsistent with 
their Laws, after much debate the amendment was agreed to.^ 



431. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia April 9th. 1777 
Sir, 

Capt. Niles ^ of the Spy was here last Saturday he said That there wero 
a number of the Enemy's Ships of War in Chesepeak Bay so that he could 
not go to Virginia That he wanted 750 Dollars toward paying for a 
Cargo of Flour which he had purchased upon w^hich I moved Congress 
to advance to the State of Connecticut one thousand Dollars which was 
Granted, and I delivered 750 of them to Captain Niles and he drew a Bill 
on your Honr. for payment the whole is Charged to the State and I must 
ansr. for it when I return home.^ Nothing very material has occurred 
here since my last. Congress has passed some Resolutions for regulating 
a Hospital in the xA-rmy which will be published in the News Papers.* All 

[430]! N.Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1162. 

2 This paragraph in the manuscript follows immediately after the abstract 
printed under Mar. 14, ante, and is without distinctive date. See the Journals, Apr. 8. 

[431]! N. Y. Pub. Lib.. Emmet Coll., no. 1564, Declaration of Lidependence ; Library 
of Congress, Force Trans., Trumbull, VL 73. 

2 Robert Niles. In regard to the Spy, see Paullin, The Navy of the American 
Revolution, pp. 356, 357, 368, 370. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 5. 

* See the Journals, Feb. 27, Mar. 22, 24, 27, Apr. 2, 4, 5, 7-9, 11, 12. Matthew 
Thornton of the medical committee wrote to Dr. Jonathan Potts, Apr. 12 : " Congress 
have just finished a new plan and arrangement of the medical department in the Army. 
It is ordered to be published immediately. As you will soon be possessed of the 
whole plan, we shall only inform you at present, that your appointment of Director of 



April, 777/ 821 

the States are now Represented,'' and next Monday is assigned for con- 
sidering the Articles of Confederation." I wish there was a more full 
representation from our state.'' .... I received a Letter from a Friend 
Yesterday informing me that the Assembly has repealed the Law prescrib- 
ing an Oath of Fidelity which I was very sorry to hear. I expect a recom- 
mendation will soon be made by Congress to all the States to administer 
an Oath not only to the Officers and Electors, but to all Suspected persons 
as a Test, to discriminate between Friends and foes.® I esteem our internal 
enemies much the most dangerous. The people on the New Hampshire 
Grants have Petitioned Congress to be acknowedged an Independent 
State, and admited to send Delegates to Congress. The Convention of 
New York has also remonstrated against their proceedings requesting 
Congress to interpose for preventing the defection of the people on the 
Grants from that State. Nothing has been yet acted on the afifair.® .... 

the northern department is renewed As handsome sallaries are now allowed, 

we expect none but persons of the best abilities will be employed or suffered to remain in 
your service as Hospital or regimental Surgeons, and that you will strictly superintend 
every branch of the medical department under your charge." Hist. Soc. of Pa., Potts 
Papers. I. mg. See also no. 376, ante, no. 442, post, and Burke to Caswell, May 23, 
N. C. State Recs., XL 476. 

The movement toward a reform of the medical department began with the criticisms 
of Doctors Morgan and Stringer and their dismission by Congress. See the Journals, 
Jan. 9, and no. 298. ante. The Journals evidently fail to record some of the essential 
stages in the progress of the measure. On Feb. 27 the medical committee, " to whom 
the report on the hospital was re-committed ", reported a measure, apparently drawn by 
Benjamin Rush, which is printed in the Journals under that date. The immediate origin 
of this report was a plan prepared by Doctors Shippen and Cochran and transmitted 
to Congress by General Washington in a letter of Feb. 14, received by Congress Feb. 20, 
and referred to the medical committee. When a report of the committee was recom- 
mitted the Journals do not show. Probably the report of the medical committee Feb. 
14, which was laid on the table, " to be taken into consideration tomorrow ", was a 
report on the hospital. The report of Feb. 27, ordered to lie on the table, was taken into 
consideration Mar. 22, and recommitted. Mar. 24 a new plan was brought in. John 
Adams wrote to John Avery, jr., Mar. 21: "We are making every regulation in our 
power in the medical department" (Works, IX. 458). 

5 " Congress is now full. Every one of the thirteen States has a representation 
in it, which has not happened before in a long time." John Adams to his wife, Apr. 11 
(postscript to letter of Apr. 8), Familiar Letters, p. 256. 

^ See the Journals, Apr. 8. So far as the Journals record, however, the con- 
sideration of the Articles of Confederation was not taken up until Apr. 21. See nos. 
434, 442, 462, 465, post. 

7 See Sherman to Trumbull, Mar. 21, Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., 
II. 35. Sherman's colleague, Oliver Wolcott, who had much of the time of late been 
the sole delegate from Connecticut, was endeavoring to prevail on other delegates to 
come that he might return home. Mar. 22 he wrote to his wife that Governor Trumbull 
had twice signified lately that Dyer and Williams were coming, and he presumed those 
gentlemen were in earnest (Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, II. 36). Apr. 9 
(the same day on which Sherman's letter was written) he wrote : " It is said that Col. 
Dyer and Williams will soon be here if so my continuance will not be supposed neces- 
sary and I shall therefore consider it as merely Optionable and shall do what I judge 
may be proper." (Ibid., II. 41.) Cf. no. 442, post. 

® See a report of the board of war in the Journals, June 9. The agitation of this 
question probably has a connection with Washington's proclamation of Jan. 25. See 
the Journals, Feb. 6, 27, and no. 347, ante. Cf. the Journals, Mar. 9, 1776, and the 
letter of the New York delegates, Mar. 15, 1776, in vol. I. of these Letters, no. 522. 

' See the Journals, Apr. 7, 8, June 23, 25, 28, 30, and no. 428, note 3, ante. 



3 

432. Committee of Congress to George Washington.' 

Philadelphia April 10, 1777 

In obedience to an order of Congress * we inform your Excellency of 
the reasons and principles that have governed Congress in their resolu- 
tion for forming a Camp on the West side of Delaware. The repeated 
information that hath been received of the Enemies movements and it 
being the opinion of your Excellency as well as of many other General 
Officers that this City was the Object of such Movements, rendered it 
proper that means should be fallen upon to prevent the success of such a 
design, as well to guard against the bad impression that it would certainly 
have on the affairs of America in general, as to give security to the valu- 
able Stores here collected, and which cannot speedily be removed. It has 
been considered, that if the real Object of the enemy should be this City, 
the Troops are here well fixed, and will be an encouraging place of resort 
to the Militia of this State, in their present unfixt condition, being between 
their old plan of Association, and their new but yet unexecuted Law. On 
the other hand, should the design of the enemy be upon Hudsons river or 
more Eastward, the Troops here may with ease reach that river before 
those, now at Head Quarters, can have all crossed it. But another con- 
sideration remains, and that is. should the enemy propose to remain in 
Jersey to attack your Army, or should your Excellency mean to make a 
dicisive impression on them when your numbers are sufficient, in either 
of these suppositions, the Troops ought not to be here. 

In the whole of this business. Congress mean not in any manner to inter- 
fere with the designs, or to counter act the judgment of your Excellency, 
but wish you freely to call up to Head Quarters, all. or any part of the 
Troops encampt here as you shall please. It is not supposed that this will 
occasion any delay, and will certainly prevent the injuries that would be 
derived to the Troops, as well in health as dicipline from their entering 
and remaining any time in this City. 

We have the honor to be etc' 

433. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 10 April 1777 
My dear General 

The resolves of Congress that you will receive by this Messenger,^ you 
may be assured are not intended, by any means, to obstruct your views a 

[^■^2^ Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 270; Am. Phil. Soc, Lee 
Papers, vol. I., p. 293. 

2 A committee was appointed Apr. 9, to consider what steps should be taken 
for opposing the enemy in case they should attempt to penetrate New Jersey or 
attack Philadelphia. The committee brought in its report Apr. 10. certain resolves were 
passed, and the same committee was then instructed to bring in a draft of a letter to 
General Washington explaining the particular reasons which induced Congress to pass 
those resolutions. Cf. nos. 433, 440, 445, 453, 455, 464, post. 

3 The committee consisted of James Wilson, George Qymer, Richard Henry 
Lee. Abraham Clark, and John Adams. 

[433]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XIV. 237; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), I. 366; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), L 272. 
2 See nos. 432, ante, 440, 445, 453, 455. 464, post. 



April, 7777 323 

single moment. If your judgment should incline you to think, that the 
Troops had better march to Head Quarters quick as possible, you have 
only so to order it, and it will give pleasure to every good man here. The 
business of speedily reenforcing you will not be obstructed, but accelirated, 
because they now enter the City, where every days stay is 30 days injury 
to the great purpose of strengthening your hands. And should the 
enemy destine here, something like a Military collection may produce a 
greater resort. If you will indulge my conjecture, I think they cannot 
purpose coming here, because the water securities against such a plan are 
realy formidable, and the situation of the land, where the water obstruc- 
tions are fixed, is such, that great delay, and probable ruin forbids the 
enterprise, as they cannot so fix land Batteries as to remove the strong 
Vessels that protect the cheveaux dc frise, added to the numerous fire 
rafts and Fire Ships that in a narrow water with strong current may 
destroy their Fleet 

434. James Sykes to George Read.^ 

Philadelphia, April loth, 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

Yesterday it was agreed in Congress that the subject of the Articles of 
Confederacy should be taken up on Monday next, and that two days in 
each week should be employed therein, until that work should be com- 
pleted.^ As this is a matter of the utmost importance, it is certainly neces- 
sary that our State should be fully represented, especially as I am by no 
means competent to the task. I therefore most ardently wish you would 
give your attendance in Congress, and beg you would write to Mr. Van 
Dyke, pressing his immediate repair hither. I am in a most disagreeable 
situation, a stranger to every person, unable to speak my sentiments in 
Congress, and no colleague to confer with on any subject that may con- 
cern our State. There has already a matter been determined which, I am 
afraid, will throw the whole county of Sussex into confusion and disorder: 
I think it is the report from the Board of War that an independent com- 
pany shall be raised in that county, to be stationed at Lewistown, that 
Harry Fisher shall have the command; [and] if he refuse, he shall have 
at least the appointment of the subaltern officers. This was brought in 
immediately on my taking my seat in Congress, and though I utterly dis- 
approved the measure, as far as respected Fisher, I could not open my 
mouth in objection.^ This, sir, shows the necessity of some person being 
here who has the inclination and power to object to and show the im- 

[434] 1 Read, Life of Read, p. 261. 

2 This action was taken Apr. 8, not Apr. 9. Cf. no. 431, ante; also nos. 442, 462, 
465, 488, post. 

3 See the Journals,^ Apr. 4. Sykes was appointed on a committee Apr. 18, after 
which the Journals contain no further record of him. Read appears to have made an 
effort in December to prevail upon him to give his attendance again in Congress (see 
Life of Read, pp. 263, 287), but there is no record that he ever showed his face there 
again. In regard to Henry Fisher, see the letter of George Read to Robert Morris, 
Nov. 5, 1776, mentioned under no. 192, note 2, ante. 



3 

propriety of such appointments. 1 am totally unfit for it, and am miser- 
able on tiie occasion. 

From what we hear from hea(l-(|uarters it seems to be the prevailing 
opinion that the enemy intend to [move] to Philadelphia in a very short 
time, tiiat the licet are comiiip^ into the river, and that boats are preparing 
for the army to cross the same. 

I should be exceedingly sorry to press you upon a subject that I know 
at this time is disagreeable, I mean your attendance here ; but it appears 
to me to be indispensably necessary to our State that you should be in 
Congress: with respect to myself it is so much so that without your 
attendance I cannot think of staying, — alone I will not. I hope you will 
excuse this incoherent scrawl. Please to present my best compliments to 
Mrs. Read. It would give me great pleasure to receive a line from you. 
I am, in the mean time, dear sir, your most obedient, humble servant, 

James Sykes. 
For George Read, Esquire, Wilmington, 

Favored by John Evans, Esquire. 

435. John Ad.\ms to .^ 



Philadelphia April 13, 1777 
My dear sir 

In considering a Letter from the General, Sometime ago, in the Board 
of War. it was agreed to report to Congress a Resolution, approving of 
the Laboratory at Sprin[g] field, and Such a Report was made, but upon 
some opposition to it, it was orderd to lye on the Table, where it has lain 
ever since.^ I wmII move to have it taken up and determined. Some 
Gentlemen will oppose it, particularly the President, I believe, thinking 
Brookfield the best Place. I am not very clear myself, that it is the best, 
but from a greater Confidence in the Opinion of General Washington and 
General Knox, than in my own, I voted for it, and shall continue to do so.' 



436. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

April 15th 1777. 

Dr. Sir:— 

I am honored with your letters of the i6th and 25th of February, and 
I have taken the necessary steps relative to the warrant on the Treasury, 
and the letters which were inclosed. Col. Blount has not yet arrived here, 
but he will meet with no difficulty in obtaining the money. I must observe 

[435]! Adams MSS., Boston. 

- See the Journals, Feb. 20. The letter of Washington referred to is that of 
Feb. 14, in Writings (ed. Ford), V. 236, (ed. Sparks), IV. 322. Cf. nos. 290, 300, 321, 
374, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 14, July 17. 
[436]! iV. C. State Recs., XI. 448. 



April, 7777 325 

by the by that several bills from Mr. Treasurer Ashe came to hand before 
your warrant, and they were paid on my giving my ai)probation.^ 

I laid the intelligence you gave me relative to Indian affairs before the 
Congress, who were just then in deliberation on that subject. Gen. Hand, 
an experienced officer, is ordered to the frontier to direct the necessary 
operations for their defence. He has directions to embody the militia of 
Pennsylvania and Virginia in such numbers and divisions as he shall find 
necessary, and to repel, or invade the Indians if the circumstances of the 
war require it. you will be startled at this power : but it was given at 
the request of Pennsylvania and Virginia, whose peculiar circumstances 
had made it necessary.^ Your vigilance, Sir, has anticipated any measures 
necessary for the security of our frontiers, and as I am better satisfied to 
rely on your powers for all the exertions of our State, than to admit 
extraordinary interpositions ^^ of Congress. I contented myself with marely 
assenting to the measures recommended by Pennsylvania and Virginia, 
without requiring them to extend to us. While our own militia is to 
perform the services, I believe it will be also agreeable to my country, as 
well as to me, that they should be under the command of their own officers^ 
and under the direction of our own magistrates, especially while your Ex- 
cellency presides. When I am to consent to the contrary, it must be under 
express instructions, or when inevitable and very sudden necessity allows 
no time to consult, and no choice of alternatives ; and even then I should 
rely on such circumstances to excuse me to candid constituents, but not to 
justify me to this tribunal 

In your favour of the i6th you have prophesied what has since in a 
great measure come to pass. All particular jealousies are for the present 
laid to sleep, and long and uninterrupted may their slumber be. We are 
more wisely employed in giving vigor to our military operations, and in 
correcting abuses in our department [s] 

I am very much concerned for the apprehensions you express relative 
to the indolence of our officers. Many abuses are complained of from 
every quarter in the recruiting service, and it is at length found to proceed 
from the idea that the civil power of the States had no control over them. 
This is what I had suggested very soon after my arrival at Congress,* but 
it was always reluctantly listened to, until the abuse was complained of 
from many quarters, and attributed to the same cause. I brought in a 

2 See the Journals. Feb. 5; also Burke to Caswell. Feb. 5. Mar. 11 (paragraphs 
omitted from nos. 337, 400, ante). Caswell's letter of Feb. 16 is in N. C. State Recs., 
XL 392. A letter of Feb. 26 (evidently that to which Burke refers) is ibid., XI. 396. 
See also Caswell to Jacob Blount, Feb. 26, ibid., XI. 397 ; Caswell to Samuel Johnston, 
Mar. 5, ibid., XL 408; and Caswell to Burke, Apr. 20, ibid., XL 456. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 27, Mar. 25, Apr. 9-11. Leading up to this action were 
letters of George Morgan, agent for Indian affairs at Pittsburgh, Feb. 12, 17, Mar. 
2, 9, 15, 24, and a letter from Governor Henry of Virginia, Mar. 28. See the Journals, 
Feb. 24, 27, Mar. 19, 25, Apr. 7, 8. 22, 26; cf. ibid., Jan. 6, 8. See also Pa. Arch., first 
ser., V. 258-261, 286-288, 443, 488, 528, 540, and no. 746, post. Col. Edward Hand 
was made brigadier-general Apr. i. A protest by a group of North Carolina officers 
against his promotion is in A'^. C. State Recs., XL 750, 751. See also ibid., p. 562. 

3a The text in A''. C. State Recs. reads " exterpositions ". Similarly, a few lines 
below, the text reads " alternations " instead of alternatives. 

* Cf. Burke's abstract of debates, Feb. 25 (no. 382, ante). 



3 

Resolution for corrcctiii}^ the abuse through the interventions of the 
States, and was very happy in fintHng no oi)i)osition made on the old 
ground. It produced a reference to a Committee, and the result was the 
Resolutions which the President transmits to you, and of which the 
inclosed is a copy. I doubt not your vigorous exertions to root out all 
the evils in that department, which may be found in the State over which 
you preside. The Resolution, with resi:)ect to servants was originally 
followed by a clause, requiring compensation to be made to owners and 
masters ; but it fell through, on an equal division ; those voting against it, 
who were most interested in the affirmative. The day (Viz 15th May) 
is not well calculated for your State : but that Resolution is expected and 
intended to have its effect in the States, nearer to the field of action, and 
that day was deemed remote enough for that purpose. Upon the whole, 
Sir, I hope it will every where have as great effect as it can.*^ We have 
for a few days been alarmed here, tho', I believe without foundation. No 
consternation followed upon this occasion, but measures were calmly 
taken to oppose the enemy. The Congress are sensible of the impropriety 
of their last flight, and I believe they will not again fall into the like error. 
I have added all in my power to confirm them in this disposition, and the 
timid members have encountered such poignant ridicule from many 
quarters, that I believe they deem the approach of the enemy less formid- 
able than another series of like encounters. I, for my own part, intend 
to stay in the city, and give my best assistance for its defence, unless it 
shall be determined to abandon it altogether.® .... 

I inclose you the paper of the last date, which contains every intelli- 
gence I can give you. The dispatches from France mentioned in it con- 
tain little more than that it is the current opinion in Brittain, that ten 
thousand men will be sent the ensuing summer against Virginia and Mary- 
land, under the command of General Burgoin.^ You will be pleased to 
excuse any inaccuracies in this scrawl, which I write in a crowd of disput- 
ing Delegates, in the Library adjoining the Congress room. 



437. The Massachusetts Delegates to the Speaker of the 
House of Representatives (?).^ 

[April 16 (?), 1777.] 

The Intelligence which Congress has very lately receivd of the Enemies 
repeated Depredations in the State of Rhode Island and Providence 
Plantations, gave occasion to the passing of the following Resolution : ' 

s See the Journals. Apr. 12, 14. Cf. Burke to Caswell, Apr. i, N. C. State Recs., 

XI. 437. 

^ See Burkes abstract, Feb. 26 (no. 384, ante). 

"^ " Last night two French Gentlemen arrived in town, who came passengers in 
the Morris. We hear they have brought dispatches to the Congress from our Ambassa- 
dors at the Court of France." Pennsylvania Packet, Apr. 15. See nos. 439, 440, post. 
[437] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (draft). 

- See the Journals, Apr. 16. Cf. nos. 438, 442, 444, post. 



April, 1777 327 

But such has been the Attention of the Massachusetts Bay to the Safety 
of all these united States, as renders it needless for us to enlarge upon the 
Necessity of their turning an immediate Attention to the Reliefe of one 
in their own Neighborhood, which bears a large Share in the Calamities 
of War. 

We request that you would lay the Resolution before the General As- 
sembly, as an Apology for this Letter; for, supposing them to have before 
this Time been made fully acquainted with the Circumstances of Rhode 
Island,' we will not doubt but they are taking such vigorous measures in 
consequence as to superceed all Necessity for the Resolve which furnishes 
this particular Occasion of our professing ourselves with much Respect Sir 

Your very humble Servts. 

438. John xA.dams to James Bowdoin.^ 

Philadelphia April 16, 1777 
Sir 

.... Congress have this day passed a Resolution in the offensive 
Stile. The Character of New England is concerned in the execution of 
it. I hope in God, that little Banditti of the Halt and blind in Rhode 

Island will be destroyed in all events if it costs us Thousands of 

Lives it ought to be done. But I believe by an expedition prudently con- 
ducted they may be driven off or made Prisoners without any considerable 
Loss.^ 

439. John Adams to James W^\rren.^ 

April 16, 1777 

An unfortunate Vessell has arrived from France, the brave Fellow who 
commanded her is blown to Pieces in her.^ A French Nobleman who 
came in her got on Shore and brought the Letters. 

We have Letters from our Commissioners of the Sixth of Feby., much 
in the same Strain with the former of Jany. 17, tho not quite so encourag- 
ing. They say there is an universal Apprehension that We shall submit. 
They had not heard of the Turn of Affairs at Trenton.' .... 

3 To this point the writing is that of Samuel Adams ; the remainder is in the 
writing of James Lovell. 

[438]! Mass. Arch., CXCVI. 421. 

2 See no. 437, ante. 
[439]^ Warren-Adams Letters, I. 313. 

2 Cf. the letter to Mrs. Adams, Apr. 13 (Familiar Letters, p. 259) ; also Richard 
Henry Lee to Patrick Henry, Apr. 15, Letters (ed. Ballagh), I. 273. 

3 See Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 261-265. Cf. nos. 421, 422, 436, ante, and 
nos. 440, 470, 473, post; also Samuel Adams to James Warren, Apr. 17, Warren-Adams 
Letters, I. 314. Although the letters in this period from the commissioners abroad were 
from time to time read in Congress, it was not yet the practice to record the reading in 
the journals. 

On Apr. 17, the day following the date of this letter, a step was taken toward placing 

the business of this correspondence on a better basis, the name of the committee of 

secret correspondence being changed to committee of foreign affairs. At the same 

time a secretary to the committee was chosen in the person of Thomas Paine, who 

26 



328 Continental Coni^ress 

440. Richard Hknky Lee to George Washington.* 

[April 16 (?), 1777.] 

Your letter to the Committee was immediately laid before Congress,' 
and in consequence thereof Gen. Schuyler was ordered to carry your ideas 
into execution with all possible dispatch. The Troops are therefore 
ordered to Bristol without delay, and thither will go all such as come 
from the Southward. You have only to order them from Bristol to Head 
Quarters at your pleasure. The inclosures now sent are from France by 
the last Ship.^ .... 



441. Francis Lewis to the President of the New York 

Convention.^ 

Sir 

.... Yesterday Mr. Phil. Livingston sliew'd me Resolves of the 
Honble Convention, dated 29th Ulto. requesting my attendance at their 
Board to which I shall pay due regard, but it will be out of my power to 
proceed for Kingston immediately, for the reasons communicated to your 
Committee of Correspondence and to which beg your refference,^ besides 

had drawn attention to himself by his pamphlet Common Sense. Following an account 
of the appearance of Paine's pamphlet and a discussion of its effect, John Adams 
relates in his Autobiography (Works, II. 509) something of the circumstances of his 
appointment : 

" Notwithstanding these doubts, I felt myself obliged to Paine for the pains he had 
taken, and for his good intentions to serve us, which I then had no doubt of. I saw 
he had a capacity and a ready pen ; and, understanding he was poor and destitute, I 
thought we might put him into some employment where he might be useful and earn 
a living. Congress appointed a Committee of Foreign Affairs, not long after, and they 
wanted a clerk. I nominated Thomas Paine, supposing him a ready writer and an 
industrious man. Dr. Witherspoon, the President of New Jersey College, and then 
a delegate from that State, rose and objected to it with an earnestness that surprised 
me. The Doctor said he would give his reasons ; he knew the man and his communica- 
tion ; when he first came over, he was on the other side, and had written pieces against 
the American cause; that he had afterwards been employed by his friend, Robert 
Aitkin, and finding the tide of popularity run rapidly, he had turned about ; that he was 
very intemperate, and could not write until he had quickened his thoughts with large 
draughts of rum and water; that he was, in short, a bad character, and not fit to be 
placed in such a situation. General Roberdeau spoke in his favor ; no one confirmed 
Witherspoon's account, though the truth of it has since been sufficiently established. 
Congress appointed him ; but he w-as soon obnoxious by his manners, and dismissed." 
(See the Journals, Jan. 6-8, 9, 11, 12, 16, 1779.) 

[440] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XX. 328; Letters of Richard 
Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 276. 

- The committee referred to, consisting of Wilson. Qymer, Lee, Clark, and 
John .A.dams, was appointed Apr. 9 (see also the Journals, Apr. 10). Washington's 
letter, dated Apr. 12 (Library of Congress, Letters to Washington), was read in 
Congress Apr. 16. Cf. his letter to the President of Congress, Apr. 12, Writings (ed. 
Ford), V. 321. See nos. 432. 433, ante, and nos. 445, 453, 455, 464, post. 

3 The enclosures included extracts from letters of Arthur Lee to the committee 
of secret correspondence, Feb. 11, 14 (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 266, 270). See 
nos. 436, 439. ante. 

l44i]i N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, X. loi ; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., II. 425. 

2 The letter referred to is dated Apr. 16, and is addressed to Robert R. Livingston 
and William Allison {Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., II. 424) : '' As I left my baggage at 



April, 7/77 329 

some matters of moment in Committees of which I am a member that 
requires my attendence for a few days.* these necessary requisitions 
compleated, I shall be as expeditious as possible in my attendance upon 
the Honble. Board. 

Phila. 17th. April 1777. 
The Honble Abm. Ten Broeck Esqr 



442. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia April 17th. 1777 
Sir 

Congress is desirous if possible to Subdue the Enemy that are in this 
Country before a reinforcement can Arrive, the Small pox has greatly 
retarded the recruits Joyning the Army. We had information some time 
ago that preparations were making to attack the Enemy on Rhode Island 
and dislodge them, why it has not been executed we have not been 
informed.^ .... 

The Enclosed News Paper contains a list of Surgeons and Physicians 
appointed for the Hospitals, among whom is Doctr. Phillip Turner; 
Doctr. Foster gives him a very good Character in a letter to a member 
of Congress — Your Honr. will have a Copy of the regulations of the 
Hospitals and the Pay of the persons to be Employed in the public Papers. 
The pay I think is very high, but Physicians in the Southern States are 
used to high Pay ^ 

.... I wish some of the other Delegates of Connecticut would attend 
Congress, the Confederation will be entered on Next Monday and 
finished as soon as possible.* I write in haste as the Honble. Mr. Collens 
of Rhode Island by whom I send this waits. 

Baltimore, and having also other business to transact there, relative to the Montgomery's 
prizes, I shall be obliged to go to Baltimore previous to my attending the Convention." 
(See ibid., I. 902.) The Montgomery was a New York vessel under the command of 
Capt. William Rogers. Lewis adds: "The brigantine with salt, (one of Capt. Rogers' 
prizes,) was at Baltimore acquitted by a jury. I have appealed from their verdict to 
Congress, but have not yet been furnished with proper papers from Baltimore to 
proceed." See the Journals, Apr. 24, June 24; also Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 411, 414, 
680, 803, 805, 845, 858, 915, 955, 991, 992, 1901. Cf. no. 402, ante. 

The resolution of the New York convention. Mar. 29, to which Lewis refers, requested 
the attendance upon the convention not only of Francis Lewis but also of Lewis Morris 
and William Floyd. At the same time Philip Livingston and James Duane were directed 
to repair to Congress, and William Duer was chosen a delegate to that body (Jour. N. Y. 
Prov. Cong., I. 855; cf. Morris to Ten Broeck, Apr. 19, ibid., II. 435). The Journals 
do not however show that Floyd was at this time in attendance at Congress. 

2 Lewis was a member of the following standing committees : medical, secret 
(afterward the commercial), and marine. 

[442]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Conarroe Coll., I. 13; Library of Congress, Force Trans., 
Trumbull, VL 77; Brotherhead, Book of the Signers (1861), p. 75; Pa. Mag. of Hist, 
and Biog., XL. 488. 

2 Sherman here summarizes the resolution of Apr. 16. Cf. nos. 437, 438, ante, 
and no. 444, post. 

3 Cf. no. 431, note 4, ante. 

* See the Journals, Apr. 8, 21. Cf. nos. 431, 434, ante, and nos. 462, 465, post. 



3 

443. Benjamin Rumsey to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 

Dear Sir 

Mr. Morris to Day put into my Hands your Lre. to him of the 1st. of 
April in which You express the general Sense that prevailed in the State 
of Maryland respectinj;^ the leaving a Battallion in Somersett County, that 
it would conduce much to the general Interest would keep the three Coun- 
ties inclined to Toryism in Order and eventually save the Effusion of 
much Blood as well as a heavy Expcncc. 

I moved in Consequence thereof that Genl. Smallwood should be 
ordered to station a Battallion there to be under the Direction of the Ex- 
ecutive Power of the State of Maryland untill removed or otherwise 
ordered by Congress. 

On Debate the Sense of the House seemed to be that None of the 
Troops already raised could be spared but that a new Battallion might be 
raised on continental Pay and Expence for that Purpose and have directed 
a Comittee to bring in a Report on the Subject composed of Colo Duer 
Colo Wilson Mr. S. Adams and myself, when a Report is made and any 
Step taken in Consequence thereof I shall do myself the Honour to write 
to you on the Subject.^ 

I have the Honour to be, Dr. Sir 

your most hu. Servt. 

Benjamin Rumsey 

17th April, 1777 PlIILADA. 



444. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Phila., April 17, 1777 
My Dear Sir, 

.... I have been always of Opinion, that we must depend upon our 
own Efforts under God for the Establishment of our Liberties. When it 
suits the interest of foreign Powers they will aid us substantially. That 
some of them will find it their Interest to aid us I can hardly doubt but 
there seems not to be Virtue enough left in the world from generous and 
disinterested Motives to interpose in Support of the Common Rights of 
Mankind 

I wish the Nest of Hornets on Rhode Island had been before now 
destroyd. I expected it would have been done. I have been informd 
of the Reason why it was not done. The Congress have now recom- 
mended it to the States of M[assachusetts] B[ay], C[onnecticut] and 
R[hode] I[sland], to call forth their Militia for that Purpose and have 
directed Genl. Washington to send a suitable Officer to take the Com- 

[443]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book. IV. 71; Arch, of Md., XVI. 217. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 17, 19; cf. ibid., Jan. 31, Feb. i, 4, 6, 10, 12, 17, Mar. 
24, and nos. 335, 341, 347, ante. See also nos. 463, 469, post, and Arch, of Md., XL 221, 
222, 225, 227, 228, 242, and passim (index, Somerset County, Worcester County). 

[444]! Warren-Adams Letters, I. 314. 



April, 1777 ^31 

mand.^ I hope it will now be done. It is certainly wise to conquer our 
Enemies in Detail before their Reinforcements can arrive. I fear N.E. 
will be chargd with the Loss of her former military Pride if it is not done. 
I have been sanguine in urging it here and have almost pawnd my Reputa- 
tion on the Success of the Undertaking as well as the Valor of my 
Countrymen. I wish for more of an enterprizing Spirit and shall feel 
myself happy in the Revival of such a Spirit in New England 

445. William Duer to the President of the New York 
Convention (Abraham Ten Broeck).^ 

Philadelphia April 17th 1777 

Sir 

The Letter from the Convention relative to the Insurgents in 

the North Eastern Parts of the State, transmitted to Mr. Lewis Morris 

before my arrival has been read in Congress ; but as I expected daily the 

arrival of Mr. Duane and Mr. Livingston I thought it most prudent to 

get the Consideration postponed, to which Congress acceded. 

The Deputies from New Connecticut are now in Town, and have 
presented to Congress a Memorial, a Copy of which I shall do myself the 
Honor to transmit you in a Day or two. I can by no Means think that 
this Attempt to dismember our State will be countenanced by Congress, 
tho', I am sorry to say that, I can very easily perceive that Individuals 
from the Eastern States mean to support Messrs. Aliens in their extrava- 
gant Pretensions. I flatter myself however that with the Assistance of 
my Colleagues, I shall procure such Resolutions passed as will reprobate 
their Proceedings and oblige the revolted Subjects to render a due obedi- 
ence to the Laws of the State.^ 

I am extremely sorry to inform you that notwithstanding the Invasion 
which threatens this City, a Langour prevails amongst the Inhabitants of 
almost all Ranks. The Disputes about their Constitution, and a Want of 
vigilance and Vigour in detecting and defeating the Designs of the dis- 
affected have given the Malignants a dangerous ascendancy. The Depre- 
ciation of the Continental Money is astonishingly rapid, and I see with 
Concern that no attempts are made to check so fatal a Measure. You 
will observe by the inclosed Resolution of Congress of the 14th and 15th 
April, that they have been under the necessity of supplying an executive 
authority in this State. By the Recess of the Supreme Executive Council, 
there was an absolute Interregnum, and if Congress had not interposed, 
this State would have fallen an easy prey to a very small Body of the 
Enemy's army. It is to be hoped however that the authority now estab- 
lished will exert itself with Vigour, and that a little Quackery will save a 

2 a. nos. 437, 438, 442, ante. 
[445]! N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, X. 51 ; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., II. 418. 
2 See nos. 428, 431, ante, and no. 453, post. 



3 

powerful State wliich inust have fallen a Sacritice to a speculative System 
of politicks." .... 

The slow progress made in the Recruiting Business, notwithstanding 
the favorable Accounts which were at first circulated, has at length roused 
Congress, and they have entered into sundry Resolutions, for compleating 
the Battalions, which I have the Honor to transmit.* It is with pleasure 
that I consider that the State, to which I have the Honor to belong, has 
pointed out to Congress the most eligible and effectual Mode of completing 
the army." Would to Heaven that the Spirit and activity, which has of 
late animated the Councils of the State of New York would diffuse itself 
throughout the other States ! A portion of their Electrical Fire is certainly 
wanting. Without it, should the Enemy receive a timely Reinforcement 
and shew the least Spirit of Enterprize, our affairs must inevitably suffer. 
.... Mr. Duane and Mr. Livingston, who arrived here yesterday, desire 
me to tender their respects to the Convention. 

" .-K committee was appointed Apr. 9 to consider the steps necessary to be taken 
to oppose the enemy, and it was instructed to confer with the executive powers of 
Pennsylvania. This committee made its report Apr. 10. Apr. 11 a committee was 
appointed to take measures, in conjunction with the board of war of Pennsylvania, to 
prevent the provisions in Philadelphia from falling into the hands of the enemy. This 
committee, consisting of William Duer, Samuel Adams, and Abraham Clark, made a 
report, Apr. 14, which relates, not to provisions in Philadelphia, but to executive authority 
in the state. In accordance with the recommendation of this committee another com- 
mittee was appointed to confer on the subject with the supreme executive council of the 
state. The latter committee consisted of Samuel Adams, William Duer, and Richard 
Henry Lee ; that is, the membership was the same as that of the preceding committee, 
except that Richard Henry Lee took the place of Clark and that Samuel Adams was 
chairman instead of Duer. This committee held the conference Apr. 15 and made its 
report to Congress the same day. 

An extract from the minutes of Apr. 15, printed in Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 311, con- 
tains, besides a few minor variations from the journal record, the following minutes 
not found in the Journals: 

" That a Conference agreeable to the order of Congress, hcis been held, when the 
following Gentlemen were present : 

" His Excellency Thomas Wharton, jun. Esquire, President of the Supreme Executive 
Council. 

" Board of War. Owen Biddle, Esq., Chairman, Joseph Dean, Richard Bache, John 
Shee. 

" Delegates for the State of Pennsylvania in Congress. Robert Morris, James Wilson, 
Daniel Roberdeau. George Clymer, Esquires. 

" Committee of Congress. Mr. Samuel Adams, Mr. Richard H. Lee, Mr. Duer." 

In the first paragraph of the committee's report as printed in the Journals (Apr. 15, 
p. 268) an "and" is erroneously bracketed in the clause: "at the particular instance 
and request of the president [and] of the supreme executive council ". The meaning 
is that the request came from the president of the supreme executive coimcil of 
Pennsylvania. The committee appointed (Apr. 9) to confer with the board of war of 
Pennsylvania speaks, in the preamble of its report (Apr. 14, p. 263), of " the adjournment 
of the legislative and executive authority of the commonwealth ", and the committee 
which was appointed Apr. 14 and reported Apr. 15 was " to confer with the president 
of the supreme executive coimcil, with such other members of the said council as can 
be convened ", etc. The record of the conference quoted above shows that of the council 
only the president attended the conference. What appears to be a draft of a letter 
from President Wharton to some members of the council requesting their attendance 
at the conference is in Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 312. Cf. nos. 432. 433. 440, ante, 453, 455, 
464, post. See also Duer's statement, Mar. 9, 1779, in vol. III. of these Letters. 

* See the Journals, Apr. 12, 14, and cf. no. 436, ante. The reply to this letter, 
dated Apr. 25, is in Col. X. Y. Hist. MSS.: Rev. Papers, II. 96. 
5 Cf. no. 451, post. 



April, 7777 333 

446. George Walton to Lachlan McIntosii/ 

[April 18, 1777.] 

.... In Congress your name has never been mentioned but as their 
Officer in general terms with others. Your enemys have not dared to 
impeach you before that August Assembly yet ; and I believe never will. 
They meant to ruin you indirectly. In my judgment it was intended to 
teaze you into a resignation as they have done your brother.^ If I had not 
come to Congress last summer your present Alexander would have been 
in your place ; * but I sounded the alarm when I discovered the deep laid 
design 



447, The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

Horatio Gates. ^ 

Philadelphia April i8th, 1777. 

Sir, 

The enclosed Proceedings of Congress will convey to you such Infor- 
mation as may be necessary for your future conduct in the Department 
immediately under your Care. I am however particularly to request your 
Attention to the Resolve founded upon Intelligence the Congress have 
reed of a Design to destroy the Ferry Boats about Saratoga, with a View 
of obstructing the Movements of our Army at the Time the Enemy may 
arrive from Canada.^ 

The internal Foes of American Freedom have been lately making 
Attempts to accomplish our Destruction in this Place. Since the Execu- 
tion of Molesworth a Gang of Conspirators has been detected, and seven 
or eight were yesterday and today committed to Goal for carrying on a 
traitorous Correspondence with our Enemies or conniving at it. How 
far their Guilt will be made to appear, I am not able to detemiine. But 
Vigilance and Vigour in the Administration of our Affairs, will I trust 
defeat their deep laid Schemes, and enable us finally to triumph over the 
dark and wicked Machinations of our secret Foes, and the Designs of our 
open, tho not less cruel and implacable. Enemies.^ 

[446] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Georgia Records, Misc., 1732-1796. 

2 George Mcintosh. See no. 296, ante. 

3 " Your present Alexander " was probably Button Gwinnett, who is roundly 
denounced by Walton in this letter and also in a subsequent one of May i (Library of 
Congress, Force Trans.). In his reply to these two letters, July 14, 1777, Mcintosh 
says : " My conduct in the attack upon Savannah in March 1776 for which I was cried 
up far above my merit and suit an Alexander or a Caesar .... is now brought against 
me." Ibid. See the Journals, Aug. i. 6. For an account of the trouble between Mcintosh 
and Gwinnett, see Stevens, History of Georgia, and Jones. History of Georgia. 

[447] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 186; Library of Congress, Papers 
ConL Cong., no. 58, pt. II., f. 182. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 16. 

3 Concerning James Molesworth and his accomplices, see the Journals, Mar. 31, 
Apr. 3 (cf. ibid., May 15, p. 361 n.), and Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 270-282, 290, 315, 336-340. 
Cf. the Journals, May 21, 23 (the case of John Brown, alias John Lee). 



3 

448. The Secret Committee to Samuel and Robert Pukviance.^ 

Philadelphia April 19th, 1777 
Messrs Saml and Robt Purviance 

Gcntn 

Your favours of the 12th and 15th. Inst, came duely to hand the first 
advising your purchase of flour and enclosing Inventories of the Two 
Prize Vessells. We think the flour was bought very reasonably and men- 
tioned it in Congress as proper to be delivered to the Commissary at 
Baltimore for the use of the army which was agreed to and he must settle 
with you for it. We entered into the consideration of purchasing the 
Prize Vessells immediately and for several reasons that need not be re- 
peated, thought it best at present to decline a purchase however we shall 
be glad to know who buys them and the prices they sell for, as it may 
probably suit to charter shou'd the purchasers want Freight. We have 
seen the owner of the Brimstone here and he has our offer under con- 
sideration. Respecting the Cloathing you have purchased or have in view 
to purchase we refer you entirely to the Cloathier General James Mease 
Esqr. whose department it is to manage these affairs. It wou'd give us 
pleasure to hear that the Virginia Capt Nicholson was Sailed and your 
Bay clear of the Enemies Ships, there are several of them at Cape 
Henlopen where they have done much mischief. We are Gentn. 

Your obedt hble Servts. 

Robt Morris, Chair Man 
By order of the Secret Comm^^. 

449. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia 19th. April 1777. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... The establishment of a Navy Board in the Eastern Department 
is now in contemplation and I imagine will soon be done, this is a neces- 
sary measure and ought to have been adopted some time ago. I am much 
at a loss for proper men to compose this Board. Boston, I suppose will 
be the place of their sitting.^ .... 

450. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull.* 

Philadelphia April 19, 1777 
My dear Sir 

If the affairs of your Department will any ways admit of your coming 
to this place it appears to me necessary at this Time, as well on account of 
yourself as the publick. Congress are about adopting new Regulations 
for supplying the Troops with Vegetables and vinegar in sufficient Quanti- 

[448]^ George C. Thomas Collection, Philadelphia. Signers; Thomas, Autograph 
Letters; Purviance, Baltimore in the Revolution, p. 213 (part). 

[449] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 333. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 19, May 3, 6; also no. 427, ante, and nos. 457, 459, 480, 
485, post. 

[450]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 



April, J/;/ 335 

ties to preserve the Health of the army, and also intend regulating the 
purchases and Issues, together with other Matters of Moment wherein 
You can greatly serve the Continent by being present.^ 

Great abuses have taken place in the Commissary's Department in the 
middle States, which have engaged the Attention not only of Congress 
but of the public at large. I have not heard any person lisp Complaints 
against the Commissary General, but am informed plans are on Foot 
relative to Contracts wch. do not yet openly appear. 

I am Sir in Haste 

Yours sincerly 

E Gerry 

451. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, 19 April, 1777. 

We have now an ample representation from New York. It consists of 
six delegates, and they are to all appearance as high, as decisive, and as 
determined as anv men ever were or can be. There is a new hand, a 
Mr. Duer, who is a very fine fellow, a man of sense, spirit and activity, 
and is exceeded by no man in zeal. Mr. Duane and Mr. Philip Livingston 
are apparently as determined as any men in Congress. You will see, by 
the enclosed newspapers, that Duane and Jay have arrived at the honor 
of being ranked with the two Adamses. I hope they will be duly sensible 
of the illustrious distinction and be sure to behave in a manner becom- 
ing it 

452. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee.^ 

Philadelphia April 20th 1777. 
My dear Brother, 

.... Before this reaches you, the former dispatches will be arrived, 
by which you will see that Congress had proposed Doctor Franklin to 
attend the Court of Spain whilst you remained at Paris, but I suppose 
you have jointly considered that it may do as well for you to be at Madrid, 
and perhaps the Doctors age might render it inconvenient for him to travel 
so far. However, proper powers have long since been sent to Doctor 
Franklin appointing him to the Court of Spain altho he is not deprived of 
right still to represent these States at the Court of France.^ .... 

May si^f By this opportunity Congress sends you a particular 

Commission as their Representative at the Court of Spain.* In my judge- 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 14, 18, 19, 23. In regard to the deficiency of vegetables, 
etc., c/. the remarks of Gerry and Williams, nos. 145, 162, 166, 266, 419, ante. Concerning 
the investigation of the commissary's department and the new regulations, consult the 
index to the Journals, Commissaries. Cf. nos. 450, 457, 458, ante, 490, 495, note 2, post. 

[451]^ Familiar Letters, p. 260. 

[452] 1 Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 277. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. i, and Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 242. In the 
Journals (ed. Ford) FrankHn's commission is found under July i (p. 521, note). 

3 See the Journals, May i. Cf. ibid., May 31, June 5. In the Journals (ed. Ford) 
Lee's commission of June 5 is found under July i (p. 522, note). Cf. no. 473, post. 



aiJG Continental Congress 

ment, and it is an opinion founded on the most accurate information, the 
Independence, and security of N. America, cannot be said to be certain 
until an AUiance with Spain and France is procured, and in consequence, 
the British Arms, and Arts not solely employed for our ruin. You may 
be assured that this is of infinite consequence to your Country and there- 
fore you will conduct yourself accordinp^ly. And for the assistance of our 
finance, an extensive loan is indispensable 



453. The New York Delegates to the President of the New York 
Convention (Abraham Ten Broeck).^ 

Philadelphia April 2 1st. 1777. 
Sir 

We Yesterday moved for a Copy of the Representation from our 
revolted Subjects, to Congress. A Member from the Massachusetts would 
have made it a Condition that a Copy of your Remonstrance should be 
delivered to him, for the Use of the Revolters, insisting that we and they 
were perfectly on an equal Footing, stiling us the parties etc. This 
brought on some altercation, not to the Advantage of this open and 
avowed Advocate for the Disturbers of the public peace and general 
Union. In the Conclusion, the paper we moved for w^as ordered to be 
delivered. On our parts we assured the House, that tho' we should not 
suffer the State of New York to be put on a Level with a small part of 
its disaftected Subjects, yet we had no Secret on this Occasion; that any 
Member had our free Consent to take a Copy, and make such Use of it 
as he might think proper. Here it ended. ^ 

We have obtained and transmit a Copy of a printed address from 
Doctor Young to the Insurgents in our State, in which he positively asserts 
that he has taken the Minds of several of the leading Members of Congress 
and then proceeds to give them their advice. This paper, corresponding 
with the Hints we had from the Committee sent into Cumberland, renders 
it unnecessary to trouble you about further proof. Doctor Young is on 
the Spot, if he has injured his Friends they have the Means of ample 
Satisfaction, for they can call him before the House. However, we do not 
observe that the Imputation gives any Uneasiness to the suspected Mem- 
bers, tho' w^e are well assured, it has made strong Impressions to their 
Disadvantage on the Minds of other Gentlemen, What Notice Conven- 
tion ought to take of this insolent Address does not lie w'ith us to deter- 
mine ; nor have we yet concluded on the part we shall pursue in Congress.^ 

[453]^ N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, XI. 119; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., 

II. 475- 

2 The " representation " referred to was the petition from the inhabitants of 
the New Hampshire Grants presented to Congress Apr. 8. See nos. 428, 431, 445, ante, 
464, 465. post. The Journals make no record of this discussion. By " yesterday " is 
probably meant Saturday Apr. 19. The letter of the delegates was read in the New 
York convention Apr. 30. See Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 906. 

^ See the Journals, June 23, 25, 28, 30 ; also nos. 524, 526, 532, 533, post. 



April, ijj-j 337 

It is our Business to move deliberately, as, from the Change of Members 
we find ourselves surrounded with Strangers. To cultivate their Esteem 
and good opinion is of Moment, considering the unfriendly views of some 
States and the Magnitude of the Business committed to our Charge. 

A Committee, consisting of a Member from each State, is appointed to 
examine into the Conduct of General Schuyler. It was not done without 
warm opposition. There was no Accuser no Complaint, no Charge 
against the General. Nothing had ever been said to his Disadvantage or 
Dishonor in that House : directing the Enquiry was an implied Censure, 
or at least an Indication of Suspicion, which should be avoided. These 
were the Arguments against the appointment of a Committee, a single 
Remark was sufficient to refute them. If the General had done his Duty 
faithfully, why was his authority pared away to Nothing and the Com- 
mand of the Army, in Effect, transferred from him to General Gates, a 
Junior officer? We can entertain no Apprehension, but that the General 
will be honorably acquited, tho' it is obvious enough that pains have been 
taken to injure his Character.* 

The feeble inactive Condition of Pennsylvania is a sad proof how little 
their new Constitution is calculated for Security or Defence in Time of 
Danger. Their executive Authority appear to be sensible of their Weak- 
ness and lean with their whole weight upon Congress, who have found it 
necessary to recommend a temporary System, to prevent the Ruin of the 
Cause, as far as it is connected with this State.^ to this will be added a 
Recommendation to revive the General Committees, for Nothing can be 
substituted in the place of this Institution equally salutary, or which can 
produce so much Union Energ}^ and Vigour. The Spirit of the Legisla- 
ture under the new Constitution here is strongly marked in their Militia 
Act which provides that if a Colonel or other officer shall strike a Soldier 
while upon Duty he shall forfeit a sum not less than five nor more than 
ten pounds, but if the Soldier shall strike or draw upon his Colonel or 
other officer while on Duty he shall be fined a Sum not exceeding £ 5 ! 

We beg leave to assure you Sir, that we shall exert our most zealous 
Endeavors for the Interest and Honor of our State on every Occasion : 
and it gives us singular pleasure that your honorable Body maintain a 
high Rank in the Estimation of Congress, as well as of the General and 
army, which cannot but greatly contribute to our Success in every just 
and reasonable Measure. We have the Honor to be with the utmost 
Regard Sir 

Your most obedient humble Servant. 

Phil. Livingston 
Jas. Duane 
Wm. Duer 

Honble President of the Convention of the State of New York. 

* See the Journals, Apr. 18, and no. 461, post. 
5 See no. 44s, note 3, ante. 



3 

454. Charles Thomson to Geokgk Washington.' 

Before I joined Congress after their adjournnient from Baltimore,^ 
tlie following resolutions passed in Congress 14 March 1777 

*' That the list of oflicers and privates transmitted by the general as 
necessary to compose every regiment of cavalry to be raised for the 
defence of these united states be approved of." 

No copy was taken of these papers and the president informs me that 
he sent back the originals to you. As the journals will be incompleat 
without those papers I must beg the favour of you to send me the originals 
and I will transmit you a certified copy ' 

I am 

Your obedient humble Servt 

Chas Thomson 
April 22 1777 

455. Mann Page, jr., to George Weedon.' 

My dear Sir 

.... The Enemv have for some time threatened this Citv, and have 
made Preparations which induce our best Generals to think their principal 
Attack will be against this Place. On Sunday the 13th. nine of their Men 
of War came into this Bay, which confirmed in great Measure the Infor- 
mation we had before received. Some Days before that Congress had 
ordered a Camp to be formed under Genl. Schuyler upon the West Side 
of Delaware for three Reasons, That the Soldiers, of whom there were a 
considerable Number in the City, might be drawn togather so as to be 
ready to oppose any sudden Attempt upon the City 'til the main Army 
could come up ; that they would be more healthy in Camp than in Town ; 
that they would support the Militia which might come in ; that they would 
be able to reach the North River, if the Attack of the Enemy should be 
made there, before the rest of the Army could cross ; and that they could 
speedily join the General to execute any Plan which he [might] form in 
the Jersey. After all they were left to the General's Direction to order 
where he pleased.^ He in Part approves of the Measure, and has ordered 
the Camp to be formed at Bristol where all the troops that come from the 
Southward Stop 

Philadelphia April 22d. 1777 

[454] 1 Library of Congress. Letters to Washington. 

2 It would appear that Thomson rejoined Congress Mar. 24, as he resumed the 
secretar>''s pen on that day. See the foot-notes in the Journals (ed. Ford), VIL 169, 176. 
At the close of the Journal for Feb. 27 (the last day at Baltimore) are found some 
entries made by President Hancock, recording action taken by him during the adjourn- 
ment, and approved by Congress Mar. 24. Several other entries, Mar. 14-24, vi^ere made 
by Hancock. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 14 fp. 178). 
[455]^ Am. Phil. Soc, Weedon Papers, no. 4. 

2 See nos. 432, 433, 440, ante. In a letter to his brother, John Page, Apr. 21, 
Mann Page says: "We are now threatened with a visit from the Enemy which has 



April, 1777 339 

456. Richard Henry Lee to the Governor of Virginia 

(Patrick Henry). ^ 

Philadelphia, 22nd April, 1777. 
My dear Sir, 

The enclosed resolve is now sent, principally with a view of rectifying 
some Typhographic errors that the copy formerly sent you contained.^ 
I am again in the name of Congress to desire your Excellency will detain 
the flour in Virginia, until further directions, that Mr. Commissary 
Trumbul had sent Vessels from the eastward to rem.ove. The reason you 
assign of danger from the enemy's cruisers, is conclusive with Congress 
for staying this provision awhile.^ .... 



457. Samuel Adams to Samuel Cooper.^ 

Philadelphia April 23d 1777 
My dear Sir 

.... I heartily concur with you in regreting the abominable Practice 
of prophane Swearing in our Army. It is indeed alarming. Congress 
has repeatedly injoynd the General officers to discountenance this Practice 
by their Authority and Influence, you know my Abhorrence of it, and 
may depend upon my exerting the utmost of my Endeavors, if possible, 
to root it out of the Army.^ .... The medical Department is now put 
upon a new footing and Rules are establishing in the Quarter Masters for 
keeping our Soldiers cleanly in their Encampments whereby their Health 
as well as Lives will be preservd.' .... 

Congress a few Days ago determind to establish a ]Marine Board in 
the Eastern Department to consist of three Members who are to reside 
in or near Boston with the Power of adjourning to any other place. They 
are to be subject to the Directions of the Marine Conimittee of Congress. 

been the Case for some time ; they have now nine Men of War in the Bay, and are 
making Preparations at N. York and Amboy, which most of us Generals think are 
intended against Philadelphia. I believe they are too weak to succeed, but if they do, 
I am of Opinion they will ruin this Army, which is at this time very small and is 
mouldering away by Sickness. We are too weak to take advantage of their Situation. 
Ten thousand Men at this time would go near to finish the War. If the different 
Legislative and Executive Powers upon the Continent will enforce the late Resolutions 
of Congress, we may yet be free ; we may collect a respectable Army, and upon that 
depends our Salvation as a People. Britain begins to totter, her Trade is cut off and 
her Merchants become Bankrupt .... We attend Congress from ten to four, and 
meet in Com. at six." Library of Congress, Personal. 

[456] 1 Henry, Patrick Henry, III. ^; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), 
I. 282. 

2 It is not certain what resolve is here referred to. 

3 There is no record in the Jour>vals which appears to correspond to this order 
of Congress. See however the instructions to Commissary Aylett, Mar. 29 and May 20. 
Cf. the report {Journals, Apr. 22,^ of the committee which conferred with Joseph 
Trumbull. See also Henry to Lee, Mar. 28. in Henry, Patrick Henry, I. 515, Lee to 
Henry, Apr. 15, ibid., III. 62, and in Letters (ed. Ballagh), I. 273. 

[457]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (draft). 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 25. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 21, Apr. 16, 23, May 14. Cf. no. 450, ante, and nos. 458, 
490, 495, note 2, post. 



:M() Continental Congress 

I liope this Board will facilitate our Naval Affairs and put them upon a 
more respectable Footing.* [May 6] This Day" General Warren, Mr 
Vernon late of Newport and Mr Deshon of New London were elected to 
this Board with a Salary of 1500 Dollars per Annum each. A Number of 
Gentlemen of the Massachusetts had been nominated by the Members of 
that State; Mr C' was nominated by Mr Duane of New York. As the 
Gentlemen of Connecticutt and Rhode Island were urgent, it would not 
have been prudent for us to have been strenuous for the Choice of all out 
of our own State, though I am inclind to think there might have been a 
better Choice. Mr Warren's Character has long been revered in Con- 
gress, Mr C had been personally known to many of the Members, Mr 
Deshon to no one. the two last had an equal Number of Votes but neither 
of them a competent Number, on a second Tryal Mr Deshon obtaind 
the Election 

458. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 

(JoNATH.\N Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, April 23d, 1777. 
Honored Sir, 

We have received your Honrs. letter of the i6th instant by Mr Brown. 
Your letter to Congress was also received and read yesterday, and referred 
to the Committee for Foreign Affairs.^ .... Congress was not disposed 
to censure the Eastern States for giving additional bounties, supposing 
them to be the best judges of the expediency of the measure.* The Com- 
mittees of the Middle States did nothing as to regulating prices, they 
being equally divided in opinion respecting the matter.* The prices of 
almost all kinds of articles are very high here. The Commissary General 
arrived here yesterday, and a committee is appointed to confer with him 
and consider what further regulations ought to be made in his depart- 
ment. ° 

.... I am sorry there is occasion to call the militia to joyn the army. 
I think it would be unnecessary if the men inlisted were collected together. 
What is recommended respecting Rhode-Island, it was hoped, would not 
detain the militia for a very long time after their assembling.® .... 

•* See the Journals, Apr. 19 ; cf. no. 449, ante. 

^ The election was on May 6 ; therefore this part cf the draft must have been 
written on that day. The entire passage, however, stands erased in the draft, and 
it may therefore be concluded that the matter was appended to the draft of Apr. 23 by 
mistake. It is scarcely probable that the letter of Apr. 23 was held back until May 6. 
The question of salary was settled Apr. 19. See no. 459, post. 

^ John Adams mentions (no. 480, post) the nomination of Mr. Gushing, presum- 
ably Thomas Gushing, a delegate to Gongress from Massachusetts in 1774, 1775, and 
in the beginning of 1776. 

[458]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 44. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 22. 

3 The reference is to the proceedings of the committee of the New England 
states, Dec. 25, 1776, to Jan. 2, 1777, laid before Gongress Jan. 28. See nos. 323, 326, 
336, 347, 353. 355-357, 359, 368, ante. 

* See the Journals, Feb. 15, Apr. 15. 

5 The commissary-general was Joseph Trumbull. See the Journals, Apr. 2^, 
and nos. 450, 457, ante, 490, 495, note 2, post. 
« See the Journals, Apr. 16. 



April, lyyj 341 

459. Oliver Wolcott to Joshua Huntington.^ 

Philadelphia 24 April 1777 
Sir: 

Your Favour of the 14 instt. is reed, but have not had time to lay it 
before the Committee — shall take the earliest Oppertiinity for that Pur- 
pose after which you may expect to hear from me again 

You will probably be soon put to less difficulty on many accounts as 
Congress have determined to establish a Marine Board for the N. England 
Governments — a most necessary Institution — this Day probably the Com- 
missioners will be appointed.^ .... 

Oliver Wolcott.' 

460. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia April 25th, 1777. 
Sir, 

.... Altho Congress have recommended to the executive Authority 
of this State to call out three Thousand of the Militia, and to order the 
City Militia to hold themselves in Readiness at a Moments Warning, yet 
such is the Weakness of the Government, that every Means should be used 
to give Efficacy to this Requisition. They have therefore determined to 
detain Genl. Miffiin in this City for some Time knowing his Popularity 
and Influence to be very great, provided you should be of Opinion the 
Service will admit of his Absence from the Armv." .... 

461. Philip Schuyler to Richard Varick.^ 

Philad. April 26th. 1777. 
Dear Colonel: 

.... Yesterday the Committee to enquire into my conduct began that 
business.^ I believe they will finish in the course of the week and that 

[459] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Wolcott Papers, Bundle 3. 

2 See nos. 427, 449, 457, ante, 480, 485, post. Joshua Huntington was at this time 
engaged in building a frigate for Congress (see Appleton, Cyclo. Am. Biog.; Conn. St. 
Recs., I. 176-177, 297, 349). 

3 Wolcott wrote to his wife Apr. 23 : " It has been for a long time Said that 
Two Gentlemen would soon Attend as Delegates — but none j^et come, tho' We are Still 
told the same thing. As soon as any one Arrives I shall return Home. I shall unless 
something uncommon prevents undoubtedly Return next Month, but not perhaps till 
the later part of it." Cf. no. 431, ante. Apr. 30 he wrote : " I cannot say precisely when 
I shall Return Home, but my Determination is to do so within the Next Month. I have 
expected before now to have heard that some of the Gentlemen appointed to attend 
Congress were on their Way from our State, but I hear Nothing from them. I have 
Wrote to Mr. Huntington to advice Me upon the Subject from whom I may expect soon 
to hear." Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, II. 42, 38. Wolcott obtained leave 
of absence May 2. Dyer and Williams, together with Richard Law, attended June 25. 

[460]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 159. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 23, 24. " Congress have appointed a Committee of 
Ways and Means for reinforcing you, who will also point out some Mode, by which the 
Militia of this State may be drawn out." Schuyler to Washington, Apr. 24, Library 
of Congress, Letters to Washington, XV. 35. See no. 445, note 3, ante. Cf. the Journals, 
Apr. 25 (Delaware). See also nos. 486, 487, post. 

[461 j^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Schuyler Papers, p. 181 (copy). 
2 See the Journals, Apr. 18, and no. 453, ante. 



342 Continental Conf^rcss 

their report will be agreeable to my wishes; and such a change has taken 
place in the sentiments of the members who were unacquainted with me, 
that it is thought they will expunge the resolutions of the 15th of March,* 
copy whereof you have enclosed, but they have a much more difficult point 
to get over, they wish me to remain in the command, but having already 
appointed, (or at least implicativly so) den. Gates to the command of the 
Northern department, they do not know how to manage the matter. They 
wish to make Ticonderoga a separate command ; that they have a right to 
do, but they know that I will not serve at Albany on those conditions. 
Indeed, not on any unless an absolute command is giving [sic in copy] 
me over every part of the army in the Northern department, this they 
will not do, and therefore I shall return Mr. Schuyler only to Albany.* 
Adieu and believe me most sincerely Dr. Sir yours etc. 

Pn. Schuyler 

Lt. Col. Varick 

462. William Whipple to Josl\h Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 27th Ap' 1777 
My Dear Sir, 

.... The States are all represented, and Congress goes on tolerably 
well. The Confederation is at last taken up, and two day[s] in a week 
assign'd for that Business." Col : Thornton intend [s] seting out in a few 
days. I leave you [to] judge what my scituation will then be, as I shall 
then be oblig'd to attend some Committees that he is now on, besides, the 
business of two Committees that I am now on, is daily increasing. I 
therefore hope You will take my case into Your serious consideration, 
that such relief may be afforded me, as is consistant with tne Public good, 
to which I must allow, that every Private consideration ought to give 
place. 

You tell me in Your last that two Gentn. were Elected, and I am 
informed by some of my Friends that one of them has declin'd. I hope 
his place wnll be immediately filled, and if they are not set off before this 
reaches you I beg they may, immediately after, at this critical juncture 
it is absolutely necessary that the state sho*^ be represented. I therefore 
shall Tarry till relieved, but I shall grow very impatient in 3 or 4 weeks.* 

3 See no. 410, ante. 

* See the Journals, Mar. 25, May 15. 22; also nos. 472, 483, 495, 502, 504, 511, 
S15, 517-520, 522. 553, post. 

[462]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. I., 1774-1778. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 8; cf. nos. 431, note 6, 434, ante. See also no. 465, post. 

3 Whipple wrote to Bartlett, Apr. 23: "I find You have hard work to Persuade 
gentn. to serve their Country, what can be the meaning of this? do Gentn. still think 
it Hazardous to appear in a Charecter that will render them obnoxious to the British 
Tyrant and his infernal Tools? or are they afraid their Private interest will suffer? 
The day Perhaps is not far off when some of those Gentn : who now are so loath to step 
forth, will be making interest for a seat in Congress, they may be gratified for what I 
care, and let those who are now Laboring in the vineyard, enjoy the Blessings of Domestic 
Happiness, with the Pleasing Reflections that will result from a Consciousness of having 
lent their aid when their Country most wanted it however it seems you have at least 



April, 7777 343 

I suppose by this time tliere is not a remaining doubt but America will 
support her independency, is it not time therefore to pay some attention 
to the means of protection, from future invations ? this from our scitua- 
tion must be done by a Powerful Navy which must be furnish'd by the 
Eastern States where all the materials may be procur'd if proper means 
are us'd 

463. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

[April 28 (?), 1777.] 

We have the Pleasure to inclose to Your Excellency an Order on the 
Treasury for 75,000 Dollars and another on the Loan Office of Maryland 
for 25,000 in favour of our State if it should not be equal to your Expec- 
tations or Wants it must be remedied another Time as We were left 
totally in the Dark with Respect to the Sum You wished for and of Course 
were oblidged to name a Sum at a Venture.^ 

Much more Service should We be able to render the State if Your 
Excellency would let Us more particularly into the Requests intended to 
be made and the Reasons on which they are grounded but while We 
remain ignorant untill a Letter is read in the House addressed to the 
President it cannot be expected that We should on a sudden be equally 
furnished as on Reflection with Arguments to support a Measure nor can 
We without being acquainted with them immediately to so much Purpose 
if at all enter into the Views of our State. 

At the same Time the 100,000 Dollars were obtained a Motion was 
made for the 2000. Arms You requested for our State but this was re- 
ferred to the Board of War notwithstanding as affecting a Picture of 
our defenceless State was drawn as lay in our Power they have brought 
in no Report and I suppose will not till they have a Return of all the Arms 
both here and at Camp, when they do You shall be made acquainted with 
the Resolution of the House.' 

When a Motion was made to Congress for a Battallion to be stationed 
in Somersett agreeable to your Request to Mr. Morris, they were informed 
directly after that the Tories to the Number of 150 were actually in Arms 
under Officers and had taken Post in a Cedar Swamp in Somersett County. 
Major Howard of Coll Halls Battallion was given as the Author of this 
Peice of Intelligence and with the Paragraph in your Letter was the 
Ground on which Congress proceeded if the Delegates had been furnished 

found two Gentn. who will come, and I wish they may set out as soon as possible 
Col: Thornton intends to leave this place in about ten days and I wish to follow him 
before the weather is too warm." (Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. I.) 
Nathaniel Folsom and George Frost were chosen delegates Apr. i. Their credentials 
are in the Journals, May 16. 

[463]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 70. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 26; also Arch, of Md., XVI. 221, 222, 225. 

8 The request for the 2000 arms is in a letter from the Maryland council of 
safety to President Hancock, Apr. 21, Arch, of Md., XVI. 221. See no. 470, post. 

27 



3 

with better Intelligfence the BattalHon alone possibly wouUl have been 
granted.* 

We are Your Excellency's Most humble Servants 

Benjamin Rumsey. 
W. Smith 

P. S. Ticonderoga is in great Danger but 15CX) Men there, and None 
that Genl. Gates can hear of marching up. Carletons Advanced Guard 
or a Party to reconnoiter within 45 Miles, the Eastern Delegates say 
their Men are on the March 'tis feared they will not come Time enough 
to save it.'' 

464. The New York Delegates to the President of the New York 
Convention (Abraham Ten Broeck).^ 

Philadelphia April 29th. 1777 
Sir 

In our last we hinted at the want of Vigour and Exertion in this State.* 
We wish it was in our power to assure you that an effectual Remedy had 
been applied, but tho' the Enemy is daily expected an astonishing Languor 
prevails, and the embodying a competent Force to oppose the meditated 
Invasion, seems to be a distant Object. The Seat of this Disease is not 
an Indifiference to the Cause, for the Whigs are sufficiently numerous to 
defend their Country against any Army that can at present be brought 
against it. The unhappy Dispute about their Constitution is the fatal 
Rock on which they have split, and which threatens them with Destruc- 
tion. We ardently wish that in our own State the utmost Caution may be 
used to avoid a like Calamitv. Everv wise Man here wishes that the 
Establishment of new Forms of Government had been deferred : they see 
that the Union, Vigour, and Security derived from Conventions and Com- 
mittees are not to be found in any State under its new Constitution. 

We have hitherto left the Subject of our Instructions untouched, but 
in the Course of a few Days they shall be introduced. To become 
acquainted with the persons and Characters of the Members requires 
some Time and is of great Importance. We find several of our House 
desirous to know the Merits of our Claim. Congress, from your past 
Letters have a Right to expect a Representation, and w^e wait with Im- 
patience for the Reports and Maps, to elucidate our Boundary.^ .... 

Your most obedient humble Servants 

Phil. Livingston 
Jas. Duane 
Wm. Duer 

The Honble the President of Convention of New York. 

* See no. 443, ante, and no. 469, post. 

5 This postscript was evidently written after the receipt, Apr. 28, of Gates's 
letter of Apr. 22. (See no. 466, post.) 

l464]iN. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, X. 129; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., 
II. 428. 

2 See nos. 445, 453, ante. 

3 See nos. 445, 453, ante, and no. 465, post. 



April, lyyj 345 

465. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell) ^ 

Philadelphia, April 29th 1777. 

Sir'. 

An express going hence to Charlestown gives me an opportunity of 
writing you a few lines, but without being able to communicate any thing 
interesting. 

We have at present in Congress a representation of all the Colonies, 
altho' the number of Delegates is not very considerable. New York enter- 
tains the most virulent jealousy against her Eastern Neighbours, and it is 
now heightened by an affair which is something embarrassing. The 
inhabitants of what is usually called the New Hampshire Grants, have 
attempted to set up a distinct State, and sent Delegates to Congress to 
claim a seat. New York remonstrated: the new State (called New Con- 
necticut) seemed to be patronised by the Eastern Delegates; but the Con- 
gress laid the papers on the table, and I hope will be wise enough to decline 
any interposition. I am for my own part clearly against assuming a 
judiciary power, such certainly never was the purpose of our Delegation. 
As I consider all jealousies as injurious to our common cause, and as 
laying the foundation of future evils, I use my best endeavours to discour- 
age them ; and I endeavour as much as possible to keep our attention to 
the main business, that of subduing our common enemy.^ 

The Confederation comes under consideration two days in every week. 
On this arduous subject you will easily imagine I want the assistance of 
my Colleagues, and indeed wish it reserved for men more able and exper- 
ienced than I am. I shall give it however the most attentive consideration, 
and certainly shall agree to nothing, but on the clearest conviction and 
most uncontroverted principles. I shall very carefully abstract all the 
debates of any moment upon it, and every other subject, but particularly 
upon that, and when I transmit it to you, I will transmit the debates also.^ 
At present, nothing but executive business is done, except the Confedera- 
tion, and on mere executive business there are seldom any debates; (and 
still more seldom any worth remembering). We have agreed to three 
articles : one containing the name : the second a declaration of the sov- 
reigntry of the States, and an express provision that they be considered as 
retaining every power not expressly delegated ; and the third an agreement 
mutually to assist each other against every enemy. The first and latter 
passed without opposition or dissent, the second occasioned two days 
debate. It stood originally the third article ; and expressed only a reserva- 
tion of the power of regulating the internal police, and consequently 

[465]! A^ C. State Recs., XI. 460. 

2 See nos. 428, 431, 445, 453, 464, ante; cf. nos. 524, 526, 532, 533, Post. See also 
Burke's proposed resolution, in the Journals, June 30 (p. 513)- 

3 Cf. nos. 431, note 6, 434, 442, ante. If Burke made extensive notes of the 
debates on the Confederation, they have not come to light. See, however, some com- 
ments transmitted to the assembly, Nov. 15, and some notes on the Confederation, prob- 
ably written after the adoption of the articles, nos. 739, 740, post. 



r.tO Continental Congress 

resigned every otlier power. It appeared to me that this was not what the 
States expected, and, I thought, it left it in the power of the future Con- 
gfress or General Council to explain away every right belonging to the 
States and to make their own power as unlimited as they please. I pro- 
posed, therefore an amendment, which held up the principle, that all 
sovereign power was in the States separately, and that particular acts of 
it, which should be expressly enumerated, would be exercised in conjunc- 
tion, and not otherwise; but that in all things else each State would 
exercise all the rights and power of sovereignty, uncontrolled. This was 
at first so little understood that it was some time before it was seconded. 
and South Carolina first took it up. The opposition was made by Mr. 
Wilson of Pennsylvania, and Mr. R. H. Lee of Virginia : in the end how- 
ever the question was carried for my proposition, eleven ayes, one no, and 
one divided. The no was Virginia; the divided, New Hampshire. I was 
much pleased to find the opinion of accumulating powers to Congress so 
little supported, and I promise myself, in the whole business I shall find 
my ideas relative thereto nearly similar to those of most of the States. 
In a word. Sir, I am of opinion, the Congress should have power enough 
to call out and apply the common strength for the common defence : but 
not for the partial purposes of ambition. We shall next proceed to the 
structure of the common Councils ; and here, I think, we shall meet with 
diflEiculties of the most arduous nature.* The inequality of the States, and 
yet the necessity of maintaining their separate independence, will occasion 
dilemmas almost inextricable. You shall, Sir, know the whole progress 
of the matter if I can conceive and convey it with sufficient clearness. 



466. The President of Congress to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philadelphia April 29th. 1777. 
Sir, 

I had the Honour of receiving your Favour of the 22d Inst, together 
with the Inclosures and immediately laid the same before Congress; in 
Consequence of which they came into the enclosed Resolves, to which I 
beg Leave to refer your Attention.^ 

As the Congress concieved your Dispatches to be of the utmost Im- 
portance, they resolved themselves into a Committee of the whole, and 
having fully considered the Matter, they do not wish that you should 
retain Possession of that Part of Ticonderoga which lies on the West Side 
of Lake Champlain, if in your Opinion, the Enemy may be more effectually 
prevented from penetrating the Country by applying your Force to def end- 

4 See Burke's proposed amendments to the Confederation, the Journals (ed. 
Ford), May 5; cf. no. 488, post. 

[466]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, VIII. ; Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, 
VI. 194; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. II., f. 190. 
2 See the Journals, Apr. 28, 29. Cf. nos. 472, 473, 502, post. 



April, j;;/ 347 

ing and securing Fort Independance, and Lake George. I have the 
Honour to be, with the utmost Esteem, in great hurry, Sir 

your most obedt. and very hble Servt. 

John Hancock Presidt 
Honble Major Genl. Gates. 

[P. S.] Please to deliver to the Pay Master the Papers Inclos'd which 
Respect him. 

You will observe the late Adjutant Genl. Mr Trumbull, has resign'd 
and Congress have impower'd you to fill that Vacancy, it is not the 
intention of Congress that Mr Trumbull should be reappointed " 



467, Philip Schuyler to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia april 30th : 1777. 
Dear Sir 

Inclose your Excellency sundry Resolutions of Congress, which are to 
be executed, if approved of, by you and also the Quarter Master General 
and Commissary General's Orders to their Deputies for that purpose; to 
be expedited or detained as your Excellency shall judge best.^ 

The Reasons which induced the House to adopt the first Resolutions 
were founded on an apprehension that if the Enemy should penetrate the 
Country by Hudson's River, and your Excellency should be under the 
Necessity to march into Ulster, that you would be greatly distressed for 
provisions, that part of the Country affording little or none of the Meat 
Kind, altho' there is great plenty of Flour; not less than 20,000 Barrels 
as the president of the Convention informs me in a Letter of the i8th 
Instant: that it did not appear to the House that the Removal of the 
salted Meat from Derby and the three other places mentioned in the 
Resolve would put you to any Inconveniency. If you should be under the 
Necessity of marching into that part of New York on the East side of 
Hudson's River, Connecticut or the Massachusetts Bay a supply of the 
Meat Kind can be furnished from or in the two last mentioned States and 
Flour in or from the former. That the Wheat mentioned in the fourth 
Resolve should remain where it is to be thence sent into the more interior 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 19. The following is from a letter of Joseph Trumbull 
to John Trumbull, dated Philadelphia, May 6 : 

" Dear Jack 

" I have a Letter from Genl Gates, of 29th ulto. Pr Mr. Yancey in which he mentions 
to me a Desire of having you back again to him. But He did not know what had been 
done here, in that affair. After Mr Lx)vell reed, your last Letter, it was moved in 
Congress to have Genl Gates directed to fill your place. Doctr. Witherspoon rose and 
said he had no Objection, in Case he was restrained from appointing Mr Trumbull, on 
which one of your Friends rose, and said there was no need of a restriction of that kind, 
as that young Gentleman would not stoop to Accept the Offer if made, this I have wrote 
to Genl Gates, and I have inclosed to him the Copy's which you gave me, with the 
above annecdote, and I understand Congress are about appointing Majr. Frazer to that 
place." .... Mass. Hist. Soc, C51, VL 102; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Trum- 
bull, VL 102. See nos. 415, 419, ante, and nos. 495, note 2, 502, post. 

[467] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XV. 90. 
2 See the Journals, Apr. 30. 



3 

part of the Massacluisetts Ray, sliould the I'Jiciny attempt a Dehaikation 
ill any of the Kastcrn States, and thereby leiuler it necessary to keep up 
an army in tliat Quarter. The fifth Resohition was founded on a Convic- 
tion that there is a sufiiciency of Flour in the District mentioned for the 
support of the Northern army. These bein^ the g:eneral principles on 
which the Resolutions I have quoted were founded, the other, in a Manner 
follow of Course : . . . . 



468. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philadelphia May ist. 1777 

Sir 

We embrace this opportunity by Your returnd express, to acknowledge 
receipt of your favor of the 26th Ult. the multiplicity of business before 
congress made it impossible to dispatch the express sooner than has been 
done. 

We have the honour to inclose your Excy. coppy of the Resolutions o£ 
Congress, respecting Capt. Nicholsons very indecent and Imprudent 
behavior, to yourself and Council as well as his infringmt. on the liberties 
of the people, we have the pleasure to assure yr. Excellency that Congress 
were Unanimous in expressing their warmest disapprobation of Capt. 
Nicholsons Conduct, and that he had not the least incouragement to pro- 
ceed in this business in the manner he has done, and we are of oppinion he 
would have been dissmissd the service immediatly, but many Gentlemen 
thought him a good officer and were willing to believe your Excelly. and 
Councill would accept of Such Submissions and acknowledgments as he 
ought immediatly to make." .... 

we have the Honour to be yr. Excellcys 

Most Obt. hble Sevts, 

W. Smith 

B. RUMSEY 

P. S, the Enemy have burnt in this excursion the Towns of Danbury 
and Ridgfield.^ the Frigates at this place have Impressed Some Seamen, 
but we have not learnd that any complaints have been made, on that head, 
therefore this State have winked at this measure and incouraged it from 
the pressing necessity. Congress, nor even the Marine Committee have 
ever given any encouragement to this practice, nor we hope will congress 
ever give any encouragement to their officers to Interfere with the Internal 
police of any State 

[468]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 72. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 29, May i. Most of the correspondence (Apr. 24-May 
30) is found in Arch, of Md., XVI. 226, 229, 230, 236, 244, 255, 263, 266. A letter of 
May I from the marine committee to Governor Johnson, relative to the Nicholson 
affair, is in Md. Hist. Soc. Letters, 1777. See also nos. 469, 470, 474, 505, post. 

2 The reference is to the Danbury raid. See the Journals, Apr. 30, May i. 



May, 1/77 ^^^ 

469. Robert Morris to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 

Philadelphia May ist. 1777 

Dear Sir 

I have seen with a good deal of Concern what appears to me an unfor- 
tunate dispute between your Excellency and Capt Nicholson in Conse- 
quence of his having followed the example of his Brother officers who 
have for sometime been Impressing men into the Naval Service of the 
Continent in this Port. 

The practice of Impressing Seamen cannot be supported on any other 
principle then Necessity and I am confident it is as pernicious to the 
Commercial Interests of a Country as destructive of the Civil Liberty of 
those Individuals who become its Victims, under these opinions you will 
readily see I cannot advocate the measure. Nothing but the prospect of 
great Public advantages to result from a well Manned Navy wou'd have 
induced me to be silent whilst these things were doing here, but it was 
properly the business of the Executive power of the State to notice and 
stop the Practice, they have not interfered and that probably because 
they saw and considered the force of Necessity, perhaps no great disad- 
vantages might have resulted to the State of Maryld. had you only 
Checked this business so far as it had come before you by Complaint from 
Individuals whose particular Situations or Circumstances might have 
called for exemption and protection, remember I don't offer these as 
fixed Sentiments or as proper considerations in a settled peaceable Govern- 
ment, because I know they are inconsistant with it but in times of Invasion 
and War especially such a War as ours, it seems to me that forcing out 
Militia against their will which I believe to have been much practiced is 
an equal infringement of Liberty with the Impressing of men for a limited 
time for the Naval service and it is to be observed that, it has hitherto 
been the practice at the end of every Cruize or Voyage made by our Con- 
tinental Ships the men have had their liberty again, in the Britsh Navy 
they are generally impressed for Life. Thus much in Paliation only 
With respect to Capt Nicholson he certainly deserves severe reprehension, 
the terms of his letter are quite unwarrantable and not a single Member 
of Congress offered to support him. you will see that the Resolves of 
Congress place him in your power so far as he values his Commission and 
at present he is at the head of the American Navy but I think the dispute 
unfortunate because I have been taught to believe him an excellent and 
Capable officer, the loss of such a one will be a real misfortune to the 
Continent and yet I think he ought to be dismissed unless by satisfactory 
submission he attones for the offensive Stile of his letter which I suppose 
to have been written in warmth inflamed by the Violence of that Species 
of Whiggism that savours more of passion than true Patriotism. I am 
told he is of a high Spirit and that it is doubtful if he will make the Con- 
cessions he ought. I wish not to be guilty of an improper interferance 

[469]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, III. 27; Arch, of Md., XVI. 236. 



3 

and shall only rei)eat that if he is dismissed the service it will be a 
heavy loss, especially as the next in Command (Capt Manly) is vastly 
his inferiour in abilities, and knowing; as I do how much your Kxcellency 
wishes to promote the Service of America. I cou'd not refrain from men- 
tioning: my notions on this Subject.^ There is also another matter that 
gives me concern and that is the detention of Continental Troops on the 
Eastern Shoar to keep Tories in order at a time when Genl Washington 
cou'd strike a Capital stroke was he reinforced by those and others that 
ought to join him. I wish you wou'd think of this and order them to 
march on. other means may be found to keep the Tories in order there, 
you will merit and require the thanks of the continent if you think proper 
to improve this hint, the resolve of Congress for detaining them was 
obtained in consequence of your letter to me on that Subject.' .... 



470. Benjamin Rumsev to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Sir 

.... Congress being informed to Day by Genl. Schuyler that 100 
Men of Colo. Richardson's Men were now in this City have ordered them 
up to Camp and given You a Power to detain 100 or as many out of any 
other Men of any of the weaker Battallions in Maryland as are here of that 
Battallion.^ . . .\ 

I am afraid the 2000 arms will not be granted ' by a Lre. from A, Lee 
of the 20th of Febry from Bordeaux in his way to Paris Burgoine with 
10.000 Germans and 3000 British Troops are to attack Boston How 
Philadelphia Carlton the back settlements etc.* yet we will take every 
favourable oppertunity w-e can to procure them, this w'ill be from Carlisle 
I imagine. 

I need not Apologise for the Delay of the Express. My Colleague and 
myself have done all We could to send him off sooner but the House have 
been 3 Days squabling abt. what might have been done in three minutes.*^ 

May I Philadelphia [1777.] 

2 See no. 468, ante, and nos. 470, 474, 505, post. 

3 See the Journals. Apr. 19. Cf. no. 443. ante. 

L47o]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 68; Arch, of Md., XVI. 236. 

2 See the Journals, May I, and Arch, of Md., XVI. 228, 236, 242. The resolu- 
tion is summarized in a letter from Hancock to Gov. Johnson, May 2 (Mass. Hist. Soc, 
Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 198; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. II., 

f. 194. 

3 See no. 463, ante. See also the last paragraph of note 4, below. 

* Arthur Lee's letter written from Bordeaux is dated Feb. 18 (Wharton, Rev. 
Dipt. Corr., II. 272). Rumsey must also have had in mind Lee's letter of Feb. 11 (ibid., 
II. 266). See also the letter from the commissioners, Feb. 6 (ibid., II. 261), and cf. 

no. 473, post. . „. • •. u 

The last two sentences of this paragraph ("yet .... imagme ) appertam to the sub- 
ject of the 2000 arms, mentioned above. In the letter, however, they occur as here given. 
5 The allusion is doubtless to the affair of Capt. James Nicholson. See nos. 
468, 469, ante, 474, 505. post. 



May, 7777 351 

471. Daniel Roberdeau to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Philade. May ist. 1777 
Dear Sir 

Being one of the Committee for Foreign applications I had it in my 
power to pay the more immediate attention to your recommendation of 
le Chevalier de Mauduit du Plessis and through Favor of Congress imme- 
diately procured him a Commission for Capt. of Artillery and he was 
without delay in two or three days after his arrival here forwarded to 
General Washington.'^ .... 

472. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

May 1st. [1777.] 
Sir 

You will see by the resolutions sent to you at this time that new Ideas 
are taking place here in regard to the western side of Tyconderoga.^ 

I apprehend you will be better informed than we are what expectations 
you can form with confidence about the number of eastern troops and the 
exact time when they will arrive to a certain necessary amount for your 
plans. An absolute order to relinquish the western Lines and fort was 
pushed for, but you find did not prevail. You certainly have not such a 
predilection for them as to run great risques of losing yr. Reputation in 
their defence with a few Troops, if only a few can be had. Nor are you of 
such a disposition as to leave them without much consideration, if they 
appear to be highly essential to our defence, and you receive according 
to yr. wishes troops and military stores 

But, another matter besides the foregoing will be upon yr. mind, on 
which you will expect to hear from me by this bearer. 

The affairs to the northeast are in a critical situation for the state of 
N : York in particular. Disaffection, as you see, is greatly prevalent; and 
those who profess well to our cause judge and say that there is but one 
single man who can keep their subjects united against the common enemy, 
and that he ^ stands on our books as commandr. in chief in the middle, or, 
as it is sometimes called, the northern departmt; that his presence is 
absolutely necessary in his home quarter for their immediate succour and 
service as well as that of the united states necessarily connected ; that if 
he returns, he is a Genl. without an army or Military Chest. And, " why 
is he thus disgraced " ? 

It is said that it is nonsence to give you the command of the northern 
army at Tyconderoga and confine you to that fort and mount Indepen- 
dence where you cannot have an extensive idea of the defence of the 
frontier of the eastern states, but only of one spot where the enemy are 
not obliged to confine their operations, and, as it were knock their heads 

[471]! Amer. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, vol. VI. (i.), no. i. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 15, 16. 
[472]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, VIII. 

2 See no. 466, ante, and nos. 473, 502, post. 

3 The allusion is to Philip Schuyler. 



352 Co)iiincntal Congress 

aj^ainst a single Rock. And, if you arc not so confined you intirely destroy 
the idea of their Chief to whom tliey profess devotion unbounded, [How] 
this matter will be untani^led I cannot now exactly determine but I suspect 
not intirely agreable to yr. sctitimcnts: I wish to have these explicitly 
and minutely by the first opportunity after the receipt of this.*. . . . 

In every condition I wish you health prosperity and honor, being" sin- 
cerely yr. friend and humb Servt. 

J. LOVELL 

473. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to the 
Commissioners at Paris.^ 

Philadelphia, May 2, 1777. 
Gctitlemen: 

Your dispatches, dated February 6 and 8, were safely received by us 
about the middle of April. ^ .... 

The Congress highly approve your dividing yourselves to foreign 
courts, and have sent commissions for that purpose,' and likewise com- 
missions for fitting out privateers in France.* 

The Mercury, from Nantes, is safely arrived in New Hampshire. The 
Amphitrite and Seine we are yet in hopes of.° We shall notice the conduct 

* Cf. nos. 453, 461, anie, and see the Journals, May 15, 22. See also nos. 483, 49S, 
502, 511, SIS, post. 

[473]! Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 313. 

2 A letter of Feb. 6. signed by all three commissioners, Franklin, Deane, and 
Lee, to the committee of secret correspondence, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 
261 ; one of the same date from Deane is on the same page ; and one of the same date 
by Franklin and Deane is ibid., II. 265. No letter dated Feb. 8 has been found. It is 
evident from Rumsey's letter of May i, ante, that Arthur Lee's letters of Feb. li and 
18, and presumably his letter of Feb. 14 (ibid., II. 266, 270, 272), had also been received. 
Cf. nos. 423, 436, 439, 470, ante. " We can assure our readers, that some late arrivals 
from France, bring the most agreeable and interesting intelligence." Continental 
Journal and Weekly Advertiser (Boston). Mar. 20. 

3 See the commissioners' letter of Feb. 6, cited above. Cf. no. 452, ante. 

* See the Journals, May i, 8. Since Oct. I, 1776, Silas Deane had been suggesting 
that such commissions be sent. 

s The vessels mentioned were laden with arms, etc. See Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., II. 276. The Mercury arrived at Portsmouth, N. H., Mar. 17 : 

" Portsmouth, March 21. 

" On Monday the 17th instant arrived here a French ship of about 350 tons, called 
the Mercury, commanded by Capt. John Heraud [Herand], in forty days from Nantz, 
having the following very valuable cargo on board, viz 

" The captain and passengers (among whom is a brigadier general, and a captain of 
artillery) gives us the following most agreeable account of the situation of affairs there. 
. . . ." Continental Journal and Weekly Advertiser (Boston), Mar. 27. 

A somewhat less circumstantial account is found in the Independent Chronicle 
(Boston) of the same date: " A vessel, of 14 Guns, lately arrived in a safe Port, of one 
of the United States of America has the following Cargo, viz. . . ." The brigadier- 
general and captain were the Chevalier Prudhomme de Borre and the Chevalier Mauduit 
Du Plessis. Their arrival in Boston Sunday, Mar. 23, is mentioned in the same issues. 
See James W^arren to Mercy Warren, Mar. 21, and to John Adams, Mar. 23 {Warren- 
Adams Letters, I. 301, 303) ; also the Journals, Mar. 31, and no. 421, ante. 

The Amphitrite arrived at Portsmouth Apr. 20 or 21: 

" Sunday last arrived a French ship of 20 guns from Burdeaux, laden'd with dry 
goods, hardware, wine, etc. etc. etc 

" Same day arrived in a safe port at the Eastward, after a passage of three months, 
a vessel from Nantz, in France, with a valuable cargo ; among which are the following, 



May, 1777 353 

of Nicholas Davis. We have presented Marshal Maillebois's sentiments 
on the mode of war to Congress, who are greatly pleased therewith, and 
entertain a high respect for the author." .... 

The Congress have it in contemplation to remove the garrison from the 
present fort, in the district of Ticonderoga, to Fort Independence, in the 
same district, which they judge will command that pass with greater 
advantage, and is a much healthier situation. We mention this, as the 
enemy will probably give an air of triumph to the evacuation, should it 
be done. The distance between the two is about a quarter of a mile.'' .... 
We are, gentlemen, your obedient, humble servants, 

Benjamin Harrison. 

Robert Morris. 

Thomas Heyw^ard. 

James Lovell. 

474. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia, May 2d, 1777. 
Sir: 

I wrote you day before yesterday by an express going to Charlestown, 
and after I had sealed up the letter, some intelligence was opened in Con- 
gress, which I wrote on a slip of paper and put into the cover. I doubt not 
you will receive it.'^ .... 

An insulting letter written by the Captain of one of the Continental 
Frigates to the Governor of Maryland has excited great indignation in 
Congress. The officer is suspended, and ordered in five days to make 
such satisfaction as the Governor and Council shall accept or, failing, to 
be dismissed the service.^ Every gentleman, (a few only excepted) 
seem to feel his own State injured in this insult, and they are determined 

viz Came passenger in the above vessel a colonel and 24 officers of the train." 

Continental Journal and Weekly Advertiser, Thursday, Apr. 24. 

" Last Monday arrived at a safe Port, a large ship, from France, with the following 

valuable Cargo, viz A Colonel, and 24 Officers of Artillery came Passengers in 

the above ship." Independent Chronicle, Apr. 24. 

In a postscript to a letter to John Adams, Apr. 23 {Warren- Adams Letters, I. 316), 
James Warren mentions the ship, cargo, and passengers in similar terms, and closes 
with this line : " 3 Mo. passage arrived last Sunday." See the Journals, May 8. The 
colonel was Du Coudray. Lists of the French officers who came with him are found 
in the Journals, Aug. 5, Sept. 2, Nov. 7. In the Amphitrite came also the notorious 
Thomas Conway. See Warren to Adams, Apr. 27, Warren-Adams Letters, I. 318; also 
Washington to Congress, May 9, in Writings (ed. Ford), V. 353, (ed. Sparks), IV. 411. 
The Seitie reached Martinique, but was afterward captured. See the letter of the 
committee of foreign affairs. May 30, Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 327. 

^ The Journals make no mention of Marshal Maillebois's work. 

■^ See the Journals, Apr. 28, 29, and nos. 466, 472, ante, 502, post. 
[474] lA^. C. State Recs., XI. 463. 

2 The " slip ", dated Apr. 30, is in N. C. State Recs., XI. 463. The intelligence 
was an account of the affair at Danbury, Apr. 25, received by Congress, Apr. 30 (see 
the Journals), in a letter from Washington, dated Apr. 28. See also W^ashington to 
McDougall, Apr. 28, Writings (ed. Ford), V. 343. A further account, sent by Wash- 
ington Apr. 30, was received by Congress May i. See no. 476, post. 

8 See nos. 468, 469, 470, ante, 505, post. 



3 

that nothing less should do, than what would satisfy Maryland, and con- 
vince officers that they were very inferior to the Magistrates of States, 
and must treat them with the most profound respect. I never had more 
hopes of Congress than I have now. All seem sensible that the honour 
and dignity of the Magistrates of the States ought to be preserved sacred 
and inviolable ; whether for applying the force of the State, or restraining 
abuses, and suppressing ambition. Your Excellency knows enough of my 
political creed to believe that this disposition is exceedingly pleasing to 
me. I have not time to add more, but that I have the honor to be, 

475. John Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philadelphia, April [May,] 3, 1777 
My dear Sir, 

Yours of April 3d I recd.^ I must confess, that I am at a Loss to deter- 
mine whether it is good Policy in Us to wish for a War between France 
and Britain, unless We could be sure that no other Powers would engage 
in it : But if France engages Spain will, and then all Europe will arrange 
themselves on one side and the other and what Consequences to Us might 
be involved in it I don't know. If We could have a free Trade with 
Europe I should rather run the Risque of fighting it out with George and 
his present Allies, provided he should get no other. I don't love to be 
intangled in the Quarrels of Europe. I don't wish to be under Obligations 
to any of them, and I am very unwilling they should rob Us of the Glory 
of vindicating our own Liberties. 

It is a Cowardly Spirit in our Countrymen, which makes them pant 
with so much longing Expectation, after a French War. I have very 
often been ashamed to hear so many Whiggs groaning and Sighing with 
Despondency and whining out their Fears that We must be subdued 
unless France should step in. Are We to be beholden to France for our 
Liberties ? France has done so much already that the Honour and Dig- 
nity and Reputation of Great Britain is concerned to resent it, and if she 
does not, France will trifle with her forever hereafter. She has reed, our 
Ambassadors, protected our Merchant Men, Privateers, Men of War and 
Prizes, admitted Us freely to trade, lent Us Money, and supplied Us with 
Arms, Ammunition and Warlike Stores of every Kind. This is notorious 
all over Europe, and she will do more, presently, if our dastardly Despon- 
dency, in the midst of the finest Prospects imaginable, does not discourage 
her. The surest and the only Way to secure her Arms in this Cause is 
for Us to exert our own. For God's sake then don't fail of a single Man 
of your Quota. Get them at any Rate, and by any Means rather than not 
have them. 

I am more concerned about our Revenue than the Aid of France. Pray 
let the Loan Offices do their Part, that We may not be compelled to make 
Paper Money as plenty and of Course as cheap as Oak Leaves. There is 
so much Injustice in carrying on a War with a depreciating Currency 
that We can hardly pray w'ith Confidence for success. 

[47 SV Warren-Adams Letters, I. 321; Works. IX. 462 (dated Apr. 27). 
2 Warren's letter of Apr. 3 is in Warren-Adams Letters, I. 309. 



May, 1777 355 

The Confederation has been delayed because the States were not fully 
represented. Congress is now full, and We are in the Midst of it. It will 
soon be passed.* .... 

476. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia May 3d. 1777. 
Sir, 

.... The Conduct of Genl. Arnold on the late Expedition of the 
Enemy against the Town of Danbury being highly approved of by Con- 
gress, they have promoted him to the Rank of Major General.^ .... 

477. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia 3d May 1777 
My Dear Sir, 

.... I most heartily lament with you the situation of our paper cur- 
rency and am sometimes almost ready to think with you that " all nature 
will not support it ". However another project is now on the tapis and if 
that should fail, after a thorough trial we must endeavor to support the 
war without for the war must be supported at all events till an honorable 
peace can be obtained, in this I know you will agree with me fully. ^ .... 

478. The President of Congress to the Thirteen States.^ 

Philadelphia May 5th 1777. 
(Circular) 
Gentlemen, 

I have it in Charge from Congress to transmit the enclosed Resolves, 
relative to sundry important Subjects and to urge your Compliance 
therewith. 

The Mode therein recommended in order that Congress may be in- 
formed what Sums of Money have been advanced by the respective States, 
for recruiting their Continental Battalions, and of the Expenditure of the 
same by the Officers, as it is the only effectual one that can be pursued, 
and the Measure is of the utmost Consequence to the United States, I 
make no Doubt you will immediately adopt hoth.^ I beg Leave to refer 
your Attention to the Resolves and have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, 

Your most obedt. and very hble Servt. 

J. H. Presidt 
To the Thirteen States. 

3 Cf. no. 465, ante. 
[476]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 179. 

2 See the Journals, May 2, and nos. 419, 474. ante. See also Washington to the 
President of Congress, May 5, 12, in Writings (ed. Ford), V. 350, 352, (ed. Sparks), 
IV. 408, 416. Cf. no. 497, post; see also nos. 582, 583, 585, 607, post. 

[477] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 341; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft 
Coll., Langdon-Elwyn Papers (copy of part). 

2 The project on the tapis was a foreign loan. Cf. no. 479, post, and see the 
Journals, June 11, Dec. 2, 3. 

[478]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VL 200; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cent. Cong., no. 58, pt. IL, p. 196. 
2 See the Journals, Apr. 29. 



3 

479. John Adams to Joseph Palmer.^ 

Philadelphia May 6 1777 
Dear Sir, 

I had a few days ago the Pleasure of receiving your Favour of the 
16 ult. 

The Subject of Finances is the most important of any that can come 
under our Consideration, if we can Support these we can carry on the 
war with Vigour and probably with success. But if we go on as we have 
we must suffer extream Distress. The Science of a Financier is to be 
learned only from Books or from Travel. I have scarce a Moment to 
look into a Book and I never travelled. Some of our Bostonian Genius's 
who understand the Nature of Commerce and of Money must turn their 
Thoughts to these Subjects. 

I think with you that we ought to negotiate with some foreign Power 
Loans of Cash. But this is attended with great Difficulty. We might 
possibly borrow, but there is a vast Risque in transporting the Money 
across the sea.^ 

I know not what to say of the Lottery, you say is in Contemplation. I 
dread the Effects of the Gambling Spirit that is abroad. Salt, Lead, 
Sulphur, Allum and Copperas, are Articles of great Importance, but 
whether you cannot import them cheaper than you can make them, 
(under all the Risques) I know not 

480. John Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philadelphia, May 6, 1777 
Dear Sir, 

About Ten Days ago I had the Boldness to make a Motion that a Navy 
Board should be established at Boston. Certain Gentlemen looked struck 
and surprised ; however, it passed. I have moved I believe fifteen Times, 
that a Nomination should take Place ; certain Gentlemen looked cold. 

Two or three Days ago, the Nomination came on. Langdon, Vernon, 
Deshon, Dalton, Orne, Henley, Smith, Gushing and Warren, were 
nominated. ^ 

This Day the Choice came on. At last Vernon, Warren, and Deshon 
were chosen. The Board are to appoint their own Clerk who is to have 
500 Dollars a year. I hope you will engage in this Business and conduct 
it with Spirit. You cannot be speaker and do this Duty too I believe. 

I think the Tow^n of Boston will be offended. But I could not help it. 
This you will not mention. The Salary for the Commissioners is 1500 
Dollars a Year. You will have the Building and fitting of all Ships, the 
appointment of Officers, the Establishment of Arsenals and Magazines, 
etc., which will take up your whole Time. But it will be honourable to be 
so capitally concerned in laying a Foundation of a great Navy, The profit 

[479]! Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 715. 

2 Cf. no. 477. ante. 
[480]^ Warren-Adams Letters, I. 324; Works, IX. 464. 



May, 1777 357 

to you will be nothing-, But tlie Honour and the Virtue the greater. I 
almost envy you this Employment. I am weary of my own and almost 
with my Life. But I ought not to be weary in endeavoring to do well.'' 

481. William Whipple to [Josiah Bartlett?].^ 

Philadelphia 7th May 1777 
My Dear Sir, 

.... Col. Thornton set out the 3d inst I endeavored to perswade him 
to tarry 'till Mr. Frost arrived, but without success. I hope I shall be 
excused if I leave this very soon after Mr. Frost arrives, for I assure you 

I am almost wore out I think it absolutely necessary that the state 

sho*^ be as fully represented as possible, therefore hope a second Person 
will soon be sent after Mr. Frost 

482, William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

Philadelphia, Aiay 8th, 1777. 
Sir: 

.... I hope the General Assembly will attend, if they should not 
already have done it, to the letter which I wrote them desiring the earliest 
information, after the appointment of delegates. Our State is not repre- 
sented in Congress now, and will not be until I shall have received authen- 
tic advice of my being chosen, or another delegate shall have arrived. 
Therefore, let me intreat that it may be done, that the new delegates may 
come forward immediately. The circumstances of my family require 
that I should return as soon as possible, to make some suitable provisions 
for it, and my long, constant attention in Congress demands relaxation.^ 



483. The New York Delegates to the New York Convention.^ 

Philadelphia May 9th. 1777 
Gentlemen, 

When we arrived here, it plainly appeared that great pains had been 
taken to injure the Character of Major General Schuyler. 

No direct Charge had been urged against him ; a series of sly Insinua- 
tions, That he was making an enormous Fortune at the Expence of the 
Public, — That he had converted the Specie provided by Congress for the 
Canada Service to his own private Purposes : And when he shewed his 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 19, May 3, 6 ; also nos. 427, 449, 457, 459. ante, and 

nos. 485, 521, 540, post. ^ , . . , , 

[481 ]i Library of J. Pierpont Morgan, Declaration of Independence, 1. 
[482]! Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 138. 

2 See Ellery to Cooke, Mar. 30, in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 123. Cf. 

Ellery to Cooke, Jan. 30, and Cooke to Ellery, Feb. 18, ibid., pp. 116, 118. 

[483]! N. Y. State Lib., Minutes of the Council of Safety, IX. 47 (copy); Jour. 

N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 941 ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXIX. 189 (copy). 



ooS Continental Congress 

Feelings of some unwortliy Treatment, severe Reliukes, and Animadver- 
sions on his Expressions, and his supposed want of Ivespect to his Super- 
iors. Those were Weapons employed so successfully, as in the End pro- 
duced some resolutions of Congress, paring away his Authority to Noth- 
ing. It took us some time to become acquainted with the new ^Tembers, 
and to undeceive those who wished for Conviction. We had in the mean- 
time got a Committee appointed to inquire into the General's Conduct at 
large.^ That Business went on heavily and seemed to promise no Con- 
clusion. We therefore were under the Necessity to take a more direct 
Course. The General's Account of the Specie was at his request reex- 
amined (after it had been passed by the Commissioners) at the Treasury 
Board who made a full report in his Favor, which was received by Con- 
gress and ordered to be published.' This Report, a printed Copy of which 
is herewith transmitted, had a powerful Effect on many of the Members, 
who heard it with the utmost Pleasure, and frankly acknowledged that 
they had been deceived. 

The way being thus prepared, the General presented a Memorial to 
Congress, stating such of their Resolutions, as conveyed a Censure upon 
him, justifying himself in every particular. This after some Debate pro- 
duced a unanimous Resolution of Congress, That the Memorial was Satis- 
factory, and that the Congress entertained the same favorable Opinion 
of the General as they entertained before the passing those Resolutions.* 

A compleat and honorable Vindication of the General's Character and 
Conduct being implied in that resolution, and the infamous Charge of 
embezzling the Specie effectually done away by the Report from the 
Treasury, we shall give ourselves no trouble about the proposed Enquiry ; 
especially as Congress came into the Appointment of the Committee with 
the utmost reluctance, almost every Member declaring that there was no 
Accuser or Charge against the General, and that the Enquiry was there- 
fore unnecessary. All Impediments being now removed, we shall proceed 
to take the most speedy Measures for reinstating the General in his Com- 
mand.* In the critical Situation of our Affairs, his Services are loudly 
called for: We therefore conceived that this Business ought first to be 
dispatched. It unavoidably occasions some delay in the other Matters 
committed to our Charge, but You may be assured that they shall be 
attended to, with all the zeal and diligence of which we are capable. 
In the meantime we remain wath the utmost Regard 

Honble Gentlemen 
Your most Obedt. Humble Servants 

Phil. Livingston 
Jas. Duane 

Hono'. Convention of the State of New York. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. i8; also nos. 453, 461, 472, ante. 

3 See the Journals, May 3 ; cf. ibid., Apr. 29, May 13. 

4 See the Journals, May 7, 8. 

5 See the Journals, May 12, 15, 22; also nos. 495, 502, 511, 515, post. The con- 
vention's reply to this letter, dated May 28, is in Jour. N'. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 947. 



May, 17/7 359 

484. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.* 

Philadelphia, 10 May, 1777. 

.... Upon a hint from one of our commissioners abroad,^ we are 
looking about for American curiosities to send across the Atlantic, as 
presents to the ladies. Mr. Rittenhouse's planetarium, Mr, Arnold's col- 
lection of varieties in the virtuoso way, which I once saw at Norwalk in 
Connecticut, Narrag-anset pacing mares, mooses, wood-ducks, flying squir- 
rels, red-winged blackbirds, cranberries and rattlesnakes, have all been 
thought of. Is not this a pretty employment for great statesmen as we 
think ourselves to be? Frivolous as it seems, it may be of some conse- 
quence. Little attentions have great influence. I think, however, we 
ought to consult the ladies upon this point. Pray what is your opinion ? 

485. William Whipple to John Langdon/ 

Philadelphia loth. May 1777. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... A Navy Board is to be established at Boston, the gentlemen 
who compose it are elected. You were in nom.ination, but as I thought 
you had rather continue in the business you are then [than] to remove to 
Boston for a salary of 1500 dollars I did not urge your appointment.^ 



486. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia May loth. 1777. 
Sir, 

.... P. S. I am directed by Congress to request you will furnish 
them, by the Return of this Express, with an Account of the Number of 
the Troops you have at present. It is not expected in the Situation of the 
Army, without an Adjut General, that you will be able to do it [with] 
any great Degree of Precision. What they desire is, that you will give 
them the best Information in your Power as to your Number and 
Strength." 

The Congress having recommended it to the States of Delaware and 
Pennsylvania to call out a Body of their Militia amounting in the whole 
to four Thousand five Hundred, and Preparations being made for their 
going into Camp, would wish to' know, whether in your Opinion, it is 
necessary to compleat this Business. They would by no Means interfere 
with any Plan you may have formed ; and therefore leave it entirely to 

[484] 1 Fa wi/jar Letters, p. 271. 

2 See Deane to the committee of secret correspondence, Nov. 28, 1776, and Deane 
to Jay, Dec. 3, 1776, Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 196, 212. 
[485]^ Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 347. 

2 Cf. no. 480, ante. Langdon was elected agent of prizes for New Hampshire 
June 25, 1776. 

[486]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington. XC. 185. 

2 No resolution to tliis effect is found in the Journals. Cf. no. 487, post. 

28 



3 

you to determine on the I'xpedicncy of the Measure, beinji; desirous of 
co-operntiii}^ with you in any Scheme you may have projected aji^ainst the 
Enemy ^ 

487. The Board of War to George Washington.* 

War Office May nth. 1777 
Sir 

.... Congress are desirous to be informed what Number of Men are 
now under your Excellcy's Command in New Jersey as nearly as Cer- 
tainty can be arrived at in the present Situation of the Army, in Order 
that a Judgment may be formed of the Propriety of hastning on or dis- 
banding the Pennsilvania and Delaware Militia now embodying agreeable 
to the Request of Congress who would be glad of your Excellcy's Opinion 
on the Subject and that you would inform them whether the disbanding 
the Militia would be safe and proper or would in any wMse interfere with 
any Plan your Exellcy. has formed. From the distracted State of Penn- 
silvania there is no certain Prospect of their Quota speedily taking the 
Field and no Accounts have been received of those of the Delaware State 
being ready. Steps however are persuing in both States to comply with the 
Recommendation of Congress and Part of the Men are assembled.^ .... 

I have the Honour to be 

Your very obed and most hble Servt 

Richard Peters Secy 
His Excellcy Genl Washington 

488. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina.* 

Philadelphia, May nth 1777 
Sir: 

.... We have had no debates of any consequences in Congress except 
on the Confederation; all those I shall transmit you at once.^ It goes on 
very slowly, and I fear, the difficulty of preserving the independence of 
the States, and at the same time giving to each its proper weight in the 
public Council, will frustrate a Confederation.^ Altogether I have had so 
short a notice of this opportunity that I can not be full on this subject; but 
as I give the most diligent attention to it nothing material will escape me, 
and you shall be fully informed. 

I have the honor to be etc. your Excellency's ob't. serv't., 

Thos. Burke. 
Gov'r. Caswell. 

^ For the action regarding the Pennsylvania and Delaware militia, see the 
Journals. Apr. 23, 24, 25, 29; also the motion of Richard Henr}- Lee, printed in a foot- 
note in the Journals (ed. Ford), under May 9 (p. 343), and no. 487, post. Cf. no. 460, 
ante, no. 523, post. Washington's reply to this letter, dated May 12 (Writings, ed. 
Ford. V. 359), was read in Congress May 16. 

[487] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XV. 154. 

2 See no. 486, ante. 
[488] ijV. C. State Recs., XL 469. 

2 See no. 465, note 3, ante. 

3 See Burke's proposed amendments to the Confederation, in the Journals, 
May 5; cf. nos. 503, 567, 528, 725, 739, 740, post. 



May, ijyy 361 

489. James Lovell to George Washington.' 

Philadelphia May 12th. 1777 
Honored dear Sir 

By the singular manner in which General Lee gives out his character- 
izing opinions Monsr. Mahnedy was exalted to a colonial rank in Rhode 
Island which will be a source of pain to him; contrary to the intention of 
his mentioned zealous friend : Congress has aimed by passing over one 
continental gradation, from Major to Colonel, to lessen that pain to this 
Gentlemen, who is high in his professions of ambition to give signal testi- 
mony, in the field, of his attachment to our cause.^ .... 

490. Roger Sherman to Oliver Wolcott.^ 

Sir. Philadelphia May 13. 1777 

.... Nothing very material has been done in Congress since you left 
It. The quarter master general's department has been regulated ^ and 
Col. Jedediah Huntington and Col. Joseph Read were yesterday promoted 
to the rank of brigadiers. The confederation has been twice entered upon • 
but not much progress made in it. The Commissary general is here' 
he has displaced his deputy Wharton. Regulations are prepared to put 
that department on a good footing, but not passed Congress." I hope you 
will soon return with some other of the delegates I want very much to 
return home. I am not very well cannot endure so close attention to bus- 
iness as IS necessary when but one delegate from the state is attending 
Mr Ellery's time expired last week and he has no account of being reap- 
pointed.^ Neither that state nor Deleware are now represented 

491. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull).' 

Honored Sir, Philadelphia, May 14th, 1777. 

Your letter to Congress was received and read, and then committed to 
the Board of War.^ .... Congress has lately been employed in regulat- 

[489]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XV. i68 

:;o8 PostCen^/hZTl' ^P'- ^^' ^^y}""'. 'f- ^bid., Sept. 19, 17/6. See also nos. 501, 
f^%hZ T 1 ; }.flJ^^^ ^ recommendation of Malmedy for a brigadier-generalship 
St-f PC i6t"i6; rt^^n'- Wl%'' '" ?• ^k^''.'-' ^'"I- "^- Letter! of Mitaedy aJ? 
Soc ' Follertinlf^' fl' i\ ^^•'^'^- PP" ^4, 67, 186. The letters are also in N. Y. Hist. 
mS 16 to Con^rei M.t'x^' l^' Wh^^,' ^''\?^^- ^^^ ^^^« Washington to Malmedy, 
^6? in ?pH Q^ i\ t7.^^' *° ^- ^- L^^' ^^y ^7, in Writings (ed. Ford), V. 363 
tid.lN. S: ^'^' ^'' ^^' '^- ^^'^^h'"gton to Major Colerus, May 19! 

l490]i Conn Hist. Soc., Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. L, no. 9 (copy). 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 21, Apr. 16, 23, May 14 
from Phil^firrf^"^?/ ^^^' 458, <inte. Joseph Trumbull wrote to Governor Trumbull 
in the rn^iSr ' n^^ '/• ? T yet. detained here, on some Regulations proposed 
be thro^ i^ a ?hf. W^Jw'"\ A" •!"^'''' "^^ P^"" '' "°^ preparing, and I hope will 
CommLaJv rln^r.l if i/V^^'V* ''. proposed to have a Purchasing and Issuing 
onX otW" rSi'J M-^.^^P^'^r ^"d {"dependant on each other, and each a Check 
TrumbutvL x^' )"^Se^?o. 495; n^ot^^'^/..^ = ^'^^^^^ ^' ^-^--' ^-^ ^rans.. 

* See no. 482, ante. 
[491]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh sen, U 46 

See no. A^rpl^sf' '^"'''' '^''^^^ ^^^^ ^' '''^' '^^'"''^^ *° ^^ ^^^'"'^ °^ ^^^ ^^y 12. 



3 

ing the several (leparliiients of the army, thai the husiiiess may he properly 
coiKluctetl aiul frauds aiul ahuse prevented. The Articles of Confedera- 
tion have several times come under consideration, hut not much progress 
made therein. Rhode Island is not represented, Mr. Mllery's time expired 
last week and he has no information of being reappointed. Letters as late 
as the 15th of April received from our agent in Martineco inform tiiat our 
trade receives all the protection that could he desired from the (i(n'' of the 
French Islands, but no certain accounts whether a war will soon take place 
between France and Britain.^ .... 

The Gentleman who gave information of Governor Franklin's misbe- 
haviour, and the inattention of our Government to prevent it, seemed dis- 
pleased that any part of the information was contradicted by your Hon" 
letter. I have no doubt but his information was good as to Governor 
Franklin's misconduct. As to our Government being informed of it, he 
says that he told Genii Parsons of it, and that Mr Burr of Fairfield was 
also informed of it. Mr. Duer is zealously engaged to suppress Tories.* 
The Congress promoted Colonels Huntington and Read to the rank of 
Brigadiers General on the 12th instant, the first on General Washington's 
request 

492. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, May i6th, 1777. 
Sir, 

The President detained the express 'till to day, waiting for the Board 
of War to report on your Hours letters." The Board took it into con- 

^ Tlie agent at Martinique was William Bingham. Letters from him at this 
time are not mentioned in the Journals. Cf. no. 501, post. 

* The proceedings in Congress relative to Governor Franklin were Apr. 22. 
See also Washington to Trumbull, Mar. 23, Trumbull to Washington, Apr. 14, Wash- 
ington to Trumbull, Apr. 21, Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, fifth ser.. X. 50, 56, 58. 
Washington's letter of Mar. 23 is also in Writings (ed. Ford), V. 294. Cf. the Journals, 
Dec. 3, 1776, July 28, Oct. 22, 1777. A letter of Titus Hosmer to William Williams, 
June 27, 1777, throws light upon some phases of the matter : 

" Tho' I believe you remember the Affair, yet least it may have slipped from you the 
Case stands thus — last Winter Colo. Duer informed Genl Parsons that Govr. Franklin 
was dispersing the Howes proclamations and protections in this state, that a Number 
of the Members of the General Assembly received Protections of him at Middletown, 
and that he would furnish him with Evidence tc prove the Charge against the particular 
Members that were guilty. 

" This Story Genl. Parsons published, chance fixed the Censure upon Three Gentle- 
men vyc. you know. Genl Parsons was called upon for Evidence to support the facts 
and direct a prosecution against those so namd. He promised to procure it, and alledges 
that he wrote several Letters to Colo. Duer requesting him to furnish requisite proofs 
to which he had no answer, in the Meantime Colo. Duer reports at Congress 
that Govr. Franklin was circulating Protections in Connecticut, that this was publicly 
known here, and no Notice was taken of it 

" I for my self yet earnestly wish to know the Truth, and bring to Condign punish- 
ment any Persons especially any Members of Assembly concerned in so villainous a 
Transaction, and shall esteem it a very particular favour in you to wait upon Colo. 
Duer and request him to give Directions how we may come at proof or any Clue to 
unravel this Transaction and bring it to light and expose and punish those Concerned." 
(Conn. Hist. Soc, William Williams Papers.) It is evident from Hosmer's statements 
that " the gentleman who gave information ", etc., was Mr. Duer. 

[492]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., TI. 48. 

2 See liO. 491, ante. The prior resolution referred to was Dec 10, 1776. 



May, 1777 363 

sideration this morning, but did not think it necessary to make any report 
to Congress on the contents, as the resohition of Congress, passed last 
December, authorizing your Hour to retain two regiments for the defence 

of the State until further order, has not been superceded Letters 

were this day received from France as late as the 25th of March, but no 
material news; they related chiefly to commerce.' . ... 

P. S. I should think it advisable to represent to General Washington 
the necessity of having the battalions stationed in Connecticut. When 
the Board of War had the matter under consideration the resolution of 
Congress was not before them, but they supposed it was at General Wash- 
ington's option to call for the troops when he might think proper. 

493. Thomas Nelson, jr., to the Speaker of the Virginia House 

OF Delegates (George Wythe). ^ 

Offley Ho^ ^ May i6th 1777 
Sir 

A total inability to attend to business, having oblig'd me to quit the 
Congress, I beg leave, thro' you, to acquaint the Assembly with it, that 
they may appoint another Delegate ; and I will take the liberty to advise, 
that this be immediately done, because the Congress are now engag'd in 
forming the Confederation, in which Virginia is deeply interested. 

Nothing but necessity could have induced me to leave Congress at this 
critical time, and I hope I shall stand excus'd.^ 

I have the honour to be 
Sir 

Your obedt Servt 

Thos Nelson jr.* 

494. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, 17 May, 1777. 

.... Mr. Gorham and Mr. Russel are here with a petition from 
Charlestown. It grieves me that they are to return without success. I 
feel, most exquisitely, for the unhappy people of that town. Their agents 
have done every thing in their power or in the power of men to do, and 
the Massachusetts delegates have seconded their efforts to the utmost of 
their power, but all in vain. The distress of the States, arising from the 
quantity of money abroad, and the monstrous demands that would be 
made from Virginia, New Jersey, New York and elsewhere, if a precedent 
should be once set, has determined the Congress, almost with tears in their 
eyes, to withstand this application at present. Every man expressed the 
utmost tenderness and humanity upon the occasion : but at the same time, 

3 The Journals do not record the receipt of letters from France. 
[493]^ Va. State Library. 

2 Offley House, Hanover County, Virginia, the home of Thomas Nelson, jr. 

3 Nelson obtained leave of absence May 8. 

* The original signature has been clipped and supplied at the side. 
[494]^ Familiar Letters, p. 273. 



n 

every man, except the Massachusetts delegates, expressed his full convic- 
tion of the ill policy of granting any thing at present.- 

495. Philip Schuyler to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia i8th May 1777. 
Dear Sir 

.... The Board of War have reported to Congress, that I ought 
again to be invested with the Command in the Northern Department, and 
that General Gates should continue to serve under me, or join your Ex- 
cellency. This occasioned a warm Debate which will be renewed to 
Morrow.^ 

- The Charlestown petition was presented to Congress May 14, and the resolu- 
tion relative to it is in the Journals, May 16. See nos. 500, 512, post. Cf. the case of 
Falmouth, the Journals, Mar. t, 1776. 

[495]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XV. 244. 

2 See the Journals, May 15, 22; also nos. 472, 483, ante, 502, 511, 515, post. The 
following extract of a letter from Joseph Trumbull, then in Philadelphia, to Jeremiah 
Wadsworth throws light on some of the proceedings of Congress upon the Schuyler 
affair as well as upon the proceedings concerning the commissary department. The 
letter, dated May 17 (the latter part of the postscript was written May 19), is in the 
Maine Historical Society, Revolution, no. 7 : 

"(P. S.) Are not some of our Delegates coming on here? Mr. Sherman is left alone, 
and he wishes a little rest. 

" As to Bror. Jack — on Mr Lovell's rect. of his last letter to him which you saw, it 
was moved in Congress ; that Genl Gates should have power to fill his place. On which 
Dr Witherspoon rose and said he had no Objection, so that he was restrained from 
appointing Mr Trumbull. On this he was Replied to and told that, the Young Gentleman 
dispized the Idea of asking a Commission of the first date, as a Favr. and it could not be 
supposed that he would be mean eno' to take one of a whole Year's later date. But 
to remove that Gentleman's fears, he would move in behalf of the Young Gentleman, that 
his Resignation might be Accepted and if he pleased that he might never be able to 
hold another Commission as he was sure he never would accept one, after the Treatment 
he had reed, however his Resignation was Accepted. So that he is quite out of the 
Army, and I hope will never be in it again. I have since applied to Colo Hancock 
several Times in person and by Writing to know when the Commission was sent— 
he has not, and will not do it. I intend to apply once more, if he don't give it, I will 
ask Congress for it. I am Convinced [he neve]r Sent it, and I fancy he never intended 
to. [Hancock?] is going on to Boston. I have noticed this matter to Govr. Trumbull, 
that he may treat him accordingly as he passes. Every Act is Using here to get Genl 
Gates recalled, the Event, I can't yet give yon. perhaps I may before I close this. Genl 
Schuyler is here, with his mirmedon's. 6 oClock P M. My Department is dividing into 
two — Purchasing and Issuing, the Regulations are nearly finished I like them very well, 
this will make both Places new, as mine is superceded, whether they'll offer me either 
I know not yet. if they give me the purchases, I shall accept it, if the allowance is what 
I think it ought to be. they have not got to that part yet. I gave them the Terms, — 
h pr. Ct. to myself, and 24 to the purchasers, this they Choak at, but I am deter- 
mined to have my own Terms or have nothing. I am to appoint one Deputy Com- 
missary Genl of Purchases in Each Department, and he to have such others under 
him, of my appointment, as may be best, but to reduce the Numbers. I never will 
ask any appointment of them. A large Party will be glad to be rid of me. I shall not 
be disappointed if they don't give the offer. Or if they do, if they should set the allow- 
ances so low that I shall despise them, therefore you may esteem it an Even Chance, 
whetJier I do anything in it or not. if I do, you shall be Deputy in the Eastern Depart- 
ment, but be assured, I will have it on a proper footing or not at all. I should be 
perfectly accursed was I dependent, as well as Attendant here. I have given In my 
Proposals 3 Weeks to morrow. I have seen nothing of them untill this Morning, and 
now they are very little [ad]vanced, and yet three weeks elapsed, not one Word have 
I heard from Lebanon or Windham since I left them are they all Dead? [May 19] 
Monday Morning, 6 oClock. As to Genl Gates, I fear he will be recalled. Rhode Island 



^^y^ ^777 3G5 

496. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia May 20th. 1777. 
Sir, 

This will be delivered to you by Mrs. Graydon of this City, a very 
worthy Lady, whose anxiety to see her Son Captain Graydon^ now a 
Prisoner with the Enemy, is so great, that Congress have been induced 
to consent to her having an Interview with him. I am therefore to re- 
quest your Attention to the enclosed Resolve on the Subject, and that 
you will give Directions for having it carried into Execution in such 
Manner as you may think proper.^ 

497. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Phila. May 20, 1777 
Dear Sir, 

.... One plan now in frequent use, is, to assassinate the Characters 
of the friends of America in every place, and by every means.^ 

At this moment they are now reading in Congress, an audacious attempt 
of this kind against the brave General Arnold.^ .... 

498. The Virginia Delegates to the Speaker of the Virginia 
House of Delegates (George Wythe). ^ 

Philadelphia May 20th 1777 
Sir, 

We are favored with yours covering a resolve of Assembly to which 
we shall pay due attention. The first Volume of the last edition of the 

is not represented etc. I wish our Delegates some of them would come on there is so 
miuch Bnsmess and so many Committee's that a full representation is necessary. I expect 
the Regulations of the Commissary Department will get thro' bv Wensday. at least I 
hope so Genl Mifflm s thro he is left at large, about paying his purchasers If I am 
ap [pointed I sha]ll have a New Agreement. Time will show us w[hat is t]o be done. 

I am your's as before 

Concerning the commissary department see nos. 4S0, 457, 4S8, 490, ante. The'^new 
regulations for the organization and conduct of the department were adopted Tune 10 • 
the compensation was established June 16. See nos. 517-520, 522. 529, bosi The regu- 
lations for the quartermaster-general's department were adopted May 14 ' 

[496] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 

2 See ih^ Journals, May 15L Capt. Alexander Graydon, of the third Pennsylvania 
-^^nT'Jr ''t'" P'^'a""' ^' Fort Washington Nov. 16, 1776. He was paroled July 
\Th T c:'fSf-^ ^P""- i\i778. His Memoirs (Harrisburg, 1811; Philadelphia 
1846, ed. J S. Littel ) IS one of the best-known sources of the Revolutionary period An 
account of his mother s visit to him at Flatbush and her efforts to obtain his release 
W^nn^l^^P^i.^^^^^ ^^^- ff^ ' ?" ^^'"^'■^^ concerning President Hancock " He had 
man of ?h*i wnrM°^r''? °^ ^'' ''^'"'' °^ f °/"^ ^"^° New York, but was sufficiently a 

t^«.ii T -i!^ ^' ^?^'^^ °" an appearance of being pleased with its success " (p. 283) 
H\l?y\\ti7.^lx^y:]^;''^'' ^^P^"' --"^ --•' ^I. zs. Leners of RiUari 
2 See no. qo6, post. 

Arnold, L^;n'AiSf;)S,'^p.'^,tr" '"' ""'' '' '^' °""- '" ='=" '' ^• 



3 

Journal of Congress, is now published, and shall be forwarded to Wil- 
liamsburg by the first opportunity. This Volume reaches no further than 
the 30th of deccmber 1775. As our duty directs, so our inclinations lead 
to an immediate compliance with the desires of the House of Delegates, 
hut we apprehend insurmountable ditTiculty in getting the manuscript 
journal, because the many secret articles cannot be exposed to a Copier, 
and neither the Secretary or ourselves have time to do it. The Printer has 
hitherto been delayed for want of paper, but now that is obtained, we shall 
urge the publication of the remaining Journal, and send it to you Sir, 
with all the dispatch in our power.^ 

We have the honor to be with esteem and respect 

Sir Your most obedient servants 

Richard Henry Lee 
Francis Lightfoot Lee 
]\L\NN Page jr ' 

P. S. We shall endeavor to prevail with the Post Rider to take the Vol 
of Journal with him this Trip. 

499. Roger Sherman to Oliver Wolcott.^ 

Philadelphia May 21 : 1777 
Sir 

.... A committee is appointed to consider wliat Honors are due to 
the Memory of Genii. Wooster. there are different accounts of the day of 
his death. Some say Thursday others Friday and others Saturday I 
wish that could be ascertained, and that I could be informed of his age.^ 



500. The ^Massachusetts Delegates to the Speaker of the 

Massachusetts House of Representatives 

(James Warren).^ 

Philadelphia, May 21st 1777 
Sir 

Mr. Gorham and Mr. Russel, Agents of the Town of Charlestown, have 
presented to Congress a Petition from the Unfortunate Inhabitants of that 
Place, praying for a Compensation for their Losses. The Petition w^as 
drawn in very decent and handsome Terms, containing a lively Descrip- 

2 May 9 the Virginia house of delegates had " Resolved, that the Speaker be 
desired to write to our delegates in Congress, requesting they will send to this House 
a printed copy of their journals, as far as the same are printed, and also a manuscript 
copy of the journals to this time, so far as the same are allowed to be published." See 
also Jefferson to John Adams, May 16, in Jefferson's Writings (ed. Ford), II. 129. 
Cf. no. 507. post. 

3 The original signatures have been cut out and supplied in the margm. 
[499]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. I., no. 10. 

2 The resolution in the Journals, May 19, gives the date of Wooster's death as 
May 2, which was Friday. See also the Journals, June 17. 

[500]! Mass. Arch.. CXCVII. 71; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Massachusetts 
Records, Letters, 1777. 



May, 1777 367 

tion of the distresses to which the unhappy Petitioners were reduced, from 
a State of Ease and affluence ; and the Gentlemen who presented the Peti- 
tion have urged every motive which could either show the Justice and 
Policy of granting the Request, or which could move the humanity and 
Charity of those who heard it. 

These Endeavors of theirs have been seconded by your Delegates in 
Congress, but to no other Effect than to obtain a Committee to consider 
the Petition, whose Report altho' it expresses much Sympathy with that 
virtuous People in Affliction, contains a Denyal of their Request on ac- 
count of the present condition of the Finances of the United States : as, the 
granting of Compensation even in Part, at this Time, would set a Pre- 
cedent for so many and so great Demands, of a similar Nature that the 
public treasury would not be able to Spare so much from the necessary 
Calls of the War. 

There was a Great deal of Delicacy shown thro the whole debate upon 
this Subject, every one wished it was in the power of Congress to grant 
the desired Relief; most acknowledged the Justice of the Demand; but, 
all agreed that, at present it would be impolitic to grant it — except the 
delegates from the Massachusetts Bay. 

Upon a Motion that a Small Part of the Losses should be made up, 
such was the reluctance to giving a negative that the previous Question 
was moved and put; so that a present determination might not prejudice 
the Petitioners in any Future application. 

It may be doubtfull whether such petetions to Congress, from particular 
Corporations, or Independants in any State are proper. Perhaps it would 
be better that each State shd. ascertain the amount of its own Lx)sses, in 
this Kind, and represent it to Congress ; that so, in the End, some Adjust- 
ment may be made between the several States. 

That such an adjustment will, sooner or later, be made is not doubted 
by Us : because, neither Equity nor sound policy will admit that different 
states, contending in the same common Cause, having in View the same 
common Benefit, should be unequally loaded with expense, or suffer dis- 
proportionate Losses, but, as it is impossible to foresee what Course the 
War will take, or what State will be the greatest Sufferer, it is probable 
this question will be postponed untill the End of the War. 

In the mean Time, our Brethren and Neighbors, virtuously struggling 
together with us for every Thing that is valuable, and reduced from Pros- 
perity to Adversity by the cruel Stroke of War, must not be left to suffer 
unnoticed. This would be plainly repugnant to the dictates of Humanity, 
to the Precepts of Christian Charity to the Rules of common Justice and 
the soundest policy; — a Chain of Motives which doubtless produced the 
Grants already made by the General Assembly of our State for the imme- 
diate Subsistence of these sufferers. But, as the unfortunate Petitioners 
were deprived of their necessary Tools and Materials for Business, it was 
remarked by the Gentleman who pleaded for them in Congress, that an 
advance sufficient to replace those Things would be a most essential Relief 
and by far the most economical in the end. And it was suggested that 



3 

such Estates of disaffected Persons as may be sequestered or confiscated, 
tliroughout the Limits of our Union, mipht be a Fund, to insure the Loan 
of Monies, for compensating;- patriotic Sufferers. This, however, was not 
formally recommended. Lach State is competent to the Business, if 
judged proper. 

Having: reported this Affair as it has been conducted in Congress," we 
wish it to be communicated by you to the Honorable House, for any 
Emolument which their Wisdom may direct. 

We have the honor to be with much Respect, Sir, 

Your most humble Servants 

John Hancock 
Samuel Adams 
John Adams 
Elbridge Gerry 
James Lovell 

To the Speaker of the Honble. House 
of Representatives of Massachusetts Bay 



501. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 22d. May 1777 

Dear General 

The subject of your letter of the 27th. [i7th]^ is a very important one. 
and whilst it deserves the greatest attention, is certainly involved in great 
difflculty. Of one truth however, I beg you Sir to be convinced — That no 
desire to get rid of importunity has occasioned these appointments, but 
motives military and political meerly. 

These Adventurers may be divided into three Classes, some who came 
early and without any recommendation but apparent zeal, with Commis- 
sions shewing that they had been in service. Others that brought with 
them recommendations from our good friend the Count D'Argoud Gen- 
eral of Martinique, and from Mr. Bingham the Continental agent in that 
Island. A third Class includes those who come from France, generally 

2 See the Journals, May 14, 16; see also no. 494, ante, and no. 512, post. 
[SOi]'^ Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 293; Memoirs of R. H. 
Lee, II. 17; Am. Phil. Soc, Lee Papers, I. 313. 

2 The letter referred to is evidently that to Lee dated May 17, in Writings (ed. 
Ford), V. 369. See also Washington's letter to the President of Congress, May 16, 
ibid., V. 367. Washington's reply to Lee, June i, is ibid., V. 403. Numerous other 
letters of Washington dealt with this question. The difficulties of Congress from the 
application of foreigners for military appointments had become acute some time before, 
and they were to become still more so. See, for instance, the Journals, Mar. 13, 14, 
19, 21. May 8, 30, June 10, July 16, 17, Aug. 13, Sept. 8, Oct. 10, Nov. 7, 11, 14; also 
nos. 360A, 407, 410, 418, 489, ante, 508. 514, 521, 525, post. For some account of the matter, 
together with sketches of the principal foreign officers who served in the Revolution, 
see Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., I. 397 et seq. See also Balch, The French in America, 
ch. viii ; and Doniol, Histoire de la Participation de la France a I'Stablissement des Stats- 
Unis d'Amerique. 



May, 1771 369 

under agreement with our Commissioners, or one of them at least. ^ The 
strongest obligations rest upon us, (tho' the inconvenience is great) to 
make good engagements with the latter, and if the second had been disre- 
garded we might have oflfended a good and powerful Friend in Martinique 
who has done many good offices there; or have brought our Agent into 
disrepute. Among the first Class, I realy believe there are many worthless 
Men, and I heartily wish we were rid of them. All this is true, and yet I 
feel the great force of your reasoning, and the many difficulties in the 
way of providing for them properly and that may be tolerably [agjreeable 
to them. It is of some consequence that we all, [in] our several depart- 
ments, endeavor to smooth this rug[ge]d business as much as possible. 
When Gen. Con [way] was appointed, I did hope that as he knew most 
[of] them, and spoke both french and English well, tha[t] [h]e might 
relieve you from the greater part of this difficulty,* for realy the discon- 
tented importunit[y] of the greater part of those Gentlem. is too much to 
be borne un[der] [o]ur various and important attention [**] I will pre- 
vail with the Committee for foreign applications to furnish you with the 
most explicit views of Congress in ev[ery] appointment, as well as with 
the recommendations under which each appointment was and is made. 
We have written both to France and to Martinique to stop the furthe[r] 
flow of these Gentlemen here, and after the letters arrive I suppose we 
shall have no more. Many of the last Comers, are, I believe, Men of 
real merit, and if they will learn to express themselves tolerably in English, 
may be of service to the xA-rmy. The desire to obtain Engineers, and 
Artillerists was the principal cause of our being so overburthened. The 
first that came had sagacity enough quickly to discern our wants, and 
professing competency in these branches, — they were too quickly believed. 
And when our Commissioners abroad (in consequence of directions for 
this purpose) enquired for those x\rtists. Military Speculation was imme- 
diately up, and recommendations were obtained from persons of so much 
consideration in France, that the success of our applications then made 
it quite necessary not to neglect them. And at this moment I am appre- 
hensive that the discontent of many may injure our cause abroad when we 
would wish it to stand well. As you express it Sir, the affair requires 
great delicacy in its management, as well on the account of our own 
Officers as on that of these Foreigners. 

• 

8 See especially the letters of Silas Deane, in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 
One of the agreements between the commissioners and certain French officers is ibid., 
II. 269. See also Deane to the committee of secret correspondence, Dec. 6, 1776 {ibid., 
II. 218-221), Franklin to the President, Jan. 20, 1777 {ibid., II. 251), the letters of 
Franklin and Deane, Mar. 12, May 25 {ibid., II. 283, 322), Franklin to Washington, 
June 13 {ibid., II. 340), Lovell to Washington, July 24 {(bid., II. 366), and Franklin 
to Lovell, Oct. 17 {ibid., II. 411). Lovell's letter of July 24 is also found post (no. 559). 

* See the Journals, May 13, Deane to the committee of secret correspondence 
Nov. 29, 1776, and editorial note in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 202. See also no. 
700, post. 



.*JTO Continental Congress 

502. James Lovkll to Horatio Gates.^ 

PiiiLADA. May 22(1. 1777 
Dear Sir 

The strange delays of Mr. Yancey ^ here, greatly mortifying to him, 
have drawn me on day by day from an earlier acknowledgment of your 
favor of Apr. 29th. 

Indeed, I could not have related to you, before this time, any interesting 
decisions concerning such matters as have been moved in Congress con- 
nected with Tyconderoga.^ 

Misconstructions of past resolves, and consequent jealousies, have pro- 
duced a definition of the northern department; and General Schyler is 
ordered to take the command of it. The resolve also which was thought 
to fix Head Quarters at Albany is repealed.* 

It was said you tioiv look upon yourself in the same command which 
he had held. This was universally denyed to be the Intention of sending 
you to Tyconderoga to take the command of the army there. The Debate 
in March was about the Adjutancy or Tyconderoga ; and it was decided 
for the latter.^ In the present Debate I acknowledged it was my hope and 
7vish, at the time you went, and still continues to be, that the officer who 
is at so very important a post shd. not be under the absolute orders of 
another at 100 miles distance, in treaty with Indians or busied in the duties 
of a Providore. This Idea was supported by several : and it is, of itself, 
an irrefragible argument of the impropriety of distributing America into 
departments. A commander in-chief and Commanders of the separate 
armies is the only distinction which should be known. However, this was 
contrary to our Journals. Besides, the army at Ty — and the force at 
Stanwix etc. etc., at a distance were looked upon as different subjects; tho 
it appears you have other ideas than those had who directed your desti- 
nation. No single debate has been more tedious with us ; — having lasted 
whole days and being finally settled 5 to 4 and 2 divided. * 

Your dating from Albany ^ is counted by some irreconcileable with the 
order to repair to Ty — I am sorry your letter to the President and that 
to myself did not arrive i hour ear [Her,] or, had not arrived at all.^ .... 

503. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia May 23d, 1777. 
Sir: 

.... Since my last we have made no progress in the business of Con- 
federation. A difficulty occurs, which, I fear, \\i\\ be insuperable,: that is 

[502]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, VIII. 

2 Tames Yancey, deputy commissary-general. 

3 See nos. 461, 466, 472, 483, ante, 504, 511, 515, 517-520, 553, post. 
* See the Journals, May 22. 

5 See the Journals, Mar. 25. Cf. ibid., Feb. 20, May 15. 

6 Concerning the vote of " 5 to 4 and 2 divided " see nos. 515, 568, post. 
' Presumably Gates's letter of May 2. See the Journals, May 10. 

8 For the sequel, see nos. 517, 519, 520, post. 
[503]^ N. C. State Recs., XI. 476. 



Ma\y', 7/77 371 

how to secure to each State its separate independence, and give each its 
proper weight in the piibHc Councils. So unequaled as the States are, it 
will be nearly impossible to effect this; and after all it is far from improb- 
able that the only Confederation will be a defensive Alliance." Nothing 
of importance has been determined in Congress, except what is merely 
executory 

P. S. In one of my letters I believe I mentioned that Georgia was of 
no use in Congress but to vote with Connecticut.^ This was owing I 
believe to this circumstance, only one Delegate was then present, who is 
by birth a Connecticut man. Since then a Mr. Walton has given his 
attendance, which was before interrupted by illness; and I perceive that 
Georgia is now frequently divided when any question relates to Colonial 
politics, so that these two Delagates are of different principles or different 
judgments. 

504. The New York Delegates to the New York Council of 

Safety.^ 

Philadelphia, May 23d, 1777. 
Honble. Gentlemen 

.... General Schuyler is fully reinstated in his command, every point 
being adjusted entirely to his and our satisfaction. This business, with 
which more than the reputation of our State was so closely connected, 
required address and great attention, for reasons which the General, who 
delivers this, can explain.^ .... 

We are with the utmost regard, 
Honourable Gentlemen 

Your most obedt. humble servants, 

Phil. Livingston, 
Jas. Duane. 
P. S. Mr Duer is stept out, and the General mounting, which prevents 
his signing this letter.^ 

Honble. Council of Safety for the State of New York. 

505. William Paca to the Governor and Council of Maryland.^ 

Gent. 

.... Yesterday the Alarm Gun was fired and to Day an Express 
informs us of ten Sail coming up the River : a fifty Gun Ship — the Roe- 

2 See no. 488, note 6, ante ; cf. nos. 507, 528, post. 

3 See nos. 380, 384. ante. 

[504]! N. Y. State Lib., Minutes of the Council of Safety, V. 131 (copy) ; Jour. N. Y. 
Prov. Cong., I. 953. 

2 See the Journals, May 15, 22; also nos. 453. 461, 472, 483, 495, 502, ante, 511, 

515, 517-520, 553, post. ,,.,, , ,0,, t,uu 

3 This statement, coupled with that above, that Schuyler was to be the bearer 
of this letter, indicates that he was then about to take his departure from Philadelphia. 
He did not, however, leave until May 28 ; for, in a letter to Jay bearing date of May 28 
{Correspondence of Jay, p. 137), Duer says that " General Schuyler expects to deliver this 
letter in person ". See also the newspaper extract given under no. 568, note 5, post. 

[505]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 108. 



372 Cotttincntal Congress 

buck of forty four Guns — a I'Vitjale — four Tenders — a Hrij^ and two Pilot 
Boats — The Gondolas are gone down — The Congress has adj(jurned to go 
down in Barges to see the Sport." 

Congress took up Capt Nicholsons affair^ and were unanimously of 
Opinion he had not made the Satisfaction he ouj:,dit to have made and on 
Examination of the order from the Marine Committee with Respect to 
the impressed men they found that Committee had acted very unwarrant- 
ably in explaining the Resolve of Congress on that Subject in such a 
narrow limited sense Congress meant every man to be discharged without 
any Discrimination of such as subscribed the article [s] and took the 
Bounty and the Resolve was full and explicit to that Purpose The Marine 
Committee were severely handled for presuming to explain at all the 
Resolve but the more reprehensible for giving a Sense to it which might 
have defeated the whole Design of it. Mr. Carroll and I were directed 
to prepare a fresh Set of Resolutions We did so one of which declared 
Capt. Nicholson dismissed from the Command of the Virginia frigate for 
not making that full Satisfaction to the Governor and Council of May'' 
which by a former Resolve of Congress he was ordered to do : a second 
Resolve restored him to his Command on his explicit Disapprobation of 
his Letter: and a third Resolve ordered the commanding officer of the 
Frigate to deliver up every impressed man who should now be considered 
such by any Persons the Governor and Council should send on Board for 
the Purpose of making the Enquiry ; these Resolutions would have passed 
unanimously but Mr. Lewis coming up and assuring us of his having Con- 
versation w'ith our Council who declared they would be satisfied with the 
Concessions which were contained in Nicholsons first Letter and which 
were satisfactory to the Governor and Mr. Lewis further assuring us that 
Capt. Nicholson had wrote a second Letter in Consequence thereof and dis- 
charged every man who did not chuse to remain We have been induced 
from these assurances to postpone doing any thing in the matter till we 
hear further from you on that Subject. Mr. Lewis further says that Capt. 
Nicholson is about joining the Virginia armed Vessels wath an Intent to 
attack the Man of War in the Bay. I can with pleasure inform you the 
Congress shewed a determined Spirit to give full Satisfaction on both 
points and I am confident they would have dismissed Capt. Nicholson 
without Hesitation if we had not proposed to restore him on his explicit 
Disapprobation of his Letters which was the Satisfaction you in your's 
to him demanded : 3'ou may be further assured Capt. Nicholson had not 
even an Intimation from Congress or Committee to impress : I am sur- 
prised that Mr. Rumsey who was on the Marine Committee approved of 
the Explanation they gave the Resolve to discharge the impressed men : 
Mr. Middleton who was also a ^Member of that Committee told Congress 

2 On Saturday, May 24, Congress merely met and adjourned. 

3 See nos. 468, 469, 470, 474, ante. Richard Henry Lee wrote to Samuel Purvi- 
ance, May 13 : " It gives me great pleasure to hear of Capt. Nicholson's reconciliation 
with the Government, altho' it is not yet announced to us in form." (A copy of this 
letter, from the original, is in the possession of the Carnegie Institution of Washington.) 
The Journals contain no record of a discussion of the affair at this time. 



May, 1777 373 

he opposed it in the ^larine Committee as an illegal assumption of Power: 
as the Question was agitated there how could our friend Rumsey suffer 
such a Thing to be done? You'll be pleased to let us have a Line from 
you as soon as possible 

Philad. Saturday 
12 oClock 
24 — May 1777. 

[P. S.] . . . . 

506. Richard Henry Lee to the Governor of Virginia.^ 

Philadelphia, May 26, 1777. 
My dear Sir,^ 

.... But the truth is sir, that certain evil disposed men hate me, partly 
for the same reason that I am devoted to destruction in the enemies' camp, 
because I have served my country with unremitting zeal and industry, and 
in concert with other generous friends to human liberty and the rights of 
America, have gone far towards defeating our enemies, and raising Amer- 
ica triumphant over its cruel vindictive, and determined foes. But it seems 
there are two other charges equally futile and false ; the one that I have 
favored New^ England to the injury of Virginia. The other that as a 
Member of the Secret Committee I objected to their proceedings being 
laid before Congress, meaning to insinuate that I wished to conceal em- 
bezzlement of the public money ! The wretch who carried, or sent this 
last account to Virginia, knows perfectly w^ell, that my total abstraction 
from every commercial concern, renders it impossible that I can propose 
any kind of good to myself from trading business of any sort. But I have 
a strong belief that a change is w^ished, in order to remove obstruction 
feared from me, and to prepare the way for the execution of private plans, 
in which the public will not be gainer. The affair alluded to, is, I suppose, 
a very inconsiderate motion made at Baltimore for the secret committee to 
lay all its proceedings before Congress. I observed, that so extensive a 
motion defeated the very end for which such a committee was appointed, 
and might expose to danger valuable cargoes that should be coming in, or 
might be going out, particularly the former. The motion was narrowed, 
and even as it was agreed to ^ Mr. Morris, the chairman of the committee, 
who was here at the time, did by letter so convince the Congress of the 
impropriety of the order as it passed, that nothing more was said about it.* 
We did indeed expect at that very time the arrival of the valuable stores 
that have since come in. The charge of favoring New England is so con- 
temptibly wicked, that I can scarcely bring myself to the trouble of 
refuting it, or to trespass on your time to read my observations on it. 

[506]! Henry, Patrick Henry, III. y^', Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagli), 
I. 297; Am. Phil. Soc, Lee Papers, I. 211 ; Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Transcripts, V. 57. 

2 For the circumstances which gave rise to this letter, see Henry, Patrick Henry, 
L 523. Cf. Jefferson's Writings (ed. Ford), H. 128. See also nos. 539, 547. post. 

3 The order to the secret committee is found in the Journals, Jan. 17. 

* Robert Morris remained in Philadelphia while Congress was at Baltimore. 
See no. 245, ante. 



V>~ [ Continent 111 Congress 

Our enemies, and our friends too, know that America can only be con- 
quered by disunion. The former, by unremitting art liad endeavored to 
create jealousy and discord between the Southern and Eastern Colonies, 
and in truth Sir, they had so far prevailed, that it required constant atten- 
tion, and a finnness not to be shaken, to prevent the malicious act [art?] 
of our enemies from succeeding. I am persuaded as I am of my existence, 
that had it not been for Virginia and Jersey, with Georgia sometimes, 
that our union would e'er now have been by this means broken, like a 
potter's vessel dashed against a rock; and I heartily wish that this greatest 
of all political evils may not yet take place, before a safe and honourable 
peace is established. I am sure it will not be the fault of many men that 
I know, if this event does not happen. I defy the poisonous tongue of 
slander to produce a single instance, in which I have preferred the interest 
of New England to that of Virginia. Indeed I am at a loss to know 
wherein their interests clash. The guilt of New England is that of a fixed 
determination against British Tyranny, and such I believe is the crime of 
Virginia in the eye of their common enemies. Most of the rest have 
entitled themselves to some hopes of pardon from the tyrant, by weak, 
dividing, irresolute, and pernicious conduct. One thing is certain, that 
among the Middle and Southern states Virginia has many enemies ; aris- 
ing from jealousy and envy of her wisdom, vigor, and extent of Territory. 
But I have ever discovered upon every question, respect and love for 

Virginia among the Eastern delegates 

The enclosed resolve of Congress is intended to prevent injury to the 
recruiting business and other public service, in the absence of a General 
officer from Virginia.* I beg your pardon Sir, for the trouble I have given 
you, and wish to be considered as affectionately yours, 

Richard Henry Lee. 

His Excellency. Patrick Henry, Esq. 

507. John Adams to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia, May 26, 1777 
My dear Sir 

.... The great Work of Confederation, draggs heavily on. but I 
dont despair of it. The great and Small States must be brought as near 
together as possible ; and I am not without Hopes, that this may be done 
to the tolerable satisfaction of both. Your Suggestion. Sir. that any 
Proposition may be negatived, by the Representatives of a Majority of 
the People, or of a ^Majority of States, shall be attended to. and I w^ill 
endeavor to get it introduced, if We cannot Succeed in our Wishes for a 
Representation and a Rule of voting, perfectly equitable, v.hich has no 
equal, in my Mind." 

5 The resolution referred to is that of May 22 (the Journals, VIII. 2>77)- 
[507] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second ser., II. 36; Works (ed. Adams), 
IX. 466. There are some verbal variations between the two texts. 

2 Adams is replying to a letter of Jefferson, May 16, in Writings (ed. Ford), 
II. 129; also in Adams's Works, IX. 465. See also nos. 465, 488, 503. ante, no. 528, post. 



May, lyyy 375 

Nothing gives me more constant Anxiety than the Delays in publishing 
the Journals. Yet I hope Gentlemen will have a little Patience with us. 
We have had a Committee constantly attending to this very Thing, for 
a long Time.' But We have too many Irons in the Fire, you know for 
Twenty Hands, which is nearly the whole Number We have had upon an 
average since last fall. The Committee are now busy every day in cor- 
recting Proof sheets, So that I hope We shall soon do better. 

A Committee on the Post office too have found a thousand difficulties.* 
The Post is now very regular, from the North and South, altho it comes 
but once a Week. It is not easy to get f aithfull Riders to go of tener. The 
expense is very high, and the Profits, (so dear is every thing, and so little 
Correspondence is carried on, except in frankd Letters), will not Support 
the office. Mr. Hazard is now gone Southward, in the Character of sur- 
veyor of the Postoffice, and I hope will have as good success, as he lately 
had eastward, where he has put the office into good order 

No poor Mortals were ever more perplexed than We have been, with 
three Misfortunes at once, any one of which would have been alone suffi- 
cient to have distressed Us. a Redundancy of the Medium of Exchange, 
a dimunition of the Quantity at markett of the Luxuries, the Conveniences 
and even the Necessaries of Life, and an Increase of the demand for all 

these, occasioned by two large Armies in the Country 

I am. Sir your Friend 

John Adams. 

Thomas Jefferson Esqr. 



508. James Lovell to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia May 26th. 1777 

Sir 

.... The trouble which your Excellency receives from Foreigners 
commissioned by Congress has made the Committee, appointed to examine 
their pretensions, averse to offering any resolutions for places above the 
rank of subalterns.^. . . , 

The promotion of Monsr. Armand by Congress to the rank of Colonel 
was a surprize to the Committee who had considered his pretensions, and 
rashly enough in all conscience had proposed a majority for him.' 

3 See the Journals, July i, Aug. 27, Sept. 26, 1776, Feb. 7, Mar. 31, June 2, 17 
(p. 474, note), 1777. 

* See the Journals, Jan. 11, Feb. 17, 25, Apr. 12, May 12; cf. ibid., Oct 17, 
Nov. 13. The resolution of May 12 was sent to the several states by Ebenezer Hazard, 
surveyor-general of the post office, to be laid before the legislatures. See N. C. State 
Recs., XI. 471. 

[508]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XV. 307. 

2 See no. 501, ante. Cf. the reports of the committee on foreign applications, 
May 22, 23, 26 (Journals). 

3 See the Journals, May 10. As printed the resolution shows the alteration in 
Congress of the committee's recommendation. For a sketch of Armand, see Wharton, 
Rev. Dipt. Corr., I. 399. 

29 



3 

509. Daniel Roberdeau to George Washington.* 

PiiiLADA. May 26th. 1777 
My dear General 

.... Congress has this day made a new arrangcnit. of the Chaplain's 
<lepartment. by reducing that part of the StafT to one for each Brigade to 
he recommended by the Bragadiers and appointed by Congress, with the 
pay rations and Forrage allowed to Colonels.^ This new and honorable 
Establishment is designed to suppress the horrid sins of Cursing swearing 
and other Vices with which. I am sorry to say, our Army Vies with the 
most abandoned of the English Troops; to strengthen the Officers hands 
by publick and private exortations to obedience of General and Regimental 
Orders; to discourage Disertions by recommending the Service ; to encour- 
age Enlistments ; to recommend cleenlyness as a virtue conducive to 
health, and to reprehend the neglect of it. These and other valuable Ends 
with the Countenance and concurrence of General Officers by the blessing 
of heaven I doubt not may be answered by a careful choice and recom- 
mendation of pious Clergymen zealously attached to our glorious Cause, 
who will not begrudge the exertion of every nerve in the Service ; but 
if Drones induced by the loaves and Fishes should creep into the Army the 
designs of Congress will be entirely defeated ; to prevent which I frankly 
confess has induced me to step out of my line on this occasion, and I beg 
you will not look upon it as an impertinent intrusion on you, when I 
assure you the honor of God my Countries welfare your Comfort and that 
of every sober Officer and man in the Army are my only motives 

510. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 
George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia May 27th. 1777. 
Sir, 

.... The Regulations respecting Chaplains in the Army are highly 
necessary. By increasing their Pay, and enlarging the Bounds of their 
Duty, the Congress are in Hopes of engaging Gentlemen of superior 
Learning and \'irtue to fill those Stations.^ .... 

511. William Duer to Robert R. Livingston.^ 

28 May 1777 
My dear Friend 

Like an old sinner who has deferred repentance, I should almost be 
afraid to write to you after so long a silence, if I did not trust that your 

[509]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XV. 303. 

- See the Journals, May 27. This letter should probably have been dated May 27. 
Cf. no. 510, post. For a resolution directed primarily against profanity in the army, see 
the Journals, Feb. 25. 

[510]! Library of Congress. Letters to Washington, XC. 196. 

- See the Journals, May 27, and no. 509, ante. 

[5ii]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, L 403 (copy). 



May, 1777 377 

lenity would be a powerful advocate in my favour — more particularly 
when I can with truth assure you that my attention has been so engross'd 
in defeating the designs of a mischevious combination, and in cultivating 
the friendship of the members from the Southern States that I have had 
little or no time to write to you as fully as I have wished. I have now the 
pleasure to inform you that in spite of all the arts and influence made use 
of by the Eastern Delegates in conjunction with Members from New 
Jersey, we have got General Schuyler's conduct fully justified, and himself 
reinstated in the Command in the Northern Department in as extensive a 
manner as before. There was never I believe a more difficult card to play ; 
— Genl. Gates had the address whilst at the place to insinuate himself into 
the good graces of even the honest part of the House, and the wretched- 
ness to poison the minds of most with prejudices against Genl. Schuyler, 
which operated so strongly that nothing but time, and great temper and 
address could have dispelled the mist of error which had clouded the eyes 
even of those who were friends to the great cause, and to the State of 
New York. His own merit however which they have had an opportunity 
of seeing, and the all powerful influence of truth assisted with manage- 
ment at length effected all our wishes, and we carried the question upon 
his being reinstated in his command in the Northern Department in the 
following manner. 



Aifirmative Negative 



&" 



New York New Hampshire 

Pennsylvania Massachusetts 

Maryland Connecticut 

Virginia Jersey and 

North Carolina Georgia divided 
South Carolina 



Delaware 

Rhode Island 

not represented 



Dissentient from Virginia Richard Henry Lee ' This division will 
give you a pretty good general idea of the political complexion of the 
different States, but I must inform you that the vote of Virginia is rather 
a phenomenon, and that the Division of Jersey was owing to the absence 
of Mr Clark and Mr. Sargent whose political line of conduct lies to the 
Eastward of Biram's River ^ Genl. Schuyler will inform you more fully 
on this subject.* .... 

2 In a letter to Jay, ]May 28 (Correspondence of Jay, I. 137), Duer says: 
" Col. Lee will I am credibly inform'd be left out of the next delegation for Virginia 
which is now in agitation. The mere contemplation of this event gives me pleasure; 
my mind is full, and I wish to unburthen it, but prudence forbids me." Cf. nos. 539, 
547, post. 

3 Byram River is near the boundary between Connecticut and New York. Duer 
means therefore to say that Sergeant inclines to line up with the New Englanders. 
Cf. no. 539. post. 

* See 504, note 2, ante. For a subsequent episode in which Gates figured, see 
nos. 517, 519, 520, post. 



3 



Dear Sir 



512. John Adams to John Sullivan/ 

Philadelphia June 3. 1777 



.... I am extremely sorry to learn that you have been so great a 
sufferer in the Loss of your Baggage etc. upon Several Occasions. But in 
answer to your first Question I can only say, that Congress have hitherto 
refused to grant any Compensation to Sufferers of any kind. Falmouth 
and Charlestown have both petitioned and been civilly refused.^ Several 
Officers Widows, in deplorable Circumstances, have petitioned and been 
refused. Several other Officers have applied and been refused, particu- 
larlv Lord Sterling." So that I can give you but cold comfort respecting 
your Losses. As to your Second Question, I can give no possitive Answer, 
how Congress consider your Post. The Resolve of Congress in Words, 
extends only to a Major General commanding in a Separate Department : 
But I believe General Gates * was allowed for his Table under it, and I see 
no Reason, why you should not 

513. The Bo.\rd of War to Horatio Gates.^ 

War Office June 4th. 1777 
Dear General 

Congress have received your Letters of the 29th. April May 2d and 
24th. The several Matters have been attended to and \vhat was thought 
immediately necessary was done.^ The Paragraph relating to Light 
Horse mentioned in yours of the 29th. April and your Reasons enclosed 
for your Opinion that the Enemy's Plan will be to go up the North River 
and endeavour to effect the old Scheme of a Junction wath Carlton, were 
sent to General Washington for his Consideration and Directions w^ere 

given that he should send the Horse if he could spare them 

The Part of your Letter relative to Money is referred to the Treasury 
Board who will no Doubt report a Supply.^ 

Your Request as to Capt. Whitcombe's Corps being indulged with a 
Bounty equal to that given by the Eastern States cannot be complied with 
on Account of the Precedent.* 

I have the Honour to be with the greatest Regard 

your very obedt Servt 

Richard Peters Secy 

Hon : Genl. Gates 

[512]! Library of Congress, U. S. Revolution, III. ,/-.,. i 

2 For the case of Falmouth, see the Journals, Mar. i, 1776; for that of Charles- 
town, see ibid., May 14 16, and nos. 494, 500, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 19. 

* See the Journals, June 16, 1775. Cf. no. 623, post. 
[513]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, IX. 

2 See the Journals, May 6, 10, June 2. 

3 This refers to a letter of May 30. See the Journals, June S._ - . 

* Such a decision does not appear in the Journals at this time ; but cf. the 
Journals, July 17. 



J tine, 1777 379 

514. James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull.* 

6th A. M. [June, 1777.] 
Dear Sir 

I will not allow the Express by which I received your last to return 
without a Line, tho I can add nothing since I wrote to you last Evening 
by Genl. Miflflin. 

I wish, if you are not hurried out of your senses, that you would en- 
deavour to convey to me some hint whereby an Accommodation should 
take place as to Mons Du Coudray and Genl. Knox. 

The Officers of our Army must have a hard struggle in reconciling 
themselves to that monarchical devotion which is necessary in the adop- 
tion of Du Coudray's Command, as it appears to have been regulated in 
Mr Deane's Compact. I have but a poor Idea of that Gentleman's ability 
to guard against f rench finess and flattery. I believe the Arrival of Doctr. 
Franklin will be an Advantage to Mr D.^ 

Yr Frd and Servt 

JL 

515. James Lovell to Oliver Wolcott.^ 

Sir 

Your favor of May 24th should not have been thus long unacknowl- 
edged but for a disagreeable alteration at the post office. Letters being 
delivered in Congress after our assembling on Mondays cannot be an- 
swered by 2 oClock P. M. of the same day, when the rider again leaves 
the city. ' I may say at least that this is an uncomplaisant order of some- 
body or other 

By 5 to 4 and 2 divided, the northern department has been lined out, and 
Genl. Schyler sent to take the command. By a repeal of an old resolve, 
he will not appear to be obliged to make his Head Quarters at Albany, 
100 miles from the army; nor is he obliged to go from that city except by 
true military feelings. Can you readily determine in your own mind 
where he will reside, from the data now before you? Genl. Gates will 
most assuredly not take the post of hazard both to his life and reputation, 
to be under the absolute direction of a man 35 leagues oflf, in treaties with 
Indians, or acting as a Providore to his army at the same distance. I 
daily expect to hear of confusion from that Department.^ .... 

Saty June 7th '77 

[514]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 For Du Coudray's affair, see the Journals, passim (index, Du Coudray), 
and Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., I. 421 and passim (index, Coudray). See also no. 501, 
ante, and nos. 521, 525, note 5, post. The contract with Du Coudray, dated Sept 11, 
1776, is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 283. In regard to the complaints of General 
Knox, see his letter of June 5 to Washington {Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, I. 
378). and the Journals, June 9, 11; also nos. 539, 541-543. post. An account of Du 
Coudray's "intrigues" is found in Doniol, Histoire de la Participation de la France a 
1'B.tablissement des Etats-Unis d'Amerique. II. 353-364- 

[515]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. I., no. 12. 
2 See nos. 502, 504, note 2, 511, ante; cf. nos. 553-557. post. 



380 Cunfincnfdl Congress 

516. The Sfxrkt Committi:k td OLivKit Pollock.* 

June I2tli 1777 
Sir, 

Your Letters of 4lh aiul sih May" adilressed to Andrew Allen and 
Robert Morris Esquires were laid before the Cong^rcss by the latter 
whereby we are informed that your new Governor Don Ik'rnard de Galvez 
is much disposed to favour the Commercial Interest of the United States 
of America, and as we are appointed by the Honorable Cong-ress to super- 
intend the Manag^ement of such Trade as is necessary to be carried on for 
public Account we do ourselves the Honor of addressing^ a Letter to his 
Excellency on this Subject, it is here inclosed and you will please to 
deliver and if needful translate the same for him.^ .... 

517. The New York Delegates to the New York Council of 

Safety.* 

Philadelphia 19th. June 1777 
Honour^ Gcntlcvien 

In our last ^ we informd you of the Success of our Efforts in vindication 
of General Schuyler, and it gives us great Satisfaction to observe from 
your Vote of Thanks to Congress, and other Circumstances, that the hon- 
ourable Lssue of this perplexed and delicate Business has met with general 
Approbation. Major General Gates a few days since arrivd in this City 
greatly chagreend, and enragd against your Delegates to whom he as- 
cribes what without any solid Reason, he is pleased to call his disgrace. 
As in this Enquiry Justice has been our View, and Truth our guide, we 
feel ourselves very indifferent about his Resentment.' 

We have since assiduously labourd two Points of great Moment to the 
State which we havT the honour to represent. The first — a Recommenda- 
tion of Congress to the united States respectively to encourage and facili- 

[516]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 50, ff. 29, 183. 

2 A copy of Pollock's letter of May 5 is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 50, f . 57. 
The letter of May 4 has not been found ; neither has the committee's letter to Governor 
Galvez, mentioned in the close of the extract. Oliver Pollock was commercial agent 
of the United States at New Orleans. A sketch of him is in Appleton, Cyclo. of 
Am. Biog. 

3 The names of Robert Morris, \\'illiam Smith, and Henry Laurens are appended 
to the copy at f. 183, but not to that at f. 29. Inasmuch as Laurens did not enter 
Congress until July 22 of this year, and was not placed upon the secret committee until 
Aug. 12, it is evident that his name is improperly signed to the letter. It appears however 
that this copy of the letter was made from a copy enclosed in a letter from the committee 
to Pollock, Oct. 24 (ibid., f. ^7), to which all three names are attached. Laurens no 
doubt signed the copy of the letter of June 12 when signing the original of Oct. 24. 
Concerning Pollock's accounts, see the Journals, 1780, 1781, 1782 (index), and especially 
A. B. Woodward. Representation of the Case of Oliver Pollock (Washington, 1803). 
See also Margaret B. Downing, " Oliver Pollock, Patriot and Financier ", in Illinois 
Catholic Historical Rez'iezv, II. 196 ; H. E. Hayden. Biographical Sketch of Oliver 
Pollock ; and J. A. James, George Rogers Clark Papers. 

[517]! N. Y. State Lib., Minutes of the Council of Safety, IX. 316; Jour. N. Y. 
Prov. Cong., I. 980. 

2 May 23, no. 504. ante. See also no. 511, ante. 

3 See nos. 518-520, post. 



June, 7/77 381 

tate our being supplied with Salt and other European and West India 
Commodities. We have not only succeeded in this Object but, with a 
Testimonial highly to the Honour of New York, obtaind the additional 
Favour of a grant of near 2000 bushels of the publick Salt in Store at 
Plymouth in the Massachusett's bay, which for our more immediate 
Relief the Commissary General is directed to exchange for an equal Quan- 
tity nearer to our State if it can be done wMthout Injury to the Service. 
When you reflect on some late Regulations of our Eastern Neighbours, 
you will readily perceive the Policy of the first of these Resolutions which 
evidently implies a Reprobation of the ungenerous Restraints which they 
have imposed upon a Sister and confederated State, whose misfortunes 
and Distresses demanded a very different Treatment; since they were 
drawn upon her only on Account of her attachment to the common Cause.* 

The other Point wdiich we had at Heart, and which has employd much 
of our Attention, was a Regulation of the Commissary General's Depart- 
ment ; The Abuses w^hich had crept into it from the Want of Method and 
proper Checks, the Folly of Purchasing and the Negligence of the issuing 
Commissaries : to say nothing of Fraud and Embezilment ; called aloud 
for Reformation; and the Depreciation of our Bills of Credit to which 
more than any other Cause it contributed made it a Subject still more 
serious and important. A System is formed which if properly carried into 
effect, will be productive of that Oeconomy which in all our Affairs seems 
hitherto to have been but little practic'd. It is now in the Press and shou'd 
it be publish'd before these dispatches are closd, we shall not fail to 
transmit it.^ .... 

We have the Honour to be with the utmost Regard 

Honourable Gentlemen 
Your most obedient humble Servants 

Phil. Livingston 
Jas. Duane 
Wm. Duer 

Honour^. Council of Safety of the State of New York. 

518. James Duane to Robert. R. Livingston.^ 

Philad. 19th. June 1777. 
My dear and honourd Sir. 

.... Since our Arrival here things with respect to our State have 
taken a most favourable turn — General Schuyler is thro* our Exertions 
reinstated fully and honourably in his Command.^ The Commissary 
General's Department is reformed and establishd on a wise and salutary 

* Cf. no. 518, note 4. post. 

5 The regulations were adopted June 10. See no. 495, note 2. ante ; also nos. 
519, 520, 522, 529, 543, post. 

[518]^ Furnished by courtesy of the late Mrs. Wilmot Townsend Cox, New York 
City. 

2 See nos. 504, 511. 517, ante, nos. 519, 520, 522, post. 



3 

plan. Mr. Jacob Ciiyler is appointed Deputy Commissary General oi 
purchases in the Northern Department, notwillistandinji^ all the opposition 
of our Eastern neighbours who being in possession strenuously endea- 
vourd to maintain tlieir ground." A Recommendation had passed from 
Congress to the united States to facilitate and encourage the supplying 
New York with salt and other iuiropean and West India Commodities 
and which not only holds her up in a very honourable Point of Light; but 
reprobates in effect the commercial Regulations kindly passed by our 
Eastern Brethren to compleat our Calamities by effectually excluding us 
from all the advantage of Importation and the use of european and West 
India Goods. A Grant has also passd in our favour for 2000 Bushels of 
salt out of the publick store at Plymouth in the Massachusetts with direc- 
tions to the commis^ general to exchange for it an equal Quantity nearer 
to our State if it can be done without prejudicing the publick Service.* 
Nor do we doubt but Congress will do [every] thing which can be asked 
consistent with Justice and the publick good respecting the Revolters from 
our State in the North Eastern Counties — a Business which will soon be 
determind 



519. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.* 

Philadelphia 19th June 1777. 
My dear General 

.... General Gates arrivd here I think last [ Y and imme- 
diately demanded an Audience of Congress. He was unfortunately for 
himself admitted. Discomposd, chagreend and angry, he recited all the 
great things he had effected at Albany ; even the Suppression of Toryism 
he took to himself. He then pointedly called upon me and proceeded to 
a personal familiarity w^hich was altogether unparliamentary. He was 
not very unguarded in his Expressions (for what he deliverd was from 
a written paper) but he showd very plainly that he singled me out as the 
Author of his Disgrace — for so he termed it. For this personal Address 
I called him to order : many members interposd, even to a Clamour, and 
insisted that he shoud withdraw^ and he with marks of Reluctance was 
obligd to submit. After he retird he was censurd by several members 

3 See the Journals, June 10, 18 ; cf. no. 517, note 5, ante. 

* See the Journals, June 14. This is evidently the resolution to which Duane 
alludes in his letter to Schuyler, June 19 (no. 519, post), wherein "the stroke was too 
delicate and refined to be readily perceivd on a Cursory reading." Cf. no. 517, ante, 
and nos. 520, 522, post. Francis Lewis wrote to the New York council of safety, May 31 : 
" The 500 bushells of Salt lately arrived here has been refused your Delegates by the 
Committee of Congress, it being much wanted and at Ten dollars per bushell ; your 
Delegates purpose to move in Congress for an application to the State of Virginia for 
what Salt they can spare you." (A copy from the original is in possession of the Car- 
negie Institution of Washington.) See also nos. 533, 544. 546, post. 

[519]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 542; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks Coll., 
LX. 127 (copy). 

2 The joint letter of Livingston, Duane, and Duer, June 19 (no. 517, ante), 
says "a few days since". Duer, in his letter to Schuyler, June 19, post, says "Yester- 
day". It is evident from Duer's statement that Gates's admission to Congress was on 
the i8th, but his arrival in Philadelphia must have been some days earlier. 



June, 7777 383 

very freely for his Personality and it was directed that he shond be in- 
formd that it was the pleasure of Congress that if he had anything to 
offer they expected to hear it by way of memorial only. I have no doubt 
but the general has heard very minutely what part I took with respect to 
him. I do not repent it. The Interest of the Continent, the Honour of 
Congress, and the dictates of Justice requird it ; and I must put up with 
the General's displeasure; which I find myself disposd to do with great 
Resignation and Philosophy. I have since been in his Company — we 
were civil; but rather reservd. He has heard from several candid Mem- 
bers that only one or two Justified his Claim to the Command and that 
the rest declard that there was no room for his supposing it ever had been 
invested in him. He ought to feel more pain and Resentment from this 
Circumstance than from anything which fell from me. I am apt to think 
he does, for he has made no Representation to Congress, and instead of 
resigning talks of going to Genl. Washington's Camp. If I might guess 
he expects that you will be elected Governour of New York, and resign 
your military Honours, and that then he will be reinstated in the posses- 
sion of what he has much at Heart, the Command of the Northern Depart- 
ment. I do not feel at all pleasd with the latter part of this Reflection ; but 
I hate to anticipate disagreeable Events. There are several Ifs in the 
Way — as // it shoud be attempted. If it can't be prevented etc. // I cant 
be reconcild to it etc. etc. which renders it unnecessary to be at present 
much Concernd 

The Plan for regulating the Commissary's Department is compleated.' 
If out of the press I shall order it with these dispatches. You know in 
what situation you left this affair. Trumbull is appointed Commissary 
General of Purchases four Deputy Commissary Generals of purchases are 
elected. We had a delicate Card to play and which requird much Ad- 
dress, to get this office into the hands of a fellow Citizen for the Northern 
Department, our Eastern Neighbours were in possession and worked 
hard to maintain their Ground. But it was of moment to our State who 
was to govern their markets and by the disposal of immense Sums to in- 
fluence their Policy; and it greatly concernd the Continent that prices 
shoud be Judiciously regulated and the Army well supplied. I therefore 
labourd assiduously and we were crownd with Success : our Friend Jacob 
Cuyler Esqr. obtaind the office, and I am persuaded will execute it with 
Integrity and Ability and do Honour to my Recommendation and that of 
my Colleagues.* 

I enclose you another Set of Resolutions with respect to our State which 
will give you pleasure as it proves the favourable Light we stand in here, 
you on recollecting the Commercial Regulations lately passed by our 
Eastern Neighbours, so ungenerous and distressing to New York cannot 
but be pleasd with the Reprobation of their conduct evidently implied in 
the first of these Resolutions ; and you may wonder at our good fortune in 

' See the Journals, June 10. Cf. nos. 517, 518, ante, 520, 522, post. 
* The election of the several officers in the commissary department was on 
June 18. 



;i84 Cout'uicntal Congress 

getting it passed without Ca[vi]l or Opposition. 1 lie stroke was too 
delicate and refined to be readily perceivd on a Cursory reading ; but I 
think it will he felt where I wish it to be fully understood."^ .... 

I forgot to mention that I find some difficulty in getting leave for you 
to appoint a thirtl Aid de Camp. The Example seems to be dreaded, 
you know my Rule is never to push a point till I am sure of Success ; nor 
to loose sight of one which is worthy of pursuite; so that you must not 
conclude that it is unattainable, because it is not already accomplished. 

believe me to be 

Dear Sir with great Consideration and Regard 

Your most obedient and very humble Servant 

Jas. Duane 

Major General Schuyler 



520. William Duer to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Phia. June 19th 1777. 
My dear General, 

I embrace the earliest Opportunity of returning my Part of acknowl- 
edgement for your Letter of the 9th June to myself and Colleagues. I had 
no doubt when you left this Place - but you would find AfTairs in your 
Quarter in a distracted Situation ; but I doubt not from your Perseverance 
and attention you will be able to arrange them, and to extricate yourself 
from the Difficulties which now surround vou.^ 

Yesterday* Major Genl. Gates arrived in Town, and about 12 oClock 
at Noon Mr. Sherman inform'd Congress that he was waiting at the Door, 
and w^ished Admittance. Mr. Paca desir'd to know for what Purpose — 
to which friend Roger replied to communicate Intelligence of importance. 
He was accordingly usher'd in, and after some awkward ceremony, sat 
himself in a very Easy Cavalier Posture in an Elbow Chair, and began to 
open his Budget. 

The intelligence he communicated was that the Indians were Extremely 
friendly, much delighted with seeing French officers in our Service, and 
other common place stufif which at present I cannot recollect. Having 
thus gone through the Ostensible Part of the Plan, he took out of his 
Pocket some scraps of Papers, containing a Narrative of his Birth Par- 
entage mid Education Life Character, and Behavior. He inform'd the 
House that he had quitted an easy and happy Life to enter into their 
Service from a pure Zeal for the Liberties of America, that he had stren- 
uouslv exerted himself in its Defence ; that in some Time in Mav last he 

5 See no. 518, note 4. ante. 
[520]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 575; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
LX. 128 (copy). 

- Schuyler left Philadelphia May 28. See no. 504, note 3, ante. 

2 See no. 511, ante. 

* See nos. 517, 519, ante. 



June, 1/// 385 

was appointed to a Command in the Northern Department, and that a few 
days since without having given any Cause of Offence, without Accusa- 
tion, without Trial, without hearing, without Notice, he had received a 
Resolution by which he was in a most disgraceful Manner superseded in 
his Command. Here his Oration became warm and contain'd many 
Reflections upon Congress, and malicious Insinuations against Mr. Duane, 
whose Name he mentioned, and related some Conversation which he said 
had pass'd betwixt him, and that Gentleman on his Way to Albany. Here 
Mr. Duane rose, and addressing himself to the President, hoped that the 
General would observe order and cease any Personal applications, as he 
could not in congress enter into any Controversy with him on the subject 
of any former Conversation. Mr. Paca caught the Fire, and immediately 
moved that the General might be ordered to withdraw ; I seconded the 
motion, observing that the Conduct of the General was unbecoming the 
Plouse to endure, and himself to be guilty of. Mr. Jerry Dysen,^ Mr. 
Sherman, and some others of his Eastern Friends rose, and endeavour'd 
to palliate his Conduct, and to oppose his Withdrawing; on this Mr. 
Middleton Mr. Burke, Colo. Harrison and two or three others arose, and 
there was a General Clamour in the House that he should immediately 
Withdraw — all this While General stood upon the Floor, and interposed 
several Times in the Debates which arose on this Subject, however the 
Clamour encreasing he withdrew. A Debate then ensued concerning the 
Propriety of the General's Conduct, and that of the Members who con- 
trary to the Rules of Parliament, contended for the Propriety of his stay- 
ing, after a Motion had been made and seconded that he should withdraw. 

The Want of Candor in Mr. Sherman who asked for his Admittance on 
the Pretence of his giving the House Intelligence was much inveigh'd 
against, but he bore it all with a true Connecticut stoicism. Congress at 
length came to the Determination that Genl. Gates should not again be 
admitted on the Floor, but that he should be inform'd that Congress were 
ready, and willing to hear by Way of Memorial any Grievances which he 
had to complain of. here this Matter ended — not, as you will observe to 
his Credit, or Advantage. 

It is impossible for me to give you an Idea of the unhappy Figure wli. 
G. G. made on this Occasion. His manner was ungracious, and Totally 
void of all Dignity, his Delivery incoherent and interrupted with frequent 
Chasms, in which he was pering over his scattered Notes, and the Tenor 
of his Discourse a Compound of Vanity, Folly, and Rudeness. I can 
assure you that notwithstanding his Conduct has been such as to have 
eradicated from my Mind every sentiment of Respect, and Esteem for him, 
I felt for him as a man, and for the Honor of hum.an Nature wishd him to 
withdraw before he had plunged himself into utter Contempt. You will 
perhaps think it was improper in me to second the IMotion that he should 

5 It is not altogether certain which one of the delegates is here alluded to under 
the nickname of " Jerry Dysen ", but James Lovell's known attachment to Gates sug- 
gests him as the one probably meant. The origin of the name likewise remains obscure, 
but it may have arisen from some parallel in Lovell's career to that of the British poli- 
tician Jeremiah Dyson (1722-1776; see Diet. Nat. Biog., VI. 299). 



3 

be orderd to withdraw, but I plainly saw that he was brought in with an 
Intention to brow beat the New York Members, whom he considers as his 
Mortal Enemies, and I was determin'd to let him see that it was indifferent 
to me whether I offended him, or not. 

Perhaps he may take it into his head to call me out, as he quitted the 
House with the utmost Indignation, should this be the Case I am 
determin'd not to she[l]ter myself under Priviledge, being convinced of 
the Necessity there is to act with Spirit, to enable me to discharge with 
Fidelity the Trust reposed in me 

I have the Pleasure to inform you that with some Difificulty We have 
counteracted the Acts of our Eastern Neighbors, and have got Mr. Jacob 
Cuyler appointed Deputy Commissary Genl. of Purchases in the Northern 
Department. As it is of infinite Consequence to the Wellfare of the Army 
under your Command, and to the Maintenance of the Credit of the Con- 
tinental Money in our State, that a Person of Probity and Skill should 
exercise that Department, I hope he will not hesitate to accept this 
Appointment. 

The Appointment is 150 D". per month and 6 or 4 Rations per Day 
(I forget which). As soon as the Commissary's Estab^ is printed I shall 
immediately forward it.® .... 

521. John Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philadelphia, June 19, 1777 
Dear Sir, 

Yours of the 5th inst. is before me.^ .... 

You must not decline your Appointment to the Navy Board. If 
you should, I know not who will succeed. Congress have passed no 
order for a constant Residence at Boston. No doubt the most of your 
Time will be taken up at Boston, but you need not renounce your Native 
Town and County. It is a Board of very great Importance. I hope your 
Commissions and Instructions will be soon forwarded. The Cause of 
their Delay so long is the same, I suppose, that has retarded all other 
marine affairs — Causes, which it would be thought inexpedient to explain.' 

We are much embarrassed here, with foreign officers.* We have three 
capital Characters here, Monsr. de Coudray, General Conway, and Monsr 
De la Balme. These are great and learned Men. Coudray is the most 
promising officer in France. Coudray is an officer of Artillery, Balme of 
Cavalry, and Conway of Infantr}^ Coudray has cost us dear, his Terms 
are very high, but he has done us such essential service in France, and 
his Interest is so great and so near the Throne, that it would be impolitick, 
not to avail ourselves of him 

« Cf. nos. 5i7-5i9» ante. See the Bibliographical Notes, Journals, IX. 1085. 
[521]! Warren-Adams Letters, I. 332. 

2 The letter is in Warren-Adams Letters, I. 326. 

3 See nos. 480, 485, ante, and no. 540, post. 
* See nos. 501, 514, ante, and no. 525, post. 



June, 1777 387 

522. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston/ 

Philadelphia 24th June 1777 

Tuesday " 

My dear Friend, 

.... From many circumstances you may judge that our State and its 
interests were at a very low ebb in a certain assembly. To add to our 
misfortune several of our old friends — Hooper, Hughes, E Rutledge, 
Harrison, Reade, Stone, Chase, etc. etc. were absent and most of their 
seats filled with strangers. The affairs we had to conduct required great 
address, as some of them were embarassed with uncommon difificulties : 
my brethren indulged me in the cautious and deliberate plan which I 
thought necessary ; and in concealing even our feelings, by degrees we be- 
came acquainted with the new members to which the hospitable and cheer- 
ful manner we lived in contributed — for it was no time to consult par- 
simony. We made it a rule not to crowd our complaints upon Congress 
which would have fatigued and disgusted ; but to confine our attention to 
a single point till it was accomplished : keeping every other subject in the 
deepest reserve. 

We were told from several quarters that it was too late to expect any 
attention with respect to Schuyler. Indeed Congress had gone very far 
to make this embarassment inextricable; but that integrity, love of justice 
and candor, which ever distinguished this great Council when it consisted 
of a full representation, in the end, surmounted every obstacle, and the 
utmost of our wishes were answered.^ 

The Commissary's department was our next object : the flagrant abuses 
which had crept into it called aloud for reformation ; and we esteemed it 
of the utmost moment that the purchasing commissary who had our 
markets in his power should be a fellow citizen of approved abilities and 
integrity. A plan has accordingly been adopted ; not altogether so perfect 
as could be wished, but we shall not lose sight of its further improvement. 
Our friend Jacob Cuyler is appointed the purchasing commissary for the 
northern department which we esteem a public benefit.* 

The illiberal restraint put upon our Trade by our Eastern Brethren and 
a proper reprobation of so unfriendly a proceeding from the only authority 
which could have weight, claimed a share of our attention. I think we 
have some merit in obtaining the resolution of Congress upon this subject 
which is already transmitted to the Council of Safety. It's operation, tho' 
obvious, w^as not perceived by those whom it most concerned ; ^ and the 
House warmed by a pathetic description of our distresses, our persever- 
ance, and our merit, were disposed to give us every possible indulgence : 
of which the partial grant of 2000 bushels of salt when that commodity is 
so very scarce and dear, is no contemptible proof 

[522J1N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, I. 431 (copy). 

2 Additions to this letter were made June 26, 28, 29, JFuly i, 2. These additions 
will be found under their respective dates. 

3 See nos. 453, 461, 472, 483, 495, S02, 504, 511, 515, 517-520, ante. 

* See the Journals, June 10, 18, and nos. 517-520, a7^te, 529, 543, post. 
6 Cf. nos. 518, note 4, 5i9. ante. 



388 Conliiu'iital Congress 



5-'3- 



TllK rUKSIDENT OF CoNGUKSS (JoHN HaNCOCK) TO THE 

President of Delaware (John McKinley).* 



I'liiLADA. June 25th. 1777. 

Sir, 

I have the Pleasure to inform you that Conp^ress highly approve of the 
Zeal and Alacrity of the Militia of your State. 

hVoni the recent Alteration in the State of our AfTairs. and the Reasons 
urtjed in your Letter, the Congress have heen induced to come into the 
enclosed Resolve for the Discharge of your Militia. 1 do myself the 
Honour to forward a Warrant on your Loan Offices for 10.000 Dollars 
for their Pay.* 

524. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston.' 

June 26th Thursday 

My dear Sir 

What preceeds has lain by me for want of a good conveyance. This 
day - came on before a committee of the whole Congress the case of our 
Revolters on which we were heard with great attention. Some of our 
Eastern friends unluckily for them drew on the merits of our Title, tho' 
the Congress had only to do with the exercise of jurisdiction. Thus 
challenged I seized the opportunity of explaining the subject at large 
which i happened to understand much better than any of my opponents, 
tho' one of them boasted that he had expended two quires of paper upon it. 
I had the pleasure of observing that I made a suitable impression, and out 
of the House rec'd the compliments of several of the members for the 
light, they were pleased to say I had with perspicuity and candor, thrown 
upon a dispute which to that time had remained in utter obscurity. This 
explanation closed the debate : and the members of our State are desired 
to propose for consideration such resolutions as we think will be satis- 
factory to New York, and become the justice dignity and impartiality of 
Congress, unless an opportunity offers of sending forward these des- 
patches, you will probably know the event before they are closed.* 

525. Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

PhiladelphiaJune 26 1777. 
My dear Sir 

.... We are going on within Doors with Tardiness enough. A 
Thousand and [one] little ^Matters too often throw out greater ones. A 

[523]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 218; Library' of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. H., p. 214. The letter is addressed to " Mr. President McKinley, 
at Wilmington, in the State of Delaware ". 

2 See the Journals, June 24; also ibid., Apr. 25, 29, ^May 9 (p. 343 "•), I9. 27, 
June ID. 16. Cf. nos. 486, 487, ante. 

[524]! This is an addition to the letter of June 24, no. 522, ante. 

- According to the Journals, this discussion took place June 25. Cf. no. 525, post. 
In regard to an earlier stage in the affair, see nos. 428, 431, 445, 453. 464, 465. ante. 

3 See nos. 526, 53^, 533. post. 

[525]! Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Gushing), III. y/(^; Am. Phil. Soc, Lee Papers. 



June, i/'/7 389 

kind of Fatality still prevents onr proceedinj^ a Step in the important 
affair of Confederation.^ Yesterday and the day hcfore was wholly sjjcnt 
in passing Resolutions to gratify N. Y. or as they say to prevent a civil 
War between that State and the Green Mountain Men — A Matter which 
it is not worth your wdiile to have explaind to you/ Monsr. D Coudrays 
affair is still unsettled.* 'Jlie four french Engineers are arrivd."^ They 
are said to be very clever but disdain to be commanded by Coudray. Mr. 

Comr D '^ continuing to send us french German and Prussian officers 

with authenticated Conventions and strong recommendations 

526. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston/ 

June 28th Saturday 

Yesterday, though assigned for concluding the business of our Re- 
voltors was taken up in other cares, for we thought it [not?]" impossible 
to be too urgent for a preference, tho' it was a right we might have main- 
tained. Experience has convinced me of the propriety of such condescen- 
sions at seasonable junctures. This morning the House in a Committee of 

2 See no. 528. post. 

3 See no. 524, ante. 

* See no. 514, note 2, ante. 

5 Dec. 2, 1.775, Congress authorized the committee of secret correspondence to 
secure " skillful engineers not exceeding four ". It was not how.ever until the beginning 
of 1777 that this commission was effected. On Feb. 13, 1777, Franklin and Deane 
entered into a contract with four officers of the royal corps of engineers of France, 
Lewis Le Begue Duportail (Chevalier Derford), Laumoy, Obry Gouvion, and Bailleul 
La Radiere, to enter the service of the United States, with stipulations as to rank. 
The contract with the three first mentioned is found in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IL 
269. The Journals, July 2 and 8, mention La Radiere as included in the same contract, 
but his name does not appear in the document as printed in Wharton. These officers, 
with exception of Laumoy, accompanied by a lieutenant and two sergeants, landed in 
New River, North Carolina, June 3 and proceeded to Newbern. where they obtained 
assistance from Governor Caswell to pursue their journey to Philadelphia. (See a 
letter from Joseph Leech, Richard Ellis, and Alexander Gaston to Governor Caswell, 
June 4, an undated letter from the Chevalier Derford, i. e., Duportail, to Governor 
Caswell, one from Governor Caswell to Governor Henry of Virginia, June 10, and two 
from Governor Caswell to Thomas Burke, June 10, 11, in A'^. C. State Recs., XL 486, 
492-495. Both the Newbern committee and Governor Caswell are in some error as 
regards the rank of these officers.) That Laumoy was not with the party appears from 
three facts: First, Duportail says in his letter to Governor Caswell: "We are just 
arrived in this place three officers of the Corps Royal of Engineers in France, that is 
to say one Lieutenant Colonel [Duportail], one Major [evidently La Radiere], one Captain 
of the Corps Royal of the Artillery of France [Gouvion], one Lieutenant, two Sergeants." 
Second, on July 8 Congress made Duportail a colonel. La Radiere a lieutenant-colonel, and 
Gouvion a major, ratifying the contract made with them by Franklin and Deane. The 
contract as regards Laumoy was not ratified until Oct. 2, when he was made a lieutenant- 
colonel. Third, in a letter to Washington, July 24 (no. 559, post), Lovell mentions that 
" the Chevalier Duportail, with M. La Radiere, M. Gouvion, and one other officer, who 
is left sick in the West Indies, were engaged by Dr. Franklin and Mr. Deane to come 
over to America." All these officers received further promotions Nov. 17, 1777. For 
further information concerning their careers, consult the Journals (passim), Heitman, 
Hist. Register, and Batch, The French in America. For the complications in which 
Congress was involved through the Du Coudray contract, see especially nos. 501, 514, 
ante, and nos. 530, 531, 535, 537- 539, S4i, 542, 559. Post. 

^ Silas Deane. 
[526] 1 See under June 24 (no. 522, notes i and 2), ante. 

2 The negative seems to be necessary here to give the meaning intended. 



3 

tlie whole clieerfully resumed the debate; and the resolutions passed 
almost unanimously; for you'll observe they go upon general principles 
highly interesting and important to every State which yet directly apply to 
our case. The only contest was on Young's Address,' and that was 
ostensibly grounded on his death in the midst of the debate.* Compassion 
to his distressed family, no doubt, induced some of the members to wish it 
to be passed over in silence. You will observe however, that it was of 
great consequence to us to have this wicked production censured and ex- 
posed and this point was finally carried in our favor after a sharp conflict. 
The debate was spun out till after 4 o'clock and the Committee rose and 
agreed to finish it on Monday 

527. Robert Morris to Silas Deane.^ 

[Philadelphia June 29, 1777.] 

With respect to my Brother I shall deal very candidly with you, by 
declaring to you that I never was more shocked and hurt by any incident 
in my Life than at the manner in which you Gentlemen Commissioners at 
the Court of France have been pleased to mention him in Publick Letters, 
that you knew^ must be laid before Congress. These Letters arrived long 
before I had a scrip of a Pen from you on the Subject. It occurred to me 
instantly that I had unbosomed myself to you respecting him. That I had 
sollicited your Friendship in his favour and asked you to inform me fully 
and freely of his Conduct, That to all this I never had a word in Answer, 
and found your Name at the bottom of Letters blasting his Character in 
the most Publick manner and exposing me to Feelings the most pungent 
I ever knew, it also occurred to me that I had sollicited Doctor Franklin 
to Admonish and Advise him if he found it necessary, and shew him 
countenance if he proved deserving. From these Circumstances I really 
did expect that any complaints he merited would have been made to my- 
self in Private Letters giving me an Account of his Conduct and if it zvas 
necessary to remove him, from his employment, I could have done that so 
as to prevent any the least disservice to the Publick or his being unneces- 
sarily exposed. You will see that these sentiments were strong in my 
mind, when I wrote the Commissioners the ist April and they made so 
strong an impression on me at the Time your Letters were read in Con- 
gress that I got up instantly, gave my Brother his True Character, com- 
plained of his being so publickly exposed, told what my desires and Ex- 
pectations from you were, and added that by my Letters to you by Capt. 
Bell I had put him in your Power either to he confirmed in his employment 
or to be dismissed from it, as his conduct might require. I think the Letter 

3 Concerning Dr. Thomas Young's address see the Journals, June 23, 25, 30 
(pp. 510. 513), and nos. 532, 533, post. 

* " Dr. Young died lately of a Fever caught in attending the Congress Hospitals 
in the City, and was buried the day we came into Town." William Williams to 
Jonathan Trumbull, July 5, I777 (Hist. Mag., XIV. 223). 

[527]! Univ. Pa. Lib., Franklin Papers, X. 20 ("extract, in the writing of Silas Deane) ; 
N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, II. 79. 



June, 1777 391 

I wrote you by Capt. Bell respecting him must have convinced you that I 
did not wish him employed in the Publick Service if he did not deserve it. 

It must also convince you that a Publick Letter to Congress was not 
necessary to procure his removal if his conduct was not right, for you 
found me as ready to displace him, as you could wish, and I begin to fear 
that I was rather too forward in it; from what I now write you may 
naturally conclude I do not think myself in the least Degree beholden to 
Doctor Franklin or you for your Conduct towards this Young Man, and 
in Plain Truth I do not. However I do not Cherish resentment, and hope 
my Passion may be always subdued by Reason, and my Reason influenced 
by good Principles, therefore I mean nothing more than to let you know 
that I think those Publick Letters were cruel to my Brother and extremely 
unfriendly to myself. / shall inform him of them and if he has Spirit to 
resent them, I hope he ivill also have Judgment to do it properly. 

Perhaps I have flattered myself with the Expectation of more Friend- 
ship from the Doctor and you than I had a right to and shall therefore 
correct the Error in future. Thus much for what you say of him in 
Publick. as to what you write me of him in those Letters of the 4th Deer, 
and 5th January now before me, I thank you most sincerely for it and 
should do so had the Account of him been ten Times more Disagreeable. 
it is had enough, God knows, and what is worse I believe he deserves every 
Tittle of it. had these Letters reach'd me before the Publick Letters I 
should in some Degree have been prepared and probably should not have 
said any thing about him in Congress, hut even in that Case I should have 
thought in the same way of your Publick Letters, because I think it was 
totally unnecessary to mention him there; You refer me to Mr. Bromfield 
for further Particulars and Anecdotes respecting this Youth, and Mr. 
Bromfield has kindly referr'd me to all the Gentlemen from Virginia where 
he landed to South Carolina where he is gone by Land and has indus- 
triously communicated these Particulars and Anecdotes to every body he 
met with.^ .... 

528. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philade June 30 1777 
My dear Friend 

.... You wish to hear " how our Confederation goes on ". I do not 
wonder at your Anxiety to have it completed, for it appears to me to be 
a Matter of very great Importance. We every now and then take it into 
Consideration, but such a Variety of Affairs have continually demanded 
the Attention of Congress that it has been impracticable hitherto to get it 
through. There are but two or three things which in my Opinion will be 

2 Thomas Morris was agent of the secret committee in France. He was a half 
brother of Robert Morris. See especially the letter from the commissioners in France 
to the committee of secret correspondence, Jan. 17, 1777, Robert Morris to Henry 
Laurens, Dec. 26, 1777, Morris to Lovell, May 2, 1778, and William Lee to the President 
of Congress, Mar. 16, 1779, in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., H. 248, 460, III. 79. See 
also ibid., II. 463 n. 

[528]^ Warren-Adams Letters, I. 237; Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Gushing), 
HL 379; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (draft). 
30 



3 

the Subjects of further Debate, and upon these I bch'eve most if not all 
the Members have already made up their Minds. One is, what share of 
\^otcs each of the States which differ so much in Wealth and Numbers 
shall have in determininjjf all Questions. Much has been said upon this 
weighty Subject, upon the Decision of which the Union of the States and 
the Security of the Liberty of the whole [depend]. Perhaps it would be 
more easy for a disinterested Foreigner to see, than for the united States 
to fix upon the Principles on which this Question ought in Equity to be 
decided. The Sentiments in Congress are not various, but as you will 
easily conceive, opposite. The Question was very largely debated a few 
days ago, and I am apt to think it will be tomorrow determind, that each 
State shall have one Vote, but that certain great and very interesting 
Questions shall have the concurrent Votes of Nine States for a Decision.* 
Whether this Composition will go near towards the Preservation of a due 
Ballance, I wish you to consider, for if your Life and Health is spared to 
your Country, you will have a great Share in the Determination of it 
hereafter 

529. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia June — 1777 ^ 

Received your kind favour of the 22nd Instant had then but just ar- 
rived in Town Of your New Appointment I have been Informed 

by Mr Sherman, and of the salary or wages allowd you. I think you will 
have much less Trouble more leisure or rather time to Visit your Friends 
than when at the head of the Issuing part, how far your Wages will as 
now fixd answer or exceed your Expences I cannot determine, but am 
rather of Opinion and so is Coll. Williams Mr Law and Mr Sherman, that 
unless you must by serving fall in the rear you had better Accept your Ap- 
pointment, w^e think the Country requires your service and the cause may 
suffer by your refusal we therefore rather advise you on the whole to 
accept.' .... 

2 See the Journals, June 22, 23, 25. 26, July 2 ; also nos. 465, 488, 503, 507, ante, 
and no. 537, post. Although on July 2 Congress assigned " tomorrow " for consideration 
of the Articles of Confederation, the Journals do not record any discussion of the 
subject until Oct. 7 (see nos. 556, 558, post). Aug. 16 the following Monday (the i8th) 
was set for resuming the consideration, but the Journals contain no evidence that this 
was done (see however nos. 588, 616, post). On Tuesday, Sept. 2, a motion was made to 
devote a part of every day during that week to the Confederation, but the motion was 
negatived. Eliphalet Dyer's letter of Sept. 7 (no. 631, post) suggests that the subject 
was at that time under consideration, but no mention of the matter is found in the 
Journals until Oct. 2, when Congress again resolved to take the Articles into considera- 
tion "tomorrow morning" (cf. nos. 659, 671, post). Oct. 6 it was resolved to take into 
consideration " tomorrow morning " that part which related to the mode of voting, and 
on that day (Oct. 7) the question was determined. See no. 679, note 4, post. 

[529] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. Addressed: "To Joseph Trum- 
bull. Esqr., Commissy. Genii. Continental Army, at Brunswick or Camp Middle Brook 
etc" It bears an endorsement : " needs no Ansr ". 

2 Dyer took his seat in Congress June 25. This letter was evidently written a 
day or two thereafter. 

3 The regulations for the commissary department were adopted June 10, the 
compensation established June 15, and the commissaries and deputies elected June 18 



June, IJ77 393 

Many new faces in Congress tho but about half or little more of their 
full Numbers, let me hear from you as often as Convenient and am sin- 
cerely yours 

Elipht Dyer 

[P. S.] 

(see nos. 517-520, 522, ante; also nos. 530, 543, post'). Apparently it was not until after 
July 5 that Trumbull was officially informed of the new regulations and of his election 
as commissary-general of purchases, for Hancock's letter transmitting the resolutions 
bears that date (Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 220; Library of Congress, 
Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. H., p. 216). July 9 Trumbull wrote to Hancock acknowl- 
edging receipt of his commission and postponing his decision as to its acceptance until 
he had conferred with the committee of Congress then at headquarters (Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 78, vol. XXH., f. 259), July 19 he wrote to Hancock: "Inclosed I send 
you the Commission which Congress have honored me with lately as Commissary General 
of Purchases, and must beg leave to decline accepting the same, or acting under the 
Authority or rather, the want of Authority, of it. My reasons for declining, I have 
given to the Honble. Committee of Congress here, at large." (Ibid., i. 265.) The com- 
mission, dated Jiuie 18, is found ibid., f. 269. In the Connecticut State Library, Joseph 
Trumbull Papers, is the draft of a letter to President Hancock dated June 15 (that is, 
about three weeks before he had received his new commission), in which he offers his 
resignation to Congress. Inasmuch as the letter casts light upon the proceedings of 
Congress it is given here : 

" Camp Middlebrook, 15th June, 1777 
" Sir 

" It is now more than twelve months since I first applied to Congress for regulations 
in the Commissary Department which were not then compleated — immediately after I 
noticed you as President of Congress and His Excellency Genl. Washington as Com- 
mander in Chief of the Army of my design to resign the Office of Commissary General 
as soon as it could be done with safety to the Army— in the Month of Novr. last, I 
preferred a Memo, to Congress, merely respecting my own allowances in sd. Office, 
which has hitherto remained unnoticed — in April last, I was by Congress directed to 
attend them in Phila. which I Instantly did — and was called on by a Committee of 
Congress, for proposals in Writing for proper Regulations in the Commissary Depart- 
ment. I gave it to them in two days after, and pressed upon them the necessity of 
immediate attention thereto, on Accot. of my Assistants, who were all from different 
Causes discontented and uneasy, also on accot. of Vegitables and Vinegar and many 
other Matters fully pointed out in the sd. Proposals given in Writing — Afterwards 
I staid in Phila. four Weeks, and was never once called on by the sd. Committee, 
respecting sd. Regulations, nor was any thing that I could learn done therein, not- 
withstanding my most pressing representations to different Members of Congress, of 
the Necessity of the Affairs in sd. Department. 

" Since my return to Camp I find the discontent arising from 111 treatment here, among 
my assistants to be greater than I had before conceived it to be. This also I have 
represented to different Members of Congress by Letter — yet I find nor hear of any 
relief. 

" My Patience is wholly exhausted. Everything draggs heavily on, when all are dis- 
contended, and uneasy, and the Causes thereof wholly unattended to. Under all these 
disagreeable circumstances, it will I fear, be totally impossible for me to do my Duty, 
and Subsist the Army — therefore I must request the Honble. Congress, to dismiss me 
from their Service, and appoint Some Person, who will and can Serve them, with 
better abilities, tho' he cannot with more Integrity than I have done. 

" I am Sir with regard and esteem 

Your most humble Servt. 
Jos : Trumbull, 

" I have noticed Genl. Washington of this my Resignation. 
" Hon. John Hancock Esqr, President of Congress." 

Accompanying this letter in the Trumbull Papers is a draft of his letter to Wash- 
ington, and also a draft of a letter to a personal friend, probably Elbridge Gerry. The 
latter is as follows : 

" Camp Middle Brook 15th June 1777. 
" Dear Sir 

" By this Express, I have sent my Resignation to Congress, and request that they would 
dismiss me their Service. I have assigned my Reasons. I have also sent a Copy thereof 



391: Continental Congress 

530. James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull/ 

30th. June [1777-] 
My dear Sir 

Yours of 27tli. I have just reed. Being quite ill I can only say I will 
communicate what is proper to others who are as anxious as I to have 
your present perplexing Situation altered by sending others to Head 
Quarters to take a Share off yr. hands.^ I am told you have stood at the 
scales yourself lately. These Frenchmen have used me up quite.' 

yr Friend and h S' 

JL 
[P. S.] Gates is in Virginia 

531. J.^mes Lovell to William Whipple.^ 

June 30th, 1777. 

Dear Sir 

I had intended to write a letter to you on this day somewhat minutely 
about our indoor political turns and twists, but I am too ill. 4 Engineers ^ 
having arrived on a Treaty with Messrs. Franklin and Deane, find the 
former one made between Deane and Du Coudray intirely inconsistent 

w^ith their Honor; and they have made it appear that D was only a 

child in the hands of Du Coudray, who has united, as under one direction, 
the Engineers and Artillerists, and made a Jews bargain for himself, and 
all the officers with him. 

These contending endless talkers and writers have entirely destroyed 
me. I suspect a settled fit of sickness will be end of my present confine- 
ment. If I am mistaken, you shall soon hear again from 

Yr. real Friend and humble Servt. 

JL 

to Genl. Washington. I am really in Elarnest. I have told you and some others so, 
often. I have now told Congress, as such, the same. For Heavens sake let other 
Persons be immediately appointed, and the difficulties I have laboured under removed. 
Or believe me you'll have the Army Starved. An Angel from Heaven could not go 
on long in my Situation, it is worse than the Jewish Brick Makers. You see by Mr. 
Ayletts last letter, what his Idea is of Continuing in the Service. I have seen two 
others who I named to you as Dx Com. Genls. who both say the same, my people will 
leave me to a man. they are not worth a farthing each, in the present Circumstances. 
Angels and men will justify me, I trust, in this measure. 

" I am Dear Sir 

Your most Humble Servt. 

Jos : Trumbull." 

The letter to Congress is not found among the Papers of Congress, or mentioned in 
the Journals; neither does the letter to Washington appear among the Washington 
Papers. It seems probable therefore that they were never despatched. 

[530] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 July II Congress resolved to send a committee to headquarters to inquire 
particularly into the causes of the complaints in the commissary's department. The 
committee brought in a report Aug. 5. 

3 Cf. no. 531, post. 

[531]^ Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. II., p. 179 (copy). 

2 Only three of the four had actually arrived. See no. 525, note 5, ante. The 
agreement made by Franklin and Deane with three of the engineers, Feb. 13, 1777, is 



July, 7777 396 

532. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston.' 

July I. Tuesday 

Yesterday ' the Committee of tlic whole House finished their proceed- 
ings concerning our Revolters and reported them to the House. An un- 
expected field of debate was opened and some of our neighbors (R. S ' 
in particular) discovered an earnestness and solicitude that did not belong 
to Judges between a State and its discontented members. But it was of 
little avail to object to what had been agreed to by the Committee of the 
whole House on the most solemn argument and debate of which I have 
been witness. The enclosed Resolutions were finally agreed to by Con- 
gress. The two first unanimously, all the rest by a considerable majority. 
What was most keenly opposed is the last Resolution respecting Young's 
Address ; * because it brought all the proceedings more pointedly to the 
case of New York. 

This appears to us to be a happy decision for our State which if not 
neglected must produce very salutary consequences. I should think it 
ought to be instantly circulated by hand bills throughout every part of the 
State : and that Commissioners should be sent into the three counties to 
announce the Resolutions and induce the people to conform to the new 
government and avail themselves of it's blessings. We did not think it 
necessary to press for a recommendation of Congress to these people to 
submit to our Jurisdiction: nor for the dismission of Warner's regi- 
ment.^ We thought we had obtained what was sufificient for the present 
it will depend on the impression these important decisions may make on 
that regiment and the disaffected at large; whether the former shall be 
discharged, and the latter enjoined more directly to a peaceable conduct. 
If either should be turbulent and be guilty of acts of violence or hostility, 
I presume on proper application Congress will interpose. A motion came 
from the Southward that the power of the Continent should be employed 
to suppress these insurgents ; ® another from the same Quarter, that 
Warner's regiment should be dismissed : but it would not have been wise 
to hazard either of them : and a spirit of candor and moderation, which 
on this occasion distinguished your delegates, was of no little service in 
securing the other points which after the first debate we saw the fairest 
prospect of obtaining. As I said before these requisitions are kept in 
reserve for a proper season if they should become essential 



in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 269. that of Deane with Du Coudray, Sept. 11, 1776, 
is in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., II. 283. See also, nos. 535, 537. 539, S4i, 542, 559, 
post. 

[532] 1 See under June 24 (no. 522, notes i and 2), ante. 

2 See the Journals, June 30 ; also nos. 524. 526, ante, and nos. 533, 534, Post. 

3 Roger Sherman. Sec no. 533, post. 
* See no. 526, note 3, ante, 

5 Concerning Col. Seth Warner's regiment, see the Journals, June 30, July 7 ; 
also no. 330, note 2, ante, and no. 533, post. 

^ Cf. the motion of Thomas Burke, the Journals, June 30 (p. 5U)- 



39G Continental Congress 

533, The New York Delegates to the New York Council of 

Safety.^ 

Philadelphia 2d July 1777 

Honourable Gentlemen 

Since our last we have applied to Commissary Trumbull to exchanj^e in 
the manner directed by Cong;ress the 2000 Bushells of Salt which they 
were pleased to grant for the Relief of our State. ^ As soon as we receive 
his Answer you shall know the Result 

We were Yesterday honourd with your favour of the [19 June] and 
immediately took the necessary steps to procure an Account of the State 
Prisoners sent to Philadelphia by our late Convention; and the manner 
of their discharge. It shall be transmitted to you by this Conveyance with 
the Reasons which indued the Council of Safety of this Commonwealth 
to use so little Ceremony in a Business which had been represented to them 
as of a very serious nature.' 

Congress between this and the 26th. of June have spent the greatest 
part of four days in considering the Claim of some of the Inhabitants of 
our State to a new Government independent of the Community ; and the 
Letters and Remonstrances of our late Convention and your honourable 
Council On that interesting Subject. The Principles upon which this 
ambitious Project was grounded were admitted to be of universal Concern 
to the general Confederacy, and they were considerd as peculiarly odious 
from the Attempt to confirm them by the grossest misrepresentation of 
the Resolutions of Congress. No Debate was ever conducted with more 
deliberation and solemnity; D[e]cision was such as in our Judgement 
ought for the present to be satisfactory. It does not it is true come up to 
the Requisition of our State, " that the Insurgents shou'd be recommended 
to a peaceable Submission to its Jurisdiction by the Authority of Con- 
gress ; and that Warner's Regiment shou'd be discharged ". But by totally 
reprobating the Idea that a Minority can establish an Independance of the 
Community of which they are members. By proclaiming the Duty of 
Congress to secure and defend the several Communities of which it is 
composed. By censuring the Supposition that Congress cou'd do, recom- 
mend or countenance any thing injurious to the Rights and Jurisdictions 
of those Communities. By declaring expresly that the independant Gov- 
ernment attempted to be established by those misguided People can derive 
no Countenance or Justification from the particular Resolution on which 

[533]^ N. Y. State Lib., Minutes of the Council of Safety, IX. 440 (in Duane's 
writing) ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXIX. 196 (copy) ; Recs. of the Governor 
and Council of Vt., III. 293 (extract) ; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 998. 

2 A copy of the letter to Joseph Trumbull, dated July 2, is in the N. Y. State 
Library, Minutes of the Council of Safety, IX. 448, and is printed in Jour. N. V. 
Prov. Cong., I. 1000. The letter mentions that the salt stored at Plymouth is " under 
the care of Thomas Mumford Esqr. of Groton in Connecticut". See the Journals, 
June 14; also nos. 517, 518, ante, 544, 546, post. 

3 The letter of the committee of safety, June 19, is in Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., 
I. 970; the resolution, June 18, is ibid., I. 968. See, further, ibid., I. 999, 1000; also 
William Duer to the Pennsylvania council of safety, Oct. 11, 1776, in Pa. Arch., first 
ser., V. 40. 



July, 1777 397 

it is pretended to be founded, or from any other Act or Proceeding of Con- 
gress. By the contemptuous Rejection of their Petition to be receivd and 
ranked as a free State; and to be represented by their own Delegates in 
Congress. By the Apology to the State of New York for raising Warner's 
Regiment, implied in the Explanation of the Motives which gave Rise to 
it. And by the severe Censure of Doct. Young's Address, encouraging 
these People to persevere in their Defection. By all these different Reso- 
lutions we think a substantial Foundation, on general and undenia[b]l[e] 
Principles, is laid either for reclaiming our Fellow Citizens to their Duty 
and a Submission to the Laws, by the Force of Reason and Perswasion ; 
and the Fear of offending a whole Continent; or shoud they distinctley 
persevere in their Revolt, for a future Requisition of the Aid of Congress 
to be administerd in such manner as the Opposition of the disaffected, and 
our own Circumstances may render expedient. We flatter ourselves there- 
fore that we shall meet with your Approbation and that our Country will 
be pleasd and benefited by the measures adopted on this Occasion. May 
we be permitted to suggest the Propriety of dispatching Commissioners 
without delay to circulate explain and enforce among our too aspiring 
Countrymen these Resolutions of Congress, and to seize the Advantage 
which the first Impression of unexpected disappointment, and Condem- 
nation from the only Tribunal they fear, may make on their Minds, in 
order to induce them to a Submission to your Jurisdiction. This appears 
to us to be the more necessary as Mr Roger Sherman of Connecticut, who 
brought in the Petition for these People to Congress, and has all along 
acted openly as their Advocate and Patron, and in the last Debate plead 
their Cause with a Zeal and Passion which he never discoverd in any other 
Instance, and which in a Judge between a State and some of its own mem- 
bers was far from being commendable. This Gentleman, we say, im- 
mediately on passing the Resolutions, procurd Copies, and having obtaind 
Leave of Absence, is already set out on his Journey to the Eastward. 
What may be his Views with respect to our Dispute, we know not ; But to 
his Enmity and officiousness you ought not to be Strangers.* 

We have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect Hon^ Gentlemen 

Your most Obedient humble Servants 

Phil. Livingston 



Council of Safetv for the State of New York. 



Jas. Duane 
Wm. Duer 



534. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston.^ 

July 2. Wednesday 

.... We have now finished every thing in Congress which immedi- 
ately concerns our State, and I own I feel no small satisfaction in contem- 

* See the Journals, June 23, 25, 28, 30, and nos. 524, 526, 532, ante ; also nos. 539, 
546, 547, post. 

[534]^ See under June 24 (no. 522, notes i and 2), ante. 



3 

platinj^ our success. I wish our Countrymen may be well pleased, and I 
shall have for a great deal of pains, labor and anxiety a full reward.* 

I ought to have excepted as an unfinished business our public accounts 
with the United States: to this my attention shall now be directed 

Adieu 
JD 

535. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

PhiladelphiaJuly 4th. 1777 
Sr 

.... I much fear that an Instruction formerly passed in Congress 
respecting Foreigners who do not understand our language will be con- 
strued as a patent for those who do. It was not intended for that end I 
assure you. Nothing is more dreaded than such a Construction.* 

I will not multiply w^ords, but conclude by assuring you of my most 
sincere Esteem as 

Sr Your Friend and very humble Servant 

James Lovell 
Honble Mr. Franklin 

536. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia, July 5th, 1777. 
Dr. Sir: 

Your several favours of the loth and nth ulto. have come to hand, and 
you may rely on my best attention to all your commands.* 

Mr. Penn is arrived, and has brought the papers necessary for obtaining 
the money, but the Treasury being very nearly exhausted of all former 
emissions I fear we must w-ait sometime before we can procure a sum from 
one lately voted, adequate to the demand. We have however obtained an 
order of the Treasury for three hundred thousand dollars to be delivered 
at Baltimore where the press and Signers are. and the Board of War are 
properly instructed to forw^ard it without delay. I observe the Resolve 
of the Assembly directs the Delegates to send forward 250,000, dollars 
and the residue of the 500,000 not drawn for under this Resolve, or pre- 
vious thereto. 

These difficulties occur. Are the 250,000 to be considered as part of 
the 500,000, or are they to be an additional demand ? Are the Delegates 
to send this money at the risque of the State, and not in the usual way 

2 See nos. 524, 526, 532, 533, ante. 
ISSSl'^Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, VI. 95; Hale, Franklin in France, I. 79. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 13 ; cf. nos. 501, 514, 525, 531, note 2, ante. 
[536]iiV. C. State Recs.. XI. 511. 

2 Caswell's letters of June 10 and 11 are in N. C. State Recs.. XI. 494, 495. The 
first relates in part and the second almost entirely to the French engineers and to 
reimbursement for assistance rendered them. See no. 525, note 5, ante; also the Journals, 
July 5 (p. 532) ; cf. ibid., Feb. 5, Mar. 14. 



July, 1777 399 

under the direction of the Board of War? The latter I can not think to 
have been intended by the Assembly, and therefore 1 have ventured to 
advise its being sent at the risque of the Continent in the usual way. In 
this Mr. Penn concurs with me. The former question I can not decide 
upon, but until it is more clearly expressed must suppose it is intended as 
part of the 500,000 dollars.^ .... 

Nothing material has happened since I wrote you last, except the cele- 
bration of the fourth of July (the anniversary of the declaration of Inde- 
pendence). You will see it at large in the enclosed paper; but the one 
thing is remarkable; this day, and the 28th of June, memorable for the 
defence of Sullivan's Island, were both celebrated here, and at both a 
Hessian band of music which were taken at Princeton performed very 
delightfully, the pleasure being not a little heightened by the reflection that 
they were hired by the British Court for purposes very different from 
those to which they were applied.* July 7th. This moment I received 
yours of 17th ulto. by post inclosing the Resolution of Assembly, and a 
letter to Captain Caswell. .... The Resolution of the Assembly shall 
be laid before Congress, and you shall know the result.^ I thank you, Sir, 
for yr attention to my private inconveniences manifested in the permission 
you give me to return to my family. I shall avail myself thereof as soon 
as I can assure myself that it can be done without injury to the public 
business. I shall write you again by the next post, or opportunity 

537. William Williams to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia July 5, 1777 
Hon'^ Sir 

.... I find Congress much as I left it,^ in every respect, some new 
Members; their Time mostly taken up by Daily Incidents and occurrences, 
very little progress made in the Confederation, it had pasd the Com** of 
the whole House before I left, has been a good while before Congress and 
few important questions yet determined, the capital ones of the weight of 
each Colony in deciding Questions, and Taxation and many others unde- 
termined, the first respecting the Vote of Each has been entered on, and 
it is most strenuously contended in behalf of the larger [ones that] their 

3 The order to the treasurer to despatch the 300,000 dollars is in the Journals, 
July 8. See sundry letters of the delegates (Penn, Burke, and Harnett), July 6, 8, 12, 
Aug. 5. II, in N. C. State Recs.. XL 514, 516, 558, 569, 736; also letters of Caswell, 
June 17, July 15, Aug. 6, 7, ibid., XI. 500, 564, 565, 737. A copy (from the original) 
of the instructions from Burke and Penn to Lieut. John Allen (see ibid., pp. 558, 736) 
is in the possession of the Carnegie Institution of Washington. 

* The Journals make no record of the celebration of July 4, merely showing that 
Congress adjourned over that day. Cf. no. 537, post. 

5 Caswell's letter of June 17 is in A'^. C. State Recs., XL 500. The resolution 
of the assembly related to making the state's artillery company continental. See the 
Journals, July 10, 19. 

[537]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Declaration of Independence, p. 83; Hist. Mag., 
XIV. 223. 

2 Williams left Congress Nov. 12, 1776, or thereabouts (see no. 193, note 2, ante). 
He took his seat again June 25, 1777. 



4 

vote shall be proportionate to their [population which is] forcably op- 
posed. I trust aiul hope it will be [carried in favor of] the equal Footing 
it has been, and without it [the smaller Co] Ionics will be in effect swal- 
lowed up and ainiihilated.* 

Your Letter to the Presidt. and its inclosures are reed, the papers not 
read in the House, but committed. I cant say what will be done ; nothing 
but what is originated in this Batch of — Politicians seems to make any 
great impression. Mr. Erkelins seems to be vanished, we can find He 
has been here but no Body knows who or where he is, tho I believe by 
enquiry he is in Town, but have not been able yet to find him. I suspect 
he is chagrined at the cool reception he has met with, and keeps retired.* 

We have applied for the arms you wrote by us for, but find exceeding 
Difficulty in obtaining Them. I believe not a man southward or in the 
middle Department is supplied with an arm but by the Continent. We 
have done it thro zeal and strong attachment to the Cause, and yet They 
will not seem to know, believe or care anything about it, there is indeed 
such a thing as being righteous overmuch, and yet I can hardly repent 
that we have in such Influences fallen into this Error, but sho*^ N. E. be 
attacked and unarmed we sho*^ have reason, the matter is however referd 
to Genl. Washington, and Mr Sherman is to negotiate the Affair with him 
on his return (he set out the 2d Inst) more than all the arms we have 
are wanted, which must be allowed as some excuse for their lothness to 
comply.^ 

We have a very extra''. Contract now lying before Congress entered 

into in Septr. last by Mr. D with Monsr. DuCoudray (after a long 

list of pre nomens) who is present, making him Gen^* and Commandr. 
in Chief of the whole Choir of Artillery, with power to fill every vacant 
office now and in future, and to be subject to no Controul but by the Con- 
gress and the Commander in Chief of the whole Army, and with the rank 
of Majr. General, and his pay as in a Separate Department, to be on pay 
from the ist of Augt. last, and a large Train of under Officers of various 
ranks who are with him, for whom also he has made appointments, and to 
Monsr. and all he had has advanced a half years pay for expences of 
preparation and Passage, not to be accounted for, and with Pensions for 
Life equal to half their Pay annually etc. The Contract has had several 
assignments but is not yet taken up. I do not expect it will be ratified in 
full. I forbear to say many things, the City swarms with French Men.' 

I dont know but I transgress the Rules We all sign in divulging any 
ma[tters] sub Jiidice and unfinished in Congress, but I cant [refrain from 
menti]oning important matters to one w-ho has so good a right to know^; 

3 Cf. no. 528, ante. The remarks of Williams suggest that the mode of voting 
was under discussion at the time he was writing. 

* Gosuinus Erkelens. See the Journals, Apr. 18 ; see also Brieven van en aan 
Joan Derek van der Capellen van de Poll, p. 5. 

5 See the Journals, June 25, July i (relative to Trumbull's letter of June 12) ; 
also Washington to Trumbull, July 2, 7, Writings (ed. Ford), V. 456, 469. 

6 See nos. 501, SH- 52i, 525, 530, 531, 535, ante, nos. 539, 541, 542, 559, post. 



July, 7777 401 

and to whom I, and even the Contin[ent are subject] to great obligations, 
but Sr. you will not make them to be publick nor known, as from me 
especially. 

The Prices of every thing here are most alarmingly extravagant, much 
owing to the malicious Cunning of our worst Enemys, the Torys, and 
coinciding with the boundless avarice of the Merchants, whose Gain is 
the Siimmum Bonum, and all the God they seem to know, in these parts, 
nothing to be done by Congress, because, forsooth, it will be interfering 
with the internal Police of this grand State, in this respect the mother of 
Harlots etc. the principle properly applied is however very important. 
Congress seems to be chaind to this place, and the longer they stay, the 
stronger a multitude of offices and officers are established and employed 
in this City, and some of the worst men in some of them. 

Yesterday was in my opinion poorly spent in celebrating the anniversary 
of the Declaration of Independance, but to avoid singularity and Reflec- 
tion upon my dear Colony, I thot it my Duty to attend the public Enter- 
tainment ; a great Expenditure of Liquor, Powder etc. took up the Day, 
and of Candles thro the City good part of the night. I suppose and I 
conclude much Tory unilluminated Glass will want replacing etc.'' .... 



538. Henry Marchant to the Governor and Company of 

Rhode Island.^ 

Philadelphia July 5th. 1777. 
Gentlemen 

I reed, a Letter from the Honorable William Greene Esqr. Speaker of 
the lower Plouse signed at the Request, and in Behalf of, the General 
Assembly (the Govr. being absent) of the 22d. and 24th, of June last, 
directed to Mr. Ellery and myself.^ Mr. Ellery having some Time before 
sat out on his Return Home, — I instantly, on the same Day I received 
Your Letter, being the third of this Instant July, moved Congress for the 
Sum requested, being sixty Thousand Pounds (meaning I presumed law- 
ful Money) or two hundred Thousand Dollars. Congress w^ere much 
surprised that so large a Sum should be requested so soon after the large 
Sum granted the State of Rhode-Island etc. The Gentlemen of the 
Treasury Board would hardly allow it possible you should have expended 
such very considerable Sums on Continental Account, and moved that the 
Sum of sixty Thousand Dollars only should be now granted. — especially 
as it was very probable the Continent would soon have Occasion for large 
Drafts upon the Eastern Loan Offices, if the Enemy's Movements should 
be into New-England, or up the North River, the latter of which from 

^ Cf. no. 536, ante. With regard to " unilluminated glass " see Pa. Arch., first 
sen, V. 411. 

l538]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1777, p. 120; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 143. 

2 Letters of June 22 and 24 to Ellery and Marchant are printed in Staples, 
R. I. in Cont. Cong., pp. 141, 142, with the signature of the governor. Nicholas Cooke. 



4 

Genl. Washington's Letters that Day received, seemed, and still appears 
most probable. I did not fail to state and urge, in the strongest Manner 
I was capable of, the Necessity and Expediency of this Supply, — The abso- 
lute Necessity you would otherwise be under of emitting a large Sum, the 
destructive Consequences of which we are all awakened to. I further 
suggested, what I fully imagine to be the Case, that a very great Part of 
this Sum would go into the Lx)an Office by Way of Discount with the 
State, that it could not be expected so large a Sum would in Fact be thrown 
into that Office. After a considerable Debate, the Consideration thereof 
was submitted to the Treasury Board. I applied there this Morning and 
inforced my Application with every additional Argument in my Power, 
and was very happy in obtaining a Report agreeable to my wishes, and 
upon which the inclosed Resolves passed Congress.'. . . . 



539. James Lovell to William Whipple.^ 

7th. July 1777. 

Dear Sir, 

As you seemed particularly to wish when you left Philadelphia to be 
made acquainted with the proceedings in the Commercial and Foreign 
Committes, I would inform you that last Saturday Mr Geary Mr. W. 
Smith and Mr Heywood were joined to Messrs. Morris and Livingston, 
to the no small mortification of H — n.^ Geary pleaded hard to be excused 
but we would not allow of it till a proper opportunity.' This day we have 
the pleasure of knowing we shall soon have that opportunity to the double 
mortification of said H — ; for we this day find that Col R H Lee has 
not only rec'd the most honorable testimonies of approbation for his past 
conduct but was elected anew on the 24th. ulto. Old H — has whispered 
it all along on the road that Col Lee has ordered his overseer to demand 
produce or bullion for rent, but this was proved to be false by the fullest 
declaration of the overseer and other evidence. I feel exceedingly glad 
on this event,* and should be completely secure against the prevalence of a 
certain set, if a certain late resolute member of the Marine Committee ° 
was about to return speedily from Portsmouth, one, who though quite as 
honest as his neighbors, yet did not confess ten times a day " I dont know 

3 See the Journals, July 3, 5. The separate item of 10,000 dollars advanced to 
the delegates was to meet a bill of Samuel Purviance and Company. See the letter 
of June 24, mentioned above, and a passage in Marchant's letter omitted here. The 
previous grant of money to Rhode Island referred to in the letter was Mar. 12. See 
nos. 394, 405, 420, ante. 

[539]^ Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 361; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft 
Coll., Langdon-Elwyn Papers (copy). 

- Benjamin Harrison. 

^ July 5 the secret committee was reconstituted and called the committee of 
commerce. " Geary " and " Heywood " are of course Elbridge Gerry and Thomas 
Heyward. See no. 624, post. 

* Cf. no. 511, ante, no. 547, post. See also no. 506, ante. 

5 The allusion is to his correspondent, William Whipple. 



July, 7777 403 

what the question is Mr President " like good honest I, for be sure I mean 
myself. 

We of the other Committee have sent an armed Sloop to France.^ The 
commissions of Wm. Lee and Izzard do not promise ratification of what- 
ever they may transact, but their proceedings on commercial treaties at 
Vienna Berlin and Tuscany are to receive our approbation and only to 
continue 12 years, though a treaty of friendship may be made outright 
for a longer period.^ 

I will aim to send you the issue of a plaguy altercation upon bringing 
on afresh the afifair of the New Hampshire Grants. I was unfortunately 
confined to my bed and G divided against S. A. on the two last resolves as 
did Elmore against Serjeant, the others of the two States being absent. 
You must know that Jemmy D. has got E — re fast. I do not however 
think that New York has much to boast of ; it is still a moot-point whether 
the people of the Grants belong to Massachusetts, New Hampshire or New 
York.\ . . . 

Du Coudray's treaty is not yet determined upon ; but I think there will 
be few advocates for confirming it. The 4 Engineers who were the only 
persons absolutely sent for, are arrived; and though modest men, upon 
a very modest treaty, yet possitively refuse to be under the command of 
Du C — y who has duped Deane to make him Commander in Chief of all 
the artillery and engineering through the States.® But this is only a part 
of our present distraction. For ist. Sulivan sends to know whether the 
report is true that Congress has ratified De C — y's claim, because if it is, 
he desires leave to resign. Two days after Green and Knox proceed in 
the same style. This is judged to be a military attempt to influence our 
free deliberations. For it is certain, they knew we had not settled the 
matter or General Washington would have rec'd the Resolves. If they 
chose to take it for a thing done why did they not ask leave to retire with- 
out any ifs. There is as much pulling and hauling, about rank and pay, 
as if we had been accustomed to a militarv establishment here i =;o vears.^** 



8 That is, the committee of foreign affairs (prior to Apr. 17 the committee of 
secret correspondence), to which Lovell and Heyward had been added May 26. The 
armed sloop was the Independence. See the letter of the committee of foreign affairs 
to Arthur Lee, Aug. 8, in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 384. 

'^ In the transcript this sentence begins : " The Commissioners Wm. Lee and 
Izzard " ; evidently it should be " the commissions of ". Ralph Izard was elected com- 
missioner to the court of Tuscany May 7, and William Lee to the courts of Vienna and 
Berlin May 9. Their commissions and instructions are in the Journals, under July i. 
See also ibid., June 27. The instructions are also in Wharton, Rev. Dip!. Corr., II. 3S9, 360. 

8 See nos. 524-526, 532, 533, ante ; also nos. 546, 547, post. " G " is Elbridge Gerry, 
"S. A." is Samuel Adams, " Elmore" (also " E— -re") is Jonathan Elmer, " Serjeant" 
is Jonathan D. Sergeant, and " Jemmy D." is James Duane. Cf. nos. 556, 585, post. In 
regard to Sergeant, see no. 511, ante. 

8 See no. 525, note 5, ante, and nos. 541, 542, 559, post. 
10 See the Journals, July 3, 5 (PP- 53i, 535), 7, 12 (p- 548 n.), 21 (p. 569) ; also 
no. 514, ante, nos. 541-543. post. 



4 

540. John Adams to Jamks Warkkn.' 

Philadelphia, July 7, 1777 
My dear Sir, 

Yours of June 22<] reed, only today. We have no Thoughts of leaving 
Philadelphia. I believe Howe has no Thoughts of attempting it, but if 
he has \Ve are determined to keep it. Our Army, with the assistance of 
the Militia, will be sufficient to defend it 

There is a loud Complaint here, about Arms. Eighteen Thousand 
Arms have arrived at Portsmouth ^ and We know not what becomes of 
them. Other Arms have arrived in Mass.. but We know not where they 
are. and it is said the Game Cock carried Six Thousand into Dartmouth. 
Where are they? .... 

I am weary enough of Complaints, concerning Navy Matters. I do all 
I can in public and private to stimulate, but all in vain. The Commissions 
were never sent untill 4 or 5 days ago by Mr. Sherman. The Instructions 
are not sent yet.^ Who is in Fault, I dont say. It is enough for me to 
answer for my own Faults 

541. John Adams to Nathanael Greene.* 

Philadelphia July 7, 1777 
My dear Sir. 

I never before took hold of a Pen to write to my Friend General Green, 
without Pleasure, but I think myself obliged to do it now upon a Subject 
that gives me a great deal of Pain. 

The Three Letters from the Generals Sullivan, Green and Knox, have 
interrupted the Deliberations of Congress, and given many of the Mem- 
bers of it much Uneasiness. They thought themselves bound, in Honour 
and Justice, to the great Body of People whom they represent, to pass the 
Resolution which, before this Letter reaches you, will be communicated to 
you by General Washington. 

The Contract between Mr Deane and Monsr Du Coudray, is not yet 
decided upon. It is in itself one of the most delicate, and perplexing 
Transactions that has ever fallen in our Way : but those three Letters 
instead of relieving Us has only encreased our Mortification.^ .... 

Nothing in this affair gives me more Pain, than the Necessity, you have 
laid Us under of passing a Resolution, vi^hich will lessen your Characters, 
and diminish the Confidence w^hich the good People of America have in 
your Judgment, and attachment to the Principles of Liberty. But there 

[540]^ Warren-Adams Letters. I. 339. 

2 The reference is presumably to the arms which arrived in the Mercury and 
the Amphitrite. See no. 473, note 5, ante; also James Warren to his wife, Mar. 21, and 
to Adams. Apr. 23, Warren-Adams Letters, I. 301, 316. 

3 See nos. 480, 485, 521, ante, and Warren to Adams, June 22, in Warren-Adams 
Letters, I. 334. 

[541]! Adams MSS., Boston. 

2 Concerning the letters of Sullivan, Greene, and Knox, see no. 539, ante, nos. 
542, 543, post. Cf. no. 404, ante. For other aspects of the Du Coudray affair, see nos. 525, 
note 5, 539, note 9, ante. 



July, 1777 405 

was not one Member of Congress who dared to justify the Letters, very 
few who could say a word in Mitigation or Excuse. It was universally 
considered, as betraying the Liberties of the People, to pass them by un- 
censured. Some were even for dismissing all three of you instantly from 
the service, others for ordering you to Philadelphia, under arrest to 
answer for this offence. 

The Resolution expresses an Expectation that some Acknowledgment 
or Apology will be made. I sincerely hope it will, for I think that on a 
cool Reconsideration of those Letters, the Impropriety and Danger of 
them must be manifest. I would be far from dictating to you, or giving 
advice unasked, but I really think, that a Declaration that you had no 
Intention to influence Congress, to contemn its Authority or infringe the 
Liberties of the People or the Priviledges of Congress, a Declaration that 
you have the fullest Confidence in the Justice of Congress and their 
Deliberations for the public good, is the least that you can do, provided 
you can do this with Truth and Sincerity, if not I think you ought to leave 
the Service. 

542, Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia July the 7th 1777 
Dear Sir 

I wrote you a few days agoe by Coll. Stewart which hope you have 
Recievd.^ we have in the course of a few days received some very unpolite 
letters from two or three Gentn. of high rank and Esteem in the Army viz 
Genlls. Green Sullivan and Knox, if they had prudently wrote the same 
Matter to any particular friend Member of Congress and he had divulged 
it to his brethren no offence would have been taken and it might have 
answered every valuable purpose, but to write to Congress as a Body while 
they had a matter under consideration (I mean the afifair of the Command 
of Monsr de Coudre) to dictate to or Influence their Conduct is looked 
upon by many as the highest Insult and Indignity and which they cannot 
pass by without the severest Censure, or otherwise must give up their own 
dignity and superiority to a few Gentn. of the Army, who will assume for 
the future to dictate and Influence all their measures, or if Congress do 
not at once yield they will resign their Commissions break up the Army 
and leave their Country to the total desolation and subjection of the 
Enemy, this is the Construction many put on their Conduct there is a 
number of us endeavour to palliate matters to soften the Asperity of 
Others tho all Condemn the manner of those Gentns. letters and the time- 
ing of them. Indeed they will have a bad effect on the matter under Con- 
sideration. I believe there would have been great caution and prudence in 
that affair we readily felt for those Gentn. and the Indignity it might at 

[542] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 Doubtless no. 529, ante. Colonel Stewart was probably Charles Stewart, 
colonel of New Jersey militia, elected commissary-general of issues June 18. Cf. nos. 
543, 544, post. However, Dyer mentions in his letter of July 8 (no. 543, post) that he 
sent such a letter by a young Southern officer. 



4 

least be Construed to be to place Monsr de Coudre in a rank superior to 
them it would have been opposed, and believe never would have taken 
place, but these Gentn. before the matter was so much as debated in Con- 
gress have thrown in their threats to them as a body that if they do this 
etc. they will immediately leave the Army, it embarrasses every free step 
both in debate and Conclusion, for if they now refuse which I dare say 
they before would have done to give de Coudre a Superior Command 
instead of being Imputed to their Justice and prudence it will be entirely 
attributed to their fear occasioned by the threats of those Gentn. and the 
Consequence will be, in every matter for the future we must be either 
Dictated to or threatned by the Army if we do not do this, or that, or 
just what they please, they will give up the cause or goe over to the 
Enemie, Sacrifice their Country, etc. 

they will easily see the Impropriety, and I believe they were in no danger 
before, am extremely sorry it has happened, how severe the conclusions 
will be I know not. some threaten hard, others Indeavour to moderate, 
the times are truly Critical and I think those Gentn. would not wish to 
lessen the authority Esteem or dignity of Congress, as their own and 
Countrys honor Safety and Liberty so much at present depend upon its 
being preserved, and whatever may be the result I hope they will take it 
patiently consider themselves as Imprudently (at least) giving an occa- 
sion, a few reflections will be for their honour and all may be set right, 
they must Consider their Country at Stake which I hope they preferr 
above every thing else even their own particular honor, or life, (I mean in 
the manner in which it may be effected in Compromising this matter which 
I hope would establish, instead of wounding it in the least, as they 
threaten to resign, it is a wonder if Congress dont tell them they may just 
when they please but I hope these Gentn love their Country too well. This 
is a most unhappy affair and our old Friend D[e]an has been in more In- 
stances than one, Imprudent to the last degree, he has brot us into the 
most unhappy Dilemma in several of his Contracts and Stipulations with 
Gentn sending over Swarms of Commanders Pensioners etc. I dare say 
no more at present upon the Subject and trust you will Improve what is 
said with caution and prudence, if these Gentn knew how Congress were 

embarrassed and plagued with D — ns Imprudence and his [.Jtc] 

they would rather pity than Insult. I did not think it best to write to either 
of the gentn. directly, but to you that you might deal out to them or either, 
any part you think proper, that they may be prepared. Numbers in 
C[ongre]ss will Meliorate and Soften down as far as possible, and hope 
those Gentn. will not be averse to some reasonable Concessions or at least 
if they are told as they threaten that they may give up their Commissions 
as soon as they please the Congress is ready to receive them yet they will 
persist to serve their Country, and preferr Jerusalem above their Chief 
Joy. I write this with the Utmost Friendly disposition and design to- 
wards them, hope all will be properly setled but the General Cause must 
not suffer, make the best of this letter for a few days then burn it hope 
you will see the Gentn. as soon as possible if in your Neighbourhood or 



July, 7777 407 

some of them and let them know the friendly hints you have had from a 
Mem. of Congss. etc' Can say no more Am Sincerely Yours 

r^ ^ ^ Elipht Dyer 

[P. S.] . . . .* 

543. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull.' 

10 oClock 
Philadelphl\ July 8th 1777 

I received yours of the 7th this moment by express I wrote you by 
Brown yesterday but he has not yet left Town waiting for Mr Hancocks 
dispatches am very sorry you have not recievd my first which I sent by 
a young Southern Officer who promised particular care in delivering it ' 
I remember I therein on the whole advised you to accept, with the advice 
of Mr Law and Coll. Williams but I then had no Idea of the plague and 
Trouble you had to goe through but hope it will not be of long duration 
the grounds of my advice was principally the publick good am Sensible 
many Inconveniences and much Confusion will arise on this New Regula- 
tion ' but hope it may not be of long duration and it must be Supposed 
if a person of your experience should leave the Army it most probably 
would be much worse, youll find by Mr Stewart that the wages of the 
Depty. and sub Commissys. are somewhat raised your Clerk from 40 to 
50 dolP pr month * tho am persuaded it is insufficient Considering his 
residence must be in Philadelphia but dare say it will soon be raised as 
believe the others will if on Trj^al it is found Insufficient it is a general 
observation in Congress that there is room to rise but no way to fall. I 

hope Mr Stewards arrival may- give you some relief these New 

regulations were all come into before my arrival I have since procured 
some addition to the Wages ' but it will take some time before the Subject 
can be taken up again without being Troublesome and a thousand other 
matters Crouding. it is impossible for me to Judge for you in this matter 
as I cannot be fully acquainted with the Troubles and difficulties you have 
to encountre. your letter to Congress seems to carrv with it an acceptance 
but suppose if you should find on Tryal that the embarrassments are too 
great to Struggle with, you may on giving seasonable Notice no doubt 

3 Cf. nos. 539, 541. ante, and also no. 543, post. 
William* W'H^^^ ^ postscript by Dyer, there is a brief postscript written and signed by 

[543]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers, 
r^fl; ,: Evidently the letter dated "June 1777", no. 529, ante. The "young Southern 
Officer by whom it was sent has not been identified. See, however, no. 542, note 2, ante 

. Jfe Journals, June lo. Cf. nos. 517-520, 522. 529, ante. 
* uv u J T ■'""^J^l^ do "ot seem to bear out this statement. In the wage schedule 
established June 16 the clerks of a commissary-general and a deputy commissary-general 
were to receive 35 dollars a month and two rations. Aug. 7 the salary of the clerk 
of a commissary-general was raised to 50 dollars a month. These salaries applied to 
both the_ issuing and the purchasing sections of the commissary department A 
modihcation of the salary of assistant commissaries of issues will be found under July -^ 
and of that of deputy commissary-general of issues under Aug. 7. ' 

5 See the Journals, July 2 ; also note 4, above. 

31 



4 

resign." it has been several times mentioned in Congress that there is a 
large quantity of flower up at Lancaster and that way purchased by 
Walton and in danger of spoiling.'' I just mention it that you may take 

that care which belongs to you 

Am with Sincere regards 

Your 
E Dyer 

[P. S.] The Congress will Insist on some retractions from those 
(ienll. officers Who have wrote the letters I mentioned in my last. I hope 
they may be Induced to make them in some proper manner, and soon, as 
they esteem their honour so much concerned as I fear the consequences 
will be serious if not done.® 

544. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia 8th July 1777 
Dear Sir 

I reed your Favour of yesterday, and am glad to hear that Mr Stewart ^ 
and Mr Hoop ^ are at the Camp; Mr Buchannan * is altogether under 
your Direction, true it is, the Commissary General of purchases can only 
appoint a Clerk,® but it is also true, that he is exempted from Blame on 
account of the Misconduct of officers not of his appointment, if the 
Salary is not Sufficient for your Clerk, who certainly ought to be a 
reputable person, Congress will undoubtedly make the necessary addition. 
Your Memorandum shall be revived as soon as I can attend the Treasury 
Board, which will probably be to Morrow.^ With respect to the salt 
which I have in the Massachusetts, if a Vessel can be obtained, it will be 
sent to the Southward ; but I wanted to know whether it can be well spared 
to New York, if it cannot be sent to N Carolina.'' .... 

545. The President of Congress to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia July 8th. 1777. 
Sir, 

I enclose to you sundry Commissions for Officers in your Department, 
which I must request you will please to deliver to them.^ 

^ See the Journals, Aug. 2, 7; also Trumbull's letters of June 15 (no. 529, note 3, 
ante), and no. 554, post. 

^ See the Journals, June 27, July 23. 
8 See nos. 539. 541, 542, ante. 
[544]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 Qiarles Stewart, elected commissary-general of issues June 18. See no. 542, 
note 2, ante. 

3 Robert Hoops of New Jersey, elected, July l, deputy commissary-general of 
issues in place of Matthew Irwin (see the Journals, June 18, 26). Cf. no. 550, post. 

* William Buchanan of Maryland, elected deputy commissary-general of pur- 
chases June 18. He was elected commissary-general of purchases Aug. 5, in place of 
Joseph Trumbull, who had resigned. He served until April, 1778, being succeeded by 
Jeremiah Wadsworth, See no. 550, post. 

5 See the regulations, in the Journals, June 10. As to salaries, cf. no. 543, ante. 

^ See no. 548, post. 

' See nos. 517, 518, 533, ante, no. 546, post. 
[545]''^ Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 143. 

2 Probably the officers appointed June 18. See nos. 543, 544, ante. 



July, 1777 409 

The Congress being informed, tliat the Price of Cattle in this State is 

very exorbitant, think it adviseable that as few should be purchased therein 

as may be; and have come to the enclosed i'iesolve, directing you to give 

your Agents Instructions to govern themselves accordingly/ 

Your Favour of the 7th. I duely received and laid before Congress. 

I am, with Respect Sir 

Your most obed. Servt. 

T T- 1. 11 TTo^^ ^4.^ John Hancock Presdt. 

Jos : Trumbull, Esqr etc. •* 

546. The New York Delegates to the New York Council of 

Safety.^ 

Philadelphia 8th. July 1777 
Honourable Gentlemen 

Since our Letter of the 4th. Instant the President at our Request has 
written to Commissary Trumbull on the Subject of the Exchange of the 
Salt appropriated to our State; and we hope this Formality will give 
Weight to our own Solicitations.'^ 

We transmit you the Secret Committee's order in our favour on Mr 
Mumford their Agent, for the Salt at Plymouth and our transfer to you. 
A Copy of our Letter to Commissary Trumbull we also enclose, from 
which last you'l be pleased to observe that for the Sake of Dispatch we 
have requested him to correspond on the Subject immediately with 
Yourselves.' .... 

We have taken the Liberty to retain your Letter to Congress of the 
17th. of June and the several Enclosures.* already have we employed so 
much of their Time on the Affairs of our State that good Policy strongly 
urges us to give them some Respite : and as the Subject matter of these 
Dispatches, tho' of some moment to our State, requires no immediate 
Decision, we flatter ourselves you will not be displeased with our Reserve. 
The Reasons you assign to shew that the Defence of Hudson's River 
ought to be a continental Charge appear to us to be very cogent, and they 
must always have great Weight : and w^e therefore make no Scruple in 
recommending that all these Expenses be charged to the Account of the 
Continent ; comprehending even such as may accrue subsequent to the late 
Resolutions of Congress pointing out a discrimination ; for had the Trans- 
action been fully explaind, we cannot think those Resolutions w^oud have 
passed. 

We have the Honour to be with great Respect Hon^ Gentlemen 

Your most Obedient humble Servants 

Phil. Livingston 
Jas. Duane 
Wm. Duer 

3 See the Journals, June 27. 
[546] IN. Y. State Lib., Minutes of the Council of Safety, IX. 446 (in Duane's 
writing) ; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 999. 

2 Hancock's letter to Trumbull, dated July 5, is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock 
Letter-Book, VI. 220, and in the Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, 
pt. IL, p. 216. 

3 See no. 533, note 2, ante. 

* See Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 966. 



4 



i»' 



547. William Dllir to Robert K. Livingston/ 

Philadelphia 9th. July 1777. 
My Dear Friend, 

.... I have the pleasure to inform you that Congress have adopted 
Sundry resohitions respecting the Insurgents in the Counties of Glouces- 
ter, Cumberland and Charlotte, which if our new Legislature acts with 
spirit and wisdom will I think be attended with happy Effects. We trans- 
mit them by this Oj)p(irtunity tti the Council of Safety." 

I believe no matter has ever been more solmenly argued in Congress 
than this. The house were in Committee for three days, and very warm 
opposition was given to [sic] by some of our Eastern friends against the 
resolution for dismissing the Petition of Jonas Fay etc and that answer- 
ing Dr Youngs incendiary production. Mr Sherman was quite thrown 
off his bias, and betrayed a warmth not usually learnt within the Walls 
of Vale College 

I am sorry to inform you that Col R : H. Lee is returning to Congress 
crowned wath Laurels.^ His smooth discourse and art of Cabal have 
blunted the Edge of his countrymen's resentments and they have loaded 
him with encomiums on his patriotism and attention to business, which 
he modestly says, he is conscious of deserving, for particulars I refer 
you to the Pennsilvania Papers.* I suppose he will return here more 
rivited than ever to his Eastern friends; I assure you they lost in him no 
contemptible Ally 

At present there are no very great matters in which our state is partic- 
ularly interested before Congress ; and indeed if they were Mr Morris ^ 
can supply my place with great advantage to the reputation of the State, 
as well as his ow^n. His coolness of temper, and happy vein of Irony are 
qualifications, which would render him a very powerful antagonist to Mr 
R : H. Lee 

548. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia July 9th 1777 

Dear Sir 

Your Petition of November last has been this Day revived at the Board 
of Treasury, and It appeared to be the Desire of the Board that You 

[547]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, I. 487 (copy). 

- The resolutions, June 30, relative to the New Hampshire Grants. See nos. 

524, 526, 532, 533, 539, a" f^- ^, , 

3 Cf. nos. 511, note 2, 539, atite. Lee took his seat Aug. 12. The Virginia creden- 
tials are in the Journals, Aug. 11. 

* See Richard Henry Lee to Landon Carter, June 25. Letters (ed. Ballagh), L 
303 ; also John Banister to Theodoric Bland, June 10, Bland Papers, 1. 57. Cf. no. 506, 
ante. In the election of delegates to Congress. May 22, Richard Henry Lee had been 
defeated, the delegates chosen being George Mason, Joseph Jones, Francis Lightfoot 
Lee, and John Harvie. Mason having declined, Richard Henry Lee vi^as elected in his 
place, June 24. Meantime the house of delegates (June 20) and the senate (June 21) 
had passed votes of thanks to Lee for his services in Congress. These resolutions, 
together with Lee's responses, are found in the Virgmia Gazette (Purdie), June 27. 
They appeared in the Pennsylvania Journal, July 9, and in the Pennsylvania Evening 
Post, July ID. 

5 Gouverneur Morris. He was elected a delegate May 13, and again Oct. 3, 
1777, but did not attend until Jan. 20, 1778. 

[548]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 



July, 1777 411 

should be present and heard, previous to their considering the prayer and 
reporting thereon, this will probably occasion no great Delay, and may 
be the Means of producing a Decision that will be agreable on all sides.^ 

I remain Sir yours with Esteem 

E Gerry. 
Colo Trumbull 

549. The President of Congress to the Massachusetts Assembly.* 

Philadelphia July loth 1777. 
Gentlemen, 

I do myself the Honour to enclose to you Copies of sundry Papers, 
transmitted to Congress by the State of North Carolina, accompanied with 
the Resolution of Congress founded thereon.^ From these you will learn, 
that a Brig belonging to two Gentlemen of that State, Mr Smith and Mr. 
Hewes, was some Time ago captured by a certain Brazilla Smith, Com- 
mander of the Privateer Eagle, said to be owned by Mr Elijah Freeman 
Payne, of the Town of Boston. The Congress therefore have recom- 
mended it to the State of Massachusetts Bay, to enquire into the Matter ; 
and unless the Master and Owner can shew sufficient Cause to the con- 
trary, to order full Restitution to be made, and the offenders to be pun- 
ished. I beg Leave to refer your Attention to the Resolve and also to the 
Papers. 

Mr Hewes, who is the Bearer hereof,^ and one of the Owners of the 
Brig, was a Member of Congress for a considerable Length of Time in 
the Representation from the State of North Carolina. From the enclosed 
Memorial you will perceive the Sense his Constituents entertain of his 
Merit — to which I shall only add, that his Conduct as an inflexible Patriot 
and his Liberality as a Gentleman, justly entitle him, not only to their 
Protection, but to the Notice and Protection of every good Citizen, and 
Friend of America. 

I have the Honour to be, 

with great respect, Gentlemen, 

Your most obed and very hble Servt. 

John Hancock Presidt 

Honble Assembly of the State of Masstts Bay. 

550. James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull.* 

July nth [1777.] 
Dear Sir, 

Yours of the 9th and loth are come to hand. Mr Aylet's letter was 
read, and several of yours also. As the Committee you mentioned is 

2 See the Journals. Nov. 18, 1776. Cf. no. 239, ante. 
[549]! Mass. Arch., CXCVII. 253; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, 
pt. II., p. 220 ; ibid., Force Trans., Massachusetts Records, Letters, 1777. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 4, June 4, and nos. 278, 282, 358, ante. 

3 See a letter from John Adams to his wife, July 11, Familiar Letters, p. 282. 
[550]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 



4 

appointed, it is needless for me to say any thing about your Department. - 
1 hope Brother Geary will be disposed to do every thing proper to make 
those regulations practically useful about which he has already had a vast 
deal of perplexity. I shall be very sorry if you cannot have the aid of 
two such men as Aylet and Wadsworth.' You know how little I like 
the slow manner of conducting business in large popular assemblies. I 
do not better like the short way in which the Depy. Issuers have managed 
their matters : if the army was not in such a very critical state just at 
this time I should rejoice to have every man, heretofore employed in 
that way, dropped, and others found to whom I would give lo pr Ct. 
rather than retain the old ones at the lowest Salary. Mr Hoops * is an 
example to them which they ought to follow. He will take up at present 
tho' he does not think to continue. He accompanies the Committee ; so 
that I hope you will have some Leisure to mend a bad scheme. 

If Bucannan ° should not accept I hope yr. old friend " here will find 
it worth his pains. I am sure it may be made so, to the public advantage. 

551. The President of Congress to Benedict Arnold.^ 

Philadelphia July 1 2th. 1777. 
Sir, 

I have the Honour to enclose you an Extract of a Letter from Genl. 
Washington, from which you will perceive the General is of Opinion, 
" a brave active and judicious Officer " should be immediately employed 
in collecting the Militia to check the Progress of Genl. Burgoyne, as 
very disagreeable Consequences may be apprehended, if the most vigor- 
ous Measures are not taken to oppose him. 

The Congress therefore concurring in Opinion with General Wash- 
ington who has strongly recommended you for this Purpose, have 
directed you to repair immediately to Head Quarters to follow such 
Orders, as you may receive from him on the Subject.^ I have the 
Honour to be wath respect Sir 

Your most obed Serv. 

J. H. Presid 
Honble Major Genl x\rnold 

Philadelphia

2 See the Journals, July 11. Cf. no. 554. post. 

3 William Aylett of Virginia and Jeremiah Wadsworth of Connecticut were 
elected deputy commissaries-general of purchases June 18. Wadsworth resigned Aug. 
6 and was succeeded, Aug. 9, by Peter Colt. Apr. 9, 1778, he was elected commissary- 
general of purchases, serving until Jan. i, 1780. 

* Robert Hoops. See no. 544, note 3, ante. He resigned and was succeeded, Aug. 
6, by Archibald Stewart. Stewart declined (Aug. 11), and Robert White of Maryland 
was chosen in his stead (Aug. 14). 

5 William Buchannan. See no. 544, note 4, ante. 

6 This may refer to Ephraim Blaine, who was elected deputy commissary-general 
of purchases Aug. 6, 1777, and commissary-general of purchases Dec. 2, 1779. 

[551]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 225; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. II.. p. 221. 

2 See the Journals, July 11. 



July, 1777 413 

552. The President of Congress to the Massachusetts Assembly.* 

Phila. July 14th. 1777. 
Gentlemen, 

The enclosed Resolve of Congress recommending it to your state to 
send such reinforcements of militia to the Armies under generals Wash- 
ington or Schuyler as may be requested, comes with such peculiar force 
at this juncture, that I am persuaded any arguments to induce you to 
comply with it will be unnecessary. From the Continental battalions not 
being compleated agreeably to the original plan there is indeed an abso- 
lute necessity for adopting the measure in our present situation. Give 
me leave therefore most earnestly to request your compliance with this 
requisition of Congress, as the only effectual mode of checking the 
progress of our enraged and cruel Enemies.^ 

I have the honour to be, Gent 

Your most obdt' and very hble. Servt. 

John Hancock Presidt 

553. Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee.* 

Philade. July 15 1777 
My dear Friend 

.... We have letters from General Schuyler ^ in the Northern De- 
partment giving us an Account of the untoward Situation of our Affairs 
in that Quarter and I confess it is no more than I expected, when he was 
again instrusted with the Command there. You remember it was urged 
by some that as he had a large Interest and powerful Connections in that 
Part of the Country, no one could so readily avail himself of Supplys for 
an Army there, than he. A most substantial Reason, I think, why he 
should have been appointed a Quartermaster or a Commissary. But it 
seems to have been the prevailing Motive to appoint him to the Chief 
Command ! ^ You have his Account in the inclosed Newspaper, which 
leaves us to guess what is become of the Garrison. It is indeed droll 
enough to see a General not knowing where to find the main Body of 
his Army. Gates is the Man of my Choice. He is honest and true, and 
has the Art of gaining the Love of his Soldiers principally because he is 
ahvays present with them in Fatigue and Danger. But Gates has been 

[552] 1 Mass. Arch CXCyil. 282; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, 
pt. 11., p. 222; tbid., New Hampshire Records, Council Corr., 1777; Jour. NY. Prov. 
Long., 1. 1008. 

11 .1, xT^^V^^-^^J^c""'^' J"^^ ^^ i^- 549). This letter was sent to the assemblies of 
all the New England States and to the Convention of New York 

rJ^,^-^^^^"/>^^H.^-- HNt?"^^.^* ^°"-' "o- 496; ibid., Samuel Adams Papers (draft) : 
Wrxttngs (ed. Cushmg), III. 386. 

T u A ] ^^^ *'^^ Journals. July 11 ; also Lossing, Life of Schuyler, vol. II., chs. x.-xii. 
John Adams wrote to his wife, July 13: "We have a confused account from the north- 
ward of something unlucky at Ticonderoga, but cannot certainly tell what it is. I am 
much afraid we shall lose that post, as we did forts Washington and Lee; and indeed 
1 believe we shall if the enemy surround it." Familiar Letters, p. 283 

3 See nos 453. 461, 472, 483, 495, 502, 504, 511, 515^ 517-S20, 522, ante. Cf 
nos. 555, 556, s6oA, 561, 562A, 563-566, 568-572, 574. 578-580, 587, 597, 598, 609, 611, post. 



4 

disgiisteil ! Wo arc however waiting to be relieve! from this disagreeable 
State of uncertainty, by a particular Account of Facts from some Person 
who was near the Army who trusts not to Memory altogether, lest some 
Circumstances may be omitted while others are misapprelieniied.* 

I rejoice in the Honors your Country has done you. Pray hasten your 
Journey hither. 

Your very affectionate, 

S. AUAMS 

R. H. Lee, Esq 

554. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull.* 

Philadelphia July 15th 1777 
Dear Sir 

Recievd your favr. of the 9th Instant yours to Congress was recievd 
at the same time and the Matter Immediately taken up in Congress ^ 
there is so many fond of their New plan that it is difficult to make them 
attend to the Objections against and cannot bare so soon to throw up 
What they have entertained so great a fondness of but however they soon 
agreed to send a Com**^^ of Congress to goe to the Army and see and 
hear and report.^ the Congress is very thin and most Gentn. had a Very 
great Aversion to goe on this business. Except Mr Gerry I think there 
could scarce been one more unsuitable. Mr Livingston was chose one 
principally because he was gone that way before and would be in the 
way.* I much fear the Consequence arising from this New^ Regulation 
but hope for the best every thing must be Endured before the Army 
must fail it is said in Congress by some that you must goe on your Old 
way till the New one gets into a proper regulation and employe pur- 
chasers as formerly I know not what or how to advise you only in 
General to do the Utmost in your pow-er to advance and promote the 
general good and service ^ am sure I should at once advise you to quit 
if I did not apprehend the worst Consequences would follow and if you 
do not it may possibly be as bad unless Congress should place the pur- 
chasing Commissy. business in the same line as formerly, if the 
Com*^*^ should report favorably that way it may possibly be done, 
if you had the appointment of your Dep*^ Commis^ of purchasers and to 

* See, further, Adams's letter to Lee, July 22, in Writings (ed. Gushing), III. 
389; also nos. 560A, 562A, post. The newspaper item referred to was probably an extract 
of a letter from Schuyler to Washington, dated at Saratoga, July 7. found in the Penn- 
syh-aiiia Packet of July 15 and in the Pcnnsyhania Gaccttc of July 16, announcing 
St. Qair's retreat from Ticonderoga and Mount Independence Sunday, July 6. 

[554]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 See the Journals, July 11 ; cf. no. 550, ante. 

3 The committee was appointed July 11 and made its report Aug. 5. See also 
the Journals, July 24, Aug. 6, 7, 28. 

* Philip Livingston returned to Philadelphia July 24, in advance of the com- 
mittee. James Lovell wrote to Trumbull, July 15 : "I do not suppose you yourself would 
have balloted for Envoys just as others have done on this occasion but I hope you 
have a Ball [an] ce to yr liking." Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

5 See nos. 529. 530, 543. 544, ante. Trumbull again offered his resignation Aug. 
2. See the Journals, Aug. 2, 7, and no. 585, post. 



July, 1777 415 

allow Wages according to their Merrit I see no difficulty in carrying on 
your part but fear it will be hard to bring them back to that mode unless 
the Genii, and Com'^^ should recommend it. 

The News we have recievd from Ticonderoga is truly Alarming ° 
fear it will throw the New England States into the greatest Consterna- 
tion expect the Enemies ships are all along the sea coast giving the 
alarm there to divert them from giving aid to other parts where they 
may be wanted expect every hour to hear Genii. How has pushd up 
the North river God grant he may meet with a repulse there. I fear 
the late success of the Enemy will again oblidge us to call of Our Militia 
as last summer and now in this most Critical season, there ar about 
15 hundrd. or two thousand Southern Troops now forwarding from this 
place to join Genii. Washington. I want much to hear from our Country 
if you have Any Accounts from there, especially of our family you will 
be so kind as to let me hear. 



I Am with sincere regards 



Yrs 
Elipht Dyer. 



Joseph Trumbull Esqr 



555. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philadelphia July 1 8th 1777. 
Sir, 

.... The Loss of Ticonderoga still remains a very mysterious Affair 
for Want of proper Information, nor have we any Account as yet, of the 
Fate of the Garrison, under Genl. St. Clair, only from Report. I am 
therefore to request you will favour us as soon as possible with the best 
Intelligence you can procure, as Congress are extremely anxious to hear 
the particulars.^ 

556. James Lovell to William Whipple.^ 

Philadelphia July 21st 1777 
Dear Sir, 

I shall only acknowledge the receipt of your pleasing favor of the 8th. 
and enclose you a newspaper. I am not at leisure, and scarcely in a 
temper, to make reflexions upon the vile situation of our affairs at the 
Northward, which before this reaches you will be the main topic of con- 
versation. Believe me this is the first day that we have had any thing 

6 See no. 553, ante. 
[555]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 232; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. H., p. 228. 

2 See the Journals, July 21. Cf. nos. 553, 554, ante. 
[556]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 2>77- A notation on the tran- 
script says : " Without address or signature probably from James Lovell." There is 
no doubt whatever that the letter is from Lovell, and the fact that it was found among 
the Whipple papers, the reference to General Folsom, as well as other indications, 
point clearly to Whipple as the person to whom it was written. 



410 Conthicntal Congress 

from St. Clair. We had a line from Schuyler of the 9th. a scrawl with- 
out head or tail and an artful one of the 14th. rec'd this day.^ Busy as 
we are this matter must he searched to the hottom. A most uncommon 
composure has appeared in Jemmy Du — and his colleague D. Uncle 
Phil ' is at Camp with Geary and Clyman [Clymer] to try to patch the 
Commissary's department, as the issuers will have their own price and 
customs.* 

An attempt will he made to throw the whole fault in the Northern 
Department upon the New England States, whose Delegates ought to be 
furnished with the exact quota of our troops sent forward prior to the 
disaster."^ Genl. Folsom * arriving yesterday may possibly give a true 
history of your part 

By a letter from Col Brigr. Lee to day I have the hope of seeing him 
in August early.' We sent to get a full representation that we may if 
possible confederate. Har — n ® obstinately pushed to lay it aside in in- 
dulgence to his State's want of a vote at present. Page being gone home. 
I called a hornet's nest about my ears by soberly asserting that Schuyler 
was beloved by the Eastern States, especially by the Officers from thence, 
that he was the key to the Militia of Albany County, and that the Indians 
called him father. I asserted that I was told so six weeks ago by gentle- 
men of intelligence, veracity and honor. The ungrateful curs said I was 
satirizing and Middleton joined them ® 

557. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia, July 22d, 1777. 
Dear Sir: 

I waited some time for the intelligence from Ticonderoga which you 
will find in the inclosed paper, and I declined writing until I could give 

2 See the Journals, July 21. Letters from Schiu'ler to Washington, July 9 and 
14, are in Sparks, Letters to Washington, I. 395, 397. His " scrawl " of the Q]th was 
probably an extract of a letter to the New York council of safety, sent by the council 
to General Putnam and by him to Washington (Library of Congress, Washington 
Papers, XVL 296, 298, 299). Other letters pertaining to this affair are in Sparks, 
Letters to Washington, IL, appendix. Cf. no. 553, note 2, ante. St. Clair's letter of July 
14, together with the council of war, July 5. was printed in the Philadelphia papers: 
the Evening Post, July 22, the Packet, July 22, the Journal, July 23, and the Gasette, 
July 25. Cf. no. 574, post. See The Trial of Major-General St. Clair, reprinted in N. Y. 
Hist. Soc, Collections, 1880. 

3 James Duane, William Duer, and Philip Livingston, delegates from New York, 
who were supporters of Schuyler, as against the New England delegates, who were 
largely antagonistic to him. See no. 553, note 3, ante, no 5^, post. 

* See nos. 550, 554, ante. 

5 See nos. 557, 560A, 562A, 564-566, 568, post. 

^ Nathaniel Folsom, delegate from New Hampshire. He took his seat in Con- 
gress July 21. See no. 561, post. 

'' The reference is to Richard Henry Lee. He took his seat in Congress Aug. 12. 
See nos. 539, 547, ante; also no. 558, post. 

8 Benjamin Harrison of Virginia. Cf. no. 558, post. 

^ The allusion is doubtless to remarks made by the New York delegates in 
support of Schuyler during the debate concerning him in May. See nos. 502, 504, 511, 
515, ante. 

[SSlVN. C. State Rccs., XL 529. 



July, 1777 417 

you particulars, because I did not choose to put you on disagreeable 
speculation. Many of us have long- expected that Ticonderoga would be 
evacuated at the approach of an enemy, because we had no hopes of 
having a force there competent to its defense.* .... Mr. Harnett 
arrived here on Friday night last, but has not yet been able to go into 
Congress.^ I shall use the permission you are pleased to give me of 
returning home, as soon as I can do so without danger of injury to public 
service 

558. Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

PhiladelphiaJuly 22 1777 
My dear Sir 

Your very acceptable Letter of the 12th came to my hand yesterday. 
The Confederation is most certainly an important Object, and ought to 
be attended to and finishd speedily. I moved the other Day and urgd 
that it might then be brought on ; but your Colleague Colo H ^ opposed 
and prevented it, Virginia not being represented. It is put ofif till you 
shall arrive; you see therefore the Necessity of your hastening to 
Congress.' .... 

559. James Lovell to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia July 24th. 
Sir 

So long ago as Deer. 2d 1775 direction was given by Congress to the 
committee of secret correspondence to procure from Europe four good 
Engineers. This was not however accomplished till the 13th of last 
Febry, when the bearer the Chevalier du Portail, with Mr. La Radiere, 
Mr. Gouvion and one other Officer who is left sick in the West indies, 
was engaged by Doctor Franklin and Mr. Deane to come over to Amer- 
ica.^ I beg your Excellency to observe well that these are the only 
Officers, of any Species, who have been procured from abroad by express 
direction of Congress. And this I do, because I am about to furnish you 
with several circumstances peculiarly within my knowledge relative to a 

2 See no. 566, post. 

3 According to the Journals, Harnett took his seat the day on which this letter 
was written. Cf. Harnett to William Wilkinson, July 20 {N. C. State Recs., XI. 741), and 
to Governor Caswell, Aug. 11 (ibid., XI. 569). 

[558] 1 Writings (ed. Cashing), III. 389; Uniy. Va. Lib., Lee Papers; N. Y. Pub. Lib.. 
Samuel Adams Papers (draft) ; Lee, Richard Henry Lee, II. 122; Wells, Samuel Adams, 
II. 484 (dated July 12). 

2 Benjamin Harrison. Cf. no. 556, ante. 

3 It was resolved Aug. 16 (four days after Richard Henry Lee took his seat) 
to take up the Confederation the following Monday (Aug. 18), but, so far as the 
Journals indicate, the consideration of the Articles was not resumed until Oct. 7. 
See no. 528, ante, no. 588, post. The remainder of the letter is a discussion of the 
Ticonderoga affair, and a criticism of Schuyler. Cf. no. 553, atite, no. 568, post. 

[559] ^ Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XVII. 105; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), I. 408; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 366. 

2 Concerning these engineers, see no. 525, note 5, ante. Cf. nos. 561, 565, 576, 
581, 603, 632, post. See also a letter of Charles Thomson to Washington, July 21, in 
Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 406. 



41 S Cout'nicnfal Couqrcss 

point of equity well worthy of your Excellency's attention. The Corps of 
Enijfineers is very honorable in France; and officers from it are sought 
by ditTerent european Powers. These Gentlemen who are come over into 
our service made an agreement with our Commissioners to rise one 
degree from the rank they held at home, upon a supposition that the 
practice of luirope had been regarded here. But when they arrived, they 
found instances very dillereiit wth. respect to officers in all other corps. 
It was their mishap also to see a Major of artillery affecting to be exalted 
four ranks, as a Chief in his proper line and theirs also. They made a 
representation of these circumstances and appealed to the Equity of Con- 
gress. But, they had arrived at a time when the Infatuation of some 
here and the wild conduct of one abroad had rendered a Spirit of refor- 
mation absolutely necessary as to the point of rank. The ingenuous, 
however, must own that there is singular hardship in the case of these 
Gentlemen. The only officers ever sent for by us, procured by the real 
political Agents of Congress, coming out with the good wishes of the 
french Ministry, being of undoubted rank and ability in their Profession, 
find themselves in the Dilemma of becoming the first examples of our 
new reforming Spirit, or else of going home during a Campaign, which 
their high sense of honor w^ill not allow. But, tho' the Chevalier du 
Portail was not made a Brigadier, yet it appeared too gross to expose 
him to be directed in his peculiar line by such as w-ill readily acknowledge 
his pretensions by regular education and discipline to be greatly Superior 
to their own. His commission prevents this, and enables him so to dis- 
tribute, in work, the others who came with him, as to prevent them, who 
have been within a few^ months as long in service as himself, from being 
interfered with by such as never belonged to the royal corps of Engineers 
in France, or perhaps but a very short time to any other. Your Excel- 
lency cannot but wonder at the strange manner of wording the com- 
mission. I shall explain it with the greatest freedom. Mr. Du Coudray ^ 
being employed as a good artillery officer to examine the arsenals in 
France, to see \vhat cannon, etc. could be spared from them, acted with 
great Industry in that emplo3'ment and much seeming regard to america. 
In the course of his transactions betw^een the Ct. de St. Germain and Mr 
Deane, he was not blind to perceive that he might take occasion to serve 
himself. Besides being paid for his trouble and Expenses in France he 
procured an agreement from mr. Deane wxh. has already been shown 
to yr. Excellency, and has affected you, doubtless, with the same surprise 
and indignation which it has excited in others, almost w'ithout a single 
exception. I shall omit any remarks upon that treaty, or a long too- 
ingenious memorial presented to Congress with it, except such as are 

strictly connected with the occasion of this letter. Mr. Du C having 

created himself to the Command of Artillery and Engineers, persuaded 

3 In regard to Du Coudray, see nos. 501, 514, 525. 53i, 537, 539> 54i, 542, ante, 
and the Journals, passim. Cf. nos. 561, 565, 576, 581. 586, 632. 648, post. The contract 
between Deane and Du Coudray was repudiated by Congress, Sept. 8. Cf. the Journals, 
Aug. 13. See, further, letters of the committee of foreign affairs to the commissioners 
in Paris, Oct. 18, Dec. i, 1777, Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 412, 437. 



July, 1777 419 

Mr. Deane that it would be impossible to get any from the military corps 
of Engineers now called royal because their Demands would be so ex- 
orbitant ; and that it would be also unnecessary, because we ought not to 
build fortified Places in America to serve as secure Holds to our Enemy 
when once taken from us; and that therefore, a few Bridge and Caiise- 
zvay-makers would answer all the ends of military Engineers. Such he 
brought with him; who were quite ready to fall under the command of 
an artillery direction ; when not the lowest officer of the royal corps of 
Engineers would have submitted to such a novel pretension. It is need- 
less to enquire whether it be true that Mr. Deane acknowledged he had 
been surprised into his uncouth compact. It is sufficient that Doctr. 
Franklin made an after one, which Mr. Deane also signed. Is not this 
in fact tantamount to a disavowal of the first treaty so far as relates to 
the orders of Congress? For, if those orders were fulfilled by the first, 
why was a second treaty made ? The agents show that there had been a 
deception; or that there had not been any attempt to follow the instruc- 
tions of congress as to Engineers, in all the train attending Mr. Du 

C Another remark may not be impertinent here. As these four 

engineers showed their treaty to the Count de St. Germain, to whom they 
have also written from hence, it cannot be supposed that he would have 
permitted a Lt Colol. of the royal corps of Engineers and two old Majors 
of the same to come over hither, to be under the immediate command of 
a young Major of Artillery. It is not to be conceived. From whence, I 

conclude that Mr. Du C never let his exorbitant and whimsical 

treaty be known to that Minister of the War Department, who must have 
been shocked at the confusion of corps in the principles of the contract. 
Excuse me, dear General, I will not again wander from the point which 

I said I would explain. Mr. Du C has given full scope to his species 

of Ingenuity, here, as in the Neighbourhood of Mr. Deane. I have been 
told that he has said, if he could not be employed himself, he would bring 
it about that these others should not. This may be an absolute False- 
hood. But, I will own it comes the nearest of anything, which I can 
conceive of, to explain the delays which have taken place in regard to 
these Engineers, who ought to have been sent to your Excellency long 
ago. They have remained subject to the crucifying expences of this city, 
because their employment seemed to interfere wth. Mr. Du Coudray's 
Pretensions, tho' those very Pretensions had been rejected. Your Ex- 
cellency would doubtless smile, if you should ever hear, that even a num- 
ber of Peasants disputed 3 days about the difference between the conse- 
quences of a man's being Colonel in Chief, or First Colonel, or Colonel 
to take rank and Command of all heretofore appointed, or Colonel com- 
mandant of Engineers. Would not a Brigadier or Major General of 
Engineers alike annul the supremacy of the differently worded commis- 
sions? Or rather, do not the 4 different modes give like command? I 
shall pass from rank to pay. These Gentlemen not only far from the 
prophesied exorbitancy in demand of rank, never received one shilling 
in France as Gratification; tho' others who were not sent for received 



4 

large sums, and claim pay from their embarkation, and even pensions for 
life. But Doctr. Franklin, supposing^ it would be less trouble to himself 
and more agreeable to the Engineers to see to their own passages, stipu- 
lated their pay from the 13th. of Febry. As no Regulations have yet 
been made in regard to Cavalry or Engineers, these Gentlemen have 
received 5 months pay as Infantry; which will not refund the expenses 
of their voyage. I am really uneasy when I find manly honourable Inten- 
tions do not meet with at least equal emoluments with artful suspicious 
tricking contractors. If these Officers do not walk to camp, it is not 
because they were furnished by the Board of war with horses upon my 
application for them : And yet the nature of their Profession demands 
a provision of this Kind. Are they suddenly to reconnoitre a Camp, a 
River, a shoar, or a whole neighbouring country thro' which an army is 
to march, and to make the speediest return to the Generals, on foot? I 
trust your Excellency when asking for Engineers had ideas of something 
beyond what the sinister views of an ambitious foreigner has sought to 
inspire us with here ; which is forming a causeway, or cutting a ditch or 
planking a bridge. And I shall consequently rest satisfied that you will 
receive the Officers now presenting themselves to you, and secure to them 
such honors and emoluments as you shall find them to merit from their 
education and abilities exemplified under your command. 

No one has been more backward than I in desiring to see foreigners 
in our service, to the slight of my countrymen. And, except Engineers, 
I could not admit the thought of our wanting any military strangers 
other than one or two veteran Adjutants or Majors, wdio know our lan- 
guage well, and could serve as instructors-at-large to our spirited and 
well-attached young american Officers. 

I wish these Engineers could speak english better than they do; but 
they can receive orders and give them in english, and will speedily learn 
to speak. 

I hope your Excellency will not think amiss of the freedom I have 
taken at this time both as to the matter of my letter and the interruptive 
length of it. I do not write officially, as of the Committee on foreign 
Applications. In that capacity I have more than once communicated to 
you proceedings of Congress in a Style which might lead you to mis- 
conjecture my individual opinion. I write as a Friend to my Country 
and the Reputation of it's Congress its Army and its Agents abroad. 
I write as being well acquainted with your Excellency, or, in other words, 
as thinking I know you. In short, I write because I had determined it 
to be my DUTY so to write. That Path once determined, I never ask 
myself whether there may not be a Lion in the way. 

After the important kindnesses which your Excellency has done me, 
I so far forgive the late injury of your apologizing for a short answer 
WTitten by one of your hurried family, as not to revenge myself, by 
entreating you to excuse my rough unco pied sheets to a violent headache. 

Aliquando dormitat did not appear an unnatural charge against Homer 



July, 1777 421 

Nimium vigilat would have appeared so against Scipio or Marlbrough, 
and yet I am led by you to think they might have given provocation 
for it. 

With truest vows for your prosperity I am 

Your Excellency's 

Obliged Friend and humble Servant 

James Lovell. 

General Washington 

559A. Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates.^ 

July 24, 1777 

Report of the board of War 10 July ^ 

Mr Harrison for it. i. because it will injure the enemy in their trade, 
in their connexions with the indians. in their fame. 2. It will benefit the 
states by supplies gained from it. etc 3. it will be agreeable to the 
Spaniards. 

Mr Duane agst it i. Because we want men. 2. Money. 3. Cannot 
retain it, if we succeed. 

Mr. Biirk on the same side, addit. reason, too late to undertake it 
this ensuing fall and winter. 

Mr. Duer. for it. Answered the objections. 

Mr. Burk spoke again said nothing new. 

Mr. Wilson for it. points out more at large the advantages of under- 
taking it. Much to be gained ; tho' no attempts made agst Mobille and 
Pensacola. The importance of the settlements on Mississipi and of 
taking post at Messhack.' — what sort of men shd. be employed 2 reg^ 
and 400 militia. Great proba[bi]Hty of succeeding; no great ill conse- 
quences, because of safe retreat 

Mr. Clarke declares for it but wants farther time to consider. Men- 
tions the many objections agst it The danger of delaying, on account 
of the rapid encrease of inhabitants. 

Mr. Morris for it. States the force of the enemy at present not more 
than 300. requires little advances of money to procure provisions or 
military stores explains the nature of the country. Now is the time, 
danger of delay. 

1559a]^ Library of Congress. 

2 The report of the board of war had apparently been taken into consideration 
for the first time July 19, and resumed on the 24th. The report was based on a plan of 
George Morgan, June 6, 1776, submitted to General Arnold, together with a letter of 
Arnold, July 5, 1777, and a further memorandum of Morgan, July 6. (The report of 
the board of war and the other papers mentioned are in the Papers of the Continental 
Congress, no. 147, vol. I., flf. 251, 255. 259, 263.) The members of the board of war 
who were present July 10 (see the Journals, July 19, p. 567 n.) were John Adams, 
Benjamin Harrison, James Wilson, George Qymer, Samuel Adams, and William Duer. 
Of these all except John Adams and Qymer, from whom no remarks are quoted, appear 
in Thomson's Notes as advocating the expedition, as does also Robert Morris. The 
principal critic of the project was Henry Laurens, who gives a more explicit account of 
his part in the discussion in his letters to Mcintosh and Rutledge (nos. 584. 586, post). 
3 Presumably Fort Massac, near the mouth of the Tennessee River. 



4 

Mr. Duer spoke again another argiinit. this country may be made 
to contribute greatly to the expence of the War. 

Mr. Harrison spoke again enlarged on the reasons he first offered, 
obviated the objections 

Mr. Middlcton moved to put of[f] the determination 

Mr. Duanc seconded the motion to postpone and strengthend his first 
objection with this consideration that it cannot be undertaken without 
gold and silver. 

Question put carried to postpone till to Morrow.* 

559B. Cir.vRLEs Thomson, Notes of Debates.^ 

July 25, 1777 

Resumed the consideration of report 

Sergeant, desires to know whether the country thro wch the troops 
are to pass is healthy, till he knows this cannot give his voice 

Chase. Desires to know to whom the country will belong, if it suc- 
ceeds. Unless it is first determined that it is to belong to the United 
States generally, he will be agst. it. 

Middlcton. Against it. It will draw the attention of the enemy to 
the Southern States, and endanger them, particularly S. Carolina 

IVilliams. desires it may be postponed for a day or two till the 
enemy's intention is better known. 

Sergeant, against it. because he thinks there is great w*. in the 
observ. that it will turn the attention of the enemy agst the S. States 
he thinks we sho*^. oppose the enemy here. 

Duer. It will save the Southern States and divert the enemy from 
immediately attacking them. It will save X Y and the middle states 
from the incursions of Indians 

Laurens. 1000 or 1200 too few. Situation of the country much 
changed since 177 1 The banks of the Mis. lined with inhabitants, many 
of them enemies to these States. ]\Iany have gone and are going from 
the U S who are enemies and discontented. We cannot keep it a secret, 
thev will be ready to oppose our troops and there are sundry advan- 
tagious posts can be taken, where they and the regulars can oppose our 
passage. Besides two enemy s to oppose not mentiond. i. The Ague 
and fever 2. Choctaws. If we have troops to spare, They shd. be applied 
to defend Georgia, which is in a defenseless state and in wch they have 
m*^. inroads and carr'^ ofT ^ tken The plan not w^ell 

concerted. That part respecting frigates particularly, first we [have 
no]^ frig, if we hd [they]* cd. be betr. employd. i. force inadequate. 
2. The enemy [have]^ more strength than we can oppose w^th. 3. If w^e 

4 See no. SSQB. post. 

[559b]^ Library of Congress. . , , , ^ ., , . j. . 

2 Thomson uses here a speaes of shorthand or apher, apparently indicating 
numbers, but of which the translation has not been discovered. See notes 3, 4, 5, below. 

3 The cipher used here is : " V—." 

* The manuscript has here a diagonal stroke : " \ ". 

5 The manuscript has " V ", the same character translated *' have ", above. 



July, 1777 ^23 

had force to spare they cd. be better employed Has no objection to send 
person to N. O." thinks it would be proper and prudent. 

Burke, agst it We shd. bend our whole force agst the enemy's army. 
Exp. and prepara. will be great. We must set off wth full supplies of 
arms, amm. and provs. for 6 mo. We cannot depend on the inhab. on 
the banks for provs. They have none to spare. They do not raise prov. 
(here Mr Morris beg leave to set him right in that matter, he has 
imported from thence cargoes of rice and exported from thence to the 
W. I. cargoes of indian corn.) B. continues this informa. does not 
satisfy him that they have now provisions to spare. But if they had 
we have not money to purchase it. Impracticable to keep poss. of the 
river Ought to be given up, because disagreeable to Southern States, 
who will not suffer that count [r]y to be poss*^. by Spain as it is necessary 
for their own safety. 

Harrison. Answers the objection abt. it being divulged. The fever 
and Ague. All accts agree the country on the Miss, healthy tho' Mobille 
unhealthy. Ind. cant become enemies by our going down. Want of 
money answered. Obj. abt frig and georg. answd. 

Wilson. Draws an argumt. for undertaking it Nozv from the obj. 
that a number have gone and are going to settle there who are enemies 
or discontented with the governments of these states. We shd. get poss : 
of that country to prevent such from fix^ themselves where they will 
undoubtedly be dangerous and troublesome even tho we shd. defeat the 
enemy here. The gain^ poss. will open a new trade, wch. the poss. of 
Aug.'^ will not and this can be secured tho Pensac. or Mob.* are not 
attacked. As it must sometime be undertaken as it can never be undertn. 
at any fuf time with a greatr. probab^ of success than the present, he 
is for the present exp. 

Burke. The Argumt. of encrease of settlers not of w'. because they 
are freemen not slaves and however they may differ in sentim*^. they 
retain and their pos'^ will in a higher degree retain a love of it. And 
hopes for a Union wth. the inhab. wch. will be better than a conquest. 

Moved to postpone carried to postpone.® 

560. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais.^ 

Philadelphia 25 July 1777. 
Dear Sir 

.... I should have excepted of Public Intelligence that our Fleet of 
Xebeques and Galleys lie ready in the River for a concerted Expedition 
below, upon which they wd. have sail'd before this time but for an im- 
proper Demand of Increase of Wages made by the Lieutenants 12 in 
number, the Congress ordered them immediately to be dismiss'd the 

^ New Orleans. 
"> St. Augustine. 
8 Pensacola or Mobile. 

^ The expedition conducted by James Willing in the beginning of 1778 was prob- 
ably a revision of this project. See no. 749A, post. 

[560]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Jan., 1776-Mar., 1778, p. 109. 

32 



42-i Continental Congress 

Service under a Resolution rend[er]inp: them incapable of serving in any 
of the States in any Capacity civil or Military, this Resolution produced 
humble Petitions from the whole, they arc now reinstated and I suppose 
Business will go forward ai^ain.* a Combination of Surgeons in the 
Fleet treated in the same manner.^ 

56o.\. Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates.* 

July 26, 1777 

Mr. Sergleauf].- move to send G. G. to Comd. in the North" departmt. 
Seconded by Mr. Rob. — u Reasons adduced. G. S. is unpopular Milit. 
have not confid in him.^ G — popular and 

Harrison thinks this is delicate gv°. Our Affrs. critical. However 
unpop. S. may be elsewhere, always understood he was very pop. in his 
own Country remove him, you disoblige that whole country and risque 
the entire loss of it. Has no objectn. to an inquiry into the cond. of 
Sincl — * who lost Ti. if S is on enquiry found involved, has no objec- 
tion. But why remove one off. because another behavd. amiss or is 
unfortunate 

6". Adams, in favr. of motn. with an amendmt. and for the reasns. 
adducd. knows G. is pop. in East". St. C. M. [?y thinks he is pop. in 
N Y. grnds blf on adrss of Cnvn of N. Y.^ 

Chase, agst it. Ti. lost not thro fault of gnrls, but for wnt men. 
En's 7000 Sin but 2000 ^ — not suff. to dfnd post, these not well armd. 
It wl. disgr officers wnth* just found.® disgr. Congr, who lately sent 
Sch to that commd. 

Wilson, seconds mot. for inqy. opposes the other from motiv policy 
justice and publ utility. To arg. unpop. A man miay be unpop because 
virt. 

Serg{eant']. supports his mot. spoke long — ansr arg. agst pop those 
drawn from justice policy delicacy, paints the prest. situa. adduced G 
Sch's letters in proof. A change cant hrt. it may do good. 

Dyer. All not qualfd. for all posts, thinks Sch. endowed of m^ val 
quals.® but not distingd. for mility. abilities, he has not talents for 

2 See the Journals, May 15, July 23, 24, 28. The letter was evidently not finished 
until after the action of Congress on the 28th. 

3 A memorial from the surgeons of the vessels in Philadelphia was presented to 
Congress May 15, and referred to the marine committee. No further record is found 
in the Journals, unless the action of July 16 relates to this memorial. 

[56oA]i Library of Congress. 

2 Here, and also below, Thomson abbreviates the name to " Serg ". Roberdeau 
is uniformly " Rob. — u " ; Samuel Adams is set down, below, as " S. Adms " ; John 
Adams appears once (in no. 562A, post^ as " J. Ad " ; Schuyler usually appears as " Sch " 
(sometimes as "S"); and St. Clair is "Sincl" or "Sin". " G. G." in the first para- 
graph is General Gates, and " G. S." is General Schuyler. 

3 Militia have not confidence in him. 

* Conduct of St. Clair, who lost Ticonderoga. 

5 Probably for Connecticut and Massachusetts : that is, Gates is popular in 
the Eastern States, especially in Connecticut and Massachusetts. 
8 Grounds belief on address of convention of New York. 
''Enemy's [forces] 7000, St. Qair's but 2000. 
s It will disgrace officers without just foundation, 
s Many valuable qualities. 



July, 1777 425 

governg. an army and therefore unpop. It is no crime not to have 
talents. It is no supposit. of a crime to remove one who is unfortunate, 
or unqualified, Pitt recalled many officers last war with* impeaching 
them The quitting Ti. unpop. Smallness of gar", and numb, of En^ 
not a suff justific. in opin". of people. Abercromby [with]" 16000 was 
defeated at same place by 3000. But suppose abil and integry. and admit 
a genl unfortun. it wd. be proper to change him, 

Burke, thot. this inconsid. motn. wd. not have been deemd worthy 
debate. Ev^ membr. must kno the Genls have been guilty of no fault. It is 
fruitless to debate it farther. A majority of the house must see the impro- 
priety of it and that no good and much ill must arise from it and there- 
fore desires the question. 

Folsom. 3 regemts. from N. H, well armed declares that from his 
knowledge and he had great opport. to know Sch is not pop. with either 
off. or soldiers who served last year; nay w' is worse, he hopes with* 
good grnds, they have not confidence in him 

Williams, confirms the want of Sch pop. in Conn. : mentions the joy 
of the people on Gates appmt. their apprehensions when Sch came to 
Cong, their grief when replaced. 

Marchant. This Congr. depends upon the genl. Opin. of the people 
without attending to this we cannot support this cause. Has a gr*. Opin 
of the Judgmt. of the people, it is genly. pure, uncorrupt and well 
founded. Sch unpop in his State and the Neighbg. states This Opin. 
not lately taken upon. Strongly rivetted ever since last war. MiP. will 
not serve under him. The En^ can only be opposed by the East : Mil. 
hence the necessity of recallg. him and placing at the head of the North", 
a man in w"' that Mili^. can have confid. 

Lovel. is for 

Duer. An army of the en^ o Ind." at Oswego the frontier of Tryon 
from whence great part of the mil. come Ti an important frontr. on the 
other side given up. Three counties [have] revolted. ^^ A weak army ill 
provided ill disciplined to defend him. A well appointed victorious arm[y] 
entered the State, under these circumstances can it be supposed the 
Mil, wd. turn out. It is therefore owing to circumstances not to want of 
inf or popy in Sch.^^ With regrd to Indns. it is well known success influ- 
ences them. 

Burke, went into the conduct of Sch and G to each other and of 
Cong, towrds. them, has no objectn. to inquiry but to recalling them. 

Clarke, for the motion with a small amendment. 

/. Adams, gave an accot. of the difif. in the North", depart, and the 
steps taken to heal those difif: but without effect. As to his unpopu — 
knows it to be great in the eastern States : thinks he is not so popular " 
as represented even in his own State A late instance proves, when 

i"The cipher here is "o"; similarly, in the remarks of Duer, below. 

11 Enemy with Indians. 

12 Here, and in the remarks of J. Adams, below, the cipher " V " is used. 

13 Influence or popularity in Schuyler. 

1* The word " great " is erased and " popular " substituted. 



4 

another carried an election agst." notwithstanding all the pains Cong 
[have] tken by res. to splice iiis chrctr. The evil genius of N. D/" 

Motion made and seconded to postpone. Question put. carried in the 
affirmative." 

561. Nathaniel Folsom to the President of New Hampshire.^ 

Philadelphia July 26tli. 1777 
Sir 

I arrived here in good Health the 20th. being stopt two days on the 
Road by foul wather : I Performed the journey in 12 Days, on my 
joining the Congress I found them worried with Petitions from a grate 
Numl)er of French gentlemen for commissions to serve in our army to 
be made generals and none less then Colonels and that our agents in 
france and general Washington in the camp were not less troubled with 
them.^ 

The first oppurtunity we had we presented the Petition of Mr. Phill- 
brook ' and that of our State to the Consideration of Congress which was 
referred to the treasury board and this morning we are to have a hearing 
before them. By what we Can learn from the members and the ex- 
hausted state of the Treasury, at this Time we despair of success on the 
Petition of the State, tho it seems to be the wish of Congress that the same 
thing which is asked by us might be done with each of the thirteen United 
States. However if we should fail now we shall embrace the first favour- 
able oppurtunity to try them again and do every thing in our Power to 
accomplish so desirable an end. I am not without hopes of obtaining a 
grant for Mr. Phillbrook as at Present I have heard no objection to it. 

The Loss of Ticonderoga considerably alarmed Congress as they were 
informed but a Little Time before by General St. Clair that it wase in a 
good state of defence an Enquiry into that affair is thought necessary.* 
By Intelligence from ouer guards near New York we learn that Lord and 
General Howe sailed from that place with the most of the army on 
wensday the 23d. Inst : it is generaly thought fore some part of New 
England 

I am Sir 

with the greatest Respect 

Yr. most obedt. huml. Servent 

Nathl. Folsom 
Honl. Meshek Wear Esqr. 

15 First written : " when he was outvoted ". If this means that Schuyler was 
defeated in the election of delegates to Congress it is an error. Schuyler was re-elected 
by the convention of New York May 13 (see the credentials, in the Journals, May 29). 

16 Northern Department. 

1^ See no. 562A, post. There is no intimation in the Journals of the discussion, 
July 26 and 28, of the question of replacing Schuyler with Gates ; but letters of New 
England delegates (see nos. 553-556, ante) had already suggested that they were laying 
plans to this end. See also no. 561, post. 

[561]! Me. Hist. Soc, Revolution, no. 2; N. H. State Papers, VIII. 647. 
2 See the Journals, July 21 ; also no. 559. ante. 
^ Joseph Philbrick. See the Journals, July 24. 
* See no. 560A, ante, and no. 562A, post. 



July, 7777 427 

562. Samuel Adams to Paul Revere.* 

Philade July 28 1777 
My dear Sir 

I receive! your favor of the 26th of June and also one from Colo Crafts ^ 
of the same Date. I wrote to him by the Return of the Post and desired 
him to communicate the Contents to you. I conversd with Mr. J. A ' upon 
the Subject of your Letter, and we venturd, both of us, to step out of the 
Line of strict order in a Debate in Congress the other day, to bring your 
Regiment of Artillery into View. It occasiond a Conversation in the 
House in which we had a Opportunity of acquainting the Members of the 
long Standing of that Regiment and the Seniority of its Officers. But 
still it was considerd as a Regiment raisd by a State and not by the Con- 
tinent. And though we caused the Merit of it to be well understood and 
it was acknowledgd in the House, the Difficulty of altering the Regulation 
you refer to appeard so evidently in the Minds of the Gentlemen, that we 
waved making any Motion at tjiat time, because we apprehended that the 
Issue would be unfavorable. Indeed I am of Opinion that Congress will 
not be induced to make the Alteration you wish for, until it shall become 
a Continental Regiment. In that Case, I am apt to think there would be 
no Difficulty with Regard to the Seniority of other Regiments which have 
been raisd since, over yours. But till that is done, it is feared that an 
Alteration in this Instance would cause Discontent in other States, where 
it is said there are Instances similar. A Regiment of Artillery raisd in this 
State under Command of Colo Procter * was lately taken into Continental 
Service and the Commissions were dated at the time they were raisd. It 
was upon this Occasion that Colo Crafts Regiment was mentiond ; and I 
suppose that Regiment wd be admitted on the same terms. But I think 
I foresee an insuperable Obstacle in that Case. If any thing can be done 
consistently with the general Service, to show Honor, but especially to 
do Justice to the Regiment of Artillery in Boston, I shall not fail to push 
it as far as I may have Influence 

562A. Charles Thomson, Notes of Debates.^ 

[July 28, 1777.] 
Monday question resumed.^ 

Duane. Before this question is decided, all the reso. of Con. the lettrs. 
from the Genls. should be read Light wanted. A fault some where, 
enqy shd. be made to see whether pt. of the fault is not here. Before any 
censure is passed on the genls it sho^ be preceded by a res. that Con have 
done everything that ou* to be done. This an unusual attack more alarm^ 
as formed by a combination of 4 States. Apprehends arises from resentmt 
or private views 

[562]! Writings (ed. Gushing), III. 393; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samnel Adams Papers. 

2 Thomas Crafts, colonel of the regiment of which Paul Revere was lieutenant- 
colonel. See E. H. Goss, Life of Paul Revere, I. 278-282. 

3 John Adams. 

* Gol. Thomas Proctor. See the Journals, June 20, July 14, 15, 19. 
[562 A] 1 Library of Gongress. 
2 See no. 560A, ante. 



4 

J. Ad[ams.'] set menib. ri' with respect to combination. The 4 St. 
did not move it and he moved an amt. 

Rob[cr(iea]u disclaimed combination, laments divisions. Has no view 
to injure any character. But thinks it necessary to recal the 2 off.' but 
is willing it be done in tiie easiest man' and most agreeable to them and 
th' frds. 

Williams, disclaimed combinations, believes the assertions of member 
from N. Y. that he is not influenced by resentmt or partial, private 
motives, and thinks he slid, give like credit to others, declares he has no 
resentmt no private views. Acknowledge 4 States have not conf.* thinks 
regard slid, be paid to their joint desire of a change in the off[icers]. 

Gerry, has not heard the argumts. but thinks it proper. Everything 
in disorder. Can only be put right by change Gates has shewn w* he can 
do. Collected shattered remains of army last year under every dis- 
advantg. reduced it to order, repulsed the enemy. 

Wilson. Against the motion Thinks it unjust, acknowledges fault 
somewhere. The Genls. part. Sch. not to blame, fault in East. S.' 
Attack of Quebec begin^ of misf. owing to the troops refusing to continue 
after time expired This common to troops of all the states The sending 
3 reg. from Cambridge opposed by Del. from East states and troops 
ordered not sent forward in time hence misfort. continued. The levies 
for this camp", not raised in time nor properly armed cause of present 
misf. The want of pop: an ill timed object, agst Sch. sho"^ have been 
urged before he was last sent up. 

Sergeant, provoked at being accused of combin^. scorns the charge. 
Speaks and acts his own sentim*^ reit. his object, ag. Sch.° enumerates 
complnts agst. him is interrupted by Duer, on mentiong Sch's keeping a 
store of goods at Alb'', proceeds repeats w* he has heard thinks it 
propr. these Accusa. whethe[r] true or false shd. be known. The Opin** 
of off. and sol. respectg his abil. as genl. The Genl. Answr. Good Qr. 
Mr. etc' 

postponed till to morrow, 
[/w/y ^p] Question resumed/ 

563. William Duer to Philip Schuyler.^ 

[Philadelphia] 29th. July 1777. 
My dear Friend: 

I have experienced extreme uneasiness in not hearing from you since 
the loss of Ticonderoga, and hardly know^ how to account for your silence. 

3 Officers ; that is, Schuyler and St. Clair. 

* Confidence. 

5 Eastern States. 

8 Reiterates his objections against Schuyler. 

7 The meaning is, that inquiry of officers and soldiers for their opinions respect- 
ing the ability of Schuyler as a general brings the general answer that he is a good 
quartermaster. , r ., j 

8 If there was a similar discussion of the question on July 29, Thomson failed 
to record it. The Journals merely show that the inquiry was ordered. See nos. 563-566, 

568-572. 574, 579. 580, post. , ^ „ ^ , , x^ , s 

[563]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Schuyler Papers, no. 355 (copy). 



July, lyyy 429 

Your enemies in this quarter are leaving no means unessayed to blast your 
character, and impute to your appointment in that Department, a loss 
which, when rightly investigated can be imputed to very different causes. 
The friends to truth find an extreme difficulty to stem the torrent of 
calumny. 

Be not surprised if you should be desired to attend Congress to give an 
account of the loss of Ticonderoga.'^ .... 

564. The New York Delegates to the New York Council of 

Safety.^ 

Philad. 29th. July 1777 
Honour". Gentlemen 

We have the Honour of your favour of the 17th. Instant with the 
several Enclosures, to which we shall pay all due attention.^ 

We had flatterd ourselves that having happily accomplished the various 
matters given us in Charge by our late honourable Convention, our 
Anxiety relating to our own internal affairs woud have been for some time 
at least relievd. But the misfortunes in the northern Department, and the 
fresh attack which is made upon General Schuyler in consequence of them, 
renew our Difficulties. The Eastern States openly affirm that their Troops 
have no Confidence in General Schuyler and assign this as the Reason that 
they have not marched to his Assistance. They therefore insist that he 
as well as Genl St. Clair shall be recalled and General Gates again ap- 
pointed to the Command : or that Congress must Take upon themselves 
all the Consequences which may attend a Refusal of this Proposition. 
You see Gentlemen the Delicacy of our Situation. If the Eastern Dele- 
gates carry their point the world is left to conclude not only that General 
Schuyler is unworthy of the Command; but that if the late change had 
not taken place, Ticonderoga, by the abilities of Genl Gates, might still 
have been preserved. In what Light your Delegates and the State by 
whose Authority they interposd, will be represented, on this View of the 
Case, is sufficiently obvious. But supposing General Schuyler, after this 
warm application for his Removal, should be continud in the Command ; 
and the Eastern States be backward in supplying their Militia; and the 
Calamities of the Country in that Quarter encrease, Woud there, under 
these Circumstances, be any End to Clamour and Reproach ? ^ 

It is not easy to determine the Line of Conduct we ought to pursue 
especially as we cannot be assisted by your advice, nor strengthend by 
your authority. 

2 See the Journals, July 29, 30, August i, 3, 4. Cf. nos. 553, 555, 556, s6oa, 561, 
562A, ante, 564, 565, 566, 568-572, 574, 578, post. 

[564]! N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, XI. 289 (in Duane's writing) ; ibid., 
Minutes of the Council of Safety, IX. 711 (copy) ; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 1033, 
II. 500. 

2 Probably the letter spread on the minutes of the council of safety July 18 
{Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 1003). A letter to President Hancock is found in the 
minutes of the same day. It was this letter, doubtless, that was read in Congress July 28. 

8 Cf. no. 556, 560A, 561, 562A, 563, ante. 



4 

We shall take the first opportunity to inform you of the Event : * And 
in the mean time assure you that we are most respectfully 

Honour" Gentlemen 

Your most Obedient humble Servants 

Phil. Livingston 
Jas. Duane 
Wm. Duer 

Honour' Council of Safety for the State of New York 

565. James Lovell to William Whipple/ 

July 29th. 1777 
My Dear Sir, 

.... Your ideas about Ticonderoga you will find by my letters of last 
Tuesday ^ are similar to those which we had here. But will you believe 
that the same obstinacy which withstood the sending Schuyler to Head 
Quarters in the Jersies 7 weeks ago, now also withstands calling him 
hither * to give an account of our affairs in the Northern Department 
and of the causes of the relinquishment of Independence, to say nothing 
of the Western part. He writes that the Tories will all join Burgoyne 
and the timid Whigs and Six Nations of Indians and that the Eastern 
Militia will not stay with him ; yet we are not to send a more fighting 
popular General in his place. Just such contradictory letters as you and 
your brother mention, we received here. If the Eastern States do not 
muster all possible proofs that they have done as well at least as others, a 
number in Congress with the Northern Council of War and Schuyler, and 
more than one in the Jersies, will cry out " New England alone is to 
blame " * 

In addition to the perplexities wdiich I have before mentioned to you 
about French Treaties made by Deane we have a fresh quantity from the 
arrival of 2 Majors General two Brigadiers, 2 Lt. Cols. 2 Majors, 3 Cap- 
tains and two Lts. created and ranked 7th. Nov last and ist. of Deer, to 
whom have been advanced 16,000 livs. ^ gratuity and half pay." Ought 

* See the Journals, July 29, 30, Aug. i. 3, and nos. 565. 566, 568-572, 578, post. 
[565] 1 Library- of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 383; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft 
Coll., Langdon-Ehvyn Papers (copy of part). 

2 Tuesday was the 22d, but probably the letter of July 21 (no. 556, ante) is 
meant. The plural " letters " may be an error of the Force copyist. 

3 It would appear from this statement that the programme of the New England 
delegates was first to have Schuyler called to Philadelphia, but was afterward changed 
to have him sent to headquarters. Cf. no. 571, post. 

4 Cf. nos. 556, 560A, 562A, 564, ante, and 566, 568-572, 578, post. 

5 The reference is evidently to the group of French officers who came over with 
Lafayette, although the category here set down does not altogether accord with the 
lists in the Deane contracts. Dec. i and 7, 1776. See Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IL 
218-221 ; Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., IIL 1089-1091 ; Kapp, Life of Kalb, pp. 296-297. 
Lafayette as well as Kalb is given the rank of major-general in the last-mentioned agree- 
ment. There are no brigadiers in either list. 

Lafayette's party landed near Georgetown, South Carolina, June 13, and arrived in 
Philadelphia July 27. See Kapp, Life of Kalb, pp. 108-113; Tower, Lafayette in the 
Revolution, I. 171 et seq.; Lafayette, Memoires, Correspondance, et Manuscriis (Brus- 
sels, 1837), L 14, 15, 40, 42. See also Rutledge to Caswell, June 25, 1777, in N. C. State 



July, 1777 431 

not this weak or roguish man to be recalled ; if as a corresponding Agent 
he did thus, what will not he think himself entitled to do as a Commis- 
sioner !".... 

566. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina/ 

Philadelphia, July 30th, 1777. 
Dr. Sir: 

.... No new accounts have arrived from the Northern Department 
since my last. Our affairs there give us great uneasiness. The loss was 

Records, XI. 502. Sparks, who probably obtained the facts from Lafayette himself, 
gives the following account of Lafayette's application to Congress : 

" When Lafayette arrived in Philadelphia he put his letters into the hands of Mr. 
Lovell, Chairman of the Committee of Foreign Affairs. He called the next day at the 
Hall of Congress, and Mr. Lovell came out to him and said, that so many foreigners 
had offered themselves for employment, that Congress was embarrassed with their 
applications, and he was sorry to inform him there was very little hope of his success. 
Lafayette suspected his papers had not been read, and he immediately sat down and 
wrote a note to the President of Congress, in which he desired to be permitted to serve 
in the American army on two conditions ; first, that he should receive no pay ; secondly, 
that he should act as a volunteer. These terms were so different from those demanded 
by other foreigners, and presented so few obstacles on the ground of an interference 
with American officers, that they were at once accepted. His rank, zeal, perseverance, 
and disinterestedness overcame every objection, and he was appointed a major-general 
in the American army more than a month before he had reached the age of twenty." 
Writings of Washington, V. 454 (Appendix L). See the Journals, July 31; also no. 
603, post. 

The Chevalier Du Buyssons, one of the officers of Lafayette's party, gives in his 
journal the following account of the matter: 

" We arrived on the 27th of July, in the morning. After having brushed ourselves up 
a little, we went to see the President of Congress, to whom we presented our letters 
of recommendation and also our contracts. He sent us to see M. Moose [Morris ? ], 
a member of the Congress, who made an appointment to meet us on the following 
day at the door of the Congress; and in the mean time our papers were read and 
examined. The next day we were punctual in keeping our appointment, but we were 
made to wait a long time. Finally M. Moose appeared, with another member, and said 
to us, ' This gentleman speaks French very well, and he is intrusted with the matters 
that concern people of your nationality; hereafter your communications will all be with 

him.' He then went in, and the other member, M. [Mr. Lovell], talked with us 

in the street, where he left us, after having treated us, in excellent French, like a set 
of adventurers. He ended his speech by saying, ' Gentlemen, have you any authority 
from Mr. Deane ? We authorized him to send us four French engineers ; but, instead 
of that, he has sent us Mr. du Coudray and some men who pretend to be engineers but 
are not, and some artillerists who have never seen service. We then instructed Mr. 
Franklin to send us four engineers, and they have come. It seems the French officers 
have a great fancy to enter our service without being invited. It is true we were in 
need of officers last year, but now we have experienced men and plenty of them.' 

" This was our first reception by the Congress, and we did not know what to think 
of it; indeed, it would be impossible for any one to be more stupefied than we were. 
Would it have been possible for M. de La Fayette, M. de Kalb, and M. de Mauroy, 
followed by ten officers recommended as we had been, and secretly approved, if not 
openly avowed, by the Government of France, to expect such a reception as this? 

" We determined to wait and to discover the cause of this affront, if possible, before 
making any complaint. We attributed it, and rightly, to the misconduct of certain of 
our compatriots who had preceded us ; for we soon heard of the bad behavior of several 
of them, and the discredit which their actions had thrown upon letters of recommenda- 
tion brought by them from our colonies, and we discovered that certain other things 
also had had an influence in this connection." Tower, Lafayette in the Revolution, 
179-180; Doniol, Histoire de la Participation de la France a l'£tablissetnent des £tats- 
Unis dAmerique, III. 215 et seq. 

^ See the motions for Deane's recall, in a foot-note to the Journals (ed. Ford), 
under Aug. 5 (p. 605). It was not however until Nov. 21 that Congress resolved upon 
the recall. See the Journals, and no. 753, post. 

[566]! ^■. C. State Recs., XI. 549- 



4 

certainly occasioned by the want of suflicicnt well appointed force, and as 
the Eastern States were to supply the Troops for that station, they are 
very solicitious that it should be thought the fault of the officers, who in 
reality could not have done more than they did with the force in their 
hands. They are unwilling that it should l3e thought they have not the 
force they have always pretended to ; and altho' it must be and is admitted 
they have exerted themselves as much as any State, yet they are very 
unwilling to admit that any of our misfortune has happened through a 
weakness which they only share in common with the rest. The result I 
suppose will be, that the officers must be unjustly disgraced.* Upon the 
whole of our affairs, they bear rather a promising aspect, and could we, 
by general taxing, or any other means, establish the credit of our money, 
every campaign would give us more command of the war. I shall not 
trouble you, Sir, with any more at present. I have the honor to be with 
the greatest respect and esteem, 

Your obt. Ser't, 
Thos. Burke 

Governor Caswell. 



567. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 

Maryland Assembly.^ 

Philadelphia July 31st. 1777. 
Getttlemen 

The Congress have this day receiv'd intelligence that the fleet of the 
enemy, consisting of two hundred and twenty-eight sail have arrived at 
the offing in the capes of Delaware and are standing in for the bay with a 
fair wind. No doubt therefore can remain that the city of Philadelphia 
is the object of their destination and attack. 

Upon this occasion their is no necessity of using arguments to animate 
you. it is sufficient to mention the importance of this city to all America, 
and that the preservation of it will be attended with the most extensive 
consequences in favour of our country. I must therefore most ardently 
entreat you to call out your militia with the utmost expedition, that they 
may be in readiness to repel any invasion of your state, or to assist in the 
defence of the state of Pennsylvania which is immediately threatened with 
an attack from the enemy. I beg leave to request your attention to the 
enclosed resolve of Congress on the subject, and your compliance with it.* 

2 See nos. 556, 557, 564, 565, ante, 568-572, 578, post. 
[567]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VI. 30; Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, 
VI. 239 (to Del., N. J., and Md.) ; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, 
pt. II., p. 235. 

2 See the Journals, July 30, 31. A despatch from Henry Fisher, July 30, to the 
state navy board of Pennsylvania, announcing the appearance of the fleet, is in Pa. Arch., 
first ser., V. 465; cf. ibid., V. 402. 458, 462, 467, 468. 471-475- 480, 482. See also 
Arch, of Md., XVI. 322. 324; also nos. 578, 587, post. Relative to the resolve of Con- 
gress recommending to the Pennsylvania authorities that proprietary officers be arrested, 
see Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 478-480, 484, 489, 490, 502, 503, 512. Cf. no. 586, notes 
ID, 13, post. 



July, 7/77 433 

568. Samuel Adams to James Warren.* 

Philadelphia, July 31, 1777 
My dear Sir, 

It is a long time since I had the Pleasure of a Letter from you. I have 
not heard your opinion of the Evacuation of T[i]conderoga.^ You are 
doubtless as much chagrind as I am. It is ascribd to different Causes. 
Congress is determind that the true Reasons shall be enquired into, and 
the Conduct of the General officers. Schuyler's Friends are endeavoring 
to clear him from all Blame, because, say they, he was not there. This is 
true. And as it was well known he had never been used to keep his own 
Person near his Army, perhaps it may be pertinently asked, Why he was 
pitched upon to take the Command.^ Your Delegates, I can assure you, 
were utterly against it. And, notwithstanding it was publishd in one of 
the Boston News papers, said to be warranted by a Letter from this City, 
that General Schuyler had the entire Confidence of Congress, there were 
five only of eleven States present, in favor of it. The Paper I think was 
of the 5th of June.* I wish I could know who gave the Letter to the 
Printer. In order, I suppose, to give Credit to that Letter, there was 
another Publication in the Papers here, informing the World, that when 
he set off for the Northern Department, he was accompanied by the Pres- 
ident and other Members of Congress, which I take for granted is true.^ 
These are trifling political Manuvres similar to those which we have 
formerly seen practicd in the Massachusetts Bay, when a Prop was wanted 
for a sinking Character. You may think them not worth your Notice ; 
Excuse my troubling you with them. Cunning Politicians often make 
use of the Names of Persons, and sometimes of the Persons themselves, 
who have not the least Suspicion of it, to serve their own designs. When 
I mentiond five out of Eleven I should have explaind my self. There were 
five States for the Measure, four against it and two divided. Had not the 
State of Rhode Island been at that Juncture accidentally unrepresented, 
there would have been an equal Division, and the Measure would have 
been prevented." The most important Events may sometimes depend upon 
small Circumstances. Some Gentlemen of the State of N. Y. are exceed- 
ingly attachd to G. Schuyler. They represent him as Instar Omnium in 

[568]'^ Warren-Adams Letters, I. 344; Writings (ed. Gushing), III. 395. 

2 See his letter to Warren, July 22, in Warren-Adams Letters, I. J43; also 
Warren's letters to John Adams, July 10, 11, Aug. 10, ibid., I. 340, 342, 347. 

8 See the Journals, May 15, 22; cf. no. 553, ante. 

* In the Independent Chronicle (Boston), June 12, 1777, is found the following 
" Extract of a Letter from Philadelphia, May 27 " : " General Schuyler will return to 
the Northern Department, possessed of the full Gonfidence of Congress, his Conduct has 
been fully enquired into, and the Congress have given very honorable Proofs of their 
good opinion of him." Cf. nos. 560A, 562A, ante. 

5 " On Wednesday last the Hon. Major General Schuyler left this city to repair 
to his command in the Northern department. The President and several Members of 
Congress accompanied him some miles out of town." Pennsylvania Evening Post, 
May 31, 1777. Wednesday was the 28th. See no. 504, note 3, ante. 

6 The vote of May 22 in Schuyler's favor is mentioned by Lovell, in a letter of 
that date to Gen. Gates (no. 502, ante), as " 5 to 4 and 2 divided". Cf. no. 515, ante, 
nos. 574, 58s, post. Concerning that controversy, see nos. 453, 461, 472, 483, 495, 502, 
511, 515, 517-520, ante. 



4 

the Northern Department. After all that has been said, I conceive of him, 
as I have for a lunj^ time, excellently well qualified for a Commissary or 
(Juartermaster, Tlie N. E. Delei^ates were (perhaps one excepted) to a 
Man against his having the Command of that Army. But of this I will 
write particularly in another Letter. 

I am not willing to prejudge, but I must say, it is difficult to reconcile 
the sudden Evacuation of Ty. with the previous flattering Letters of 
General St. Clare. In one of his Letters written but a few days before he 
says " My People are in the best Disposition possible and I have no Doubt 
about giving a good Account of the Enemy if they shall think proper to 
attack us." ^ He has been esteemed here a good officer and in his Letter 
he bespeaks the Candor of the Publick till he can be heard. Pains will be 
taken to lay the Blame upon the N. E. States, for not furnishing their 
Quota of Men. I wish therefore you would procure for me an authentick 
Account of the Number of Men, both regular and Militia sent to the 
Northward from our State, and how they were cloathd and armd. You 
may remember that Congress recommended to the Eastern States, some 
time I think in December last, to send a Reinforcement of Militia to 
Ticonderoga, to remain there till they could be replacd by Continental 
Troops then raising.^ I have never been informd of the Effect of that 
Recommendation — or if I have I do not recollect it. Pray put it in our 
Power to state Facts precisely as far as they regard our State. It is 
agreed on all Sides that a Fault lies some where. I hope the Truth will be 
thoroughly investigated, and to use the homely Proverb, the Saddle laid 
on the right Horse.® .... 

569. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Dear Sir, 

.... Congress have orderd that an Enquiry be made into the Reasons 
of the Evacuation of Tyconderoga and Mount Independence and into the 
Conduct of the General officers who were in the Northn. Departmt. at 
the time of the Evacuation.^ .... 

It appears to me difficult to account for the Evacuation of those Posts 
even upon the Principle of Cowardice. The whole Conduct seems to carry 

' St. Qair's letters to Schuyler, June 25, July 8, are in Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), II. 510, 513. 

8 Cf. nos. 556, 564, 565, 566, afite. The resolution referred to is in the Journals, 
Dec. 24, 1776. See also the resolves of Apr. 29, 1777. 

9 See the Journals, July 29, 30, Aug. i, 3, 4; also nos. 569-572, 574. 578-580, 585, 
587, 597. 598, 609, 611, post. Cf. no. 553, note 3, ante. In the Pennsylvania Evening 
Post, July 24, is " A Card " concerning the evacuation of Ticonderoga, the tone of which 
suggests that Samuel Adams may have been its author. 

[sSg]''- Warren-Adams Letters, I. 346; Writings (ed. Gushing), III. 398. 

2 See no. 568, ante. A letter to General Washington, Aug. 2, written by Samuel 
Adams and signed also by John Adams, Nathaniel Folsom, Henry Marchant, Elbridge 
Gerry, Eliphalet Dyer, and William Williams, bespeaking the appointment of General 
Gates to the northern command, is found in the Writings of Washington (ed. Ford) , VI. 
4, (ed. Sparks), V. 14; Wells, Life of Samuel Adams, II. 487. Washington asked 
(letter to Congress Aug. 3) to be excused from making the appointm.ent. Cf. no. 
579, post. 



August, 7777 435 

the evident Marks of Deliberation and Design. My utmost Endeavors 
shall not be wanting to have the Matter searched to the Bottom.^ .... 

Philadelphia, Augt. I, '77 

570. James Lovell to William Whipple.^ 

Friday August ist. 1777. 
(In confidence) 

My Dear Sir, 

You will easily guess that some of your friends here have had a task 
indeed to get so much justice done to the public as to call Schuyler and 
St. Clair, Poor, Patterson and Fermoy to Head Quarters, and direct 
General W to send a proper officer to command in the Northern De- 
partment, hot work from last Saturday." .... 

571. William Williams to the Governor of Connecticut.^ 

2. Aug. [1777-] 
Sr. 

Since sealing my Letters " and [coming]' 
to Congress I found an oppertu[nity to] 
extract the partes respecting th[e] 
Northern Affairs etc. While th[e] 
Members are loitering, which [ ] 
you be willing to see.* They [are] 
mangled, and garbled, from w^ha[t was] 
the original Plan : and with great 
difficulty W'e avoided the Order to 
Schuyler from standing, that He 
repair to Congress, to give an 
Acct. of the State of Affairs in his 
Department in stead of repairing 
to Head Quarters.^ .... 

Your most dutiful and obedt. 
Son and Servt. 

W [Williams] 
his Excellency 

Gov. Trumbull. 

3 Cf. sundry letters of Adams, Aug. 5, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, in Writings (ed. Gushing), 
III. 400-408. The letter of Aug. 12 (to James Warren) is also in Warren-Adams 
Letters, I. 351. 

[570] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 385; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Ban- 
croft Coll., Langdon-Elwyn Papers (copy). 

2 See nos. 565, 568, 569, ante; cf. nos. 571, 572, 574, 578, 579, post. 
[571]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Jonathan Trumbull Papers. 

2 No earlier letter of Aug. 2 has been found. For a letter written in the evening 
of the same day, marked " 3d Letter ", see no. 572, post. 

3 A part of the right-hand margin of this letter has been torn away. The 
conjectural words may not in every instance fill the entire gap. 

* On the first sheet of this letter are copies of resolves of July 29, 31, Aug. i. 
s See the Journals, Aug. i ; cf. nos. 563-566, 568, 570, ante, nos. 572, 574. 578, 
579, post. 



436 Contincntol Congress 

572. William Williams to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull).* 

Ph. 2d Aug. p m 1777 

Hon'' Sir 

Congress have this Day reed, a number and very large Letters from 
Dr Franklin Mr Lee and Dean, with a great variety of Papers, the Letters 
from 12 Mar. to abt the 26 May. tis vain for me to attempt any particular 
acco. of their Contents.^ .... Schuyler I dare say is removed forever.' 
You will improve these broken hints, to the greatest advantage, 
have wrote so much, I must Cease once more. 

Your most affect*. Dutiful Son and Servt 

W Williams 



573. The President of Congress to William Heath.* 

Philadelphia Aug 2d, 1777. 

Sir, 

You will perceive from the enclosed Resolve, that your Letter of the 
27 [17] of May, ulto., was duly received, and laid before Congress; and 
that they have directed you to make Enquiry into the Fact set forth by the 
Committee of Salem, with Respect to Fry's Insanity, not because Con- 
gress have any doubt, of their having represented the Matter as it appeared 
to the Committee, but because the Crime is the most atrocious and detest- 
able, and should never on any Account or Pretence whatever, pass with 
Impunity, where the Person committing it has the proper Exercise of his 
Faculties.^ 

I beg leave to refer your Attention to the Resolve as the Rule of your 
Conduct, and have the Honour to be, Sir 

Your most obdt and Very hble Serv't 

John Hancock Presid. 

Honble Major Genl. Heath. 

[572]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, William Williams Papers. On the wrapper of the letter is 

found the following notation : " Pr Mr Hunt 3d Letter 2d inclosed ". 

2 Williams nevertheless summarizes the more important matters in the letters of 
the commissioners. (The letters are in Wharton. Rev. Dtpl. Corr., H. 283-327.) See the 
Journals, Aug. i, 2, 3, 5. Cf. nos. 576, 586, post; also Samuel Adams to Samuel Free- 
man, Aug. 5, and to John Langdon, Aug. 7, Writings, HI. 400, 401. 

3 See no. 571, ante. 

[573]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Heath Papers, VI.; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 58. pt. n., p. 236. 

2 In regard to the case of Peter Pickman Frye, see the Journals, June 2, 9, 20; also 
Heath to Washington, May 19, Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IV. 98. No 
explanation has been discovered why a resolution of June 20 should not be reported to 
General Heath until Aug. 2. A few weeks later trye was reprieved. See the Diary of 
William Pynchon (ed. F. E. Oliver), pp. 38, 39; The Holyoke Diaries, pp. 96, 99; 
and the Boston Gazette, Sept. 15, 1777. 



August, 7777 4:37 

574. James Lovell to William Whipple.^ 

August 4th. 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

The paper of Duulap will show you how we go on both as to Ty and 

Europe.' New York pushed for a reference to General W as to 

the successor of Schuyler, intending and attempting to prevent G ^ 

from being sent ; but it was referred back to us and we were 11 to i which 
is far from 5 to 4, and 2 divided.* .... 



575. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia August 5th 1777. 
D. Sir 

.... The Business relative to Colo. Shepherds Battalion, and the 
Artilary Company underwent no delay except what was absolutely Neces- 
sary for the several references and reports Incident to the War Depart- 
ment. The result on Both was, the Battalion was taken into continental 
pay as one of the 16. (the Stipulations of the Assembly being observed) 
the Company also taken into pay (but not annexed to any Battalion) and 
both are ordered to Join the Grand army without delay.^ the resolutions 
relative to these were transmitted to you both by the Board of War and by 
me, and Inclosed Duplicates of that relative to the Battalion.^ .... 

[574]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 387; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft 
Coll., Langdon-Elwyn Papers (copy). 

2 In the Pennsylvania Packet (published by William Dunlap), July 22, was 
printed St. Qair's letter to Congress, July 14, together with the council of war of July 
5, relative to the evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence (see no. 5561 
ante). In the issue of July 29 is a discussion of this letter, and also other items pertain- 
ing to the Ticonderoga affair. In the issue of Aug. 5 is a letter from St. Clair to 
John Jay, July 25 ; also extracts from the Journals, July 29 to Aug. 3. 

Touching the European situation, in the issue of July 22 is an extract of a letter from 
Bordeaux, May 17 : " The news is, that Messrs. Franklin and Deane are well, and always 
well received at Court, both by Princes and Lords." Another extract of a letter from 
Bordeaux, May 15, is found in the issue of July 29: "Everything is in favor of the 
Americans; and if war is not declared between France and England, there is every 
appearance of very considerable assistance of necessaries." 

3 General Gates. Cf. nos. 565, 570, 571, ante, and no. 579, post. 

■* See the Journals, Aug. 4. The words "5 to 4 and 2 divided " refer to the 
vote, May 22, for placing Schuyler in command in the Northern department. Cf. nos. 
502, 568, ante, and nos. 579, 585, post. 

1575]^ N. C. Hist. Comm. (copy) ; N. C. State Rccs., XL 558. 

2 Burke is replying particularly to Caswell's letter of July 15 (N. C. State Recs., 
XL 737). Concerning Col. Abraham Sheppard's battalion, see the Journals, June 10 
(p. 450), 17; also Hancock to Washington, June 13, in Letters to Washington (ed. 
Sparks), I. 381. Correspondence concerning the battahon is in A''. C. State Recs., XL 
430, 456, 465, 467. 470, 494, 496, 500. 501, 507, 587, 602, 603, 614, 616, 679, 737. Concerning 
the artillery company, see ibid., XL 500, 602, 603, 614. 616, and the Journals, July 10, 19. 

3 The resolve of June 17 was sent to Caswell by Burke in a letter of June 18 
(N. C. State Recs., XL 501), and duplicates in a letter of June 27 (ibid., XL 507). The 
resolution relative to the artillery company is not mentioned in Burke's letters of July 
22 and 30, A'^. C. State Recs., XL 529, 549. 



438 Continental Coigrcss 

576. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais/ 

PlIILADA. 5th August 1777 

Dr Sir, 

.... the repeated Instances of British Cruelty exercised upon Amer- 
ican Prisoners particularly those produced in Doctor Franklins Letter to 
Lord Storniont and others this very day by a Master of a Vessel escaped 
from N. York have raised a spirit which will soon appear with the Label 
of Retaliation.^ when the Question is brought I will oppose it in part. 
I abhor the practice of Cruelty and will never in our circumstances con- 
sent to make Returns except in cases where good effects may be expected. 
Circumstanced as we are a general and rigid Retaliation wd be impolitic, 
the common people of England are our Friends. I believe their infamous 
Leaders have strove to extort Cruelty to prisoners on our part in order to 
enrage and unite them against us. nothing less will make them our 
Enemies, to imprison closely and if occasion require to hang a Prescot ^ 
and a Barrington for Injuries done to a Lee will not displease but rather 
be applauded by those common people, such Strokes I have no objection 
to. with the lower Class of Soldiers and Seamen I would contrast Amer- 
ican humanity against British Ferocity, but if a Douglas or a Jordan 
could be handled some Atonement should be made for the Blood of Burke 
and others who have suffered under their Barbarian Hands 

The late flood of French Men rushed in upon us under agreements with 
Mr. Deane has reduced Congress to a painful dilemma * if we comply 

[576]'^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, pp. 109, iii, 112. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. i, 2, 3, 5; cf. no. 572, ante. The letter from Franklin 
and Deane to Lord Stormont, dated Apr. 2, together with the de^positions of Eliphalet 
Downer and Seth Clark, was printed in the Pennsylvania Evening Post, Aug. 5, the 
Pennsylvania Gazette, Aug. 6, and the Pennsylvania Journal, Aug. 6. The letter is found 
in Franklin's Writings (ed. Smyth), VIL 36. In the letter of Franklin and Deane 
to the committee of secret correspondence, Mar. 12-Apr. 9 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
IL 283), it is stated that copies of the letter and depositions were enclosed. 

The " master of a vessel " was John Barret, first lieutenant of the Raleigh (see the 
Journals, Aug. 5). For earlier action by Congress of the nature of retaliation, see 
the Journals, Jan. 2, July 10, 1776; Feb. 20, June 9, 10, 1777. Cf. nos. 367, 403, 404, 407, 
ante. July 19 Congress ordered the report of the committee on the conduct of the 
enemy (see the Journals, Apr. 18) to be pubhshed in a pamphlet (see Bibliographical 
Notes, the Journals, IX. 1085). The report and accompanying affidavits were published 
in the Philadelphia papers in the latter part of April and early May, e.g., in the Penn- 
sylvania Evening Post, April 24 to May 3. See, further, the Journals, Aug. 9, Nov. 19, 
Dec. 6, 16, 18. 

3 Brig.-Gen. Richard Prescott, the object of severe denunciation by Americans 
for his harsh treatment of Ethan Allen and other American prisoners. When he was 
taken prisoner himself in Canada in November, 1775, Washington proposed to retaliate 
upon him whatever treatment Ethan Allen might be subjected to. See Washington to 
Howe. Dec. 18, Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., IV. 310, and Washington to Schuyler, the 
same date, ibid., IV. 314, and passim, also ibid., fifth ser., I. and II., passim. Prescott 
was exchanged for General Sullivan in September, 1776. He was again taken prisoner, 
together with his aid-de-camp, Maj. William Barrington, in Rhode Island in July, 1777 
(see the Journals, July 25), and although Washington proposed, July 25, an exchange 
of him for General Lee, the exchange was not effected until April, 1778. See the 
Journals, July 19, 22, 25, 26, Aug. 7, Dec. 24, 1777; Mar. 30, Apr. 10, 1778. _ An interest- 
ing account of the negotiation for this exchange is related by Elias Boudinot, commis- 
sarj'-general of prisoners (Boudinot, Life of Elias Boudinot, I. 142-148). 

4 See the Journals, Aug. 5, Sept. 5, 8; cf. nos. 559, 561, 565, ante, 581, 586, 632, 
648, post. 



August, 7/77 439 

with all his unwarrented Contracts, many of our best Generals will be 
greatly affronted, if we do not, the United States will be exposed to the 
reproach and probable resentment of Men who have been deceived and 
ill used, some of these have been very clamorous and we shall be obliged 
to make pecuniary satisfaction for their disappointment of Rank, some 
of them by the by prove to be rank Cheats, nevertheless they have Creden- 
tials from our Agent Deane and must be provided for in some way. Hol- 
zendorf hung a long time upon hand. I interposed on his behalf and 
obtamed his Commission of Lt. Colonel according to agreement but he is 
not employed." this so far looks well as it shews these people we are not 
altogether dependent upon Frenchmen, the Chevalier Faliet « who in 
his passage from Charles Town to Virginia had been taken by the Daphne 
arrived here a few days ago. the recommendation of Doctor Franklin 
seconded by that of Monsr. de Coudrie has ensured him a Majority, a 
Commission only but no employment at present 

577. George Walton to George Washington.' 

Philadelphia, August 5, 1777. 

I moved Congress a few days ago, to order Brigadier-General Mcintosh 
from his Station in Georgia to join the grand Army; and it was objected 
to, because it was feared it might derange the Army, or that you would 
have no command for him.^ The cause of my having made this proposi- 
tion was, that he had lately fought a Duel with Governor Gwinnett, in 
which the latter had fallen; and I was afraid the friends of the deceased 
made sore by the loss of their principal, would again blow up the embers 
of party and dissention, and disturb the harmony and vigour of the Civil 
and military authorities. 

I have since received a letter from Georgia, proving that my conjectures 
were too well founded. I therefore take the liberty of requesting to know, 
whether it will be convenient and agreeable to you that he should be 
ordered to join the grand Army.^ 

He is a man of sense and judgment, with a great experience of the 
world; and, in point of bravery, he is fit to fight under the banners of 
General Washington. 

:u Tj ^ HoltzendorfF was one of the officers included in the agreement, Dec. i, 1776. 
with Baron de Kalb. See no. 565, note 5, ante. It would appear from the Journals, 
July 17 that he also had a separate agreement with Deane. See Wharton, Rev Dipl 
Corr. 11. 26r._ As Laurens did not attend Congress until July 22, it is not clear wherein 
his mterposition could have been helpful in obtaining for Holtzendorff a commission 
already authorized by Congress. But see the Journals, July 30. 

« The Chevalier de Failly. In the agreement with Deane TWharton, Rev. Dit>l 
J^^u'S ^^^^ ^^^ *° ^^^^ *^^ '■^"^ °^ lieutenant-colonel. See the Journals Aug s • 
cf. tbid., Aug. 13 21, 25. See also Laurens to Lafayette, Feb. 7, Mar. 6, 1778, in the 
next volume of these Letters. 

[577]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XVII. 182. 
2 See the Journals, Aug. i (erased entry, p. 597). 
• • .. ^7^^ resolve was passed Aug. 6. Washington's reply to Walton, dated Aug 6. 
is in the Library of Congress, Washington Papers. Cf. no. 446, ante. See also no ;84. 
post. ^ 

33 



4 

I have the happiness to be, Sir, your Excellency's most Obedient 
Servant, 

Geo Walton. 

NB. As I intend to send off an Express to Georgia tomorrow I should 
be obliged by an answer today. 

His Excellency 

General Washington. 

578. Nathaniel Folsom to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia agust 5th. 1777. 
Sir 

I arrived here in good Health the 20th. of July on my joining the Con- 
gress I found them worried with Petitions from a great Number of French 
gentlemen for Commissions to Serve in our army and Continnue to 
Plague us to this day.^ 

Saturday mr. Bass Came to Congress from Portsmouth and brought 

Letters from ouer agents in france up to the 26th. of may the 

Loss of Ticonderoga hes given grate uneseyness : Generall Schyler and 
Sant C[l]aire aire orderd to head Quarters in order for an inquirey into 
thaire Condukt: the other Generals that Sat in Counsel aire to Stay at 
thaire Departments till General Washington thinks they Can be Recald 
without hurting the Service : General Gates is orderd to take the Come- 
mand in the northen Department Congress have Past a Resolve that New- 
hampshier, Massachusetts Conneticut new jersey and new york and Penn- 
sylvania Raise and march as many of the militia to Serve in the northen 
Department till the fifteenth of november as General Gates Shall think 
Suffishent for the Defence of that Part of the Cuntrey.^ .... you will 
See by the Paper Inclosed that the Enemys fleets have been hovering 
abought the Capes of the Delleware amounteing to 228 Saile Till fryday 
Last and have Since Disapeaird it is Prity Generely thought thay aire 
bound up the north River or to Rhode island.* .... 

579. William Williams to the Governor of Connecticut.^ 

Philadelphia Aug. 6, 1777 
Hon'^ Sir 

.... Genl Washington yesterday sent in a Letter beging Congress 
to excuse him from appointing the Officer to the Comand of the Northern 
Army, assigning plausible Reasons, upon which Congress took it up, and 
appointed Genl Gates. He was strenuously opposed by N York, and sup- 
ported by N. England and was carried by almost every Vote.^ The truth 

[578] 1 Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. I., 1774-1778. 

2 Cf. nos. 559, 56s, 576, ante. 

3 See the Journals, July 29, 30, Aug. i, 3. 4; also nos. 564-566, 568, 572, 574, 
ante, nos. 579, 580, 587, 597, 598, 600, 609, 611, post. 

* See no. 561, ante, no. 587, post. 
[579]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., Signers. 

2 Washington's letter, dated Aug. 3, was read in Congress Aug. 4, and the 
election of Gates took place the same day. Williams may therefore have written on 
the 5th. See nos. 568-572, 574, 578, ante. 



August, lyyy 441 

is Duane etc, had earnestly remonstrated agst. him to the Genl and told 
him it wo'' greatly disgust their Convention etc. (the fact is Schuyler 
hates him) and N. Engld. Delegates had written to the Genl in favr. of 
his appointmt.' and so I conclude He was embarrasd and chose to get rid 
of it, and it has turned out Well. 

I hope N England will take their own measures to drive Burgoyne 
into the Lakes, without waiting for Congress no not a moment their 
resolves you will see in the Paper, can it be that N E. will be long driven 
and distresd by 6000 men. surely we can eat them up at a Meal. O That 
They wo^ rouse in earnest the work wo'^ be short and easy.* I trust they 
will, and the more for the late shamefull Conduct to say no more, of 
St. Clair etc 

I cannot add but my best Regards to my dear Friends and that I am 
with the greatest Respect and dutiful Regard 

Your most Obed : and most H Servt 

W. Williams 

His Excellency Govr. Trumbull 

580. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 

New York Assembly.^ 

Phila. August 6th, 1777 
Gentlemeji, 

The Congress having ordered generals Schuyler and St. Clair to head- 
quarters that an enquiry may be made into their conduct and the reasons 
of the evacuation of Ticonderoga, they have directed general Gates to take 
the command in that department, and to repair thither with the utmost 
expedition.^ 

In the present critical state of our affairs in that quarter it is absolutely 
necessary, that some vigorous and decisive measures should be taken, to 
stop the progress of the enemy. These steps should be taken as early as 
possible; as the consequences of delay may be extremely disagreeable. 
From the great advantage our enemies have over us in the facility with 
which their troops may be transported by sea to any port of America, they 
will always have it in their power to make a descent before the continental 
army can possibly arrive to oppose them. 

The militia therefore whenever this happens must be depended upon, 
and their exertions, I trust will never be wanting when called on, either to 
defend their own country, or to join with the army of the united states to 
oppose the common enemy, I am therefore most earnestly to entreat you 
will order such part of your militia to reinforce the army under general 

5 In regard to this letter, see no. 569, note 2, ante. 

* Cf. the letters of Samuel Adams mentioned under no. 569, note 3, ante. 
[580]! N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers, XI. 235; Library of Congress, Force 
Trans., Mass. Recs., Letters, 1777-1778; Mass. Arch., CXCVIII. 5; Jour. N. Y. Prov. 
Cong.j II. 495. This was a circular letter to New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Con- 
necticut, New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania. 

2 See the Journals, July 29, 30, Aug. i, 3, 4. Cf. nos. 560A, 562A, 563, 564, 565, 
568-572, 578, 579, ante. 



4 

Gates as he may judg-e sufficient and that you will exert yourselves to 
comply with tiie enclosed requisition of Congress without the least delay.* 

The Honble. The Assembly 
of the state of New York 

581. James Lovell to William Whipple.^ 

August 7th. 1777. 
Dear Sir 

.... Mr Du Coudray has put in a memorial and petition wherein he 
requests that I may be dismissed from any Committee relative to his 
affairs and that no attention may be paid to any thing I may have said 
relative to his treaty with Mr Deane. Even his most enamored advocates 
did not think proper to support his petition. It was dismissed.^ 

582. James Lovell to William Whipple.^ 

August 8th. 1777. 
Sir, 

. . . . [P. S.] Walton wrote Arnold that he was not likely to have his 
old date of rank as the Eastern States were particularly against it. But 
he " excused " Rhode Island and Connecticut. Upon a new motion to 
restore his rank, two days have been spent, and finally it was carried in the 
negative w^hen poor Mass : w^as the only New England State faulty. 
We put the Yeas and Nays of each member in the Journals if any Delegate 
desires it. N H. Con : R. I. Georgia Yea. Mass. York Jersey : Penn : 
Del : Mar : N. C. Nay. It was really a question between Monarchical and 
Republican principles put at a most critical time.^ 

583. Henry Laurens to Robert Howe.^ 

Philadelphia 7th August 1777. 
Dear General, 

About the 22d. July ^ I had the honour of delivering Severally your 
Letters to Congress and to the New England Delegates, the former was 

8 See the Journals, Aug. 3, 5. 6. In the New York Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, 
II. 57, is a copy, in the writing of Charles Thomson, of the resolve, Aug. 6 {Journals, 
p. 616, second paragraph from top), giving directions to Gates in regard to caUing out 
the militia, wherein the word " impossible " is used instead of the word " imprudent ", 
found in the Journals. 

[581 ]i Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. II., p. 191 (copy) ; Library of 
Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 391. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 6 ; also no. 559, note 3, ante, nos. 586, 632, 648, post. 

[582]! Library of Congress, Force Trans.. Whipple, p. 393; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. II., p. 190 (copy) ; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Langdon- 
Elw>-n Papers (copy of part). 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 8. Cf. nos. 419, 476, 497, ante, and nos. 583, 585, 586, 
607, post. See also the Journals, Nov. 29, 1777. 

[583]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-177?,, p. 118. The letter is 
addressed to General Howe at " Charles Town ". 

2 Laurens took his seat July 22. See his letters of Aug. 11, 12 (nos. 584, 586, 
post). John Adams wrote to his wife Aug. 19: "They have sent us a new delegate 
whom I greatly admire, Mr. Laurens, their Lieutenant-Governor, a gentleman of great 
fortune, great abilities, modesty and integrity, and great experience too. If all the 
States would send us such men, it would be a pleasure to be here." Familiar Letters, 
p. 292. 



August, 7;77 443 

instantly committed to the Board of War and their Report followed by 
a confirmation of your appointment to Cols. Eveleigh and Mr. Purcel,'' but 
for your fine polite Commercial Story which must have cost you some 
labour to learn and given you much pleasure to relate no more notice was 
taken than of the particular kind of paper upon which the tale was told.* 
I am sure I thought it a very clever thing when I read it at Mepkin and 
sealed it up so nicely. What deal of writing in this World goes for 
nothing, in that class your other Letter touching Rank may possibly be 
found, and it will, if one may judge from our determination two days ago 
upon an application from an old and valuable Servant Mr Gen Arnold 
whose prayer to be restored to his rank was rejected notwithstanding the 
acquiesence of Officers whose dates are, as they admit, improperly, prior 
to his, but good General draw no hasty conclusions another unexpected 
vote may turn up and be in your favour, when I am a little older in Con- 
gress I'll try hard at a reformation in that article of Rank perseverincr in 
the present mode which is arbitrary' and often Subject to Caprice willliot 
promote the welfare of our Army 

584. Henry Laurens to Lachlan McIntosh." 

Philadelphia nth August 1777. 
Dear Sir, ^ ^^^ 

Some where on my journey hither your favour of the 30th May over 
took me, at my arrival I put it into the hands of Colonel Walton the verv 
Morning after I reached this City I took my Seat in Congress where I had 
intended to have remained a silent auditor at least until I should have 
perused the Journals for some Months back, gained a clue to business and 
an acquaintance with Members and their manners, but I was soon pro- 
voked to break through the proscribed bounds and to oppose a random 
scheme for a Western enterprize which had been proposed to the House 
as equally practicable and advantageous and which to my amazement the 
whole House appeared to have adopted ; ' nothing remained to do on their 

3 See the Journals, July 22, 23. If Laurens means to say that Congress had con- 
firmed Howe's appomtments of Nicholas Eveleigh and HeniV Pur ceHhL statement 
IS mcorrect. The board of war so reported, but the report wa7postpo„ed Tulf23 and 
for some unaccountable reason was not adopted until Feb 17 1778 •'"^J'^^, ana 

of Cong^rfsrillffrnnTr"^"^ '^' "t^F^^i^ Commercial Story'" is in the Library 
ot Congress i^apers Cont Cong., no. 160, f. 360. It is dated June 8, but endorsed bv 

C^arle'ston. "' ^"^^ ^- ^^' ^''''' ^^^^"^^" *^^ commercial s'"uation of 

r o i^ff no 582, a«f^, nos. 585, 586, 607, Post 
l584J^Mass. Hist Soc, Washburn Autographs, Statesmen and Orators p 11 • S C 

Mctt'o^f at Sava^^5!^^^-^°°'' '''"-''''' '■ "^^ ^^^ ^^"^ -^ addres^ed^to^GeLS 
in a rJo'S'nfTfl ^^e expedition ag^nst West Florida, proposed by the board of war 
Tulv 2? no Sih/ ■ ' ^^^''^ "P '" Congress July 19, 24, and defoiitely "postponed" 
T„w T<^' i^^'^A '" consequence of Laurens's representations. (See the Journals 

ivJn ? ?• ^^' ^^^ U-' "f ^ "°'- 5^9^' S59B, ante.) A fuller discussion of this affair is 
given by Laurens in his letter to Rutledge, Aug. 12, no. 586, post. Concerning a pro- 
posed expedition against East Florida, see Laurens to Rutledge, June 3 1778 and 
Laurens to Houstoun, Aug. 27, 1778, in the next volume of thesi L.«^r^ '^ ' 



4 

part but to vote Men and Money. I saw in that business destruction of a 
number of honest fellows whom we want excecdin^j^ly for better employ- 
ment, disgrace to our Arms and a vast increase to our general debt 
already swelled to an alarming heigth and felt that I should rise a 
criminal if I forbore to say every thing in my power which might tend to 
avert such evils. I delivered my sentiments and was successful, the 
question had scarcely an affirmative. I took occasion to report the value 
and at the same time the precarious and dangerous state to which Georgia 
was reduced, wished if so many Men as had been talked of could be spared 
from this quarter, they might be immediately ordered to that Colony, as 
well for its protection as for laying the foundation of an enterprize nearer 
home which at a proper time might be carried into execution with success 
and which would work half the Conquest of the other place without 
marching a foot towards it. before I sat dowm I moved for a Committee 
to consider the State of Georgia or wished to second the Delegate from 
thence in a motion to that effect, in consequence of these suggestions a 
Committee was appointed whose report favorable to Georgia and I hope 
very agreeable to my friend Mr Clay and yourself you will receive from 
Colonel Walton.^ I think it does not go far enough, if we might have 
raised a certain number of Men for an intended service full of perils and 
almost certain shame and loss, the same number might have been added 
for the security of Georgia worth ten thousand times more, estimating 
property, than the other would have been if w^e had conquered, and for 
conquering a good barrier and removing very dangerous Neighbors. 
these matters are not enjoined in secrecy but the less said upon what we 
had intended or do intend the better, let our Enemies apprehend by our 
Silence, we Sleep. I have been driven too to a necessity of giving my old 
friend Mcintosh a Character in open Congress in opposition to the insinua- 
tions of some of his back friends who I suppose had industriously trans- 
mitted the poison to a few Members, I did not find a difficult task in that 
part, the Labour was pleasant and Gentlemen generally disposed to think 
favorably of him, even those who had " Seen " or perhaps received 
" Letters ", retracted as soon as they were better informed. Colo. Walton 
wnll be more particular.* .... 

I conclude with Compliments to Mrs. Mcintosh and the young Gentle- 
men and assurances of remaining with great regard 

Dear General 

Your most obedient Servant 

Henry Laurens. 

Genl. Mcintosh ^ 

3 The committee on the state of Georgia was appointed July 25, andmade a report 
July 30; measures were adopted by Congress Aug. i, and the officers provided for in the 
resolution (including Joseph Clay as deputy paymaster-general) were elected Aug. 6. 
See also the Journals, Aug. 12, 15. Cf. no. 601, post. 

* See no. 577, ante. 

5 As a young man General Mcintosh had lived for a time in the family of 
Henry Laurens in Charleston. A sketch of him is found in Appleton, Cyclo. of 
Am. Biog. 



August, i-jji 445 

585. James Lovell to William Whipple.' 

Philadelphia nth. Aug 1777. 

Dear Sir, 

I have wrote you that 1 1 Colonies in 12 sent Gates ; ^ and the 12th only 
made objection, that he had addressed the Committees of the Grants by 
the same title as they had used in their letters to him — miserable objection! 

Jemmy D ' promised me a printed copy of the resolves of Congress 

of the 30th. of June which the New York Delegates got struck ofif but he 
did not perform his promise, though I told him, I wanted it only for you. 
However Town has given them to the world at large to praise or condemn 
as shall seem best.* It was scarcely rub and go by the absence of a Jersey 
member. The expressions are no encouragement to New York though the 
petition of the Grant-men was not allowed. 

Commissary Trumbull has at last got free.^ Arnold too is at liberty 
to quit. He conducted almost without blemish in resigning, if a man 
may be said to do so, who leaves a patriotic exertion because self love was 
injured in a fanciful right incompatible with the general interest of the 
Union.® Georgia ^ wrote that he could not expect his claimed rank would 
be restored, as the Eastern States were set against it though he owned he 
had made an exception of Con : and Rh : Isl : — If any member demands 
it the yeas and nays of every member are noted. It was demanded on this 
mighty occasion, the vote against restoration being 7 to 4 : — 3 of which 
4 were N. E. and Georgia the 4th. happening all to be single voices — one 
of your's being unwell and two of Connecticut also sick. They intend to 
have Mass : hanged on a tree we being all 4 of a mind, as were all the rest 

except General R * among the Pennsylvanians. This registering is 

childish for if I am at a loss in any other question, I can defend this 
against a crowd.® .... 

586. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 

(John Rutledge).^ 

Philadelphia 12th August 1777 
Dear Sir, 

I reached this City the 21 July and next morning took my Seat in Con- 
gress where I found upon the tapis a subject not well understood and 

[585]^ Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 395; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. II., p. 191 J^ (copy) ; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Langdon- 
Elwyn Papers (copy of part). 

2 See no. 574, ante. 

3 James Duane. Cf. nos. 539, 556, ante. 

* Benjamin Towne was publisher of the Pennsylvania Evening Post. The resolu- 
tions of June 30 relative to the New Hampshire Grants appeared in his paper Aug. 7. 
Apparently no separate copy of the resolutions has been found, as the Bibliographical 
Notes (Journals, IX., appendix) do not mention it. 

5 See the Journals, Aug. 2, 6. Cf. nos. 529, 530, 543, 544. 548, 550, 554. ante. 

8 See the Journals, Aug. 8. Cf. nos. 582, 583, ante, nos. 586, 607, post. 

7 That is, George Walton, delegate from Georgia. See no. 582, ante. 

8 Daniel Roberdeau. See the yeas and nays in the Journals, Aug. 8. 

9 Cf. no. 387, ante, and no. 766, post. 

l586]i S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 120. A draft of a part 
of this letter appears in the letter-book under date of Aug. 11. The variations from this 
revision are not considerable, except in two instances, which are noted below. 



4 

wliicli came to be ag-itatcd w itliin ci^^lit and forty hours, an expedition to 
West I-'lorida projected by persons out of doors and recommended upon 
vag^ue and indi<^csted plans and propositions, adopted by a few within and 
apparently acquiesed in by a great majority, the delegates from So 
Carolina are to be excepted.^ 

looo or 1 200 Men were to be immediately raised and embarked in 
Battoes on the Ohio ^ and proceed down the Stream, to rely for assistance 
in the friendly disposition of the Inhabitants on the Banks of Mississipi 
" who were chiefly emigrants from the united States " and upon the 
Governor of New Orleans for supplies of Money Cannon and Artillery 
Stores and upon the Strength of " friendly assurance received from the 
Spaniards " The troops to lie perdue in a certain Cove or Bay near the 
mouth of the River till intelligence should be received of the arrival of 
" 3 or 4 Frigates " in the Bay of pansacola.* these were to attack in front 
and aid the efforts which were to be made on the land Side, the Frigates 
indeed were to rendezvous at Havanna from whence they were to Sail 
when advice should be given of the arrival of the Troops near Orleans. 

the intended operations to be kept a profound Secret and the whole 
coup to be accomplished between the midle of October and Christmas. 

The Strength of the Enemy Supposed to be about 800 Men on Shore 
and one Frigate or two Sloops of War, 

Benefits expected. 

an acquisition of vast Stores of Merchandize and other valuables.* 
destruction of a rising trade from W. Florida to Great Britain and 

the English West Indies, 
a 14th State if we should resolve to receive it into our confederacy. 
Lustre reflected upon the Arms of the united States.' 
In answer to these fine things it was said. 

The projectors should have been present, their answ-er to many ques- 
tions which were necessary to put to them would prove they had not fully 
considered the Subject and that the scheme was impracticable upon their 
principles. 

2 See nos. 559A, 559B (particularly Thomson's notes of Laurens's remarks), 
and 584. ante. 

3 The draft of Aug. 11 has "at Fort Pitt". 

* Besides some differences in phraseology, the draft of Aug. 11 has here the 
additional clause : " Where vast Magazines of Merchandize Warlike Stores and other 
valuables were to be seized the Town and fortifications to be destroyed or reserved 
according to circumstances ". The statement in the close of the paragraph regarding 
the rendezvous at Havana is not found in the earlier draft. 

5 In the earlier draft this passage reads : " an acquisition of necessary articles 
for our Troops and Indian Trade and of other effects ". In the other items of expected 
benefits there are variations of phrase but no essential differences of fact. 

^ At this point the draft of Aug. 11 has the following: 
" I listened with patience to the reasonings on these points till I found the House 
hastening into the measure not because they saw the way but rather because they did 
not and had relied implicitly upon papers sent in by the out of door projectors who ought 
to have been examined pointedly at the Bar of the House, my objections were partly 
to the utility in our present circumstances but principally against the practicability. 

" W' ise men would not rely upon the power of 1000 or 1200 raw Troops to dispossess 
a number not ascertained of disciplined and well armed, nor upon a junction of such 
Troops and Frigates which were not in existance." [The draft ends here A 



August, 7/77 447 

If looo or 1 200 Men should be so suddenly raised they were extremely 
wanted to act against the British Troops in this quarter and move as 
auxiliaries in the Southern States now held by a tenure very little better 
than the will of the Enemy, the power against which they were to act in 
West Florida was confessedly unknown and the junction of Army and 
Frigates admitting these to exist precarious in the highest degree, but 
where were the Frigates? if we had "3 or 4" to spare upon foreign 
exploits they could not be better directed than by order to scour the Coast 
from E, Florida to Cape Fear whence in all probability we should derive 
additional Strength to our Navy and open the passage to Charles Town 
now become the envy of British Cruisers and the emporium of at least one 
half the States. Emigrants from these States had in general abandoned 
us and our Cause in search of Trade, of free Imports and Exports, from 
such men we could expect neither assistance nor secrecy, on the contrary 
they would join with numerous tribes of Indians who had not been 
thought of in the scheme of attack, in order to repel our Troops as the 
most dangerous invaders whose design was to plunder their present Stock 
and to cut off the means of their future Supplies. 

the Governor of Orleans would entertain no high estimation of our 
political forecast should we embark 1200 Men in dependence upon him at 
1000 Miles distance for the very essentials of our expedition before treaty 
or even consultation, and what would be the consequence if we should. 
These facts of success — 

If our Frigates found harbour at Havanna we should remember that 
Jamaica afforded safe anchorage to a large squadron of British Ships of 
War and that the vulgar Spaniard for a little Gold would convey intelli- 
gence in a very few hours. 

1000 or 1200 Men just taken from the Mountain Air and Water sent 
in the latter end of October and November to lie in any cove of brackish 
water and near Salt Marshes would sicken and die very fast, even upon 
the fresh River wdiere such Men were exposed to night dews huddled 
together and lived upon Salt food, the list of dead and non effective would 
increase every day. 

It was in vain to hope for Secrecy of an enterprize which had been often 
talked of in different States and long suspected by the Enemy. 

finally that vast expence of Money and Men and further disgrace on our 
Arms would be the result of so mad an enterprize, into which it seemed 
Gentlemen had been hastening merely because they could not see their 
way. 

Your Excellency will not be displeased with the detail of this affair if 
you think the termination without a serious question, a fortunate event 
and that if the Expedition had been attempted and failed as most un- 
doubtedly it would, that our Enemies would have been furnished with 
strong arguments for moving the Creek and other Indians to act offen- 
sively against So Carolina and Georgia. 

from the above circumstances and sorry I am to say, more than a few 
others which I have been w'itness to in Short three Weeks I can hardly 
forbear concluding that a great Assembly is in its dotage and that happily 
for us our Enemy is at the Same time very infirm 



4 

A late determination in Cong^ress relative to the rank of a good old Ser- 
vant Gcnl Arnold will probably deprive us of that OlTiccr and may be 
attended by further ill ctlccts in the Army, the reasoning upon this occa- 
sion was disgusting, he was refused not because he was deficient in merit 
or that his demand was not well founded but because he asked for it and 
that granting at such instance would be derogatory to the honour of Con- 
gress, it would be tedious to relate all the particulars but a curious 
anecdote will arise from them.^ Our proceedings have also been injudi- 
cious towards many of the French and other foreign Officers too hastily 
chartered and flooded upon us by Mr. Deane.® some of these have ad- 
dressed very riotous Letters to Congress and tis too certain that some of 
them have solid ground for Complaint. I have no doubt but that besides 
disparaging reports of Congress at the Court of France Actions will be 
brought against Mr. Deane for breach of Covenants.® he has certainly 
stretched his Commission if not beyond the Letter far beyond all bounds 
of discretion, it seems as if he could not say nay to any frenchman who 
called himself Count or Chevalier 

The Executive Council of Pensylvania by recommendation from Con- 
gress had framed a parole to be signed by the late Officers of King George. 
Governor Penn and Mr. Chief Justice Chew to whom it was tendered 
having in the most indignant terms refused to comply, were taken into 
Custody this morning and Congress have recommended to Send them 
under guard to Virginia to be there held in confinement. It will be no 
misfortune if every other King's Officer and others suspected persons who 
are also included should follow the example of these leaders.^" .... 

I have not the least doubt of the good wishes of all the Trading and 
other people in middle Life that our Independence may be established, 
'tis probable they hold themselves Interested in the event and that many 
thousands already anticipate happiness in a Land of Liberty, the more 
this spirit appears or is even suspected, the more artfully will the move 
ments respecting us be conducted at Versailles. One of our Agents, 
I mean no offence, has not discovered competency to the immense work 
in hand, the other is on the verge of Life and judging from the ordinary 
course of nature must soon drop. I have urged Congress to appoint a 
proper person to repair to France in order to act as a Coadjutor to Doctor 
Franklin while he lives, and in his Stead, in case of Sudden death.^^ a 
precaution like this, a wise man w'ould take where the Interest of a distant 
Rice and Indigo Plantation was concerned and by Heavens Sir we wont 

7 Cf. nos. 582, 583, 58s, ante, no. 687, post. 

8 See nos. 559. 561, 565, 576, 581, ante, nos. 632, 648, 734, 753, 760, 769, 770, post. 

8 A motion for Deane's recall had been offered in Congress Aug. 5 (see the 
foot-note in the Journals, under Aug. 5, p. 605), but it was not until Nov. 21 that such 
a motion prevailed (see no. 565, ante, no. 753, post). Meanwhile, on Sept. 8, Congress 
definitely declared that as Deane's conventions were without authority, Congress was 
not bound to ratify or fulfill them. 

1° See the Journals, July 31, Aug. 12; also the further statement in this letter, 
added Aug. 15, and note 13, below. 

11 Silas Deane. " The other " is of course Franklin. 

12 The Journals contain no record of a motion of this kind. Upon the recall 
of Deane (Nov. 21) John Adams was elected commissioner to France in his stead 
(Nov. 28; see no. 753, post). 



11 



August, I/// 449 

feel for the salvation of thirteen plantations 1700 Miles long and at a 
distance of a Thousand Leagues, with submission I think our Treaties 
have been prematurely offered. proiX)sals should have commenced on 
the other side or if on ours not plumply by a Schedule of all we would 
yield 

ijth Mr. Penn and Mr. Chew have been introduced by motion in Con- 
gress from a member as willing now to give their parole, the mode was 
objected to and after seven hours one day and four another wasted in 
debate a Letter from the former and a Memorial from the other Gentle- 
man conceived in terms which after a gross affront. " I despise the 
Authority " , would not have been admitted as satisfactory by a private 
Gentleman, have gained their point. Congress accepts their parol with- 
out concurrence of the Executive Council whose authority derived if not 
from a certain Law from recommendation of Congress had been con- 
temned, private conversation between a Member of Congress and Secre- 
tary of Council is received for good evidence and is even entered upon the 
Journal altho contradicted by other Members who had conversed with 
Members of the Council. ^^ judge Sir from this Specimen, of our ability 
to keep the mighty Machine in its proper direction. My Colleagues see 
and own the justness of my Complaints and are as anxious to get away, 
what am I to do. I will do everything in my power for the Service of the 
particular State which I represent nor do I apprehend (from the giving 
and granting Spirit of the times) I shall meet difKculty in obtaining every 
proper consideration towards my Constituents but alas Sir what will this 
avail, unless by wiser management than I have yet been witness to, we 
conserve the whole System. 

Some of these intimations appear to me to be important and to merit 
the consideration of every man embarked in the great cause of American 
Liberty. Your Excellency will excuse what are not so and courteously 
accept the whole intended as a mark of Esteem and respect with which I 
have the honour to be etc. 

587. Nathaniel Folsom to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia agust the 12th. 1777. 
Dear Sir 

I Reed, your Kind feavover of the first Instant in which you have 
Represented the Effect and Consequence that have taken Place with the 
People at Large by the Loss of that important fortrise tyconderoga, and 
I find them the Same that w^ase Expected by all the Newengland Delle- 
gates, and mad use of in thaire arguements in Congress for the Recalling 
of the Generals Schyler and Sa* Clare and for an inquirey in to thaire 
conduct for three Days togather abought Eighteen Days agoe, which wase 
most voilently aposed by the New york and Some of the Southern mem- 
bers, but at last Carried by a Large majorety, and a Committe appointed 

13 See note 10, above ; also the Journals, Aug. 13, 14, 28. Cf. no. 567, note 2, ante, 
nos. 619, 627, 630, 633. 634, post. 

[587]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. I., 1774-1778. 



4 

in Congress to report the mode of inqiierey. General Gates is apinted to 
take the Comand in the northern Department and went off Last Thurs- 
day.^ . . . 

Hows fleet waire Seen Last thursday forty five miles Southward of the 
Capes of the Deleware wdiich ware the Last Congress heard of them his 
difTcrant menovers have Puseld. us all ^ Genl. Washington is now at 
Coroels feray * with the bigest half of the armey waiteing the moshon of 
the Enemy, the Congres wood be Glad mr. how wood Come up the 
Deleware all most to a man because it Give you an oppertunety to Scurge 
those Sons of murder in the north, the wather here is Excedeing Hot 
the Post is waiteing. I am with Grate Respect your Hum'*". Servent 

Nathl. Folsom 
to Coll. Josiah Bartlet 

588. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Benjamin Franklin.* 

DOUHOREGAN AnNE ArUNDEL CoUNTY 

1 2th. August 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

P. S. In reading over my letter I find I have omitted some things, 
which you may be desirous to know : probably you will be informed of 
them by others, but lest you should not, I shall mention such as I think will 
be most interesting; indeed to a person 3000 miles off the most trifling 
circumstances are interesting. We have not yet confederated, but almost 
every member of Congress is anxious for a Confederacy, being sensible, 
that a Confederacy formed on a rational plan will certainly add much 
weight and consequence to the united States collectively and give great 
Security to each individually, and a credit also to our paper money : but 
I despair of such a confederacy, as ought, and would take place, if little 
and partial interests could be laid aside : very few, and immaterial, altera- 
tions will be made in the report of the Committee of the whole house ; this 
is only my opinion, for we have made but very little progress in the house 
in that important affair; immediate and more pressing exigencies having 

2 See no. 578, ante, and nos. 598, 609, 611, post. John Adams wrote to his wife 
Aug. II (Familiar Letters, p. 289): "We have given New England men what they 
will think a complete triumph in the removal of Generals from the northward and 
sending Gates there, hope every part of New England will now exert itself to its 
utmost efforts." Cornelius Harnett wrote to Governor Caswell Aug. 11: "Gen. Gates 
is gone to take command of our army in the Northern Department, and we have great 
expectation from that Gentleman's military abilities that an immediate change will take 
place, as the New England people have a high esteem for him." A^. C. State Recs., 
XI. 569. See also his letter to William Wilkinson, same date, ibid., XL 748. 

The omitted passage relates to the letters recently received from the commissioners 
in Paris. See nos. 572, 576, 578, 586, ante. 

3 See nos. 561, 578, ante. 

* Coryell's Ferry, on the Delaware River above Philadelphia. Washington's 
headquarters at this time were at Neshaminy Camp, in Bucks County, Pa., about 
twentv miles north of Philadelphia. 

[588]! Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, vol. VI., (II.), no. 188; Rowland, Charles 
Carroll of Carrollton, I. 206. 



August, ly'j'j 451 

from time to time postponed the consideration of it to this day, when, I 
am informed, it is to be again resumed.^ If this war should be of any 
considerable duration, we shall want men to recruit our armies : could we 
engage 5 or 6 thousand men, Germans, Swiss, or the irish Brigade? I 
have mentioned this matter to several members of Congress, but they did 
not seem to relish the introduction of foreign mercenaries ; I own it ought 
to be avoided, if possible.* . . . , This postscript is longer than my letter ; 
excuse the length of both, and believe me to be 

Dr. Sir yr. affectionate hum^. Servt. 

Ch. Carroll of Carrollton 

2 The Journals do not record that Aug. 12 was set for considering the Con- 
federation. On Aug. 16 consideration of the Articles was assigned for Monday, the 
i8th, but it does not appear in the Journals that they were taken up on that day, in fact 
not until Oct. 7. See nos. 528, note 2, 537, 556, 558, ante, and nos. 616, 631, 649, 659, 
671, 679, post. 

3 Silas Deane wrote to the committee of secret correspondence Nov. 28, 1776 : 
" I have been offered troops from Germany on the following general terms, viz : Officers 
to recruit as for the service of France and embark for St. Domingo from Dunkirk, 
and by altering their route land in the American States. The same has been proposed 
from Switzerland, to which I could give no encouragement, but submit it to your con- 
sideration in Congress whether, if you can establish a credit, as I have before hinted, it 
would not be well to purchase at Leghorn five or six stout frigates which might at once 
transport some companies of Swiss and a quantity of stores, and the whole be defended 
by the Swiss soldiers on their passage? Or, if you prefer Germans, which I really do 
not, the vessels might go from Dunkirk." Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 196. Dec. 3 
he wrote to John Jay: "You may, if you judge proper, have any number of German 
and Swiss troops ; they have been offered me, but you know I have no proposals to treat." 
Ibid., II. 212. Deane's letters are also in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser.. III. 882, 1051. 
Cf. the Journals, Oct. 18, 1777. William Lee, writing to Charles Thomson, Nov. 24, 
'^777, concerning the enlistment of German troops by Great Britain, declared : " It would 
certainly add to their difficulty and embarrass the British ministry if there were only 
an appearance of beating up for men for the American States in some of the free 
towns in Germany, where all the world by custom is permitted to recruit and enlist men. 
Something of this sort might be attempted, sufficient to give a great alarm and create 
a diversion in your favor at a very little expense, if prudently managed." Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 426. The committee of foreign affairs replied, May 14, 1778: 
" The turn of affairs in Europe will make it needless for us to attempt the finesse of 
recruiting in Germany, which you hint at, and which would have a good effect in case 
of necessity." Ihid., 11. 578. 

Antedating Deane's first mention of the matter by more than a year is the suggestion 
of the unknown writer of a letter, Aug. 10, 1775, an extract of which is found in Force, 
Am. Arch., fourth ser.. III. 74. The emphasis of this writer is, however, upon the 
spirit of liberty among the Germans as the basis of recruiting, rather than the merce- 
nary spirit. 

Some items relating to this subject are found among the Franklin Papers in the 
American Philosophical Society and the University of Pennsylvania : a memoir of Dec, 
1776, respecting the hiring of German troops (Univ. of Pa., X. 15, XII. 46) ; proposals 
by Maj. H. E. Lutterloh to raise a corps of troops in Germany for use in America, 
written to Franklin from Paris, Jan. 8, 21, 1777 (Am. Phil. Soc, LX. 50, 51, LXII. 74, 75) ; 
a letter from Chaumont to Franklin, Jan. 27, 1780, concerning the proposal of a German 
prince to furnish a regiment of soldiers for the American service (Univ. of Pa., IV. 
12) ; and a proposal of Jean Guillaume Backhaus to Franklin, written from Hannover, 
Feb. 7, 1783, to recruit a regiment of Germans for service in America, mainly from 
among those who will return from British service (Am. Phil. Soc, XXVII. 90). 
To the latter proposal Franklin replied that he had no authority to set on foot nego- 
tiations to that end, etc. See Hays, Calendar of the Franklin Papers, I. 199, III. 
17, IV. 426, 484. Cf. a letter of Benjamin Rush to Richard Henry Lee, Dec. 20, 1776, 
in Force, Am. Arch., fifth ser., III. 1308. 



4 

589. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

Horatio Gates.* 

Philadelphia Aug^ust 14th. 1777. 
Sir, 

.... From the Want of Discipline, and other Disorders, too apt to 
prevail in a retreating Army, the Congress have been induced to pass a 
Resolve, empowering you to remedy those Evils as far as possible, and 
have for this Purpose, authorized you, for the limited Time of four 
Months, to suspend any Officers for Misconduct ; not doubting that before 
the Expiration of that Period, you will be able to introduce that Order and 
Subordination, so necessary in the military Line. You will be pleased to 
forward to Congress, with as much Dispatch as possible, the Names of 
those you may suspend, with the Reasons of their Suspension.* .... 

590. Henry Laurens to William Thomson.* 

17th August 1777 

.... Your application for leave to arm half your Regiment with 
smooth bores and by bayonets lies before the board of War, where a mul- 
tiplicity of business may keep back a report many days ^ in the mean time 
I am w'ell assured Congress will have no objections to your arming agree- 
able to your desire provided His Excellency the president shall judge the 
variation to be for the good of the Service.^ Make your application there 
or possibly with propriety to the General Commanding in the Sothern de- 
partment, from thence also you must expect to be Supplied wath Arms, 
there has been I am informed great waste made in this quarter and there 
is now an universal Cry for Muskets for the Militia. 

591. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 

(John Rutledge).* 

17th August 1777 
Dear Sir 

.... Congress have now before them a plan for borrowing ten Mil- 
lions Dollars. I hope the Carolina Delegates will oppose the mode much 

[589] iN. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, IX.; Mass. Hist. Soc. Hancock Letter-Book, 
VI. 246 (copy) ; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. II., p. 240. 
2 See the Journals, Aug. 14. 
[590]* S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 134. 

2 The Journals contain no record concerning Thomson's application. Possibly 
it was made only to the board of war, and not referred to Congress. William Thomson 
was at this time colonel of a South Carolina regiment. See the Journals, July 20, 
Sept. 15. This letter was addressed to him at Amelia. There is a sketch of him in 
Joseph Johnson, Traditions of the Revolution, pp. 90-96. A briefer account is in 
Appleton, Cyclo. Am. Biog. Many of his letters and other materials relating to his 
career are found in A. S. Salley, jr., History of Orangeburg County, 1704-1782. See 
also Haltigan, The Irish in the American Revolution, p. 405, where it is stated that he 
was a brother to Charles Thomson, secretary of Congress. Cf. Harley, Life of Charles 
Thomson, p. 20. In the index to the Journals Col. William Thomson is confused with 
Brig.-Gen. William Thompson. 

3 The president of South Carolina is meant. 

1591]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 134. 



August, I'j-j'j 453 

favoured by particular persons and succeed the Interest of all the States 
is concerned.^ 



592. Henry Marchant to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

Philadelphia, August 17th, 1777. 

Honored Sir, 

.... Congress this Day received the Resolutions of the Committee 
of the Eastern States, transmitted to them by the Honb Stephen Hopkins, 
Esq., President of that Committee; those Resolutions have been read, but 
not yet considered.^ I now Sir enclose you a Resolve of Congress of the 
15th Instant, requesting you to transmit to Congress Accounts of all 
Monies advanced and Expenses incurred by Prisoners of War etc. The 
Resolve points out to You the Necessity of an immediate Attention thereto. 
An Expectation of a general Exchange of Prisoners soon to take Place 
occasioned that Resolve, — as without those Accounts an Exchange cannot 
well be made 



593. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia August 17th. 1777. Sunday Morning. 

Sir, 

The Complaints of the Want of Men to the Northward, are so great 
and urgent, that Congress, with a view of affording them some Assistance, 
have come to the inclosed resolve; by which you will perceive, it is their 
Desire that Five Hundred Riflemen, under the Command of an active 
Officer, should be immediately sent into that Department, to oppose the 
Incursions of the Indians.^ 

Your Favour of the i6th. Inst. I was last night honoured with contain- 
ing sundry Inclosures, which shall be communicated to Congress to mor- 
row. The Plan you have adopted and recommended for the Defence of 

2 The report of the committee on ways and means, which was brought in on 
June II, was taken up in committee of the whole Aug. i6. See, further, the Journals, 
Aug. 18, 19, 28-30, Sept 1-3, 9, 10, Oct. 6, Nov. 22 (pp. 953-958), Dec. 2, 3. Cf. nos. 
594-597, 607, 618, 620, 627, 636, post. 

[592]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1777-1778, p. 5; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 147. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 18. Apparently the date of Marchant's letter is 
erroneous. August 17 was Sunday. See, further, the Journals, Sept. 10, Oct. 27, 
Nov. 13, 22, 26, 27 ; also nos. 72s, 736, post. 

[593P Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 270; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), L 424. 

2 This action was taken in consequence of the letters from Col. George Morgan 
and General Hand, at Fort Pitt. See the Journals, Aug. 16. See also a letter of July 
24 from General Hand to Thomas Wharton, president of the executive council of 
Pennsylvania, with sundry enclosures, Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 443-448. Further action 
was taken Aug. 20 (see also the Journals, Aug. 18). 



4 

the River Delaware, is ordered to be carried into execution." As soon as 
Congress shall come into any Resolves on the Subjects of your several 
Letters, the Result shall be immediately transmitted. 



594. James Lovell to William WniprLE.^ 

August i8th, 1777. 
My Dear Sir 

I have nothing material to inform you of beyond what the Gacette con- 
tains, except in confidence, that it is a disputed point whether we shall go 
upon the scheme of drawing Bills of Exchange on France to carry interest 
after a certain day if not paid, hoping that bankers and merchants will 
discharge them upon the plighted faith of these States : or whether we 
shall only draw from the interest due on our Loan certificates to be paid 
out of a fund already visible and of most probable increase. Should the 
first plan take place, the mercantile part here would immediately run mad 
after the Bills, and so sink the Loan Office Supply : whereas the certainty 
of dollar for dollar interest would encourage the Loan business, would 
induce the merchant to pay off widow's and orphan's dues to them, 
increase his claim of interest to be paid by Bills of Exchange at the offices 
and w'ould give credit to our tickets in France where they will be bought 
up at par or a trifling discount. In the mean time we may tax very con- 
siderably to lessen the quantity of current paper by burning Colonial. 
Honesty and justice are for the last, fear and cunning are for the first. 
I will give you early intelligence of the decision ; I only add that the last 
is the opinion also of our Commissioners, who have hinted a further plan 
for laying out land in the Mississippi as an object of a Subscription in 
France. This is much more honest than selling Bills without a known 
fund.^ . . . 

595. John Adams to James Warren.^ 

Aug. 18, 1777 
My Dear Sir, 

The inclosed Copies, you will see must not be made public. You will 
communicate them in Confidence to such Friends as have Discretion. 
When you have made such use of them as you shall judge proper, be 

3 Washington's letter of Aug. 15 (see the Journals, Aug. 16) relates to a plan of 
the Delaware River laid before him by Du Coudray. Washington's letter is in Pa. 
Arch., first ser., V. 526, but this particular plan of Du Coudray has not been found, 
unless it be Du Coudray's letter of Aug. 10, in the Library of Congress, Washington 
Papers. An earlier report of Du Coudray, made in obedience to a resolution of Congress 
June II (see also the Journals, July 15, 16) is in Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 360-363. See 
also ibid., V. 430, 431. A further representation of Du Coudray, dated Aug. 29, and 
relating to Washington's letter of Aug. 15, is ibid., V. 565. 

[594] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 403; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS. no. 52, vol. IL, p. 193 (copy) ; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Langdon- 
EhvjTi Papers (copy of part). 

- See no. 591. aute. 
[595]^ Warren-Adams Letters, I. 359. 



August, 1777 455 

pleased to send them to the Foot of Pens Hill, because I have no other 
Copies and should be glad to preserve them.^ .... 

We are in deep Contemplation upon the state of our Currency. We 
shall promise Payment in the Loan offices of the Interest in Bills of Ex- 
change on our Ministers in France. But Taxation, My dear Sir, Taxa- 
tion, and Oeconomy, are our only effectual Resources. The People this 
way are convinced of it and are setting about it with spirit.' 



596. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 

(John Rutledge).^ 

19th August 1777 

.... Congress has on the Table a plan for negotiating a Loan for 
Ten Millions of Dollars if they go no further it may not quite ruin us.^ 

I am as averse from this measure as I was from that of the Western 
expedition ' but have no hopes of Succeeding against a confirmed Major- 
ity, the mischief will be done but not without a modest dissent on my part. 



597. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, Tuesday, 19 August, 1777 
My Best Friend, 

.... In the northern department they begin to fight. The family of 
Johnson, the black part of it as well as the white are pretty well thinned. 
Rascals ! They deserve extermination. I presume Gates will be so sup- 
ported that Burgoyne will be obliged to retreat. He will stop at Ticonder- 
oga, I suppose, for they can maintain posts although we cannot. I think 
we shall never defend a post until we shoot a general.^ After that we shall 
defend posts, and this event in my opinion is not far off. No other fort 
will ever be evacuated without an inquiry, nor any officer come off without 
a court martial. We must trifle no more. We have suffered too many 
disgraces to pass unexpiated. Every disgrace must be wiped off. 

We have been several days hammering upon money. We are contriv- 
ing every way we can to redress the evils we feel and fear from too great 
a quantity of paper. Taxation as deep as possible is the only radical cure.' 
I hope you will pay every tax that is brought you, if you sell my books, or 
clothes, or oxen, or your cows to pay it. 

2 The enclosures are letters of Arthur Lee, Jan. 31, Feb. 3, 11 (with an addition 
Feb. 14). They are printed in Warren- Adams Letters, I. 360-363. 

' Cf. nos. 591, 594, ante, nos. 596, 597, post. 
[596] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 136. 

2 See nos. 591, 594, 595, ante, 607, 618, 620, 627, 636, post. 

8 See nos. 584, 586, ante. 
{S9l]'^ Familiar Letters, p. 292. 

2 Cf. no. 602, post. 

3 Cf. no. 595. ante. 

34 



4 

598. George Frost to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia Augst. iQtli. 1777 
Dear Sir 

I Reed, yours of the 25th. Ulto. (it came to hand after the post was 
g-orn) You say the appointment of GenI Schoyler to the Command at 
the northward gave great uneasiness to New Hampshire and I'l add to 
many other states also and that very justly, the I)eligate[s] from the 
Eastern States told Congress that the people in those States had no confi- 
dence in sd. Genl. but the Influence of said man and the Deligates of New 
York (Dewane and Duer in my opinion is no better then their Genl.) had 
more wait in Congress at that time then all the Deligates from the Eastern 
States and obtained a majority of one vote in his favour, they now see 
the III Consequence of that appointmt and have order'd Genl : Gates to 
supersead him in that Command and sopose he is at that post if well before 
this time Schoyler and St. Clear is ordered to head quarters in order for 
tryeul ^ I hope you'l furnish the Court of Inquiry with all the proofs 
Relating to the situation that post was in and in what manner the troops 
was furnished. Schoyler and St. Clear writes to Congress and says most 
of the troops was old men, Boys, and negros and unfit for garison duty 
their armes very bad and but one bayinet to ten men, that many of the 
officers mutinous and a disgrace to an armey that he (Schoyler) wants 
power from Congress to suspend them," thanks be to praise they are sus- 
pended themselves 

am with much Esteam — 

Sr Your most obt. Sert. 

Geo: Frost 

P. S. Inclosed you have a Copey of a letter from Genl. Lincoln to Genl. 
Schoyler.* 

The Honble : Josiah Bartlett Esqr. 

599. George Frost to Josiah Bartlett,^ 

[August 19, 1777.] 

.... The foregoing letter ' was Sent by Genl. Lincoln to Genl. 
Schoyler and by P. Schoyler to Congress Which is Very Alarming to 
Congress that Gen. Starkes Should take Occasion to Resent any sopposed 

[598]^ Me. Hist. Soc. Revolution, no. 2. 

2 See nos. 578, 587, ante, nos. 609, 611, post. 

8 Frost evidently has in mind particularly Schuyler's letter of Aug. 4, which 
may be found in Warren-Adams Letters, I. 352. See Samuel Adams to James Warren, 
ibid., I. 351. Extracts of Schuyler's letters of Aug. 8 and 10 (read in Congress Aug. 
18 and 17, respectively) are in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections, 1879, pp. 184, 185. 

* See no. 599, post. 
[599]^ Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. I., 1774-1778. 

2 These remarks of Frost were appended to a copy of a letter from Lincoln to 
Schuyler, dated at Bennington, Aug. 8 (see the postscript to no. 598, ante). Following 
is a part of it : " Yesterday Genl. Stark from New Hampshire came into Camp at 
Manchester, by his Instructions from that State It is at his Option to Act in Conjunc- 
tion with the Continental Armey or not He Seems to be exceedingly Soured and 



August, lyjy 457 

Affrunt by Congress to him when his Country lays at Stake, at the Same 
time woud take Notis that we Shall loos the benifit of our troops being put 
in the Continentall pay Except the Measures are Alterd, and woud also 
observe he dont refuse to put him selfe under Genl. Schoyler who is 
Recarled from thet Command and Congress has given the Command of 
thet Armey to Genl. Gates, wch. I Suppose Gel. Starke knew not of at 
that time, as to the promotion of Officers in the Armey the Congress 
went on a new plan agreaed on in Baltimore (at the Raising the as it 
Called Standing Armey) that Every State Should in som measure have 
their propotion of Genl. Officers according to the Troops they Raised by 
which Reason som officers was Supersed [ed] or as they call afronted.^ 

600. William Paca to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Dr Sir. 

I enclose you Genl Washington's letter and doubt not you will make a 
proper Enquiry into the Arrest he complains of ^ I wish the Artillery Corp 
and the 16 Regt. had been apportioned on the States that such States 
might have known what were its Quota and the frequent Difficulties in 
filling up those Corps prevented. 

We have no Intelligence of Howe's Fleet: The Army we know for 
a Certainty is embarked. We begin to be apprehensive they have gone to 
South Carolina.^ 

.... Genl Schuyler writes that the Van of Burgoyne's Army he is 
informed has moved forward to Saratoga : I wish our Affairs in that 
quarter bore a more pleasing Aspect : The New England States disgusted 
with Schuyler and his officers have been very slow in giving him Assis- 
tance Gates perhaps will please them and get them to exert themselves.* 

• • • • 

Phila : 19. Aug. 1777 

thinks he hath been neglected and hath not had Justice done him by Congress — he is 
determined not to join the Continental Armey untill the Congress give him his Rank 
therein — his Qaim is to command all the Officers he Commanded last Year as also 
all those who joined the Armey after him, Whether he will march his Troops to Still- 
water or not I am quite at a loss to know — but if he doth it is a fixed point with him 
to act there as a Seperate Chor and take no orders from any officer in the Northern 
Department saving Your Honour for he Saith they all were Either commanded by him 
the last Year or joined the Arm^y after him." Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr. 
The letter is printed in N. H. State Papers, VIII. 662. The principal part of it is also in 
Lossing, Life of Schuyler, II. 263. See the Journals, Aug. 18, 19, 20 ; cf. nos. 606, 607, 609, 
615, 619, 622, post. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 18. Cf. nos. 363, 364, 365, 372, 376, 392, 419, ante. 
[600]-^ Arch, of Md., XVI. 338. 

2 Washington's letter to the Maryland delegates is dated Aug. 17 and is found 
in his Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 39. It relates to the arrest of Lieut. James McNair by 
Maryland authorities for enlisting men to serve in one of the continental regiments of 
artillery. On the same day that Paca wrote to the governor Samuel Chase replied to 
Washington's letter. Chase's letter is in the Library of Congress, Letters to Washington. 

8 " Howe's fleet and army is still incognito. The gentlemen from South 
Carolina begin to tremble for Charleston." John Adams to his wife, Aug. 19, Familiar 
Letters, p. 292. Cf. nos. 605, 607, post. 

* Cf. nos. 578, 579, 587, 598, ante, nos. 609, 611, post. 



4 

60 1. Henry Laurens to Joseph Clay/ 

20th August 1777 

.... Since my arrival here I have done everything in my power to 
impress upon the mind of Congress the value and importance of Georgia 
and to recommend it to their particular protection which your Delegate 
will do me the justice to confirm. I apply in politics, St Paul's remark, 
if one member Suffers all the Members Suffer, the loss of Georgia or 
South Carolina or even their distress will be sensibly felt by all the north- 
ern States. I think this important truth has not hitherto been properly 
considered. 

I moved for a Committee to take the State of Georgia into considera- 
tion this produced certain determinations of which you will be advised 
fully by Colo. Walton to whom I also took the liberty of mentioning your 
name for Dep pay : JNIaster General and you will find you are accordingly 
appointed.* 

602. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, Wednesday, 20 August, 1777. 

5 o'clock Afternoon. 

.... We have been hammering to-day upon a mode of trial for the 
general officers at Ti. Whether an inquiry will precede the court martial, 
and whether the inquiry shall be made by a committee of Congress, or by 
a council of general officers, is not determined, but inquiry and trial both, 
I conjecture there will be." .... 

603. Benjamin Harrison to George Washington.^ 

Dear General ^ 

I remember well a Conversation's passing betwixt you and I on the sub- 
ject of the Marquis de la Fyattes Commission, and that I told you it was 
merely Honorary, in this light I look'd on it. and so did every other 
member of Congress, he had made an agreement with mr Deane, but this 

[601]^ S. C. Hist. Soc. Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 137. Addressed to Clay 
at " Savanna Per Captn. Homback ". 

2 See the Journals, July 25, 30, Aug. i, 6, 12, 15 ; cf. nos. 584, 586, ante, no. 605, 
post. 

[602]^ Familiar Letters, p. 2g^. 

2 The mode of conducting the inquiry into the evacuation of Ticonderoga and 
Mount Independence was determined Aug. 27. See the Journals, July 29, Aug. i, 19. 
20, 23, 25, 27. The committee to conduct the investigation was appointed Aug. 28. 
See the heads of inquiry drawn up by Laurens, under Aug. 27 (no. 617, post), and the 
Journals, Oct. 9, Nov. 14, Dec 26, 1777; Jan. 20, 26, 27, Feb. 5, Mar. 10, Apr. 29, 1778. 
On the date last mentioned a third committee was appointed, to examine the evidence and 
state the charges against the general officers. See the Journals, Apr. 29, June 12, 20, 1778. 
Cf. nos. 617, 619, 625, 669, 671, 677, 781, post. 

[603]^ Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XVII, 295. 

2 Harrison is replying to a letter of Washington of Aug. 19, Writings (ed. 
Ford), VI. 39, (ed. Sparks), V. 35. See also Tower, Lafayette in the Revolution, I. 218. 



August, lyyy 459 

he gave up by Letter to Congress, not wishing as he said to embarrass 
their affairs. Mr Diier who presented this Letter assur'd us he did not 
wish or desire Command, but gave us to understand, his chief motive for 
going into our Service was to be near you, to see Service, and to give him 
an Eclat at home, where he expected he would soon return, these you 
may depend on it were the Reasons that induced Congress to Comply with 
his request, and that he could not have obtain'd the Commissn. on any 
other terms * The other Day he surprised every body by a letter of his, 
requesting Commissions for his Officers, and Insinuating at the same time 
that he should expect a Command as soon as you should think him fit for 
one depend on it Congress never meant that he should have one, nor will 
not countenance him in his applications. I had it not in my power yester- 
day to get their opinions on the subject, but will do it soon.* .... 

Philad Augst. 20 1777. 

604. Roger Sherman to Horatio Gates.* 

Hartford August 20th. 1777 
Sir, 

.... My son who was Pay Master in Colo. Warner's Regiment writes 
to me that he has been Cashiered, by a Court Martial, for Innoculating a 
]\Ian not belonging to the Army, who brought the Infectious matter to 
him, and promised immediately to go to a place about 30 Miles distant 
from the Army where innoculation was allowed under the Inspection of a 
Committee — that he did it inadvertantly without any ill design, as he has 
always been a friend to the American cause he seems much grieved to 
leave the Service under a Censure, and tho' the Emoluments of that office 
are not worth seeking for, Yet for the sake of his reputation he wishes to 
be restored. I never heard but that he has been faithful in his public trust. 
he served some time as an Assistant Paymaster in Canada where he went 
as a Volunteer. I understand that Application has been made to Congress 
by him and some officers in his behalf but Colo. Dyer writes me that it was 
said in Congress that the Application ought to be made to the Officer who 
Dismissed him, or the State who appointed him so they did not enter into 
the consideration of the Matter.^ As the officers of that Regiment were 

3 Lafayette was commissioned a major-general July 31. See no. 565, ante. 

* See the Journals, Aug. 13, 25. Lafayette's letter to Congress, to which Harri- 
son refers, was dated Aug. 13, and was read in Congress the same day. It is printed 
in Tower, Lafayette in the Revolution, L 184, where it is also given in facsimile. In 
the close of the letter Lafayette says : " I wish to serve near the person of General 
Washington till such time as he may think proper to entrust me with a division of the 
Army. 

" It is now as an american that I'l mention every day to Congress the officers who 
came over with me, whose interests are for me as my own, and the consideration which 
they deserve by their merits their ranks, their state and reputation in france." 
[604]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, IX. 

2 William Sherman, jr., was appointed by Congress paymaster of Col. Seth 
Warner's regiment,^ July 6, 1776. There is no record in the Journals concerning his 
court-martial or reinstatement. That he was reinstated appears from an entry in the 
Journals, July 16, 1779, where it is recorded that he had offered to resign. According 
to Heitman's Historical Register, he retired from the service Jan. i, 1781. 



4 

appointed by Conf^ress being- from different States, be lias no vvbere to 
apply but to tbe Commander of tbe Department. If you on consideration 
of tbe Case shall tbink fit to afford bim relief it will oblige him, and be 
gratefully acknowledge by 

Your Obedient bumble Servant 

Roger Sherman 

The Honorable Major General Gates. 

605. Henry L.\urens to John Lewis Gervais.^ 

2 1 St. August 1777 
Dear Sir 

.... This Morning I will move Congress to believe the danger real 
and to take some measure to hem the assailants within a narrow Circle if 
unhappily they should get footing.^ .... 

606. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, Thursday, 21 August, 1777. 
.... 10 o'clock at night. 

Just come in from Congress. We have within this hour received letters 
of General Schuyler and Lincoln, giving an account of the battle of 
Bennington, wherein General Stark has acquired great glory, and so have 
his militia. The particulars are to be out in a hand-bill to-morrow morn- 
ing. I will enclose you one." 

607. James Lovell to Oliver Wolcott.'^ 

Philadelphia Augst. 2 1 St. 1777 
Sir 

This gratefully acknowledges the receipt of Yr. favour of the 31st. Ult: 
from Litchfield. The probable " slow pilgrimage " of every written testi- 

[605] IS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 138. 

2 The danger apprehended was from the British fleet which was supposed to be 
aiming for southern ports. Cf. no. 600, note 3, ante, and no. 607, post. A committee on 
South Carolina and Georgia was appointed Aug. 21, and on Aug. 28 North Carolina was 
added to their charge. Cf. nos. 584, 586, ante. No definite report from the committee 
of Aug. 21 appears to have been made. A new committee on the state of Georgia 
was appointed Jan. 15, 1778, and made an elaborate report Feb. 13. 

[6ohY Familiar Letters, p. 294. 

2 The information came in a letter from General Schuyler, dated Aug. 18. The 
letter is printed in Caleb Stark, Memoir and Official Correspondence of General John 
Stark, p. 129. Strangely enough the Journals make no mention of the character or 
contents of the letter. See also the Journals, Aug. 22, erased entry. A letter of Schuyler 
to Washington, dated Aug. 19, embodying a letter of General Lincoln, dated Aug. 18, 
giving an account of Stark's victory, is in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), L 425. 
A letter from Stark to the Xew Hampshire council, dated Aug. 18, giving an account of 
his victory, is in N. H. State Papers, VHL 670, and in the Memoir of Stark, p. 126. 
Stark also gave an account of the battle in a letter to General Gates, Aug. 23, ibid., 
p. 129. Cf. no. 599, ante, and nos. 607, 609, 615, 619, 622, post. Concerning the handbill 
see nos. 612, 621, post. 

[607]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. L, no. 29. 



August, /777 46 J 

mony of my esteem towards you makes it useless to endeavour to convev 
any novelty respectnig matters to the east and north of my present situa- 
tion; and the known similarity of our ideas of the leaders old and new in 
the fatal Department annuls every call for my comments or reflexions 
upon their conduct. If the final decision in regard to Arnold's cC 
should draw any strictures from you, I shall not be backward to answer 
them in turn.^ It may be fresh to you that Genl Starks from N Hampsh^ 
refuses to act with continental troops but upon his own terms ; I believe 
the state gave some option whether to join the regular army or not • all 
beyond that, is his own freak.' ^ ' ' 

We think we have reason to conclude that Howe is gone to surprize 
the Ports in North and South Carolina and Georgia,-That he means to 
fr M vJ T^fu'^' proper :-to block the harbours, and to return to this 
or JN- Yk. In the mean time our main strength will lay midway, instead of 
reinforcing Gates and putnam to destroy Bourgoin and the last mentioned 
foTes^*' ^""^ ^^^^ conquests in the absence of Genl. Howe's body of 

As to indoor matters they are like unto like. Our agents will pay the 
interest of our borrowings at the Loan Offices for 5,oSo,ooo Dollars or 
more. Some of us therefore think that, by informing the public they shall 
e ther receive 6 pr[cent] here, or bills of Exchange upon our Commis- 
sioners at 5, mercantile men would be induced to lend. Others are for 
making new tickets carrying upon their face 5 pr Ct in France so as to 
make hem negotiable, supposing they would be bought abroad at par or 
a small discount. But even if this was probable, which it is not in my 
opinion, the consequence would be giving foreigners a demand upon u. 
a some certain future Period for millions. These we could not Ldg^ 
like our own people to wait till we could sink our tickets by taxes in a 
course o years. You will guess who are for turning thing^s into rapid 
mercantile courses with a motto of the devil take the hindmost. In both 

itablv nnr nT'''" ^' T^V"^ ^''''^' exigencies; For, Taxes are indub- 
itably our only wise plan for a continuance ; and every day we omit to tax 
we pass a precious opportunity. One of the schemes is built upon cer- 
tainty; the other upon chance with the highest probability of ill conse- 

S'^'lf l' T'"''"' °.^ '^' ^''^''' ^' ^^ ^^ P^^d here upon our plighted 
taith. If they do not obtain currency in Europe we shall be disgmced 
immediately; for, the face of the paper shows our views and expectations 
If they do pass freely, we shall have a sad afterreconing. If fresh encour- 
agement to lenders, by bills of Exchange for their interest as it becomes 
due does not give an immediate spring to our Loan business, we must 
emit directly, till a tax can supply. We should consider that we have only 
gone two years into our annual income; we can bear much more; and our 
circulation is most amazingly extended, so as not to leave the depreciation 
a charge against the quantity of Bills by any means so strong as the pre- 

2 See nos. 582, 583, 585, 586, ante; cf. no. 671, post. 

3 See nos. 599, 606, ante, nos. 609, 615, post 

See no. 605, ante, and the addition to this letter, Aug 22 



4 

valent opinion.' Other causes have a more powerful influence. If Silas 
and his york connexions could have a good opening- to transfer their whole 
property to the other side of the water it is not impossible that they would 
gladly do it." 

22d Augst 

Sir 

Since scratching an attendant half Sheet we have had several sorts of 
intelligence that may produce changes very considerable in our domestic 
plans. In the first place there has been a proper council of war and 
determination as things then stood.^ We have in the next place informa- 
tion that on the 15th the Enemy's fleet was at the Capes of Virginia. The 
Genl and Council had thought Sth Carolina or the eastern States the 
Object of Howe's pursuit. I still believe that Virginia is visited thro 
meer necessity, if the present appearance of the ships is any thing more 
than an allarm.® .... 

Starks and his militia have made even Genl Chase willing to overlook 
a foolish rashness about rank. The Bennington affair may spur up to 
general vigour in the northern Department.® Schyler has been petitioned 
by the Genl Officers to tarry and influence the Militia, and he has 
consented to do it." If he is not a valliant man, he certainly knows 
how to use the w-orld ; he is far from a foolish man. He advises to send 
other indian Commissioners because Mr Woolcot etc. are so far off. I will 
give you the extract. This also is not foolish. 

4 oClock P. M. 
yesterday and this day we adjourned to dine." We were particularly 
induced to it, now, by an Express declaring the fleet high in the Bay of 
Chesepeak. It appears we must at length fight it between Head of Elk 
and Philadelphia. 

25th 

I have not got the Extract hinted at, but it is not material 

^ Cf. nos. 591, 594-597, ante, no. 627, post. 
^ The reference is to Silas Deane. 

" See the Journals, Aug. 21, 22, and Washington's letter, Aug. 21, in Writings 
(ed. Ford), VI. 45, (ed. Sparks), V. 38. 

8 See the Journals, Aug. 22 (p. 665, note 2). The passage here omitted relates 
to the movements of the fleet since July 5. See no. 610, post. Cf. Arch, of Md., XVI. 
336, 22,^2'\2, 344 ; Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 544. 

9 See no. 606, note 2, ante. "Genl Chase" is Samuel Chase, member of Con- 
gress. The " Genl " is of course used sarcastically. In the vote of Oct. 4 for making 
Stark a brigadier-general of the United States, Chase was the only member in opposition, 

10 See the Journals, Aug. 21. Schuyler's letter, dated Aug. 15, is in Lossing, Life 
of Schuyler, II. 301. See also ibid., p. 309. Cf. no. 611, post. 

11 The Journals, Aug. 21, 22, do not show at what time adjournment for dinner 
was taken, but the reassembling was at five o'clock. The dating of Hancock's letter, 
Aug. 22, post, indicates that on that day Congress did not adjourn before half past one. 
Congress shifted frequently between one session a day and two. There were a few more 
trials at double sessions, then, on Oct. i, two sessions were made the rule (see the 
Journals). Nov. 19, however, it was resolved to return to the practice of one session a 
day, but Dec. 16 the two-session day was once more adopted. 



August, 7777 463 

608. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington/ 

Philadelphia August 2 1st, 1777. 
Sir, 

Upon the Resignation of Mr. Philips as Commissary of Hydes, the 
Congress have been pleased to appoint Mr. George Ewing in his Place, 
who is ordered to carry into Execution the Plan you have proposed ; ' 
which I make no Doubt he will do with Application and Success 

609, The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of 
New Hampshire (Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia, August 22d, 1777. 
Sir, 

The inclosed is a copy of General Lincoln's letter to General Schuyler 
and the Resolution of Congress on receiving it, which was the 19th 
Instant.^ Some of the southern Gentlemen made themselves very warm 
on the occasion, threw out many illiberal reflections on General Stark, and 
some on the Legislative authority of the State of New Hampshire, which 
made your delegates sit very uneasy in their chairs even to give them time 
to go through, but in our turn we informed Congress that we had no 
information from the State of New Hampshire to inform us what the 
reasons were that induced them to give such orders to General Stark ; but 
that we had Reed a letter from the Honbl, Josiah Bartlett, a member of 
the Council of that State and lately a member of Congress, which had 
given us some of their reasons, and were such in our opinion as were con- 
clusive, and would justify the conduct of that State in the eyes of the 
whole world : That, in the first place, the Militia of that State had lost 
all confidence in the General Officers who had the command at Tycon- 
deroga when it was evacuated and given up to our enemies; that they 
would not turn out nor be commanded by such officers ; that the preserva- 
tion of the lives of the inhabitants on our frontiers and the cause in which 
we were all engaged made such orders at that critical time absolutely 
necessary ; that we were not about to justify General Stark for making a 
demand of rank in the army at that critical time, but we well knew he had 
a great deal to say for himself on that head, and that he had been in 
almost all the engagements to the northward, and distinguished himself, 
while others were advanced over his head. Yesterday a motion was made 
by Maryland and seconded that a Resolve of Congress might be passed to 
censure his conduct in refusing to submit to the Rules and Regulations of 

[608] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington. XVIL 260. 

2 George Ewing was elected commissary of hides in place of Peter Philips, 
Aug. 5. A resolution to the effect that Ewing had full authority to carry out Washing- 
ton's plans was presented by the board of war Aug. 19, but the record in the Journals 
would indicate that the resolution was laid on the table, and there is no record of its 
having been taken up again. The letter of Washington alluded to is dated Aug. 16, 
and was read in Congress Aug. 18. 
l6o9]iJV. H. State Papers, VIIL 663. 

2 See nos. 599, 606, 607, ante, no. 615, post. 



4C4 Continental Congress 

the Army ; on which a larp^e debate ensued, in which we were supported 
by all the New Eng^land Delegates and Some of the Virginians : On 
motion being made, it was agreed it should lie on the table and carried by 
a grate majority.' We inform'd Congress that a motion of that sort came 
with a very bad grace from Maryland who, only, of the thirteen United 
States had seen fit to make laws directly in opposition to Congress by 
refusing that their militia should be subjected to the rules and regulations 
of the army when joynd ; And we informed Congress that we had not 
the least doubt but the first battle they heard of from the North would be 
fought by Stark and the troops commanded by him .... and that I 
should not be afraid to risque my honor nor my life, they would do as 
much towards the defence of that part of the country and the common 
cause, as the same number of any of the troops in that department, 

I will leave you, Sir, to judge of our feelings, when the very next day 
we had a confirmation of what we had asserted by an express from Gen- 
eral Schuyler giving an Account of the victory obtained by General Stark 
and the troops under his command.* We believe this circumstance only 
will make those easy who have been trying to raise a dust in Congress. 

We are, with the greatest respect, Sir, 

Yr most obedt. Humbl servts. 

Nath Folsom 
Geo : Frost. 

6io. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Congress Cham. 22 Augst 1777. 
^ past I oClock P M ^ 
Sir 

This moment an Express is arriv'd from Maryland with an Accott of 
near Two hundred Sail of Mr Howe's Fleet being at Anchor in the 
Chesapeak Bay, a Copy of the Letter brought by Express I inclose you, 
and to which I Refer you.' In consequence of this Advice Congress have 

3 See the erased entry in the Journals, Aug. 20 ; cf. the erased entry Aug. 22. The 
motion was probably made by Samuel Chase ; such is at least the natural inference from 
Lovell's remark in his letter to Wolcott (no. 607, ante). The other Maryland delegates 
were William Paca and William Smith. Paca was probably present on the 20th (see 
his letter of Aug. 19, no. 600, ante), but he left Philadelphia not later than Aug, 22. 
See the yeas and nays of that day, and also Paca's letter to Governor Johnson, Aug. 24 
(dated "Sunday 25 Aug. 1777"), in Arch, of Md., XVI. 344. Cf. Rowland, Charles 
Carroll of Carrollton, I. 212. 

* See the Journals, Aug. 21, 22, (pp. 663, 665) ; cf. no. 606, ante. 
[6io]i Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC, 273; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), L 429. 

2 At seven o'clock in the morning Hancock had written to Washington, acknowl- 
edging his letters of Aug. 21, together with the deliberations of a council of war, and 
enclosing the resolutions of Congress on the subject. 

3 A letter from William Bordley to William Paca. See the Journals, Aug. 22 
(p. 665, note 2). Cf. no. 607, note 8, ante. A letter from Hancock to Governor Caswell 
of North Carolina on the same day, transmitting a resolution of Aug. 21 (see the 
Journals, p. 660), mentions "intelligence from Virginia that the fleet of the enemy were 
seen near the capes of the Chesapeak on the 15th inst" {N. C. State Recs., XL 585). 
See also the New York delegates to the council of safety, Aug. 22, Jour. N. Y. Prov. 
Cong., 1. 51, and Charles Carroll of Carrollton to (jovemor Johnson, Aug. 22, in Rowland, 
Charles Carroll of Carrollton, I. 212. 



August, ijjj 465 

order'd the immediate Removal of all the Stores and Prisoners from 
Lancaster and York in this State to places of greater Safety. 

Congress have this moment come to the Inclos'd Resolution * to which 
I beg leave to Refer you, and, indeed I need not add, as the whole matter 
is submitted to you. I will not Detain the express only to say that I am 
with every Sentiment of Esteem and Respect, Sir, 

Your very hum' Servt 

John Hancock, Presidt. 

His Excellency General Washington. 

6ii. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philad 23d Augt. 1777 
My dear General 

I am now to thank you for your kind and confidential favour of the 
[19th] Inst.; ^ with the papers transmitted me by Mr Jay they have and 
shall be seen by those whose good Opinions deserve your Solicitude. 

your Conduct in my Judgement wants no Apology : instead of Censure 
it merits thanks: your Friends in Congress echo this Sentiment freely; 
your Enemies, relentless and bent on your Destruction would willingly 
involve you in the Odium of loosing Ticonderoga. The Change of Com- 
mand was not however founded on this principle but merely on the Repre- 
sentation of the Eastern States that their Militia suspicious of your 
military Character woud not turn out in Defence of New York while you 
presided in the Northern Department. So Confident were they in these 
Assertions and such from your Own representations was the gloomy 
Aspect of our Affairs there, that the Southern Members were alarmed, 
and we thought it prudent not to attempt to Stem the Torrent. It was 
however agreed and declared, as I hinted before, that the Eastern preju- 
dices against you were the only Motive to your recall, and it was under- 
stood that you might take your time in coming down.' Indeed to have 
ordered otherwise, at so critical a Time, wou'd have been inhuman con- 
sidering your family fortune and Influence in that Country, your Reso- 
lution to stay and exert yourself while she remains in such imminent 
danger is worthy of a Virtuous brave and patriotic Citizen : All your 
Friends wish that fortune may put it in your power to give some signal 
Proof of the only military Talent which you have not Evidenced in the 
course of your Command for want of an Opportunity. They all pro- 
nounce that this would put your Enemies to Silence and to Shame and 
elevate you to the highest Rank among the American Commanders.* 

* The resolution giving Washington entire liberty of action on the approach of 
the enemy's fleet (Journals, p. 666). Washington's reply, dated Aug. 22, is in Writings 
(ed. Ford), VI. 49. See also his letter of Aug. 23, ibid., VI. 50. The letters are in 
Writings (ed. Sparks), V. 42, 43. 

[6ii]iN. Y, Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 543; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
no. 60, p. 141 (copy). 

2 An extract of Schuyler's letter to Duane, Aug. 19, is in Lossing, Life of 
Schuyler, II. 309. 

3 See the Journals, Aug. i. 

* See nos. 587, 598, ante. 



466 Continental Con^iircss 

The Application from the Eastern Generals for your Continuance in the 
Department, and the respectable Reinforcement from New Hampshire, 
which so pali)ably contradict the assertions which were the Basis of your 
Removal are no small Occasion of Triumph to such of us as predicted that 
you would be supported ; and will not readily be forgotten.'^ 

612. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell),^ 

Philadelphia, August 23d, 1777. 
Sir: 

I have the honor to enclose your Excellency a hand-bill published by 
order of Congress. Gen'l. Stark has in some measure retrieved our affairs 
in the Northern Department : he is a Militia Brigadier from N. Hamp- 
shire, and has acquired great honor.^ The fleet of the enemy are arrived 
in Chesapeak Bay, what may be their intentions Congress is not informed, 
but are prepared, I hope, to disconcert their plan whichever way it may 
be pointed. 

As Congress seem at present inclinable to fortify sea-ports at the Con- 
tinental expence. I could wish your Excellency would be pleased to for- 
ward to the Delegates of your State, the plans of Cape Lookout Bay and 
of C. Fear river. I hope for the assistance of Congress in this business. 



613. The President of Congress to the Pennsylvania Council.^ 

Phil ADA. August 23d. 1777. 
Gentlemen, 

In the present critical Situation of Affairs, the Congress have come to 
the enclosed Resolves for the Defence of the several States therein men- 
tioned, which I make no Doubt you will immediately carry into Execu- 
tion.^ The absolute Necessity of Exertion and Vigour on the Occasion, 
is too apparent to be pointed out. It is sufficient to observe, that an active 
and spirited Behaviour in the Militia will have the most beneficial Effects, 
by convincing our Enemies of our Determination to oppose them with 
the utmost Firmness and Resolution. 

I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, 

Your most obedt. and very hble Servt. 

John Hancock Presidt 

His Excellency, Thomas Wharton Esqr 
President, and the Honble the Executive 
Council of the State of Pennsylvania. 

5 See the Journals, Aug. 21 ; cf. no. 607, ante, no. 669, post. 
l6i2]iA\ C. State Recs., XL 590. 

2 Cf. nos. 606, 607, 609, ante, nos. 615, 619, 621, 622, post. See also Burke to 
Caswell, Aug. 21, N. C. State Recs., XL 592. 

[6i3]iHaverford College, Roberts Coll., 722; Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 544- 

- The resolves passed at the five-o'clock session of Aug. 22, upon the report of 
a committee appointed just prior to adjournment. 



August, 7777 467 

614. Henry Marchant to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke)/ 

Philadelphia, August 24th, 1777. 

Honored Sir 

Taking into Consideration that the Enemy have seen proper to 
make this Campaign so far to the Southward and Northward as I am in 
Hopes will give an Opportunity to raise a Sufficient Force of Militia and 
State Battalions to induce Our State joined by Mass and Connecticut to 
make an Attempt upon Rhode-Island : And in Order to give a Spring to 
such a hoped for Design; and wishing at least to get our Shipping and 
Continental Navy out to Sea, I ventured to draw up the enclosed Resolu- 
tions and prefer them to Congress : They were by Congress referred to 
the Marine Committee, and obtaining a favorable Report from that Board, 
I finally got them passed by Congress nearly as I had at first drawn them 
up.^ If they should be thought by the Navy Board for the Eastern De- 
partment, and the Councill of War of Our own State, to have been idle, 
inexpedient or unadvisable, I shall but have lost my Pains, not doubting 
but they will be candidly considered. If, on the other Hand, they should 
meet the Approbation of the State I have the Honor to represent, I shall 
feel myself amply rewarded : And should they prove efficatious in deliver- 
ing Our Trade and Commerce and the Continental Navy from its present 
Embarassments my every Wish will be unspeakably gratified. I thought 
I could not well answer it to the distressed State of Rhode Island to 
remain an Idle Spectator of the Calamities to which it has been reduced 
without receiving any Continental Aid, while so many Thousands have 
been expended in the particular Defence of Delaware Bay and River ; 
not less than ten Fire Ships, besides several large Gallies having been 
ordered by Congress, exclusive of very great Continental Assistance in 
constructing and raising of Batteries etc.^ I would by no means however 
wish to see the publick Monies expended in our State, without a hopeful 
Prospect of its being really beneficial. And I would therefore strongly 
recommend that it be first well considered. I doubt not you will have the 
same Resolves inclosed to you by the President ; but I have hitherto made 
it my Duty to transmit you all Resolves that respect Our State 

615. The President of Congress to the New Hampshire Assembly.^ 

Philadelphia Augt. 25th. 1777. 
Gentlemen, 

I have it in charge from Congress to transmit you the enclosed Copy of 
a Letter from G^nl. Lincoln, accompanied with the Resolve of Congress 
founded thereon. 

[614] iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1777-1778, p. 11; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 148. 

2 " The Congress being moved to pass sundry resolutions, and the same being 
read, 

" Ordered, That the same be referred to the Marine Committee." The Journals, 
Aug. 18. The resolutions as passed are in the Journals, Aug. 21 (pp. 661-662). 

3 See the Journals, July 16, Aug. 6. 

[615]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VL 257; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. H., f. 250; ibid., N. H. Records, 1777. 



4 

It is with the utmost Regret the Congress hear, that Genl. Stark has 
Instructions to act independant of the Army of the United States, if he 
should be so inchned. As Nothing can be more destructive of mihtary 
Subordination, or produce greater Confusion in the Service, than the 
Existence of any Corps or Body of Men, free from the Controul of the 
Commander in Chief, and the Rules of Discipline that bind the Rest of 
the Army, it is the earnest Desire of Congress that Genl. Stark may be 
subject to the same Regulations by v^hich all other general Officers of the 
Militia have been hitherto governed when called out at the Expence of the 
United States. I am therefore to request you will give Genl. Stark 
Instructions to govern himself accordingly. 

I beg leave to refer your Attention to the enclosed Resolve and to 
intreat your immediate Compliance with it, as the only effectual Means 
of preventing Discord, and restoring that Harmony so indispensably 
necessary at this Juncture in the Army of the United States of America.^ 

I have the Honour to be. Gentlemen, 

your most obed and very hble. Sert. 

J. H. Presid. 

Honble Assembly of the State of New Hampshire 



6i6. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson.* 

Phila. August 25, 1777 

Dear Sir, 

.... The Confederation goes on but slowly, occasioned by the immen- 
sity of business created by the war. But I find our right to our Charter 
bounds, as stated by our Act of Government will be strongly contested. 
The Charter of 1609 it is said has been vacated, and that no transfer of 
that Charter right can be shewn from the Company to the people of 
Virginia. That therefore the ungranted lands were the property of the 
Crown, and being taken from it, by Common exertions, must become 
common Stock. Will you be so kind as favor me with your reasons and 
authorities in support of our right? ' . . . . 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 19, 20 (erased entry), 22 (erased entry), and nos. 
599, 609, ante; cf. nos. 606, 607, 612, ante, nos. 619, 622, post. 

[616] 1 Library of Congress. Jefferson Papers, second ser., LI. 16; Letters of Richard 
Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), L 317. 

2 Jefferson's reply to this letter has not been found. The " Act of Government " 
of Virginia referred to is probably the provision in the constitution of 1776 ceding the 
charter bounds of Pennsylvania, Maryland, North Carolina, and South Carolina, but 
retaining all else according to the charter of 1609. See Gannett, Boundaries of the United 
States, p. 89. Lee's letter indicates that the Maryland delegates were, in the discussion of 
the Confederation at this time, taking the position in regard to the western territory which 
is given definite record in the Journals, Oct. 15. Cf. no. 672, post. The attitude of Mary- 
land had, in fact, been clearly shown bv Chase's remarks, July 25, anent the proposed 
southern expedition (see no. 559B, ante). In regard to the Confederation see no. 588, 
note 2, ante. 



August, 7777 469 

617. Henry Laurens, Heads of Inquiry as to the State of the 

Army/ 

In Congress 27 Aug-ust 1777. 
Resolved and etc.^ 

By corresponding with pub : Bodies or private persons by Letter or 
otherwise in this and the neighboring States 

Jst. To collect the fullest and clearest evidence of the state of the Army 
in the Northern department. 

Agreed, to apply to the Board of War for all Letters from General 
Schuyler and Gen. St. Clair from ist. May last to 31st July and to the 
Board of War and Treasury for all the Returns 

2d The state of the Troops, military Stores and provision at Ticonderoga 
and Mount Independance. 

Agreed — see Returns ' for state of the Troops — for Military Stores, 
enq. of Commissy MS [ ?]* for Provision of the Commissy of P. What 
provisions were there the ist May and sent afterwards up to the time of 
abandoning the post. 

^d To call for and examine the minutes of the Council of War what 
orders were given from time to time by the Commander in Chief of that 
department. 

4th Were the Barracks and Stores destroyed? 

^th Enquire of the Quarter Master and Commissary Gen — the quantity 
of Provision laid up at Ticonderoga or near it. what measures were 
taken or taking for throwing in further supplies, see 2d. 

[6i7]iUniv. Va. Lib., Lee Papers (in the writing of Henry Laurens). 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 27, 28 ; cf. ibid., July 29, Aug. i, 19, 20, 23, 25. See also 
no. 602, note 2, ante, and nos. 619, 625, post. Laurens was chairman of the committee 
appointed Aug. i to report the mode of conducting the inquiry into the evacuation of 
Ticonderoga, and drew the report which was the basis of the resolutions of Aug. 27. 
He was also chairman of the committee appointed Aug. 28 to collect the evidence and 
facts relative to the evacuation. He has here set down in order, but more minutely 
subdivided, the points of inquiry found in the report of Aug. 27, followed by memoranda 
of agreements in the proceedings of the committee of Aug. 28 as to certain lines of 
inquiry. The fact that Richard Henry Lee was a member of this committee will explain 
why this document is found among the Lee Papers. The other member of the com- 
mittee was John Adams. Laurens has given to these heads of inquiry the date Aug. 27, 
the date on which the mode of inquiry was determined, but the minutes of committee 
proceedings evidently belong to some subsequent day, as the committee was not appointed 
until Aug. 28. Dec. 26, 1777, three members were added to the committee, namely, 
Francis Dana, John Witherspoon, and William Ellery. Jan. 20, 1778, James Lovell was 
put in place of Dana. Jan. 27 James Smith was added to the committee. Feb. 5 the 
committee reported that it had collected the evidence, and was ordered to transmit it 
to General Washington, who was directed to order a court-martial. Apr. 29 a committee 
was appointed to examine the evidence and state the charges against the general officers 
who were in the Northern department when Ticonderoga and Mount Independence were 
evacuated. This committee reported June 12. 

3 This reference in the original is to " Returns " in item i. Laurens has placed 
a cross against the word " Returns " in each instance. 

* It is conjectured that the note is to be read: " for Military Stores, enq[uire] 
of Commissary [of] M[ilitary] S [tores]." In the 5th paragraph, which essentially 
duplicates the second inquiry, the phrase is " enquire of the quarter-master and com- 
missary Gen." " Commissy of P." is Commissary of Purchases. 



4 

6th The numlier appointment and movements of tlie Enemy from the 
time of tlieir Landing to the time of Evacuating the Fort. 

yth. And also the number quality and condition of the Garrison, see 
the 2. 

8th. What measures were taken to gain Intelligence of the strength of 
the Enemy by the Comm. in Chief or the Commanding Officer of the 
Garrison. 

Agreed to enquire of Officers who were in Garrison. 

g>th. To Enquire of the Clothier general — what Clothing had been 
issued from time to time for use of the Northern department and from 
other public Officers into the expenditure of such issues. 

Agreed — to enquire at the War Office for returns by Mr. Measom.' 
of Mr. Maese ' and his deputies and of proper persons for the expenditure. 

loth. The number equipment and behaviour of the Militia, the terms 
for their service, at and before the time of the evacuation. 

nth. The situation and condition of the Lines [at Ticonderoga] ^ and 
the Fortifications upon Mount Independence. 

Agreed — to inquire of Colonel Putman, Engineers. 

I2th. What works thrown up by the Enemy at what distance and what 
posts they had taken. 

Agreed — to enquire of Engineers and other proper Officers. 

i^th. What Orders by the Command^ Officer directing and regulating 
the manner in which the Retreat was conducted, what care taken of the 
Sick. 

Agreed to enquire of Field Officers and others. 

14th. Where any Continental Troops and what number at Albany or 
in the Neighborhood how long they had been there and why not ordered 
to Ticonderoga. 

Agreed — Enquire of the Adjutant general, his deputy also of General 
Officers. 

15th. The number and size of the Cannon — Were any removed before 
evacuating the Posts? The qnty and pieces of Military Stores? were 
the Troops furnished with Bayonets? were there Pikes and Spears and 
what number proper for defending Lines? 

Agreed — Enquire of Engineers, of Officers of Artillery, Commissary 
of Military Stores, Colonels and others. 

Agreed to send Copies of the Resolve to the Governor of Connecticut 
Councils of Massachusetts and New Hampshire and to Governor Clinton 
of N. York. 



s George Measam, commissary of clothing for the Northern army. 
8 James Mease, clothier-general. 

7 There is a defect here in the manuscript. The missing words are supplied from 
the Journals (p. 685). 



September, J/// 471 

6i8. Henry Laurens to Lachlan McIntosh/ 

1st. Septem. 1777 
Dear Sir 

.... Congress is now engaged in ways and means for filling an 
almost exhausted Treasury without repeating an Emission of paper 
Dollars the favorite Scheme is that of borrowing from France, which 
I esteem [the most] destructive step we can take, so far as for all internal 
demands, and will be to all intents and purposes a further emission of 
paper Money infinitely more detrimental in its consequences than the 
evil which is dreaded from a further Issue of Dollars, it may deprive us 
too of the use of so much Money as we shall want in France for the most 
important occasions to which paper Dollars are inadequate. I have 
endeavoured to point out ways and means by which our Treasury might 
be filled without either of the modes above mentioned, make the Condi- 
tions of your Loan more favorable I might say more equitable to Lenders, 
and practice that frugality and oeconomy in public and private affairs 
which was our boast in 1774 and from which particularly in public 
Oeconomy we have departed as widely as prodigality lies from discretion 
and virtue.^ .... 



619. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of 

New Hampshire.'^ 

Philadelphia, Sept 2d, 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The Congress has chosen a Committee to collect what evidence 
they can for the trial of officers at Ticonderoga, as you'll see more at large 
by the newspapers, and how far the State of New Hampshire is concerned 
in that collection.^ 

There has been lately a discovery as is supposed a plot by the Quakers 
in this place against the States, by furnishing our Enemies with intelli- 
gence etc. (I fear we shall fail of that proof that is expected) which has 
in some degree laid the censure on all those people in the United States ; 
and the Congress has passed some Resolves to be sent to the United States 
in order to apprehend some of those people. I trust our Court will act 
with their own prudence and caution in that affair.^ 

The Treasury board has not made any report on our request for money, 
but are daily promising to do it ; am still in doubt whether we shall suc- 

[618] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 144. 
2 See no. 591, note 2, ante, nos. 620, 627, post. 

" Congress are deeply engaged in financiering, in contriving ways and means. All agree 
in taxing largely, but that will not afford us immediate supplies." Eliphalet Dyer to 
Governor Trumbull, Sept. i, 1777, Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., H. 137. 

[619]! AT. H. State Papers, VHI, 673. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 28, and nos. 602, 617, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Aug. 28 (p. 688, note 2, and p. 694), Sept. 3, 5, 6, 8; also 
Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 554, 574, 580, 582, 584, 586, 589, 590, 591, 593, S96, 597, 600, 604, 
607, 610, 612, 632. Cf. no. 586, notes 10, 13, ante, nos. 627, 630, 633, 634, post. See, 
further, the Journals, Jan. 29, Mar. 10, 16, May 15, 1778. 

35 



472 Cont'uicntal Congress 

ceed, as the Congress is in want of all our money for the public use : * 
It is greatly wished by Congress that the monied men would supply the 
loan office faster, and that all the States would go largely into taxation. 

There is no Commissioners appointed as yet in the Eastern Department 
to settle the accts. of those States, except what is relating to the army, but 
suppose there will be some appointed soon;" as we have requested of 
Congress to appoint such to examine the State of New Hampshire's acct, 
it would be no small advantage to your Delegates if we could be honor'd 
with the Acts or Resolves of our Honorbl. Court, so far as relates with our 
duty we oicc the State and Court in Congress ; we were left to guess the 
Reasons the State had in giving Genl Stark his orders as it is said he had, 
and trust we have given the Congress sufficient reason to justify the State 
therein, and to prevent any censure on the State in supposing they had any 
desire in acting in a separate or distinct line, but in conjunction and steady 
union with the whole United States and for the general welfare of the 
same ;".... 

Your most obedt and most Humbl servts 

Nathl Folsom 
Geo. Frost, 
The Honbl Meshech Weare, Esq. 
Presidt New Hampshire, 

620, Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia, Septr, 2d, 1777. 
Dr Sir: 

The inclosed paper will give you all the public intelligence since my 
last. The complexion of affairs is not yet become so determined that I 
can set off for home ; but I am in daily expectations of some events which 
may determine my resolutions to that purpose. Our finances have long 
engaged our attention in Congress, but we have not yet come to any con- 
clusive Resolutions thereon. The subject is of the greatest importance, 
and truly too great for our talents. One thing every one seems clear in, 
that Taxation in a ver}^ liberal degree must take place. This, Sir, is so 
necessary that it must at all events be attempted every where. The 
quantity of money in circulation, and its consequent depreciation, and the 
accumulating debt of the public makes it inevitably necessary. I fear the 
system under consideration will not be so far matured before my depar- 
ture that I can carry it with me, or know how to apply my endeavours at 
home towards the perfection of it, I shall however make myself as much 
master as possible of the prevailing opinions thereon.^ You will find by 
the intelligence that our affairs every where bear a promising aspect, I 

•* See the Journals, Sept. 12, 15, 

s Cf. the Journals, Nov. 5. 1776, Jan. 24, Feb. 13, ]\Iar. 13, 25, Apr. 9, 19, 29, 
May 3, 1777, Jan. 3, 5, 10, Feb. 6, 1778. Cf. no. 627, post. 
^ See nos. 599, 609, 615, ante. 
[62o]iAr. C. State Recs., XL 604. 

2 Cf. nos. 591, 596, 597, ante, no. 627, post. 



September, i;;y 473 

have the most sanfi:uine hopes that this campaign will give a severe blow 
to the British arms ; and I even look forward to an end of the war much 
sooner than has hitherto appeared probable. I have, Sir, troubled you too 
long m this letter, and shall only add that, I have the honor to be with the 
greatest respect and regard your very obed't hum. S't., 

Thos. Burke. 
621. The Committee of Intelligence to George Washington.* 
^. Philadelphia 2d. Septr. 1777 

We have the honor to send your Excellency herewith a number of hand 
bills published by order of Congress, in that form, for the more easy dis- 
persion thro the army, that the troops may be made acquainted with, and 
emulate the conduct of their brave northern and eastern brethren ^ 

Wishing you health and success we are with much esteem and reeard 
your Jixcellencies most obedient humble Servants 

Richard Henry Lee 
Thos. Heyward Junr. 
JoNA D Sergeant 
Wm Duer 
Committee of Intelligence 

622. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston.' 
MydearSir, [September 3 (?), 1777-]^ 

.... It is difficult to fix a reward for Herkimer. He does not want a 
Continental command nor money. The thanks of Congress and a sword 
whl be readily granted. Can you think of any thing more suitable ' 
Gansvoort and Willett are in the highest degree of fame, we have had 

[62IJ1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 304 

2 These were handbills announcing Stark's victory at Bennineton See nn« 
M Fo;dr VI 6." Th?l °' Washington's reply Sept' 3 is^ prinTd^in WritS^i 
fh^'h.Zu-u c K ^"^ Journals do not record the order of Congress for orintine 
(el'rordfix.^fo86.'"''" ^'^ Bibliographical Notes under Aug. 2!, in%he /JiS 

^^""""K^x}'!- P"b. Lib Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, L 299 (copy) 

2 With regard to the conjectural date of this letter, see note 3, befow 

3 The question of reward for Herkimer, Gansevoort, Willet and Stark came 
n!ZlLT"^T ?,'P'- ^' ^S^^'-dingly this letter was probably writtefon that Ty 
?see Aooletnn r^W^ T ^V^^^l^ "J Herkimer's death, which had occurred Aug S 
nrfnf.^^^ ?u' ^^^"^ ^r^"' ^'""^/^ ' ^"^ ^e must presently have read the following notice 
printed in the />.„n.yfoama /o«r«a/ Sept. 3: "Kingston (New York Au|usr2? 
thVbaUle n?ar Onev^'a brri^^^^A^KEMAN is dead of the wounds he recdved at 
SidTesterdav'' ?Fif..?f.^/ ^^-"^J"^ wrote to Gates, Aug. 21: "General Herkimer 
fwl- f .. ^Letters to Washtngton, ed. Sparks, H. 518), but there is no record 
that this letter was read m Congress, although Arnold's letters to Gates of Aug IMnA 
iiZf^, 'f^ ^^^\'- ^r^"°n" ^^'"*°" announced Herkimer°s death to Ihfcoundl 
?n Prl -^ ^"!^^^ ^{'T ^- ^- -^^^^^ ^''«^- I- 1048). and a copy of his letter was seS 
to President Hancock by the council Aug. 26. Its receipt by Congress is not Sever 

SeT 2 and '^rP^'T^'' T^t'' ^^^'"^ '^'^^'^^ Herki^er'^n his^letters to his °v¥e of 
nn^A^rfo- i (^^^'^^'^C J^^tters, pp. 304, 305), but does not mention his death It is 
T.t ^V^'^^T. "?"", Congress learned it. See the Journals, Oct. 4, and no 66^ 
post. With regard to Stark, see nos. 609, 615, ante. ^' 



4 

such a train of disgrace at all our forts, and lost them so unexpectedly — 
Let me except Sullivan's Island that the brave defence of Fort Schuyler 
has made the deepest impression. The reward due to these gentlemen is 
not yet determined : but it is generally talked to raise Gansevoort to the 
rank of Brigadier General, and VVillett to that of Colonel. Stark will 
also be provided for, though he is something under the clouds for refusing 
to serve under General Lincoln to whom he refused the command of the 
troops, assigning as a reason that Congress had done him injustice in not 
promoting him 

623. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

Israel Putnam/ 

Philadelphia Septr 3d. 1777. 
Sir, 

Your Favour of the 27th Ulto I have been duely honored with, and 
immediately laid it before Congress. 

From the enclosed Resolves you will percieve that Provision has been 
made for Major Generals, while they act in a seperate Department, and as 
Congress consider you as acting in that Line for the present, the same Pay 
is to be extended to you from the Time you took the Command at Peeks- 
Kill, until it shall cease.^ 

The Congress have been induced from your Recommendation of Rose 
and Ackerly, to consent that you should pardon them both. The Manner 
in which you propose to employ them appears to be extremely proper. 

The Honble Major Genl Putnam Peeks-Kill. 

624. Robert Morris to William Whipple.* 

Philadelphia Septr. 4th. 1777 
Dear Sir 

I have seen letters from Cap McNeil to the Marine Committee wherein 
he blames Manly for some part of his Conduct, it w-as a great pity they 
did not push into some port with their Prize where the whole might have 
been manned and gone out fresh again they wou'd have formed a stern 
little squadron, however as that cannot be, w^e must attend to what is 
in our power and if Thompson, Hinman[,] Jones and McNeill are not 
gone they wnll now receive orders to cross the Ocean, this point I carried 
yesterday in Committee and the orders will be sent immediately.^ 

[623]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 262; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. H., p. 255. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 2. The extra pay and allowance to a major-general 
acting in a separate department rests on the resolve of June 16, 1775. See no. 512, 
ante. 

[624]! Md. Hist. Soc, Gilmor Papers, III. 5. 

2 The officers mentioned are Captains Thomas Thoiripson, Elisha Hinman, John 
Paul Jones, and Hector McNeill (see the Journals, Oct. 10, 1776). The marine com- 
mittee's letter to Capt. Thompson, dated Sept. 6, ordering him to get ready and sail to 
France, is in Paullin, Out-Letters of the Continental Marine Committee and Board of 
Admiralty, I. 155. In regard to the controversy between McNeill and Manley, see G. W. 
Allen. Navai Hist. Am. Rev., I. 202, et seq; and I. J. Greenwood, Captain John Manley, 
ch. IV. Cf. no. 427, ante. 



September, 7777 475 

I am much engaged in winding up the Accounts of the Secret Com- 
mittee and it will be a Herculean labour, and in order to do it compleatly 
I moved for a New Committee which was appointed and is stiled the 
Commercial Committee who are to carry on the business in future ' they 
have chosen me Chairman but I am very averse to engaging deeply in this 
new business untill the old is closed, and indeed I now wish to be released 
from public business totally. I have had a long spell, my own affairs 
suffering amazingly the whole time and having no Ambition to gratify 
I wish to Resign my honors and powers to somebody that may be better 
pleased with them. Whether I shall be permitted to retire or not I dont 
yet know, but the meeting of our assembly is at hand and I hope they 
will leave me out of the new appointments. The Commercial Committee 
agreed at their last meeting that it was better to lay by awhile as the 
Enemies Cruizers are too numerous on our Coasts for any thing to escape 
in the Summer Months, but I suppose they will Commence some opera- 
tions soon as hard Winds begin to blow 

625. Committee of Congress to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Sir — 

The Resolve of Congress which you will receive under this Cover will 
show you that we are appointed a Committee and for what purposes.^ 

We request you to transmit to us by the earliest good opportunity the 
fullest intelligence in your late department of Commissary General and 
you will further oblige us by adding any further information properly 
authenticated relative to the enquiries which we are ordered to make. 

We are with great regard Sir, 

Your most obedient Servant [s] 

Henry Laurens 
Richard Henry L[ee] 
John Adams 
State House 

Philadelphia 5 September 1777 
Joseph Trumbull Esquire 

Connecticut. 

626. The President of Congress to the Governor of New Jersey.* 

Philadelphia, September 5th, 1777. 
Sir, 

In the present exigency of public affairs, the Congress have come to 
the enclosed resolve, which I have the honor to transmit, and which I am 
to request you will comply with as soon as possible.^ 

3 See the Journals, July 5, and no. 539, ante. See also Morris's statement, Jan. 
7> 1779. in the next volume of these Letters. 

[625]! Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 506 (in the writing of Henry 
Laurens). 

2 The committee appointed to collect evidence relative to the evacuation of 
Ticonderoga. See nos. 602, note 2, 617, 619, ante, nos. 669, 671, 677, 781, post. 
[626]^ N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 98. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 4, and nos. 627, 629, post. Cf. nos. 635, 639, post, and 
the Journals, Sept. 17. 



4 

The militia of the state of New Jersey by their late conduct ag-ainst our 
cruel enemies, have distingfuisheci themselves in a manner that does them 
tile g^reatest honor; and I am persuaded they will continue to merit on all 
occasions, when called upon, the reputation they have so justly acquired. 
Those which the Congress now rc«iuest you will order out, it is their 
desire you will order to rendezvou at Bristol. 

It will be highly agreeable to Congress to give the command to Gen. 
Dickinson, should the appointment fall in with your judgment, and I have 
reason to believe he will cheerfully accept of it, if you should think proper 
to put them under his direction.^ 

I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, sir, your most obed't 
and very h'ble serv't, 

John Hancock, Presid't. 

His Excellency, Governor Livingston, 

627. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais.^ 

5th. Septem. 1777 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress is not the respectable body which I expected to have 
found, to be particular on this point would be improper, but I mention 
so much from that feeling which is irrisistible. I see my own private 
affairs going to Wreck. I am helping forward the heavy loss by most 
amazing expences here. I am adding to the load of trouble which my 
friends must have from attending to their own concerns, and am render- 
ing my Country no intrinsic services, this latter consideration grieves 
me most. I think I have been instrumental in averting two pernicious 
schemes and except these my time 8 or 10 hours every day has been 
squandered, the most necessary work we have to do at present is that of 
Confederating, and that of making a state of past expences, to be fully 
informed of the application of those Millions already Issued to govern our 
future proceedings by wiser measures and to fill our exhausted Treasury 
by means least likely to involve us in difficulties, my attempts to accom- 
plish these great purposes have hitherto proved fruitless and I have too 
much reason to fear, from a discovery of the cause, will ever prove so, un- 
less very particular Instructions from some of the States should be charged 
upon their Delegates to demand of Congress an adjustment of accounts.^ 
I wish we were half an hour together I would say many things to you. 
as an Assembly Man, in favour of our little honest State, what I have 
said you may think of in that Character but as being said to your self 
only 

here I left ofif at ^ past 10 oClock (the 6th.) and w^ent to Congress am 
this moment returned ^ pt. 3 — five hours debating one silly point whether 
certain persons chiefly Quakers who hav^e given the Strongest proofs 
w^hich in these times can be expected of their avowed attachment to the 

'Maj.-Gen. Philemon Dickinson. Cf. the Journals, Sept. 12. 14. 16. 17- 
[627]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 149. 
2 See no. 619, note 5, ante. 



September, i/// 477 

cause of our Enemies, who have peremptorily refused to take an Oath or 
affirmation of Allegiance to the state or to give a parole to the Executive 
power, should have a hearing in their own defence, the hearing which 
they aim at is not intended, but a hearing they may have, if they will 
accept the mode prescribed. Congress have recommended to the Execu- 
tive Council to hear what they have to allege " for removing Suspicion 
that they are Enemies to the Independence of the United States." * 

I am much mistaken if by this shifting ground the Cry of persecution 
will not be raised ten times higher, and that Congress and Council will 
eventually make rediculous figures 

when I first arrived here I was told by way of caution that in Congress 
there were parties. I soon perceived there were, in the short space of 
Seven Weeks I have discovered parties within parties, divisions and Sub- 
divisions to as great a possible extent as the number 35 (for we have never 
more together) will admit of as it is wholly contrary to my genius and 
practice to hold with any of them as party, so I incur the censure of not 
being long with any 

I told you I had been Instrumental in averting two pernicious schemes, 
this is one of the Instances * — the other was a proposed mad expedition. ° 
but I have not succeeded to my wish, far from it. by a Majority of one 
voice we have Resolved to draw on France at all hazard, Tobacco or no 
Tobacco, or whether the fund may be exhausted by other demands or not, 
to draw I say for the amount of Interest of all past and future loans.' 

I cannot persuade Gentlemen to believe that Bills of Exchange on 
France bearing 6 Per Cent Interest is a further emission of paper Money, 
but so much more dangerous than an emission of Square Dollars by the 
Interest which will accumulate to be repaid abroad and thereby in effect 
mortgaging to a foreign Crafty power so much of our Soil. I cannot 
prevail upon them to believe that if their Loan Certificates were made 
payable in one Year instead of three or five Years and the Interest quar- 
terly or half Yearly, Money holders could be induced to lend more freely. 
I cannot prevail by my reasoning, to prove that either from the tenour 
of their present loan Certificates or from the insufficiency of the Sums 
Emitted to answer the amazing circulation of paper Currency and also for 
a return into the public Funds, arises the slackness and deficiency of 
Loans. I believe it arises chiefly from the former, because there can be no 

^ See no. 619, note 3, ante; also note 13, below. 

* The reference is to the proposed French loan, which Laurens had been dis- 
cussing adversely, with quotations from the letter of Mar. 12 (including an addition of 
Apr. 9) from the commissioners in Paris. The letter is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
II. 283. Cf. nos. 591, 594-597, 618, 620, anie. He closes his observations with these 
remarks: "Is this going hand over head? is it governing 13 United States by random 
Strokes of policy? or did it spring from sinister motives? I cannot suspect the latter 
yet such projects were the megrims of men who hold themselves of the first rank and 
first importance in our political system." 

5 See nos. 584, 586, ante. 

8 This doubtless refers to the vote in the committee of the whole. See the 
Journals, Sept. 9, 10, Oct. 6. Cf. the report of the committee on ways and means, 
June II, and see no. 591, note 2, ante; also nos. 631, 636, post. With regard to the 
tobacco negotiations, see Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II., passim (consult preliminary 
index, vol. I., also index, vol. VI.). 



4 

Man so stupid, as to think Congress Money in many Rills more perma- 
nent and secure by lying in their Desks useless and subject to many 
ordinary risques than it would be if it was comprised and expressed in 
one CertiHeate of Congress Money and bearing 6 Per Cent Interest ♦ ♦ 
* * [sie^. Neither can I prevail on Interested Men to acknowledge that 
20 Millions of Expence per Annum all i)aid in ready Money whether the 
Kxpcnce be f«>r Soldiers Waggons and Rations or for Broad Cloth and 
Silk re(iuires more money for circulating Currency than the expence of 
8 or 10 Millions Per Annum, of which Jth. at least [is] entered into Books 
not paid for in twelve or 18 months and even the not \(\ paid for in Paper 
Money but in produce of the Ground, nor can I persuade Such Men to 
own, although they must know, that however hard they may Struggle 
and rant in order to accomplish impossibilities the Value of their paper 
Currency whether in Bills of Exchange hawked about in France or in 
Paper Dollars contemned in Philadelphia Beef-Market will continue to 
decrease until we can open our Ports and obtain a free exchange for the 
products of our Land, we may indeed find some temporary relief by Sale 
of Forfeitures within, what is worse than all I cannot prevail upon them 
to listen to the alarm — that going into debt to France howbeit this may 
afford us present means and put our debt out of sight for a little while 
will be mortgaging our Soil will induce that Court to persevere in her 
plan " to do no act which may seem to acknozuledge our Independency," 
will encourage the British Ministry to protract the War, will infallilDly 
Create Jealousies and engender broils and divisions among the States 
and will in a very few years burst our Childish bubble of Independence — 
that from these aw^ful considerations Wisdom dictates to us to draw upon 
France for no more Money than is absolutely necessary to purchase and 
pay for articles essential to our defensive War — that we should contract 
our expences public and private — recommend Taxation in each Colony — 
borrow at home upon the best terms — clear the States of Enemies — 
Sell vacant and forfeited Tracts and other Estates — encourage Manufac- 
tures — Strive more ardently to improve our marine force and do a 
Thousand other things which we know to be necessary which we ought 
immediately to engage in and which we would do, if Luxury and Avarice 
were discountenanced and banished If we have not virtue enough to 
Save our Selves, easy access to the Treasury of France will only hasten 
our ruin, these Sir are ver\' Serious considerations I have suffered much 
distress of mind on the occasion. I have been told that my arguments 
were very pretty for theoretic writers, but I appeal to experience, it is 
from experience I draw my reasoning. I do not contend for a further 
Emission of paper Money, I w^ish to avoid it. I am sure we may avoid 
it if we please. I contend against the most dangerous of all Emissions 
drawing Bills on a foreign Court, but if we must emit for domestic pur- 
chases and services, of two Evils I would choose the least, many other 
arguments I have at different Stages introduced, too many to trouble 
you with.^ .... 

' Cf. no. 766, post. 



September, i/// 479 

It is now Monday Morning the 8th 

I will trouble you a little further on the Subject which I droped the (5th. — 
* * * * [jic] 

It was said, " many people held Congress Money to purchase Lands and 
other bargains or would even lend it at a low Interest to private persons in 
preference to putting it into the Loan Office." answer, admit these to be 
facts, what is proved but that there is a circulation for Money either by 
purchases or by Loans, and that there are some people who have so good 
an opinion of Congress Money as to Exchange Land for it, and some 
who have opportunities of improving it in different ways otherwise they 
would not borrow; and the loans to them being at a low Interest prove 
these to be men of Substance. 

Again, " Many people will not take Congress Money who will by some 
means or other find Money to purchase Bills and fill your Loan Office." 
granted ; but who are these people ? Surely our friends do not refuse to 
take Congress Money? and shall we Involve the States in a debt which 
may involve their ruin in order to accomodate our Enemies'? but is it 
certain that Tories who will not Credit us here at home, where there is 
a Stamina, will take our paper Money Payable in a Country where we 
have wo foundation ? 

" But it has been the practice of all Nations to borrow " ; true when 
necessity obliged them, and so far and no further. I consent now to 
borrow, but so extremely cautious wise nations have been of borrowing 
from other powers, so jealous even of a Balance of Trade against them 
has Great Britain been, that they broke off connexion with France and 
submitted to drink muddy port instead of Sparkling Champaign and 
brilliant Claret. 

" But Great Britain owes now about 40 Million to the States of Holland 
for Money borrowed." this lies on you to prove, but I believe I may 
safely deny it. the Dutch Subjects I will grant have money in the British 
Loans. I dont know to what amount perhaps six or eight Millions, so 
have the subjects of other States as Individuals. But if Nations have 
been accustomed to borrow of other Nations have they not given Security ? 
did not Holland put some of her Port Towns into the hands of the Queen 
of England ! did not Prussia Mortgage Selissia for the Credit established 
in London? which of the United States will you put into the hands of 
France as guarantee for the Sums intended to be borrowed, but why will 
you borrow when by a reassumption of that Virtue which we boasted of 
and dropped in the Same Year, you may go on and Succeed without 
borrowing ? 

" But France asks us no Guarantee, she offers to lend without any 
Security and when we are in her debt it will be her Interest to Support 
us." true she has as yet Courted us to take trifling Sums and magnified 

" the K s ® generosity " in demanding no Security. She has also told 

us it is impossible to let us have the trifling Sum of two Millions Sterling, 
how long shall we remain free from a demand for guarantee? can any 

8 " King's." 



4 

one answer? If it will he consistent with the interest of France to Sup- 
port us when we are in her debt, it will be equally consistent with her 
Interest and her practise too to send a few Men of War, Troops and 
Officers into one or more of our ports to protect us from insults from our 
old Enemies and at the Same time to collect the Revennues due for the 
Loans, we have a recent proof of the Value France has put upon our 
Lands in our present Circumstances. " Livre or io\d. Sterling per Acre." 
what folly what madness it will be to involve our selves in debt to that 
power, we should at least refrain until we have Resolved upon the Port 
for the reception of the French Men of War. 

I compare our present attempt to the folly of a Young Man borrowing 
Money from a designing Sharper upon the Credit of an expected Heir- 
ship. We are unwary and love ease and pleasure, we will borrow because 
it will save trouble. France pleads poverty in order to enhance the favor, 
will lend as much as she can (if you will enable her) and asks no Security, 
this magnifies the Royal and National Generosity, to whom are these 
manifique Offers proposed? to free and independent States? No — to 
puppets whom she keeps behind the Curtain, to Squeak her purposes, for 
tis her plan " to do no Act which shall seem to acknowledge our Inde- 
pency." [,sic'] She will not openly receive our Agents, her minister 
tells them — " it will be well taken if they communicate with no other 
persons about the Court but himself, that he will at all convenient seasons 
be ready to confer with them." they treat our Agents " with all Civility 
but are cautious of giving Umbrage to England." 

" they (the french ministry) take every step to gratify England pub- 
lickly — attend to their Remonstrances, forbid Ships with Military Stores 
for America to depart, recal leave of absence to their Officers going out to 
America and in presence of the British Minister give Strict Orders that 
American Prizes should not be sold in France, at the same time all these 
things are nevertheless done and they assure us (American Agents) of 
their good Will." * Can there be stronger proof adduced of French 
dissimulation and American Puppetism? 

Would wise men, would the Guardians of thirteen Orphan States in- 
cautiously trust their W^ards in the power of such a Court? if you pro- 
fusely borrow from her you will, you must be in her power. I tremble 
at the prospect. I would almost rather return to subjection to England, 
but I would surely rather recall our Agents than submit any longer to such 
Insults. France will not for her own Interest let you go back to England, 
be Virtuous, she will also for her own Interest seek you, she will continue 
to supply you with everything needful and to keep her ports open to your 
ships, in a little time such virtuous Resolutions will render you Indepen- 
dent of both France and England. I must have tired you good Sir and 
yet I have not minuted here one half that I thought my self obliged to 
say and repeat upon this important business in the Course of 5 or 6 days 
debate and adjournment, many good men see into the danger of con- 

5 See Franklin and Deane to the committee of secret correspondence, Mar. 12, 
cited in note 4, above. 



September, 7777 481 

tracting a debt with France but they dont see clearly, they say " what shall 
we do the Treasury is Empty." this shews our Error in having neglected 
so long, a business which is one of the main pillars of our Independence, 
it shews our folly too in the wanton terms proposed for Treaty last year.^° 
there the Court of Versailles has again made puppets of us and treated us 
with the Contempt we deserved. God Grant Mr. Washington, that brave 
and virtuous that disinterested Patriot. Hero, success in a conflict which is 
probably now in agitation and we shall have further time to retrospect our 
proceedings and to mend what shall appear to have been amiss, if he fails, 
a New Scene will open. Nothing but Virtue then can save us. we never 
shall call in her aid until we feel severe distress, tis time to attend Con- 
gress, may be when I return I may tell you more of the Quaker affair 
and trouble you with another sheet, but before I go let me suggest a 
danger which we seem to be drawn into, a whole week is passed and 
nothing is said or done further for replenishing our Treasury, if the 
proper means are neglected until that is nearly or more nearly exhausted, 
we may be frighted into a measure big with ruin, that of drawing for five 
or ten Million Dollars for doing which we have neither permission nor 
encouragement, if this shall happen remember I have foretold it and to 
you and others of my Constituents who are concerned in the event. 

I am happy in having Mr. Middleton exactly coincide in sentiments with 
me altho he has not spoke to the point. Mr. H." differs but I would not 
have it taken notice of for w^hatever his opinions may be, he is a man of 
Candor and Integrity, and I wish not to name any Body. 

pth Septemr. — I did not return from business yesterday till the Sun 
had Set, eat a Scanty dinner and was obliged to go out again upon business 
when I came home I felt a much stronger propensity for the Bed than the 
writing Table, it was mortifying to sit from 1 1 oClock to ^ past 6 with- 
out respite. Spend four hours of that time wrangling a point which I 
think had employed us five days before, receive and pocket a well timed 
and spirited reprimand from the Council and end the business relative to 
the Quakers and other self disaffected, where it might have been ended 
and in the manner in which it ought to have been ended in five minutes 
from the very outset, by recommending to confine at an appointed place, 
Stanton in Virginia, all the mischeivous and active ones, who shall refuse 
to take the Oath or affirmation of Allegience to the State. I will not say 
the business is quite ended, for as the Council feel or rather express them- 
selves as if they were chaffed by our conduct, it may be, they will have 
nothing further to do in it.^^ 

These are weighty Considerations, very weak, very impolitic Steps in 
Congress tends to lower it in the Esteem of the World, to sink its power 
and influence and to Strengthen the hands and hopes of our Enemies 
abroad and at home, many such Steps are taken which the World do not 

i"The proposed treaty with France is found in the Journals under Sept. 17, 
1776, and the instructions to the commissioners relative thereto are ibid., Sept. 24. 

11 Thomas Heyward. 

12 See the Journals, Sept. 8. The " spirited reprimand " from the council of 
Pennsylvania, dated Sept. 6, is in Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 593. For other references see 
no. 619, note 3, ante. Cf. nos. 567, 586, ante. 



4S2 Continental Congress 

know of these which arc the Subject of pubhc canvassing make a rapid 
progress to our detriment, observe among other reasons given in the 
House of Commons by Ld. Geo Germaine for continuing the War in 
America he gives particularly this one — " that he had further formed his 
opinion from the circumstance of the Congress having given up the 
Government confessing them selves unequal to it and creating Mr. Wash- 
ington dictator of America." .... 

I am persuaded you will make the best use you can of these intimations, 
you may depend upon it I have neither by word or energy misrepresented 
any fact. I have SiX)ken pretty freely to His Excellency the President."* 
Mr. Middleton I believe has delivered his Sentiments and will deliver 
them very fully when he returns, but I speak more to your Self in the 
Character of one of my Representative Constituents I wish what I have 
said may be useful. I hold it dangerous that the public should know our 
[**]Infirmity " — as it was yesterday properly termed in debate by my 
Colleague last mentioned 

We have Submitted to General Washington the propriety of ordering 
three Thousand Men from Peeks Kill for the protection of Jersey or for 
forming a Corps de reserve for enabling him in case of need to give 
second battle to General Howe's Troops." it is said from Camp that 
General Howe has with the sick and Wounded embarked his Baggage 
and Tents, his Army retired a little way and Camped in Bowers on or 
near Iron Hill if this be true the fleet will soon reappear in Delaware. 
I must now go again to Congress when I return or early to morrow 
Morning will close this very long Epistle, we are more than three days 
older yet nothing extraordinary is brought forth so vain are all our 
conjectures. 

Just returned from Congress 4 oClock. I cannot sit to dinner before 
I disburthen my mind by giving you a further Idea of our Confused 
proceedings. 

I have been Witness to a Report made by a Committee of the whole, 
which had been entered upon the Journal, superceded by a new Resolu- 
tion even without reference to the Report. A Resolution carried almost 
Nam Con — entered, and half an hour after reconsidered and expunged.^' 
when I add that such irregularity is the work of almost every day, you 
will not wonder that I wish to be any where but in Congress. 

the great question upon borrowing ]\Ioney and paying in Bills upon 
France for the Annual Interest at 6 Per Cent was this Morning confirmed 

13 The remarks of Germain were made in the debate on the budget, May 15, 
1777. See Hansard, Parliamentary History, XIX. 269; Almon, Parliamentary Register, 
vol. VII., House of Commons, p. 214. 

13a That is, the president of South Carolina. See nos. 586, 591. ante, 636, post. 
1* A resolution of this precise content is not found in the Journab. The order 
of Sept. 8, to General Putnam, who was at Peekskill, to hold fifteen hundred men in 
readiness to cross the North River, is probably what Laurens had in mind. Cf. the 
Journals, Sept. 12, and no. 635, post. 

15 These remarks of Laurens seem to apply to the proceedings of Sept. 9, but the 
Journals of that day do not show that any part of the record had been expunged. That 
much reconsidering and expunging had taken place of late is evident from an inspec- 
tion of the Journals for Aug. 22, 23, 25-28, and Sept. 2. 



September, 1777 483 

which if our Bills are accepted is meant to involve us further at least 
Two hundred and Seventy thousand pounds Sterling- per Annum in a 
debt to France — 21 Yeas against 5 Nay. the nays Colo. Harrison, Mr. 
John Adams, Mr. Duane, Mr. Middleton Mr. Laurens.^' a very thin 
house for deciding the fate of America, time will shew who are in the 
right. £270000 Sterling, per Annum, I should have added besides the 
disadvantage of Remittances and besides vast other debt, but we have 
now temporary access to Money we Shall continue to Squander until we 
receive some very severe Check, this may possibly be within 48 hours 
for we this moment learn by express that Genl Howe has stolen a march 
upon our great General, he must be stopped this Night or tomorrow 
Morning he will be on our Skirts, we are all now talking of adjourning 
to the Country, the question is, where ? " . . . . 

628. Committee of Congress to George Washington.* 

Philadelphia 6th Sepr 1777 
Sir 

The Representation made to your Excellency by a Board of General 
Officers touching the Inconveniences arising from the Mode in which 
regimental officers have drawn their Rations, having been committed to 
us by Congress, We propose to report the inclosed Resolve, upon which 
We previously wish to have your Sentiments.^ 

We are not to consider the proposal for drawing more provisions than 
are allowed by the Establishment, which appears to be attended with 
many Difficulties, and have therefore confined our Views to the Removal 
of the Inconveniences complained of, being with much Esteem Sir your 
very hum^ Servts. 

Richard Henry Lee 
Nath^' Folsom 
E Gerry 
His Excellency General Washington 

629. The President of Congress to George Washington.* 

Philadelphia 6th. Septr. 1777. 
Sir, 

You will perceive from the enclosed Resolves, that Congress, desirous 
of reinforcing the Army at this critical Period, have recommended to 

^^ See the yeas and nays in the Journals, Sept. 9 (p. 725) ; cf. ibid., Sept. 10. 

1^ The express was probably Col. Samuel Forman. Cf. no. 631, post. Congress 

decided, Sept. 14, upon Lancaster, Pa., as the place to which to adjourn if necessary. 

Cf. the Journals, Sept. 17. The adjournment took place Sept. 18. and Congress met 

in Lancaster Sept. 27. See nos. 631, 637, 642, 643, 646, 649-653, 656-659, 661, 698, post. 

[628] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XVIII. 48. 

2 The representation of the board of officers in regard to the question of rations 
was conveyed to Congress in Washington's letter of Aug. 9, Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 
16 (ed. Sparks), V. 24 (see the Journals, Aug. 11). The committee was appointed, 
Sept. 4. A report of the board of war, brought in the same day, contained a resolution 
on the subject but it was ordered "to lie" (see the Journals, p. 711). The resolve, 
together with the preamble proposed by the committee, was adopted Sept. 11. 

[629]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 311; Letters to Washington. 
(ed. Sparks), I. 432. 



4 

the States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey to order out immediately a 
considerable Part of their militia ; and I liave no Doubt of their 
Compliance. 

I have wrote to Govr. Livingston on the Subject, and informed him 
that should he think proj)er to appoint Genl Dickinson to tlie Command 
of the three Thousand requested from that State, it will be extremely 
agreeable to Congress. That Gentleman has, I understand, signified his 
Readiness to act whenever called upon ; and as he possesses the Confidence 
of the Militia, and has Talents equal to the Task, I am persuaded the 
Appointment will give general Satisfaction.^ 

Your Favor of the 3d. Inst, and likewise of yesterday by the hands of 
Genl. St. Clair I have been duly honoured with. The latter I shall lay 
before Congress this Morning.^ I have the honour to be, with the 
greatest Respect, Sir, 

Your most obed. and very hble Servt. 

John Hancock Presidt. 
His Excellency Genl. Washington. 

630. James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia Sept. 7th. 
Dear Sir 

.... As to Journals — be persuaded that no Expence or Industry has 
been wanting on the Part of Congress to get them up to the present Time. 
The Flight of Printers and the Want of Paper has impeded the Work 
till now, when we have a good Prospect. We are up to Octr. 25th. and 
shall very shortly have the Year — 76 in a Volumn. 

When the main Army is at our Elbow, and while we are Situated in 
the Capital of such a State as Pensylvania we shall never want ten 
thousand Interruptions to the Settlement of the Articles of Confedera- 
tion and the Establishment of our Currenc}'. 

As to losing the Confidence of the People, I shall be sorry for their own 
Sakes ; But, by way of Scare Crow to an honest Heart. I value it as little 
as any other natural Phenomenon of Nature. There is a majority in 
every State of the Union, and in every great Assembly, w'hich can be 
depended upon, at this Day ; But there are also heavy Clogs in each. The 
Cause of the People is safe. But their Patients must have full Exercise. 
Virtuous themselves they cannot be ruined by their present Assailants. 

Had there been due Vigour in this Government,^ Congress w^ould not 
have been obliged to have pointed out Individuals of this State for Arrest. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 4; cf. ibid., Sept. 12, 14, 16, 17; also nos. 626, 627, ante^ 
nos. 635, 639, post. A letter from Dickinson to Hancock in regard to this request 
is printed in part in Stan. V. Henkels's Catalogue, no. 1 170, p. 18. The letter is there 
given the date Sept. 20, which would seem to be incorrect. 

3 The letters were read in Congress Sept. 4 and 6, respectively. They related 
to the skirmish at Iron Hill, Delaware, and to the enemy's movements. 

[630] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 That is, the state of Pennsylvania. In regard to the arrest of a number of 
persons in the state, see the Journals, Aug. 28, Sept. 3, 5, 6, 8 ; also nos. 619, note 3, 627,. 
ante, nos. 633, 634, post. 



September, lyjy 485 

But the Safety of the Union called for it. And yon may depend upon it 
every step we have taken can be handsomly defended. Freely did old 
Israel and the Tribe in general turn out armed when scandalous Oppres- 
sion had stirred up the Paxton Boys. Read the hypocritical Cant of these 
Days. Hear the Appeal to the Freemen of Pensylvania, and Quotations 
from the Bill of Rights of this Independent State, from Wretches who 
will not affirm themselves faithful Subjects of it ; and who since the Decla- 
ration of Independency complain, in the Registries of their meetings of 
Sufferings, that they are forced to aid in a War against Government. 

I will suppose Coll. Dyer has written on the Subject of giving a Spring 
to the Loan offices, therefore I shall omit that Topic at this Time. 

Before this reaches you, a Number of New England Skippers will be 
about you, who have lost their Vessels at the Head of Elk. There has 
been a most horrid Delay in the Management of the Persons to whom 
they were consigned. I have written to Coll. Aylett to desire he would 
confide the Settlement of his private Accounts as well as public to you so 
far as concerns the 6 Captains particularly Taylor my old Fellow Prisoner 
and Perkins my half Land Lord. You can empower Tracy or Deacon 
Smith to go through with it. The poor Fellows are heartsick of public 
Employ. They have about ruined themselves by their late Tryal. Four 
in Five would have got to Boston long ago if they had been in private 
Service 

631. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia Septr 7th 1777 
Dear Sr 

.... I think Congress now are in a pretty good Temper to do bus- 
iness if this plaguy fellow of an How does not disturb us we are now 
very Sulky and determine not to move for him if we can help it how 
long our Courage may last I know not it will not be strange if at this 
time it should exceed our Conduct we feel very Magnanimous, but a few 
days may decide.^ before Hows appearance this way, our removal from 
this Venial City became a serious topick, and believe would have been 
the case had not G How Appeard but you know we Scorn to fly. Con- 
federation and financies are now the great objects but ten thousand 
necessaries are dayly Crouding in : but there is no design nor art in keep- 
ing it off all are agreed in the Object differ only in the proportion of 
Representation and taxation, you may say that is enough : true it is but I 
think we shall not break upon these ; it will now soon be agitated.^ Sup- 
plying our Army securing and apreciating our Currency is now first 
attended to. France and Spain offer us money to pay the Intrest of all 
our Loan ; will not sure Bills on our Commisrs. in France for the Intrest 
at 6 pr Ct in specie make money Catchers fond of our Bills and eager to 

[63i]iConn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 14, and no. 637, post. Cf. no. 627, note 17, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 2 (erased entry) ; also nos. 528, note 2, 537, 556, 558, 
588, 616, ante, 649, 659, 671, 679, post. 



4 

put them into the Loan oftice on receiving their liitrest in l^urope by 
bills of Excge. drawn on our Commissrs. it would in fact be equal to 
15 pr Ct. for the present if you have any to put in you had best wait a 
few days for a decision for I yet know not whether that Advantage will 
be given Only as Incouragcnient to those who will now throw in their 
money into the Oflice as it may soon be wanted, or shall extend to those 
whose money we have allready got I mean to past Loans.* .... 

632. James Lovell to Vicomte de Mauroy.^ 

PhiladelphiaSept 8th 1777 

In answer to the letter with which you favoured me of the 5th from 
Darby, I would assure you that I have been continually attentive to the 
very disagreable situation in which, as a man of military spirit, you 
must have thought yourself, ever since the near approach of the enemy. 
But, Sir, as something is begun, at length relative to your departure for 
France, I am of opinion that you should not now be desirous of exposing 
yourself as a volunteer in the field of battle for us. 

I hope to inclose to you to morrow a final determination of your 
business ^ 

With much respect for your very worthy character and with a Due 
sense of your zeal towards these states, I have the honour to be Sir 

Your most humble Servant 

James Lovell 

633. Richard Henry Lee to the Governor of Virginia 

(Patrick Henry). ^ 

Philadelphia 8th. Septr. 1777 
Dear Sir, 

.... The Quaker motto ought to be " Nos turba sumus," for if you 
attack one the w-hole society is roused. You will see by the inclosed 
testimonies a uniform, fixed enmity to American measures, which, with 
the universal ill fame of some capital persons, has occasioned the arrest 
of old Pemberton and several others, to prevent their mischievous inter- 

* Cf. no. 627, ante, nos. 636, 659, post. 

[632]! Paris, Arch. Nat., K 1364, dossier " Amerique ''. no. 61. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 11, 13, Sept. 8, 11, 14. Mauroy's letter of Sept. 5, to 
which Lovell is replying, was presumably addressed to Lovell as a member of the com- 
mittee of foreign applications. A letter, without date but evidently written in view of 
the resolutions of Sept. 8, addressed to the President of Congress by Mauroy, in behalf 
of himself, Fayolles, and Boismartin, is in Arch. Nat., K 1364, dossier " Amerique ", no. 
59 (copy). It was this letter upon which Congress took action Sept. 11, in connection 
with similar demands from Baron de Kalb. A long letter from the Vicomte de Mauroy 
to the Comte de Broglie, written from Boston, Oct. 23, 1777, describing his situation 
and discussing the action of Congress in refusing to recognize the contract made by 
Deane, is ibid. See, further, the Journals, Dec. 8, and no. 770, post. Concerning Baron 
de Kalb, see no. 565, note 5, ante, and the Journals, passim. 

[633] 1 Henry, Patrick Henry, IIL 92; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), 
L 320. 



September, 7777 487 

position in favor of the enemy at this critical moment, when the enemies' 
army is on its way here, with professed design to give this city up to the 
pillage of the soldiery. They have taken infinite pains, according to 
custom, to move lieaven and earth in their favor, and have transmitted 
copies of their indecent remonstrances over the country. Congress have, 
to prevent ill impressions, ordered their several inimical testimonies to be 
published in one Hand-bill." Altho' nothing can be more certain than 
that allegiance and protection are reciprocal duties, yet these men have 
the assurance to call for the protection of those laws and that Government 
which they expressly disclaim, and refuse to give any evidence of their 
allegience to. There is no doubt but that they will endeavor by means 
of the " Friends " in Virginia, to make disturbance and raise discontent 

there, but this may serve to put you on your guard This day 

Congress has proposed that the Quaker Tories should be sent forthwith 
to Staunton in Augusta. I hope you will have them well secured there, 
for they are mischievous people. Should Howe be disappointed here, 
as it seems very likely that he will, it is more than probable that he will 
endeavor to do us all the injury in his power as he returns, and therefore 
it will be wise to be as well prepared for him as possible. 

634. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, Monday, 8 September, 1777 
My Dear, 

.... You will see by the papers enclosed that we have been obliged 
to attempt to humble the pride of some Jesuits, who call themselves 
Quakers, but who love money and land better than liberty or religion. 
The hypocrites are endeavoring to raise the cry of persecution, and to give 
this matter a religious turn, but they can't succeed. The world knows 
them and their communications. Actuated by a land-jobbing spirit like 
that of William Penn, they have been soliciting grants of immense regions 
of land on the Ohio. American independence has disappointed them, 
which makes them hate it. Yet the dastards dare not avow their hatred 
to it, it seems. ^ .... 

635. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadia. Septr. 9th. 1777. 
Sir^ 

I have the honor to transmit at this Time, Copies of several Letters 
from Governor Livingston and Genl. Du Coudray to Congress. As Govr. 
Livingston seems apprehensive of an Irruption from the Enemy on Staten 
Island, and says they are collecting there for this Purpose, the Congress 
have directed Genl. Putnam to hold in Readiness fifteen Hundred Men 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 6. Cf. nos. 619, 627, 630, ante, no. 634, post. 
[634] ^Fami/iar Letters, p. 305. 

2 See nos. 619, 627, 630, 633. ante. 
[635]^ Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XC. 314; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), I. 433. 

36 



4 

under the Coniniand of a Brigadier, to cross the North River when you 
may think proper to order it. A Copy of the Resolve, I shall immediately 
forward to Genl. Putnam. 

The inclosed Letter from Monsr. du Coudray contains a Proposal of 
forming- a Camp between Wilmington and Philadelphia the Propriety 
of which, the Congress have referred entirely to you. Colonel Harrison's 
Favour of the 7th. Inst, was duly received.^ 

I beg Leave to request your Attention to the Inclosures, and have the 
Honour to be, 

with the greatest Respect, Sir, 

Your most obedt. and very hble Servt. 

John Hancock Presidt. 

His Excellency Genl. Washington. 

636. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 

(John Rutledge).^ 

loth Septem. 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency the 12 and 15 August 
by Colo. Sumpter.* A very important question varied in different 
branches of borrowing Money from the Court of France has been since 
agitated in Congress. I have been uniformly against the measure and 
think it my duty by the earliest opportunity to inform Your Excellency 
the grounds of my dissent.' 

The first question was for drawing Bills on our Commissioners for 
Ten Millions Dollars, which passed in the Negative. 

A proposition was then made and a question put for drawing for five 
Millions of Dollars, passed also in the negative. 

Yesterday by the most extraordinary motion and irregular proceeding 
that I have ever been Witness to in any other Assembly a Question was 
carried for drawing Bills of Exchange on our Commissioners at the rate 
of 5 Livres of France for a Spanish Dollar for payment of Interest at 
6 per Cent per Annum of all Money already brought into the loan office 
or that shall be brought in before the ist. March next. 

It is expected that upon this encouragement money holders will bring 
Supplies to the Loan Office and that we may without another Emission 
of paper raise before the ist. March 20 M[illion] Dollars, the Annual 
Interest of which will be about £270000 Sterling besides the risques of loss 
and delay by Remittances. 

2 For the order to Putnam, see the Journals, Sept. 8, 12 ; cf. no. 627, note 14, 
ante. The letters of Livingston, Harrison, and Du Coudray were read in Congress 
Sept. 8 (see the Journals, p. 770, note i). Cf. no. 639, post. The letter of Du Coudray 
is in the Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCL 3. 

[636]! S. C Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 163; Gibbes, Documentary 
Hist, of the Rev., p. 88 (with modifications and omissions). 

2 Col. Thomas Sumter of South Carolina. In July, 1780, he was made brigadier- 
general of South Carolina troops. Laurens's letter of Aug. 12 and 15 is no. 586, ante. 

3 Cf. no. 627, ante, and see the Journals, Sept. 9, 10. 



September, lyy/ 489 

' Tis true the Commissions have given Congress assurance of Money 
received and promised, sufficient to pay the Interest of five Million 
Dollars annually and added " we hope " also to find sufficient by subsidies 
to pay the Interest of 20 Million if we should be obliged to borrow that 
sum. at the same time they informed us, that upon application to the 
Court of France to borrow two Million Sterling they were told it was 
" impossible " to spare such a sum. that they had been strongly pressed 
and that the Minister was " anxious " to contract for the delivery of 
20,000 Hogsds of Tobacco as a ground for raising Money by Taxes. 
That they had actually engaged to deliver 4000 Hogsds and had received 
a very considerable advance on the Stipulation and " earnestly intreat " 
Congress to enable them to comply with their part of the agreement, 
which while our ports are stopped will be impossible.* 

It appears to me that the foundation for drawing Bills is not substan- 
tial, the practice dangerous and the measure except for articles absolutely 
requisite for carrying on our defensive War not necessary. 

the Commissioners Speak possitively of Money advanced and expected 
by periodical payments only for payment of the Interest of five Millions,' 
which sum and a much larger I apprehend will be consumed by a variety 
of other demands on them, which 'tis impossible from our mode of trans- 
acting business and our total ignorance of the public debt contracted and 
increasing, to form an Estimate of. this forbids in the strongest terms 
the Act of borrowing Money abroad, they say in a subsequent dispatch " 
that we may rely on punctual payment of Congress — Bills drawn for the 
discharge of the Interest of Sums borrowed, but refer I apprehend only 
to the Five Million per Annum and here they recommend that the Interest 
should be reduced to 3 or 4 per Cent, but Congress upon a question con- 
firmed 6 per Cent against 5, and have put former loans upon a level with 
such as may be here after made.^ 

the Court of France on failure on our part of the Contract for Tobacco, 
our continued demands on them for Money, for ship building Cloths 
Arms and many other articles will have ground for Complaint and may 
make a pretext of failure on our side witholding further payments to the 
Commissioners. 

the drawing Bills of Exchange is to all intents and purposes emissions 
of Paper Money upon the very worst terms aggravated by 6 per Cent 
per Annum to be discharged under all disadvantages in a foreign country, 
it is putting our debt out of Sight for a little but it will infallibly return 
upon us with accumulated force. 

Although France has premptorily told us it is impossible to lend us 
two Million Sterling we are hastening to make a demand for that and 
for aught we know a much larger sum. 

* See the letters of the commissioners in Paris, Jan. 17, Feb. 6, Mar. 12, May 26, 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 248, 261, 283, 325. The agreement with the farmers- 
general of France, Mar. 24, 1777, is ibid., II. 300. See also Arthur Lee's letter of 
Feb. 14, ibid., II. 270. 

5 See the letters of Jan. 17 and Mar. 12, mentioned in note 4, above. 

* The letter of May 25, Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 322. 
^ See the Journals, Sept. 9, 10. 



4 

the Seeming: temporary relief whicli we shall receive by draughts upon 
France will draw otT our attention from enquiring deeply into the State 
of our funds and debts and help us in our present alarming course of 
extravagance. 

We shcHild pay proper regard to the conduct of the Court of Versailles, 
in refusing to receive our Commissioners openly in their Ambassadorial 
Characters, in " avoiding every act which should seem to acknowledge 
our Independence." in '* refusing possitively " the Naval Aid which we 
had applied for, in neglecting to consider or give any answer to our plan 
for a Treaty and in betraying part of our proposals and possibly the whole 
of them to the British Ambassador, in a taunting Sarcastical remark to 
one of our Commissioners that we had not bid high enough,^ in Imprison- 
ing one of our Captains, Seizing his Vessel, ordering a restitution of his 
prizes and in a word carefully avoiding to give " Umbrage " to the 
English." 

To borrow Money from a foreign power is to mortage our Soil, that 
the boasted generosity of the K of F." in funding us lightly and demand- 
ing no security is. when compared with the conduct above mentioned 
liable to Suspicion of being insidious. It \\\\\ be the Interest of the 
French Minister to ensnare us by degrees into a considerable debt and the 
knowledge of the Negotiation will be a strong incentive to the British 
for protracting the War. 

that " by altering the tenor of our Loan Certificates making the pay- 
ment of Capital at one instead of three Years and of Interest quarterly 
or half Yearly, Money holders would be induced to bring supplies into 
the Office, that the expectation which the public have been held in of an 
emission of Bills of Exchange for 5 or 10 M[illion] of Dollars had been 
no small impediment. 

When the loan Office Certificates are put on a beneficial plan, if Money 
shall not be brought, in sums equal to the public exigency, it will be a 
proof that past emissions are not excessive, the demand for money at 
this time is not confined to the Capital Towns and Cities and within a 
small Circle of Trading Merchants, but spread over a surface of 1600 
miles in length and three hundred broad nor is it nov.^ the practice to give 

8 The interpretation which Laurens puts upon the conduct of the French court 
seems quite out of keeping with the tacit good-will indicated by the letters of the com- 
missioners (see note 4, above). 

9 The allusion is to the case of Capt. Gustavus Conyngham (often spelled 
Cunningham). See Franklin and Deane to the committee of foreign affairs, May 25 
and 26, 1777. Wharton. Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 322, 325, Deane to Robert Morris, Aug. 23, 
^777, ibid . II. 378. For further accounts of Conyngham, see ibid., II. 784, 827, 840, 
III. 350, 386, 394, IV. 324, 511, V. 148; also the Journals, Dec. 26, 1778, Jan. 4, Feb. 22 
(p. 236), July 17 (pp. 844, 849). July 29, Dec. 13, 1779, May 17, June 11. 1781. See, 
especially, Neeser, Letters and Papers relating to the Cruises of Gustazms Conyngham 
(Publications of the Naval History Society, vol. VI.) ; also C. H. Jones, Captain Gus- 
tavus Conyngham; Allen, Naval Hist. Am. Rev.; and PauUin, The Navy of the Am. 
Rev. 

1° King of France. 

11 The structure of this letter is rather loose, shifting between direct and indirect 
statements of arguments used on the floor of Congress. 



September, Z/// 491 

credit for one and more years for |th. of the whole traffic, every Man 
IS now a Money holder and every article is paid for in Cash, it is 
hence obvious that an immense sum is necessary for a compleat circula- 
tion. No Man would be so void of understanding- as to keep Continental 
Bills Idle and at a risque of loss in his desk when he might upon the 
Same Security improve them at 6 per Ct. per Annum. 

The sudden rise of price for domestic necessaries of Life is not wholly 
owing to great Emissions of paper, but in fact principally to the total 
Stoppage of Imports and the consequent scarceness and dearness of such 
articles as our real wants cannot, and too many which our Luxury will 
not forego. 

Borrowing of a foreign power will not increase the value of our paper 
Money, it may and probably will be the source of extending the depre- 
ciation to Several Years beyond the term when we might if we were in 
debt at home only, have redeem'd it." 

Such and many other arguments I used upon this occasion particularly 
recommending Taxation and the most vigorous exertions for opening our 
Ports and promoting exportation. I had the mortification to fail in my 
endeavour, the question being put and the Yeas and Nays demanded 
there appeared 21 Yeas and 5 Colo. Harrison Mr. Jno.' Adams Mr. 
Duane Mr. Middleton Mr. Laurens Nays. If I have erred in my attempts 
it is fortunate for my Country that I have done no harm, but the measure 
appears to me big with danger, and as I am apprehensive a further 
attempt may be made to draw for some Capital Sum on the Commis- 
sioners I request to be instructed by Your Excellency whether to consent 
or protest. 

I beg your Excellency's pardon for having delivered my self on this 
important subject so unconnectedly, but I am reduced to a very short space 
for writing, my Colleagues had intended to have sent our dispatches on 
tomorrow by an express messenger we have now determined to stay 
him til we learn the event of an approaching general battle between our 
Army and the British now very near each other and within thirty miles 
of this City.^^ I intend this by the hands of Doctor Houston who waits 
for it. I shall inclose half a dozen news papers and refer to them for past 
intelligence and add only that I am with great regard and esteem etc. 

P. S. Casting my Eye upon the Resolve I perceive the time for bring- 
ing money into the Loan office in the terms above mentioned stands 
unlimited, the Report of a Committee of the whole House had Limited 
1st. March which was passed over without a question so very irregularly 

12 In connection with Laurens's remarks concerning a foreign loan, a paper drawn 
up by Franklin in August, for use among the European courts, is of interest. The docu- 
ment is printed in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 382. 

^3 The battle of Brandywine occurred the following day (Sept. 11). See the 
Journals, Sept. 11, 12; also no. 638, post. 



492 Contiuental Congress 



I 



do we transact business every day." this Resolution being made known 
in our state will give an opportunity to our people to prepare for partaking 
the proposed benefit if they choose to lend." 

637. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia Septr 12th 1777 
Dear Sr 

.... Saturday Evening {September ij] Congress tho much 

Alarmd Yet determined not to move till the last Extremity tho they had 
began to be in earnest about moving from this City before Genii Hows 
approach. We are still in great hopes How will never be able to get to 
his Shipping again. ^ my sincere Affection to family and am Yours 

Elipht Dyer 

638. The President of Congress (John Hancock), to 

George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Septr. 12th. 1777. 
4 O'clock A. M. 
Sir, 

I am this Moment favoured with yours by the Express.'' I am sorry 
for the unfortunate Issue of the Day, but from the Troops keeping up 
their Spirits, I flatter myself it will still be in our Power to retrieve the 
Loss of Yesterday. 

I have thought, proper, in Consequence of the Intelligence received 
this Morning, to call the Congress together at Six O'Clock. 

1* Laurens's conclusion that the limiting date, March I, 1777, had been left out 
of the resolution as finally passed, is erroneous. A motion for the payment, by bills of 
exchange, of the interest on future issues of loan certificates without any time limit was 
adopted Sept. 9 (see also the motion Sept. 10), but the final action, Sept. 10, was the 
adoption of the resolution as reported, Sept. 9. by the committee of the whole. See 
the Journals, pp. 724, 725, 730, 731. It is needful to observe however that (as indicated 
in the Library of Congress edition of the Journals, pp. 730-73 1"* the adoption of the 
report as a whole is not recorded in the original Journals, but only in the " corrected " 
Journals (see the Prefatory Note in the Journals, vol. II., p. 7). It seems probable that 
in the division of the question the limiting date was inadvertently left out of the proposition 
voted upon Sept. 9, and that this feature of the measure was restored by a later vote 
upon the resolution as reported by the committee of the whole. A comparison of the 
Library of Congress edition of the Journals with the older editions (that is, the " original " 
with the "corrected" Journals) shows two other differences that require to be pointed 
out : In the former the report of the committee of the whole is quoted entire, and there 
is no motion to divide ; whereas in the latter the record reads : 

" Congress took into consideration the resolution reported from the committee of the 
whole; \\'hereupon, it was moved that it be divided, and the sense of Congress taken 
on it, reduced to distinct propositions ; it was then moved ", etc 

15 Following the adoption of the resolution it was ordered : " That the resolution 
now agreed to be published." Oct. 6, an order was passed requesting the states to 
publish the resolution in their respective gazettes for six months successively. 

[637] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 Cf. nos. 631, ante, and nos. 638. 642, 643, 646, 649, 653, 656-659, 661, 698, post. 
The omitted part of this letter is an account at some length of the battle of Brandywine. 

[638] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XVIII. 90; Letters to Washing- 
ton (ed. Sparks), I. 433. 

2 xhe letter written from Chester the night after the battle of Brandywine, 
Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 69 (ed. Sparks), V. 57. See the Journals, Sept. 12. 



September, 7777 493 

639. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 
Governor of New Jersey (William Livingston)/ 

PhiladelphiaSeptr 12th 1777. 

S%T, 

It is the earnest Desire of Congress, and I have it in Charge to inform 
you of it, that you will immediately order out four Thousand of the 
Jersey MiHtia to reinforce the Army under Genl. Washington with all 
possible Expedition. 

If you should not be able to call out that Number, it is the request of 
Congress, that you will call out as many as possible in this critical State 
of our Affairs.^ 



640. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.'- 

Philadelphia Sepr. 13 th. 1777, 

In consequence of some information Congress have received respecting 
the conduct of brigadier general Borre, they have come to the enclosed 
resolve, which I do myself the honour to transmit you, and am to request 
you'l be pleased to pay immediate attention to it.^ 



641. Samuel Chase to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Phila., Sept. 13, 1777. 

Saturday 11 o'clock, A. M, 
Dear Sir 

.... Congress have given brevet commissions to the officers who 
came with Mr. DuCoudray.^ two of them Monsieur Augusto Le Brah, 
[Augustin Le Brun] an able engineer, and Monsieur Pierre 

• ^^t^^lV^^- '^\^^^^%M^-lJ^- ^- ^^' Corr., p. 99. The same letter, with variations, is 
m the Mass. Hist Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 270; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. II., f . 262. 

2 No resolution of this precise character is found in the Journals. See, however, 
the resolution Sept. 12, to send an express to Gen. Dickinson, who was in command of 
the New Jersey militia. Cf. the Journals, Sept. 4 and 17, and nos. 629, 635, ante. 

1640]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCI. 12. 
, r ^ ^^^ following day Borre offered his resignation, which was accepted. See 
the Journals, Sept. 13 and 14; cf. ibid., Oct. i, 2, 4, 6. The Chevalier Prudhomme de 
Borre was made a brigadier-general Apr. 11, 1777. Washington's reply to this letter 
ism Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 71. A note concerning Borre is found in the Writings 
of Washington (ed. Sparks), V. 462 (in an appendix of materials relating to the battle of 
Brandywine). See also tbid., p. 60. A sketch of Borre is in Appleton, Cyclo. of Am 
Biog.; also m Lossmg, Field Book of the Am. Rev. Sullivan's letters concerning his 
own conduct (Amory, Life of Sullivan, p. 44 et seq.) barely mention Borre. 

[641]! George C. Thomas Collection, Philadelphia; Thomas, Autographs and Auto- 
graph Letters. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 2, 13. Cf. ibid., Nov. 7, and Feb. 4, 1778. See also 
nos. 648, 734, post. 



4 

a skilful artillerist will be sent to you to give you their advice and assis- 
tance in defending our towns and teaching our artillery.' .... 

642. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, 14 September, 1777. 
My Dearest Friend, 

You will learn, from the newspapers, before this reaches you, the situa- 
tion of things here. Mr. Howe's army is at Chester, about fifteen miles 
from this town. General Washington's is over the Schuylkill, awaiting 
the flank of Mr. Howe's army. How much longer Congress will stay 
is uncertain. I hope we shall not move until the last necessity, that is, 
until it shall be rendered certain that Mr. Howe will get the city. If we 
.should move, it will be to Reading. Lancaster, York, Easton, or Beth- 
lehem, some town in this State. It is the determination not to leave this 
State.^ Don't be anxious about me, nor about our great and sacred cause. 
It is the cause of truth and will prevail. If Howe gets the city, it will cost 
him all his force to keep it. and so he can get nothing else 

643. Henry Laurens to George Galphin.^ 

i6th. Septem. 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

Although from Circumstances of our affairs 'tis impossible for me to 
reply so fully as I would otherwise have done to your favour received by 
the hands of the Reverend Mr. Holmes yet a total silence would be 
inexcusable. 

I congratulate w ith your success in treating v/ith the Creek Indians. 
I hold the States of S° Carolina and Georgia as well as all the United 
States much indebted to your unwearied labours for the present good 
disposition of those Savages and as their continuance in this temper 
depends much upon your exertions so we are all bound to pray for your 
life and health.^ 

3 If this was the result of action on the part of Congress the resolution is not 
found in the Journals. Maryland had preferred a request, Aug. 28 (see the Journals, 
p. 692), for "a skilful engineer and an experienced artillerist". Congress referred the 
matter to Washington, who replied Aug. 29 (read in Congress Aug. 30), that he could 
not spare the officers at that time. This was reported to Governor Johnson by Chase, 
in a letter of Aug. 30 (N. Y. Pub. Library, Emmet Collection, no. 1619). Probably Le 
Brun and Pierre were sent by Washington in accordance with the request of Aug. 28. 
[642]^ FamtVtar Letters, p. 307. 

2 Cf. no. 637, note 2, ante. " Altho' the Enemy's Army are so very near this 
city. Congress have not determined to remove neither will they unless they are forced." 
Cornelius Harnett to Governor Caswell, Sept. 13, N. C. State Records. XL 762. 
[643] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 169. 

- Cf. the Journals, Apr. 4, Oct. 20, 1777. See also ibid.. Aug. 19, 1776. George 
Galphin was an Indian trader, whose residence, " Silver Bluff ", was on the South 
Carolina side of the Savannah River. For a number of years he had an important part 
in affairs pertaining to the Georgia Indians. Galphin died in 1780; but a claim of his, 
growing out of the treat>' of Augusta, 1773. with the Creeks and Cherokees, was prose- 
cuted by his family against the state of Georgia, against the British government, and 
finally against the United States. The claim was allowed by the United States in 1848. 
The Galphin claim came into passing political notoriety because of the fact that it 



September, lyjy 495 

I had intended to have presented the Indian Talk to Congress and to 
have made a proper representation of your merits, but from the day of 
Mr. Holmes arrival to the present moment we have been engaged in 
attentions to the attempts of baptized Savages at our very door to murder 
Burn and imprison in different classes every one in this quarter who have 
virtue enough to refuse their proffered pardons for doing their duty in 
the Cause in which you are also engaged.* .... 

Congress in the present Situation of affairs think it necessary to prepare 
for adjourning to Lancaster about 66 Aliles West, perhaps before sun- 
rise tomorrow I shall be on my journey some of us are already gone. 
I will continue here as long as most of the Company, but as I have ever 
loved free air and exercise and hate to be confined to a small room, I will 
not stay the very last man.* when we are restored to tranquility whether 
here or else where you shall hear again from etc. 

644. Henry Marchant to the Rhode Island Assembly.^ 

Philadelphia, Sept. 17th, 1777 
Gentlemen, 

.... Our accounts from the Northward are very favourable. By 
the Blessing of Heaven (and I most sincerely wish we more deserved it) 
We have Reason to expect a happy Issue to this Campaign. We had 
Intelligence that all the British troops had left Rhode Island, but I doubt 
it, Congress have requested if the Fact be true that one of your State 
Battalions may be forwarded to Peekskill, that we may be able to draw 
the Continental Force from thence as circumstances may Require.^ A 
Requisition of the like kind is gone to Connecticut, and will, I presume, 
to Mass^^ 

645. James Lovell to William Whipple.^ 

Philadelphia, Sept. 17, 1777. 
My dear c>tr, 

.... As to the affair at Brandywine, last Thursday, I doubt whether 
you will ever accurately know whether Fortune alone is to be blamed, or 
whether Sullivan and the Chief should not share with her in the Slander- 
ing murmurs. Knowledge of the Enemy's intentions on the Right Wing 
of our Army was certainly wanting. Genl. Washington and some good 
military men, especially the highest office rs, do not charge the want to 

was pushed to a successful conclusion through the agency of William H. Crawford. 
See Milledge Galphin Memorial to the Legislature of the State of Georgia (1817): 
White, Htstortcal Collections of Georgia^ p. 246; Knight, Georgia and Georgians, I. 
242;and3i Cong., I. sess., //oMj^iK!^/.^, no.334. y > - 

3 Laurens is alluding to the activities of Congress consequent upon Howe's 
approach to Philadelphia. 

it S^"t"°a' ^^'^' ^^^' ^^7' ^' '"*'^' *^46, 649. note 2, post. 

r}^n!..\l' ' "^" *° *^^ Governors, 1777-177^, p. 27; Staples, R. I. in Cant. 

\^ong., p. 150. 

2 The intelligence turned out to be incorrect. See the Journals, Sept. 14, p. 742 
r^- 11 n '■^^"'•^'t'O" to Connecticut does not appear in the Journals. 
[645Pi'a. Mag of Hist. and Biog., XXII. 383; Library of Congress, Force Trans 
Whipple, p. 41 1 ; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Langdon-Elwyn Papers (copy) 



4 

Sullivan. But as he was under the Order of Congress for a Court of 
Enquiry as to Staten Island, the Maryland officers in his Division, the 
Delci^^ates of that State, the great Rurk,^ the Friend of St. Clair, and the 
connexion of Schuyler accomplished to cast such Reflections upon his 
want of capacity to direct a Wing of our Army in this critical Day, that 
a Majority after demolishing old DeBowe [de Borre], effected the 
Resolve to recall Sullivan till his Conduct should be enquired as per 
former orders.' Agreeable to the Prophecy of the minority, the Com- 
mander in Chief has written in the most pressing manner for a suspension 

of the Order of Recall which being carried, Ch e * moved that a 

Direction might go to put the Maryland Troops under some other M. GI. 

which would have been in effect throwing out S n, for the soldiers of 

other Divisions would be unwilling to serve under a Man discarded by 

the Marylanders if the Generals would consent to exchange. R d " 

joined and had the Delaware inserted with Maryland. But those States 
were the only yeas, which agreeable to modern petty Practice were booked 
with the Nays by the request of M d.® .... 

646. William Williams to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Pheladel., 17 Sepr 1777 Wed. Morn 
[Ho]n'^ Sir 

.... Congress remain, here, but begin to talk and have indeed voted 
to move to Lancas[ter], if they are obliged to remove, it is about 60 miles 
west of this : 'tis sorely against my Will to move that Way.^ .... 

647. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 



Dr. Sir: 



Philadelphia, Sept. 17th, 1777. 



.... This unfortunate General [Sullivan]^ has ever been the Marplot 
of our Army, and his miscarriages are I am persuaded owing to a total 
want of military Genius, and to one of that sort of understandings which 
is unable to take a full comprehensive view of an object, but employs its 
activity in subtle senseless refinement. Thus persuaded I thought it my 
duty to endeavour to have him removed from his command, and I suc- 

2 Thomas Burke, see his letter to Caswell Sept. 17 (no. 647, post), and that to 
Sullivan Oct. 12 (no. 686, post). 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 14; cf. ibid., Sept. 10 (p. 727, note). 
* Samuel Chase. See the Journals, Sept. 16. 

s George Read. 

6 See the Journals, Sept 14, 16. For the outcome of the inquiry concerning the 
Staten Island affair see the Journals, Oct. 16 and 20. See also nos. 681, 684, 702, post. 
Cf. Amory', Life of Sullivan, p. 38 et seq. 

[646]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1568, Declaration of Independence. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 14, and nos. 637, 642, 643, ante, and no. 649, note 2, post. 
[6^7]^ N.C. State Recs.,YA. 620. 

2 Burke had been describing the battle of Brandywine (which in part he had 
witnessed), criticising in particular Sullivan's action therein. A more specific criticism 
is found in his letter to SuUivan Oct. 12 (no. 686, post). See also nos. 681, 684, 702, post. 



September, z/// 497 

ceeded so far as to have a resolution passed for recalling him, but General 
Washington remonstrated against it at so critical a time, and the execution 
is now left to his discretion.' .... 

648. John Adams, Diary.^ 

[September 18, 1777.] 

18. Thursday. The violent north-east storm, which began the day 
before yesterday, continues. We are yet in Philadelphia, that mass of 
cowardice and Toryism. Yesterday, was buried Monsieur Du Coudray, 
a French officer of artillery, who was lately made an Inspector-General 
of artillery and military manufactures, with the rank of Major-General. 
He was drowned in the Schuylkill, in a strange manner. He rode into 
the ferry-boat, and rode out at the other end into the river, and was 
drowned. His horse took fright. He was reputed the most learned and 
promising officer in France. He was carried into the Romish Chapel, and 
buried in the yard of that church. This dispensation will save us much 
altercation.^ 

649. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais.^ 

i8th. September 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

.... All our affairs are undoubtedly in a better appearance than they 
were three days ago, but fright has driven some great Men to do pre- 
cipitantly what I strongly urged as necessary to do cooly and deliberately 
as soon as we learned of Mr. Howe's landing at Elk, but I suffer the fate 
of all wise Men, my counsel is not always attended to. no wise man 
however can suffer with more patience and indifference. Some who 
smiled at the proposition are gone in a hurry, embarrassed — others are 
now on the wing, we keep enough to make a Congress and thats all. 
I shall remain as long as any. I sent my baggage forward some days 
ago and can easily transport my self, but I am really in a comfortable 
State of confidence that General Washington will be victorious in the next 
engagement which will probably happen this Evening or tomorrow, be 
that as it may I am ready to go or to remain and may do either with a 
good face, my advise was not to go, but to prepare for going, that we 
might not be endangered to have our last moments which ought [to] be 
spent in the most Serious and Solemn deliberations and orders, perplexed 
by a thousand different opinions and reflextions how to dispose of our 
bodies and worldly Estate.^ we spent lately upwards of 4 hours in that sort 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 14 and 16; cf. no. 645, ante. 
[648]! Works, II. 437- 

2 Du Coudray's death occurred Sept. 15. On that day Congress had accepted 
the offer of Du Coudray and a number of French officers who had accompanied him 
to serve as volunteers. See the Journals, Sept. 15 and 17. Cf. nos. 559, 581, 586, 641, 
ante, and no. 734, post. 

[649] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 170. 

2 Cf. nos. 627, 643, ante. See also nos. 650-653, 636-661, 698, post. 



4 

of confusion and considered and reconsidered 4 times, and what was then 
determined I believe by a reconsideration is now undoing^ ' I came out 
of the House to forward barely two lines to you and I find I have scribled 
above twenty — the effect of beinj::^ at leisure in mind (though hurried by 
the party who is to be bearer), my baggage is a head, my Horse is ready, 
before the enemy can cross Schuylkill, which I hope he will never do in 
any character but prisoner, I may be 15 or 20 miles on Bristol Road and 
Strike off into the interior country. Wherever I am T shall endeavor to 
let you hear from me and will always be wishing the happiness of you 
and yours, this moment I got here, a friend comes in to dine with me 
tis \ past three, and in a burst of Laugh tells me we are to meet at 
6 oClock this evening and to morrow to enter upon the weighty business 
of the Confederation.* fright sometimes works Lunacy, this does not 
imply that Congress is frighted or Lunatic but there may be some men 
between this and Schuylkill who may be much one and a little of the 
other. Dinner and the messenger for this waits. 

650. John Adams, Diary.^ 

[September 19, 1777.] 

ig. Friday. At three, this morning, was waked by Mr. Lovel, and told 
that the members of Congress were gone, some of them, a little after 
midnight ; that there was a letter from Mr. Hamilton, aid-de-camp to the 
General, informing that the enemy were in possession of the ford and the 
boats, and had it in their power to be in Philadelphia before morning, and 
that, if Congress was not removed, they had not a moment to lose.^ Mr. 
Marchant and myself arose, sent for our horses, and, after collecting our 
things, rode off after the others. Breakfasted at Bristol, where were 
many members determined to go the Newtown road to Reading. We 
rode to Trenton, where we dined. Colonel Harrison, Dr. Witherspoon, 
all the delegates from New York and New England, except Gerry and 
Lovel. Drank tea at Mr. Spencer's; lodged at Mr. S. Tucker's, at his 
kind invitation.' 

651. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina.* 

Burlington Sepr. 20th. 1777 
Dr Sir 

.... The Question for adjournment from Philadelphia was dayly 
agitated in Congress, but always overruled. On the Night before last it 
received a compleat decision. Intelligence was received from the General 

3 The allusion is probablj- to the question of the removal of the sick and wounded 
and the hospital stores from Trenton. See the Journals, Sept. 16, 17, 18. Cf. Carroll to 
Washington, Sept. 22, post. 

* See no. 631, ante, and no. 659, post. 
[650]! Works, II. 438. 

- See the Journals, Sept. 18. and no. 649, note 2, ante. Cf. no. 661. post. 
" See Adam's Diary. Sept. 20-2S, in Works, II. 438-440. 
[651]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Burke; N. C. State Recs., XI. 631. 



September, lyyy 499 

Officer Commanding- on Schuylkill that the Enemy were then attempting 
to cross and that they could not be prevented, and a [d] vising the Congress 
immediately to remove from the City, the movement was made not by 
a Vote but by universal Consent, for every Member Consulted his own 
particular Safety. I was wakened by a Servant about two o'clock, and 
tho' I lost no time in preparing to depart, yet I did not chuse to retreat 
with precipitation. I was not indeed fully persuaded of the Necessity of 
the Measure, and not very Apprehensive for my personal Safety, about 
Sunrise I crossed the Deleware and made my retreat hither where I shall 
wait the Issue of a Battle.^ It is now well known that the Alarm was 
groundless, no Enemy has yet passed, nor does it appear that they will 
be able to pass.' 

I have the Honor to be 

Sir your very obet Servt 

Thos Burke 
Governor Caswell 

652. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to George Washington.^ 

Pott's Groves 22d. Septr. 1777.^ 
Dear Sir, 

I would just suggest the propriety of sending Some active persons to 
Bristol and Trenton to impress Wagons to remove what continental 
stores are at those places and may be carried thither from Pha. in conse- 
quence of your orders to Colo. Hamilton. This measure is the more 
necessary as the order of Congress for removing these Stores is suspended 
till their meeting at Lancaster wh may not be for some days.' Mr. Smith 
one of our Delegates being returned home I must proceed to Congress to 
keep up a representation from our State. I desire my compliments to the 
gentlemen in your family and wish your Excellency health and success 
against our common enemy. I am with great esteem 

Yr. most obdt. hum'' Servt. 

Ch. Carroll of Carrollton. 

2 Cf. nos. 649, note 2, 650, ante. 

3 Cf. John Adams's Diary, Sept. 21, Works, II. 439; also no. 653, post. 

[652]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XVIII. 160; Rowland, Charles 
Carroll of Carrollton, I. 217. 

2 On this day a number of the delegates arrived at Bethlehem, in their progress 
toward Lancaster. See the Diary of John Adams, Sept. 22-25, Works, II. 439-440. 
The following document, in the writing of Richard Henry Lee, with the signatures of 
himself and fifteen other delegates, is preserved jimong the archives of the Moravian 
Congregation at Bethlehem. It is printed in Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Bal- 
lagh), I. 324. 

" Bethlehem September the 22d. 1777. 

" Having here observed a humane and diligent attention to the sick and wounded, and 
a benevolent desire to make the necessary provision for the relief of the distressed, as 
far as the powers of the Bretheren enable them. We desire that all Continental Officers 
may refrain from disturbing the persons or property of the Moravians in Bethlehem, and 
particularly that they do not disturb or molest the Houses where the women are 
assembled. Given under our hands at the time and place above mentioned." 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 16, 17, 18. Cf. no. 649, note 3, ante. Carroll was in 
attendance at Lancaster Sept. 27. See his letter to Washington, Rowland. Charles 
Carroll of Carrollton, I. 217. 



5 

653. James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull.* 

Philadelphia 23d Sepr. [1777.] 

My dear Sir 

You will have licard before this reaches you that Congress left this 
City at 3 oClock in the Morninj:!: of the 19th in Consequence of Advice 
by Express from Coll. A. Hamilton Gen. Washington's Aid de Camp 
whose Horse was shot as he was passing the Schuylkill and one also of 
his Oarsmen was killed. I know not which Way Coll. Dyer and Co. 
steered after they crossed into the Jersies. I was averse to going at first 
and after breakfasting at Bristol, Curiosity and some Interest brought 
me back here to dine the same day. It is said that 4.000 of the Enemy 
have now actually crossed at the Sweeds Ford. I shall know the Truth 
before the Post goes off Tomorrow.^ .... 

654. Elbridge Gerry to George Washington.* 

Lancaster, Sepr. 24th. 1777 

Sir 

In Consequence of your Letter of the 22d directed to the President or 
any Member of Congress,^ I have conferred with William Henry Esqr. 
of this Place upon the most expeditious Method of collecting the arms 
and accoutrements in the Hands of the Inhabitants here, and he is of 
Opinion that it may be accomplished by your Warrant to him grounded 
on the late Resolution of Congress for that and other Purposes. As 
there is not a prospect of having a Congress or Board of War for several 

[653]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 See nos. 649, note 2, 650-652, ante, nos. 656-659, 661, post. Lovell paid dearly 
for his curiosity, or his rashness. He relates in this letter to Trumbull : " I was robbed 
of my Pocket Book in the twinkling of an Eye last f ryday Even?, at the Coflfea-House, 
containing 260 Dollrs with 15 or more Lottery Tickets belonging to Col. Whipple, 
and some Papers of my own." Sept. 24, Lovell wrote to Elbridge Gerry from Phila- 
delphia (besides relating the loss of his pocket-book) : " By all I can find you will be 

so sick of Lancaster as to determine upon York speedily Mr. S. A. was little 

inclined to go to Lancaster; but I do not think he will quit before the Confedn. is 
gone through." This letter was among the Gerry papers at one time in the possession 
of W. R. Benjamin of New York. 

[654]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. IL, p. 319; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), I. 435. 

- Such a letter of this date from Washington has not been found, neither is 
there mention of it in the Journals. A letter of Sept. 23, containing a passage relative 
to the collection of shoes and blankets in Lancaster, was read in Congress at their 
meeting in Lancaster, Sept. 27 (see nos. 657, 660, post). This letter was addressed to 
" Honble Jno. Hancock Esq. ; or any Member of Congress, Lancaster ", and the opening 
sentence says: "I have not had the honor of addressing you since your adjournment 
to Lancaster"; nevertheless, Gerry's letter of Sept. 25 (no. 655, post), as also Washing- 
ton's letters to Gerry, Sept. 26 and 27 (see below, and no. 655, post), are evidence that 
the letter of Sept. 22 is not identical with that of Sept. 23. Replying to Gerry, Sept. 
26, Washington says : " When I wrote Congress, I was informed, that there were several 
arms in Lancaster belonging to the public. These with their accoutrements, I wished 
to be collected and put into the Hands of the Militia coming from Virginia. But I did 
not mean that any the property of Individuals, should be taken, because I did not 

conceive myself authorised, nor do I at this time to order such a measure The 

Army is much distressed for blankets and shoes, and I wish the most vigorous exertions 
could be pursued to make a collection, the speediest possible, in the neighborhood where 
you are." (Library of Congress, Washington Papers.) 



September, 7777 501 

Days to give him authority, and the Articles are immediately wanted, 
he has consented to proceed on the Business without Delay, in Expecta- 
tion that on the Receipt of this you will give him full Powers to justify 
his Conduct and date them the 22d, that the Time of his Transaction 
may comport with his Commission.' With wishes of Success to your 
Excellency and the Cause in which you are engaged I remain Sir very 
respectfully your most hum. Serv. 

E. Gerry. 

655. Elbridge Gerry to George Washington.^ 

Lancaster Sepr 25th 1777 3 oClock P M 
Sir 

I wrote You a Line Yesterday, desiring You to impower Mr. Henry 
of this Place to collect the Fire Arms wanted for the Virginia Troops on 
their March to the Camp, since wch. Your Letter of the 23d is received, 
desiring that a Number of Blankets and Shoes may be also collected.* 

• • • • 

Colo R H Lee is present, and has just directed a Letter to the Com- 
mand^ Officer of the Militia at Frederick Town in Maryland ordering 
on all the Militia that are arrived and 500 of those that are unarmed 
to be supplyed in this Place. 

656. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson.^ 

Lancaster 25 Sepr. 1777 
Dr Sir 

Congress have been Obliged to leave Philadelphia and it is supposed 
Genl. Howe is now in possession of it, altho' every effort in Genl. Wash- 

ingtons Power has been made use of to prevent it The Congress 

are not yet met here several of the Members not being arrived, as soon as 
they do meet, and an oppertunity offers I shall write you again more 
fully.^ . . . 

3 The resolution referred to is probably that of Sept. 17 (p. 752). Cf. the resolu- 
tions of Sept. 14, 16, embod)dng recommendations to the Pennsylvania council, the 
council's letters to Congress, Sept. 15, 17, in Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 626, 630, and 
Hancock's letter to the council, Sept. 16, ibid., V. 627. The original of Hancock's letter 
is in Haver ford College, Roberts Coll., 722. William Henry was one of the justices of 
Lancaster County. See Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 634, 635. The authority conferred on 
Washington, Sept. 17, to impress articles needed for the army (see also the resolves of 
Oct. 8), was extended Nov. 14, and still further amplified Dec. 10. See the Journals, 
Sept. 27, Oct. 13 (orders to the board of war), and Oct. 16; also Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 
675, 681, 683, 686, 691, 738, 751. 

[655]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XVHI. 163. 

2 See no. 654, note 2, ante. Cf. Washington to Hamilton, Sept. 22, Writings (ed. 
Ford), VL 78. Washington replied to Gerry Sept. 27: " I am favd. with yours of the 
25th. I yesterday wrote you that I did not think myself authorised to seize upon any 
Arms the property of private persons but if they can be collected and the owners satis- 
fied for them it would be of very essential Service as great Numbers of Militia would 
i"oin the Army could they be furnished with Arms." (Library of Congress, Washington 
■*apers.) 

[656]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Members of the Old Congress, H. 67. 
^^ 2 Cf. nos. 658, 659, post. Samuel Chase wrote to Governor Johnson Sept. 25 : 

I expect we shall make up a Congress before Sunday and then I expect a regular 
Conveyance will be established weekly to Baltimore." (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll.) 



5 

657. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

Lancaster 26 Septenir. 1777. 

Sir 

I arriv'd last Even^ at this place, where I was honour'd with your 
Letter of 23CI Inst, which I shall lay before Congress as soon as the whole 
of the Members arrive here which I Expect will be this Day.^ .... 

658. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

Lancaster Sepr. 27, 1777 
Sir 

I did myself the Honor of writing- Your Excellency a few days ago 
from Philadelphia.^ since which Congress have been obliged to Decamp, 
Genl How having by many different Maneouvers got between Our Army 
and the City, and can when he pleases take possession of it. But it seems 
his intention is to Come to another Battle with Our Army first. 

.... Congress intends to proceed to business this day. I can send 
Your Excellency no Newspapers as yet. Messrs. Burke and Penn are 
neither of them Arrived I expect them to-day.* 

659. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Lancaster Septr. the 28th 1777 
Dear Sir 

.... and ^ by an express who came into the City about one o'Clock 
in the morning of fryday the 19th Instant Informing the Enemy had 
passed the Schuylkill and was then on their full March for the City, 
noticing the Congress Members Immediately to leave the City, and that 
they had not a minute to spare tho this proved a mistake. You may 
depend upon it w'e were soon on the wing and made our flight with all 
speed to Trenton where we arrived early that day. from Thence we 
Journeyd to Bethlem and through Reading to Lancaster to which place 
we had agreed to adjourn Congress when there should be Need, but we 
only met there to adjourn to this place where w^e Open Congress this day.' 
we thought it not best at this time to remove out of this State least in this 

[657]^ Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XVIIL 169. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 27 ; cf. nos. 654, 655, ante, no. 660, post. 
[658]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1167; A^. C. State Recs., XI. 636. 

2 A letter to Governor Caswell from Burke, Penn, and Harnett, Sept. 17, is in 
N. C. State Recs., XL 625. 

3 Sept. 30, Harnett again wrote to Governor Caswell : " Messrs. Burke and 
Penn are not yet arrived, but I expect them every hour." A^. C. State Recs., XL 638. 
See no. 651, ante. 

[659]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 There is no apparent grammatical connection between this sentence and that 
which precedes. Dyer had spoken of Washington's withdrawal before Howe, to 
replenish his supply of ammunition, which had been spoiled by the rain. 

3 In the margin is written: "York Town: October ist." The precise division 
between that which was written at Lancaster and that written at York is not apparent. 
See no. 660, post. 



September, j/// 503 

Critical Situation of affairs there should be a total defection of this State 
the Enemy are now in possession of their Capital which they entered on 
fryday last with a party of about 15 hundred and with their main body 
are fortifymg on the heights near German Town 

[P. S.]. . . . we shall Immediately enter upon the Confederation, 
taxation and if possible to retrieve the sinking State of our Currency 
Congress have resolved that the Intrest on the loan office Certificates past 
and future to be paid by bills of Excge drawn on Our Commisrs in France 
at6prCt*. . . . 

660. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

York-Town in Pennsylvania Sepr. 30th. 1777. 
Sir, 

Since my departure from Philadelphia, I have to acknowledge the 
receipt of your favrs. to the 23d. Inst. I met the Congress on Saturday 
last at Lancaster, and upon consultation it was judged most prudent to 
adjourn to this place, where we now are, and where we can deliberate and 
prosecute business without interruptions and where your despatches will 
meet us.^ 

I have just now receiv'd by general Gates' Aid de Camp, (Major 
Troup) sundry letters, copies of which I have the honour to enclose to 
you, by which it appears that our affairs in the northern department wear 
a favourable aspect, and I hope soon to transmit you an account of an 
issue to the contest in that quarter.^ 

_ I wish soon to receive the most pleasing accounts from you. we are 
m daily expectation of agreeable tidings, and that genl. Howe is totally 
reduced. ^ 

I beg leave to refer you to the inclosed papers, and am with the utmost 
respect and esteem Sir, 

Your most obedt and very hble. Servt. 
rp g -J John Hancock Presidt. 

*See the Journals, Sept. 9, 10, and nos. 627, 631, 636 ante Cf nos 66,0 67t 
'nol InMT^ '" *'^ "-''''''' °^ Confedektio'n: s^' nol! -e.e^TeTora'Jtll 

(ed^SpLkltT436.^°"^''''' ^"'" *"* Washington, XQ. 45; Letters to Washington. 

2 Cf. nos. 654, note 2, 657, ante, no. 666, post. 

nlJ.r7^ir^"''^"^'^''°K *° John Laurens, Sept. 30: "Congress have been hurried from 
place to place and no business done for many days past. I hope we shall begin anew 
tomorrow and be permitted to deliberate without further interruption, h [ope] founded 
on the anticipated success of General Washington." (Long Island H st. Soc, Laurens 
Papers.) Cf. nos. 649, 659, ante, no. 698, post. ' ^^^^^^^ 

3 According to the Journals (Oct i), there were two letters of Gates dated Sept 
22. Only one such, however, has been found. The original is in Papers Con Cong 
no. 154, vol. L f. 2fe, and a copy, in the writing of Hancock, is in the Washineton 
Papers, XCL 48. Other enclosures were: Lincoln to Gates, Sept. 14; CWtes to Sin 

c"£l'^''?^'V ^T™^'' 71""^^"" ""^ °??^^' Sept. 17,' LiScoInlo Gates Sept^^^^^^^^ 
Gates to Lincoln, Sept 17; John Brown to Lincoln, Sept. 18; Gates to Lincoln Sen/ 
19; Lincoln to Gates. Sept. 20. Maj. Robert Troup,' who brought the despatches from 
Gates, was rewarded. Oct. 4, with a lieutenant-colonelcy. See nos. 662, elTe?!, po^ 
37 



5 

66i. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

York Town, Pennsylvania, 

Tuesday, 30 September, 1777. 
My Best Friend, 

It is now a long time since I had an opportunity of writing to you, and 
I fear you liave suffered unnecessary anxiety on my account. In the 
morning of tlie 19th instant, the Congress were alarmed in their beds by 
a letter from Mr. Hamilton, one of General Washington's family, that the 
enemy was in possession of the ford over the Schuylkill and the boats, so 
that they had it in their power to be in Philadelphia before morning. 
The papers of Congress belonging to the Secretary's office, the War 
office, the Treasury office etc., were before sent to Bristol. The President, 
and all the other gentlemen were gone that road, so I followed with my 
friend Mr. Marchant, of Rhode Island, to Trenton, in the Jerseys. We 
stayed at Trenton until the 21st, when we set off to Easton, upon the 
forks of Delaware. From Easton we went to Bethlehem, from thence to 
Reading, from thence to Lancaster, and from thence to this town, which 
is about a dozen miles over the Susquehannah river. Here Congress is 
to sit. In order to convey the papers with safety, which are of more 
importance than all the members, we were induced to take this circuit, 
which is near a hundred and eighty miles, whereas this town, by the 
direct road, is not more than eighty-eight miles from Philadelphia. This 
tour has given me an opportunity of seeing many parts of this country 
which I never saw before.^ 

This morning Major Troup arrived here with a large packet from 
General Gates, containing very agreeable intelligence, which I need not 
repeat, as you have much earlier intelligence from that part than we have. 
I wish affairs here wore as pleasing an aspect. But alas, they do not.^ 

I shall avoid every thing like history, and make no reflections. How- 
ever, General Washington is in a condition tolerably respectable, and the 
militia are now turning out from Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania 
in small numbers. All the apology that can be made for this part of the 
world is, that Mr. Howe's march from Elk to Philadelphia, was through 
the very regions of passive obedience. The whole country through which 
he passed is inhabited by Quakers. There is not such another body of 
Quakers in all America, perhaps not in all the world 

662. W^illiam Williams to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

York 30 Sepr. 1777 
Hon'^ Sir 

.... Majr. Troup, G Gates's Aid De Camp, came in this day with 
Letters from him etc. which seem to exhillerate the Spirits of Congress, 

[661]^ Familiar Letters, p. 314. 

2 Cf. nos. 650, 659, ante. 

3 Cf. no. 660, ante. no. 662, post. 

1662]! N Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 2464. 



October, lyjj 505 

quite enow, etc. indeed They were not too much depresd before, strongly 
hoping and expecting a reverse." .... 

I hope a heavy Tax will tend to reduce things to order, which Congress 
will certainly recommend very soon, a Com^^ had been appointed to 
prepare, apportion etc at P. but we were obliged to decamp before 
it was brot in. tho nothing but success against our Enemy, will effectually 
extricate us from the Distresses respecting our Currency etc. into which 
we are plunged.' .... 

663. Daniel Roberdeau to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town, Octr i, 1777. 
Sir, 

General Gates's letter, with enclosures to Congress per express this 
day are referred to the Committee of Intelligence for publication and 
v^ill be sent this afternoon to Lancaster for that purpose, therefore tran- 
scripts are less necessary, but I would furnish them for the satisfaction 
of Council, if I was not very unwell, as thereby they might be furnished 
with the news a few hours sooner." .... 

664. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull.* 

York in Pennsylvania, Octr 2d 1777 
Dear Sir 

I reed yours of the i6th Sepr., and not having attended the Treasury 
of late from the Want of Health, was unacquainted with the Order of 
the Board before the rect. of your Letter. 

I think that your Request is reasonable, and as Philadelphia is now in 
the Hands of the Enemy, that you cannot be accommodated in any other 
Place where Congress shall meet, were there no other objections to the 
removal of the Commiss. ; but of these there are undoubtedly many, and 
such as cannot be easily answered, when the Board meets I shall propose 
a Reversal of the order." 

The Loss of Philadelphia was unexpected, and had it been in any other 
State than Pennsylvania, Delaware or Maryland, I question whether it 
would have happened, but as General Washington's army will be rein- 
forced in a Day or tw^o with 3000 of the Virginia Militia, 1500 Contin. 

2 Cf. no. 660, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. lo, Oct. ii; also the proceedings on the letter of 
Stephen Hopkins, etc., Aug. i8, Sept. lo, Oct. 27, Nov. 13, 22 ; cf. also the proceedings on 
the ninth article of the Confederation, Oct. 8, 9-1 1, 13, 14. Cf. no. 659, ante, nos. 671, 
701, post. 

[663]^ Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 639. 

2 See no. 660, note 3, ante. Gates's letter of Sept. 22 was referred, Oct. 2, to 
the board of war, but the Journals do not mention its reference to the committee of 
intelligence, for publication. 

[664] 1 Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 73. 

2 The order referred to is that of June 11, requiring the commissary-general 
of purchases to keep his office in the place where Congress shall sit. It does not appear 
that the order was reversed. Cf. no. 676, post. 



5 

Troops from peeks Kill, and looo of the Jersey militia, I hope it will be 
soon recovered. 

The new Commissaries do not appear to be well acquainted with their 
Business, the army having been one whole Day without provisions. I 
fear the Consequences of these Alterations; which you well know were 
contrar>' to my repeated Remonstrances.' 

I congratulate You on the agreable prospects for the northern Depart- 
ment and am with much Esteem yours, 

Sincerely 

E Gerry 

Colo Trumbull. 

665. The President of Congress to the Massachusetts Council.* 

York Town : Pennsylvania. 

Octr 3d. 1777. 
Gentlemen, 

Your Favour of the 17th ulto. enclosing a Copy of a letter from Mr 
Loring Commissary of Prisoners, relative to the Exchange of Doctor 
Church for Doctr McHenry, was duely received and laid before Con- 
gress: In Consequence of which I am to inform you, they immediately 
and in the strongest Terms, expressed their Disapprobation of the Pro- 
posal, and put their Negative upon it.^ 

I have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect Gentlemen, 

Your most obed and very hble Servt 
John Hancock Presidt 

The Honble Council of the State of 
Massachusetts Bay. 

666. James Duane to George Clinton.* 

York Town, Penna Oct 3d 1777 
Sir 

I wrote to your Excellency from Lancaster covering a copy of Gen 
Washingtons Letter to Congress which explains the causes of the loss of 
Philadelphia. I wish those dispatches may have got safe to hand. Con- 
gress at their first meeting at Lancaster adjourned to York town 22 miles 
farther Southward, and 10 from the Susquehanna. Lancaster they found 
crowded and in other respects exceptionable. Here we are at least sufh- 
cientlv retired and can deliberate without interruption.^ .... 

5 Cf. nos. 726, 748, 757. 759. post. 

[665]! Mass. Arch., CXC\'III. 196; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 58, 

pt. II., f. 279; ibid., Mass. Recs., Letters, 1777-1778. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 2 (p. 758). 

[666] 1 Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXIX. 443 (copy); Jour. N. Y. Prov. 

Cong., II. 489 (without the name of the writer). 

2 Cf. no. 660, ante. Samuel Chase wrote to Governor Johnson Oct. 3 : " Our 
Confederacy is to be resumed this day." (Md. Hist. Soc, Gilmor Papers, Div. 3.) 



October, /;;/ 507 

667. John Penn to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell)/ 

York, Pa., October 5th, 1777 

Sir: 

Your favor of the 2nd September, I this minute received, and am glad 
to hear that the money, though very late, was arrived. The Congress 
left Philadelphia about the 20th, and are now at this place doing business. 

• • • • 

I shall apply to Congress to give some directions relative to the pork 
you mention to-morrow.^ 

Sunday morning. 

668. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

Robert Morris.^ 

York 5 Octor. 1777. 

Dear Sir ^, , , , 

The Business allotted me by Congress after settmg till 9 O clock last 
Evening, prevents me the honour and pleasure of waiting on you agree- 
able to your kind Invitation and my wish. I have Expresses going to 
Genl. Gates and Genl. Putnam and to Head Quarters, which makes me 
very busy. The Inclos'd Letters for you and Colo. Harrison I have just 
Rec'd, and judging it would be agreeable to you both to have them soon, 
I therefore dispatch one of my Expresses with them. I have not a word 
of news to Communicate. No Letters since you left us. Nor have we any 
Reports to-day 

669. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

York Town 5th. Octr. 1777 

Dear General 

.... General St Clair is neither tried nor Arraigned. How can it be 
expected in the critical Situation of our Affairs : and when his Hearing 
is to be preceeded by the Report of a Committee who are to collect 
Materials from A Variety of distant Sources for the purpose? ^_ With 
respect to yourself I think you have determined wisely: I advise you 
however to write a civil Letter to Congress requesting them to give you 
a Copy of your Charge and assign a day for the Hearing, hinting that a 

[667]! N. C. State Recs., XXII. 972, XI. 641. ^^ ^ ^t. • 

2 See Caswell's letter to Penn, Sept. 2, in N. C. State Recs., XI. 602. There is no 
mention of the matter in the Journals, but Penn did bring it to the attention of rtie 
commissary-general of purchases. See Penn to Caswell, Oct. 10, N. C. State Recs., XI. 
649, and William Buchanan to Governor Caswell, Oct. 17, ibid., XI. 656. 

[668] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 14; N. Y. Hist. See., Collecttons: 
Revolutionary Papers, I. 431. 

[669]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 546. 

2 In regard to St. Clair, see the Journals, July 30, also, under Sept 9 (P- 727, 
note i) ; cf. no. 570, note 2, ante. Concerning the committee of inquiry, see the Journals, 
Aug. 27, 28, and nos. 602, 617, 619, 625, ante, nos. 677, 781, Post. 



5 

delay in your painful Situation is a Severity which you neither merit from 
your Country, nor have any Reason to expect from Congress.* 

Give my Compls. to Maj. H. B. Livingston and tell him he is promoted 
to the Rank of Lieut. Colonel ; as is Col. Troup for the News from the 
Northern Army. I shoud first have said that a Monument is ordered to 
be erected in Honour of the Memory of Genl Herkimer, Genl Stark 
advancd to the Rank of Brig-Genl. in the Continental Service, Gansevoort 
has the Thanks of Congress; and is appointed Col. Comma [njdant of 
Fort Schuyler, Willet the Thanks of Congress and a Sword.* .... 

670. James Duane to Jonathan Trumbull, jr.^ 

York Town 5th. Octobr. 1777 
Dear Sir 

Your Letter to Congress has been reced and refered to the Board of 
Treasury. I could not however loose a moment in assuring you that you 
have reced. a very wrong Impression from the Report to which you refer: 
There is no officer in the Continental Service who stands higher than 
yourself in the esteem of the Board of Treasury and of Congress in gen- 
eral ; and the Board will at all times be pleased to give you every honour* 
Testimonial in Justification of your Conduct. To me be assurd it will be 
a singular pleasure, you will have something more formal on this Sub- 
ject soon.^ 

In the mean believe that I am, with very great Respect, Dear Sir 

Your most Obedt hum^ Sert 

Jas. Duane. 
Jon^ Trumbull Junr. Esqr. 

671. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

York Town Octr. 5th. 1777 
Dear Sir 

.... The Flight to Baltimore was a Trifle compared with the present 
Jaunt and Situation 

The Congress left Philadelphia the 19th. at 2 oClock A. M. I returned from 
Bristol to the Capital to dine, and tarried till the 25th; when, the Enemy 
being within a mile and without any opposing Troops in the City, I slipt 
into the Jersies. It was lucky that I had a young Lady to gallant thither ; 
for 3 or 4 Officers who left Philadelphia before me were taken in the Franck- 
fort Road.' .... 

3 See no. 6ii, ante. A letter from Schuyler dated Sept. 27, requesting a 
copy of the accusation against him, was read in Congress Oct, 8. See also the Journals, 
Oct. 9, and nos. 677, 781, post. 

* See the Journals, Oct. 4, and no. 671, post. 
[670]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. II., no. 107. 

- Trumbull's letter, dated Sept. 20, was read in Congress Oct. 2, but the Journals 
appear to contain no record of action upon it. The letter protests against certain expres- 
sions in the proceedings of Congress Sept. 6 (Journals, p. 716), concerning the action of 
the deputy paymaster-general, and explains the letter of General Gates of Aug. 28, upon 
which the action w^as based. 

[671]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, X. 

2 Cf. no. 653, ante. 



October, lyy/ 509 

Upon the present ill Aspect, some People in Congress seem to intend 
to reform their mode of doing- or rather no^-doing Business, and I 
believe we shall be able to get speedily thro' the Articles of Confedera- 
tion, and shall sit faithfully about the means of keeping our Currency 
in some sort of Credit : I know nothing radical for the Purpose but Taxa- 
tion, high and payable at short Periods. Every Thing else is only a 
Palliative.* .... 

The Gentleman who delivers this has received an Advantage from yr. 
Recommendation ; * but as there was an old Resolution upon the Journals 
.that "Congress would take an early Opportunity to promote Majr. 
Livingston ", which was not recollected, when a Motion in his favour was 
made upon his coming to tell from Genl. Schuyler what Genl. Lincoln 
had written about Brigadr. Stark's Fighting, this Opportunity when Mr. 
Throop came properly from a Battle was taken to bring into Effect the 
mentioned Record. Thus both the Young Gentlemen are promoted.^ 
I hope Stark will not make the same Puzzle as another Officer has made 
about the Date of his new Rank ; ® For I think it impossible that in one 
Case or the other Congress should antedate without the greatest Confu- 
sion. One Case had been absolutely determined before any Knowledge 
of the Anecdote which I have before hinted at, which would have fixed 
me if I had not been fixed before.'' .... 

I hope one or two late Alterations with the Power of filling Places will 
make the Commissary and Quartermasters Department of some better use 
to you than they have been lately.* 

I will not urge you to be particular to me till you have more Leisure 
than you had when Mr. Throop left you ; but be assured that I am. Sir, 

Your Friend and Most humb Servt. 

James Lovell 

672. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners in 

Paris.^ 

YoRKTOWN, October 6, 1777. 
Gentlemen: 

We shall follow your example in confining this letter entirely to yours 
of May 26, respecting the loan and the mode of raising it by appropria- 

3 Cf. nos. 627, 631, 636, 659, 662, ante, nos. 672, 701, post. 

4 Robert Troup (Lovell here spells the name "Throop"). See note 5, below; 
also nos. 660, 662, ante. 

5 The promotions of Robert Troup and Henry Brockholst Livingston were 
made Oct. 4. Cf. no. 669, ante. For the earlier action concerning Livingston, see the 
Journals, Sept. 25, 1776, and Aug. 22, 1777 (erased entry). It is difficult to escape the 
impression that Congress was more zealous in promoting the persons who brought good 
news than those who performed good services. The promotion of James Wilkinson for 
bringing Gates's despatches concerning the surrender of Burgoyne is one of the most 
extraordinary. See the Journals, Oct. 31, Nov. 6, and no. 728, note 2, post. 

6 The allusion is probably to the case of Benedict Arnold. See the Journals 
Aug. 8, Nov. 29, and nos. 582, 583, 585, 586, 607, ante. 

■^ The anecdote was probably that related to Gates in a letter of Nov. 17 (Gates 
Papers, XL), involving a criticism of Washington. 
8 See the Journals, Oct. 4. 
[672]! Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 400; Sparks, Dipt. Corr. Rev., I. 330. 



5 



a 



tion of vacant land.* It remains doubtful yet whether there is any vacant 
land not included within the charter limits of some one of the thirteen 
States, and it is an undetermined (|uestion of j^reat maj^nitude whether 
such land is to be considered as common stock, or the exclusive property 
of the State within whose charter bounds it may be found.* 

Until this business has been determined in Congress and approved by 
the States you will readily discover the difficulty of doing anything in 
the way of raising money by appropriation of vacant land. We consider 
your proposal on this subject as of very great importance, and we shall 
not fail to solicit the attention of Congress thereto whenever the pressing 
business of the campaign will permit. 

In the mean time we see no reason that should prevent the young 
nobleman of Irish extract from coming to America, because the sus- 
pension of the question concerning vacant lands will not obstruct his 
views of getting the quantity he may want, either by original entry or 
by purchase on the most reasonable terms, upon the frontiers of those 
States where vacant lands are in abundance to be met with. We are 
warranted to say that such rank as that nobleman may have when he 
leaves service in Europe will be granted to him here. Congress clearly 
discern with you, gentlemen, the all-important concern of supporting the 
credit of the continental money, and with this view have proposed, as 
you will see by the inclosed resolves, to pay the interest of twenty millions 
of dollars by bills drawn on you. 

This we hope will in time replenish the loan offices so effectually as, 
with the aid of taxation now generally taking place, to prevent the 
necessity of future emissions. By your letters of the 25th of May we have 
no doubt but these interest bills will be paid with all due punctuality. 
About five millions only of the twenty voted are yet borrowed, and the 
interest on those five will not be drawn for in bills till near a twelve- 
month.* 

We are, etc., 

B. Harrison. 
R. H. Lee. 

J. WiTHERSPOON. 
J. LOVELL. 

2 The letter referred to seems to be missing. In Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
II. 325, is a letter from Franklin and Deane, dated May 26, but it does not discuss the 
question of defraying the cost of the war by the sale of vacant lands. Such a scheme 
was, however, proposed by Deane in a letter dated Dec. i, 1776. None of the existing 
letters of the commissioners mention " the young nobleman of Irish extract ". This 
was probably Count Arthur Dillon. A sketch of him is in Appleton, Cyclo. Am. Biog. 

3 The problem of the western territory had already been agitated in connection 
with the Articles of Confederation. See no. 616, ante. Maryland put the question to 
test Oct. 15. See the votes in the Journals (pp. 806-807). 

* See the Journals, Sept. 10, and no. 671, note 3, ante. The letter of May 25 from 
the commissioners in Paris is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 322. 



October, i^jy 511 

dyiy. The President of Congress to John Nixon.* 

York Town; Pennsylvania, 
October 6th. 1777. 
Sir, 

I have recieved your Favour wherein you request Leave to resign on 
Account of Indisposition, and immediately laid it before Congress : In 
Consequence of which I have it in Charge to inform you, that they have 
at present, in Consideration of the Services you have rendered the Cause 
of Freedom and your Country, declined accepting your Resignation. It 
is their Wish that you would spend some Time in travelling thro New 
England, or any other Part of America that may be most agreeable. 
Should you after this Excursion, find your Health no better, the Congress 
will in that Case tho with Reluctance, consent to your retiring from the 
Army,^ 

With the warmest Wishes for a Restoration of your Health, that you 
may be thereby enabled to render still further Services to your Country, 

I have the Honour to be, 

with great Respect, Sir 

your most obed Ser. 

J. H. Presid. 

Honble Brigad Genl Nixon 
By Mr Troup 



674. Richard Henry Lee to the Governor of Virginia 

(Patrick Henry ),^ 

York 8th Oct. 1777. 
My dear Sir, 

. , . . I have a very good opinion of Col Carrington, and would will- 
ingly serve him, but I much doubt whether the erasure of the Journal 
you propose can be obtained, but I will try.^ . , . . 

[673]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Hancock Letter-Book, VI. 293; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. IL, f. 287. 

2 The Journals contain no mention of Nixon's offer to resign, or of the action of 
Congress thereon. 

[674]! Henry, Patrick Henry, IH. loo; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), 
I- 325. 

2 The entry in the Journals here referred to is under Aug. 19. The action was 
taken in consequence of a letter of Aug. 8, from Governor Henry to the Virginia 
delegates, read in Congress Aug. 18. The letter is in Henry, Patrick Henry, with date 
Aug. 6, and in Pa. Arch., second ser., HL loi. Henry's suggestion that the censure of 
Carrington be erased is found in a postscript to a letter to Richard Henry Lee, Sept. 12, 
in Henry, Patrick Henry, 111. 94. The resolution was not erased, but on May 23, 1778, 
Congress removed the censure. See the Journals of that date. 



512 Continental Con<^rcss 

675. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to the 

Massachusetts Council/ 

Congress Chambers York Town in Pennsylva 

October 8th 1777 

Honhlc gentlemen, 

Before this reaches you, the particular Circumstances and Reasons of 
the Departure of Congress from the City of Philadelphia must have come 
to vour Knowledge. I shall therefore wave the Subject, and only say 
that the Congress is tolerably well accommodated in this place, and are 
now Conducting the Publick Business here 

P. S. I have it in Charge from Congress to Request, that you will be 
pleas'd to Enlarge Lieut. Colonel Campbell on giving the same Parole 
that you have other of^cers under it.* 

Honl Council of jMassachus^ Bay and Assembly 

676. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

York Town, Octobr 8th 1777 

Dear Sir 

.... I find to my surprise that the Commisrs for setling accounts are 
ordered from Hertford to this Country, it is moved to be taken up 
again as the Inconveniencies you mention beside the danger in removing 
Your papers at so great a distance is readily seen by every one.' .... 

677. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

York Town 9th. Octobr. 1777 
My dear General 

.... Your Letter, my dear Sir, is referred to a Committee.' They 
will be in no hurry to make out your Charge : and I think the Line you 
have drawn for your Attendance is Justifiable and proper. I shall how- 
ever press to bring your Afifair to a Hearing when Circumstances will 
admit. General Washington most certainly has no Leisure at present. 
This last AfTair ' has rais'd his Reputation very much indeed ; and I think 
very deservedly 

[675]^ Mass. Arch., CXCVIII. 212; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Mass. Recs., 
Letters, 1777. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 19; cf. ibid., Jan. 6, Feb. 20, Mar. 14, June 2, 6, July 22, 
Aug. 7. Lieut-Col. Archibald Campbell, with two transports of Highlanders, sailed into 
Boston Harbor June 17, 1776, and was taken prisoner. A letter from him to General 
Howe, giving an account of the affair, is in Force, Am. Arch., fourth ser., VI. 981. See 
the Journals, July 2, 1776. A biographical sketch of Campbell is in Diet. Nat. Biog., 

in. 794. 

[676] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 Cf. no. 664, ante. 
[677]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 547- 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 8, 9. In the entry of Oct. 9, the date of Schuyler's 
letter is given as 27th February instead of 27th September. See no. 669, ante. 

3 The battle of Germantown. See the Journals, Oct. 8. 



October, i/y/ 513 

678. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais/ 

York 9th. October 1777 
Dear Sir 

this will probably be delivered to you by the Baron Kalb a Gentleman 
who has been long attending- Congress with tenders of his Service in the 
Army, and who was a few days before we left Philadelphia actually voted 
a Major General to be Commissioned one day antecedent to the Marquis 
delafayette. this shows you the high estimation which Congress had 
made of the abilities and merits of the Baron, nevertheless from certain 
delicacies respecting rank on his part and other circumstances which are 
unnecessary to recapitulate the business which Congress had so much at 
heart became stagnant, and the Baron I believe is determined to return 
to France by way of Charles Town.^ .... 



679. Samuel Chase to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

York Town, October loth. 1777 
Fryday Evening. 
My Dear Sir 

I wrote to you this Morning the best Accounts I could obtain of the 
Battle of the 4th. Inst.^ I sent My Letter by Major Tarling Deputy 
Quarter Master of Georgia, this afternoon I was honoured with your 
favor of the 8th Ulto. inclosing the Petition of Brothers and Doffler, and 
inclosed is the Determination of Congress, my motion being granted a 
similar one was prayed by Dr. Wetherspoone for some Damage Done by 
Colonel Stones Regiment, this produced an universal Complaint against 
our Troops, it is referred to the Board of War to consider of some 
general Regulation.* .... 

The Confederacy will be, I believe, finished before Monday Week.* I 
will attend my Duty in the House of Delegates. Mr. Rumsey came here 
a few Days ago, on Business, and promised to relieve Me when the 
Assembly should sit. I wish notice could be given to him of the Day of 
the Meeting of the Assembly. 

[678] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 17. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 19, Aug. 13, Sept. 8, 15, Oct. 3, 4. The statement that 
Kalb was to be commissioned one day antecedent to Lafayette is an error. Such a resolu- 
tion was passed Sept. 15, but was reversed by a resolution of Oct. 4 that the two com- 
missions bear the same date. Concerning Kalb, see Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., I. 
393-396, 416-421, and Kapp, Life of Kalb. 

[679]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 90; Arch, of Md., XVI. 395. 

2 The battle of Germantown. Some further details of the battle are given in an 
omitted passage of this letter. 

3 The reference is to the resolution, Oct. 10, relative to irregularities of the 
Fourth Georgia battalion during its march through Maryland. See also the Journals, 
Oct. 8. 

4 See nos. 659, 671, ante, nos. 680, 681, 683, 687, 701, 704, 712, 722, 723, 725, 731, 
7Zi, 735, 738-740, 746, 749, 753, 754, 760, 765, 766, post. 



514 CoHtinental Congress 

C8o. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

York Town Pennsylvania Oct. loth, 1777.^ 
Sir:— 

.... Congress have once more begun to tliink of confederation. I 
could wish to know tlie sentiments of our General Assembly upon some 
Capital points. The method of voting by States was yesterday deter- 
mined, viz, that each State should have one vote, no colony against it but 
Virginia. The grand point of settling the Quota of Taxes each State is 
to pay, comes on this afternoon. Three proposals have been made, one 
to tax by the Poll, another to assess the value of the Lands, and the other 
to assess property in general. The latter at present I think most equitable, 
should the Confederation be agreed upon Mr. Penn and myself will 
embrace the earliest opportunity of transmitting it to your Excellency, 
to be laid before the General Assembly. The Delegates of the several 
States are exceedingly anxious to finish this business, many assert that 
the very Salvation of these States depend upon it; and that none of the 
European powers will publicly acknowledge them free and independent, 
until they are confederated.^ The time of Congress ever since my arrival 
has been chiefly taken up with army matters. 

We have as yet no printing press, or Post Oflfice established here, this 
will be done in a few days.' I shall then have it more in my power to 
communicate to your Excellency every piece of interesting intelligence 
which comes to hand, at present I can hardly find time to write a letter. 
Congress sits from morning 'till night, and Committees 'till 10 and 1 1 
o'clock. In fact I am almost tired of my troublesome ofifice, and heartily 
wish to be with my family. I have not time to enlarge, but have the honor 
to be with respect your Excellency's most obdt and very huml Servant, 

Corn'l Harnett. 

I beg your Excellency will remember me most respectfully to your 
Council. 

681. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

York Tov^n loth. October 1777. 
My Dear Son, 

.... w^e yesterday received a long Chatechistical Letter from Gen 
Sullivan the sequel of which is a desire to withdraw himself from the 

[68o]i A'. C. State Recs., XI. 647; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXVI. 475- 

2 See no. 679, note 4, ante. Some statements in this letter indicate that the 
date should probably be Oct. 8. Harnett says : " The method of voting by States was 
yesterday determined." That point was decided Oct. 7. He further says : " The 
grand point of settling the Quota of Taxes each State is to pay, comes on this after- 
noon." This suggests that the discussion of Oct. 9 had not yet taken place. The 
resolution of the afternoon of Oct. 8 may, however, be the first determination of a date 
for the discussion of article IX., and not a postponement. It may be remarked, further, 
that in the opening of the letter Harnett mentions that he. had received Caswell's 
letter of Sept. 2 two days ago. John Penn, in a letter to Caswell, Oct. 5, says that he 
had just received Caswell's letter of Sept. 2, to him. These letters from Caswell must 
have arrived at the same time. Cf. nos. 681, 683, 701, 712, 723, 733, 747, 749, post. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 17. 
[68i]i L. I. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers. 



October, 1777 515 

Army, which gave me an opportunity of turning- to a Gentleman, " did 
not I tell you this would be the effect of stigmatizing an Officer upon the 
vague opinion and report of a Member of Congress." what do you think 
* though a very sensible Man was his answer. Why did they then use my 
friend Schuyler so ? the Cases are by no means parrallel but admit they 
are, would you complete the ruin of the 13 United States because a Man 
in a party opposite to yours has done them an injury.^ .... 

We are now upon the Confederation have surmounted one vast point — 
the Votes are to be by States and not by Voices.' the present question is 
the mode of Taxation two days have been amused in conning it, some 
sensible things have been said, and as much nonsense as ever I heard in so 
short a space. I have not contributed to either I mean to expose my 
inabilities this Morning in a very few words because I think very few are 
necessary and very few would be made if we were about to Tax one State 
in which all were equally Interested. Candour and genuine honesty 
ought then to be our guides 

2 Sullivan's letter, dated Sept. 27, was read in Congress Oct. 10. See nos. 645, 647, 
ante, and nos. 684, 686, 702, post. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 7, and no. 680, ante, no. 683, post. The incident men- 
tioned in the following correspondence between John Adams and Henry Marchant, of 
Rhode Island, in 1789, probably relates to the proceedings of Oct. 7, upon the method 
of voting under the Confederation. In a letter to Marchant, Aug. 18, 1789, Adams says: 

" The solemn declaration, which you call prophetic, and say has come to pass, made 
on the floor of Congress, respecting the late confederation, just as we had closed it, 
I do not distinctly recollect. I should be much obliged to you if you would write me as 
particular an account of it as you can recollect." {Works, IX. 559.) 

Marchant responded : 

"When my friend has all his feelings wound up upon an important subject, and vent 
must be given, he has a manner of expression so peculiar to himself, and so striking to 
his hearers, that the impression, as from a stroke of lightening, is left behind, while the 
flash and sound, the mode of expression, is lost or forgotten. His words I will not 
engage to recollect with exactness. 

" The articles of confederation being completed, the members by rotation were 
called to place their signatures to them. This being concluded, a pause and perfect 
calm succeeded. He sat and appeared full of thought. He rose. ' Mr. President.' 
His cane slipped through his thumb and forefinger, with a quick tap upon the floor; 
his eyes rolled upwards; his brows were raised to their full arch. 

" ' This business, sir, that has taken up so much of our time seems to be finished. 
But, sir, I now, upon this floor, venture to predict that, before ten years this confedera- 
tion, like a rope of sand, will be found inadequate to the purpose, and its dissolution will 
take place. Heaven grant that wisdom and experience may then avert what we have 
most to fear ! ' 

" I never knew a greater solemnity upon the minds of the members. It was near the 
usual time of adjournment. Congress was adjourned." 

Adams replied : " Your account of the prophecy is humorous enough, but you must 
be mistaken in the point of time. I left Congress on the nth of November, 1777, that 
year which the Tories said, had three gallowses in it, meaning the three sevens, just 
as Congress had gone through the confederation, but before it was signed. My name 
is not to that confederation ; so that the prediction must have been uttered either at 
Yorktown, a day or two before I left it, or before, at Philadelphia. 

" I recollect some expressions of that sort, on the floor of Congress, in Philadelphia, 
immediately after the determination that the votes should be by States, and not by 
numbers, a point which Wilson and I labored with great zeal. After that determination 
and some others, I own I gave up that confederation in despair of its efficacy or long 
utility." (Works, III. 70, note.) If Adams is correct in assigning this incident to the 
occasion of the determination of the method of voting, he is of course in error in stating 
that it took place in Philadelphia. 



5 

682. Daniel Roberoeau to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Thomas Wharton, jr.)-^ 

York Town, Octr loth, 1777. 

Dear Sir, 

I am honored with your favor of this date, and with concern I find the 
alarm taken by the State at tlie hint thrown out respecting the calhng of 
the Convention in a few hasty hues, the production of a very few minutes 
wliile the Express waited.^ As my time is too much engross'd to take 
Copies of my Letters I cannot recur to what I wrote, but I meant only to 
convey this Idea that some real Friends of our State Members of Congress 
were of Opinion that the salvation of the State depended on calling of 
a Convention, which was construed by Council and Assembly, as appears 
from a Letter I am honored with from the Speaker, confirmed by the 
Attorney General, into a serious Intention in Congress of interfering in 
the internal Police of our State, so far at least as to influence into the 
measures in Question, whereas it arose in a tete a-tete betwixt some, as I 
have already said, real Friends and myself, nor will you be surprised with 
the sentiment when you are acquainted with the motives. It was publickly 
and confidently said in and out of Congress, that a Quorum of the Legis- 
lature could not be got together. And as the necessity of the times 
required the most vigorous measures, and the season for taking the sense 
of the people for or against a Convention was at hand, their voice in 
Convention to lay down a system to be executed by Committees of that 
Body, dispers'd thro' the State, was thought the best succedaneum for the 
want of an established Legislature, and such Laws competent to the 
emergency of the times, which were not provided. That these Exertions 
were necessary to the Salvation of the State, and its safety and liberty 
would be provided for better than by the interference of Congress, until 
such Convention had appointed a Legislative Body. This was thought 
the best Expedient for these Reasons, and might prove a healing measure 
to our unhappy Divisions. A mistake of the day of Election and that the 
Constitution had appointed the first Tuesday of this present month, v^^hich 
I could not contradict (as in the hurry of removing my Copy containing 
the Constitution, was mislaid) influenced to the hint offered you as above, 
for in this place there was not the least appearance of an Election, from 
whence it was judged that the people were in such a maze that the day 
of Election had throughout the State elapsed irrevocably (nor could I 
satisfy Enquirers on this head), or at best, that a partial election would 
obtain, and our Country continue to suffer through want of exertion. 
Thus was I distracted until Dr. Ewing informed me that the Assembly 
and Council were preparing the most salutary laws, of which I am more 
fully convinced by the specimen of one put into my hands by Mr. 
Sergeant, which rejoiced my heart, and is a full proof that under my 
apprehensions, there was no other way of supplying the very powers given 
but by a Convention. I heartily congratulate you on the concurring pro- 

L682]iPa. Arch., first ser., V. 658. 

- The letters referred to have not been found. 



October, lyjy 517 

vidences which enliven the prospects of publick affairs. I am very 
respectfully, 

Dr Sir, yr most obt 

and very hum^ servt, 

Daniel Roberdeau. 

683. William Williams to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

York Town Octo. nth, 1777 
Hoyi^ Sir 

.... Congress have been some Days engaged on the Confederation 
Plan, and have decided the great Question in favor of each States having 
one Vote tho greatly opposed by a number, and to the great dissatisfac- 
tion of Virginnia,^ and are now upon the mode and proportion of contribu- 
tion, sundry plans are proposed, that of numbers is very strongly and 
forceably opposed, and the appearance is at present against it but I do not 
much expect we shall be able to find one attended with so few Exceptions 
or more equitable, tho I am certain this is far from perfect.^ .... 

684. Eliphalet Dyer to John Sullivan.^ 

York Town, Octobr nth 1777 
Sir 

I had the pleasure of hearing your letter read in Congress yesterday 
I was pleased with your manly Justification and Appeal, but as I had 
often rise[n] in Congress for your Vindication against the Unjust and 
Malign Calumny of your Enemies, (which every good brave spirited 
and Virtuous man will have) I could not bare after you had often braved 
and defyed every danger from the Enemies of your Country you should 
prove a Coward when attacked by your personal ones of your own 
Country; sink under unjust reproach, and submit to the servile humiliat- 
ing Terms of your Cruel foes, who have Attackd you with the poisonous 
darts of Calumny in order to effect the very purpose of your quitting the 
Army which in the Close of your letter you tamely yield to them. Sir, 
you that have braved every danger for the sake of your Country : are you 
afraid of the reproach of your dastardly foes who by and by if you boldly 
attack them and maintain your ground which you are well able to do 
must servilely hide themselves behind the Curtain and sink under your 
Superior Merit. Sir you are not alone, you have friends enough in 
Congress and among your Countrymen who dare, and will support you 
against all their Malice and Envy which has allready recoild in a great 
measure on their own heads and must soon terminate I dare say in their 
own Confusion, if you will only maintain your ground and boldly dis- 
dain to leave the field to the Triumph of your Enemies, all their Attacks 

[683]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Conarroe Coll.. I. 15. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 7, and nos. 680, 681, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 8-1 1, 13, 14; cf. nos. 680, 681, ante, and nos. 701, 712, 723, 
749, post. 

[684]! Haver ford College, Roberts Coll., 722. 



618 Continental Coni^rcss 

will only tend to Illustrate your carracter and make your Virtues displayd 
in the Cause of your Country more and more Conspicuous, if I had time 
and it was proper in the way of a letter I could ^ive you a satisfactory 
account how your Enemies prevailed to Induce Congress to come into 
those hasty resolves which touch you so terribly I know you must feel 
them and you ought to some of your friends I think yeilded too much 
and believe they thot for the publick good. Sch — ler and St — C — r* 

were continually brot on the stage, and no one but a N E d ' man 

could satisfye their resentments, and to have taken one of a low Carrac- 
ter, would not answer their purpose. Wherefore as they were to be brot 
io a Court of Enquiry so must you, as they must be recalled till an 
Enquiry could be had, so must you or our Conduct must be deemed 
partial, this had an unhappy effect on some unwarry, and incautious the 
bate took, it catched in an unlucky hour, or I may say moment, and was 
as soon repented of by some, they were brot to their senses before the 
Genii letter come but that put it in their power to reverse the sudden 
decree * a Court of Enquiry I dare say will Terminate much more to your 
honor than if your friend could have avoided it. but Sir Never Yield 
to the Enemies of your Country nor to the Malignity of your personal 
foes till, Providence, which I trust if you Continue and persevere in 
Virtue and the glorious cause in which your Engaged will give you a 
Compleat Victory over both, or if you must dye boldly die a martyr and 
not with the reproach of a suicide 

Am as ever have been your sincere friend and with much esteem 

Yr Very H"^ Servt 

Elipht Dyer 

[P. S.] they begin to repent. Persevere. 

a short line from you would be very acceptable and gratefully recievd. 

Majr Genii Sullivan 

685. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

York Town : Pennsylvania 

October 12th. 1777. 
Sir, 

.... The Information that the Enemy have at different Times com- 
pelled our Troops who are Prisoners with them to labour, and that a 
Number are at this Time actually engaged in throwing up some Works 
at and near Kengsington. is of such a Nature that Congress think it 
incumbent on them to enquire into the Truth of it. They have therefore 

2 Schuyler and St. Qair. 

3 New England. 

4 Dyer begins with a reference to the proceedings, Oct. 10, upon Sullivan's 
letter of Sept. 27, but the latter part of his letter relates to earlier stages of the attack 
on Sullivan. See the Journals, Sept. 9 (p. 727 n.), 10, 14, 16, Oct. 10, 16, 20, and nos. 
645, 647, 681, ante, 686, 702, post. . 

[685] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCL 77; Letters to Washington 

(ed. Sparks), IL 3. 



October, lyyy 519 

directed that a Flag be immediately dispatched to Genl. Howe to know 
whether there is any Foundation for the Report ; and I am to request you 
will send a Flag for this Purpose as soon as you conveniently can.^ .... 

686. Thomas Burke to John Sullivan.^ 

York Oct. 12, 1777. 

Sir, 

I was present at the action of Brandywine and saw and heard enough 
to convince me that the fortune of the day was injured by miscarriages 
where you commanded ^ 

I understood you were several days posted with the command on the 
right wing; that you were cautioned by the Commander in Chief early 
in the day to be particularly attentive to the enemy's motions, who, he 
supposed would attempt to cross higher up the creek and attack your 
flank; that you were furnished with proper troops for reconnoitering, 
and yet you were so ill informed of the enemy's motions, that they came 
up at a time and by a route which you did not expect ; that you conveyed 
intelligence to the Commander in Chief which occasioned his counter- 
manding the dispositions he had made for encountering them on the rout 
by which it afterwards appeared they were actually advancing: That 
when at length the mistake was discovered you brought up your own 
Division by an unnecessary circuit of two miles, and in the greatest dis- 
order, from which they never recovered, but fled from the fire of the 
enemy without resistance. That the miscarriages on that wing made it 
necessary to draw off a great part of the strength from the centre, which 
exposed Gen. Wayne to the superiority of the enemy. 

I heard officers in the field lamenting in the bitterest terms that they 
were cursed with such a commander ; and I overheard numbers during the 
retreat complain of you as an officer whose evil conduct was forever 
productive of misfortunes to the army. From these facts I concluded 
that your duty as a General was not well performed, otherwise the enemy's 
motions on the wing where you commanded would not have been un- 
known to you during a great part of the day of action; nor could they 
have advanced by an unknown and unexpected rout, for you ought to 
have made yourself wtII acquainted with the ground. Nor would you 
have brought up your troops by an unnecessary circuit and in disorder, 
w^hich exposed them to be surprised and broken. 

I also concluded that the troops under your command had no confidence 
in your conduct, and from the many accounts I had officially received of 
your miscarriages I conceived and am still possessed of an opinion that 
you have not sufficient talents for your rank and office, tho' I believe you 

2 The resolve referred to, passed Oct. ii, stands erased in the Journals and is 
marked " false intelligence ". 

[686]i Library of Congress, Force Trans., Sullivan Papers, p. 183; Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS., XX. 338. 

2 See nos. 645, 647, 681, 684, ante, and no. 702, post. 

38 



5 

have strong; dispositions to dischargee your duty well. I consider it as 
one essential part of my duty to attend to the appointments of the army 
and where I perceive that any person so unqualified as I deem you to be, 
has gfot into a command where incomj^etence may be productive of dis- 
asters and disg^race, it is my duty to endeavour at removing him. In 
discharge of this I gave to Congress all the information I was able, care- 
fully distinguishing what I saw, what I heard, and from whom as far as 
I was acquainted with persons I urged your recal with all the force I 
could, and thought it and still do think it necessary for the public good : 
because in all your enterprises and in every part of your conduct, even as 
represented by yourself, you seem to be void of judgment and foresight 
in concerting, of deliberate vigour in executing, and of presence of mind 
under accidents and emergences; and from these defects seem to me to 
arise your repeated ill success. These seem to me to form the great 
essentials of a military character. Nor do I think you the only officer 
in our army who is deficient in them. Nor were my endeavours to free 
the army from insufficient officers intended to be confined to you. I 
scarcely know your person, and was not conscious of any injury from you. 
For a particular reason I should have had great pleasure in justly forming 
a better opinion of you ; but no reason can induce me to overlook the 
defects of officers on whom so much depends. Nor will any thing deter 
me from pursuing the measures suggested by my own judgment. I have 
now related every thing which I acted, with relation to you in Congress, 
together w-ith my motives. I have set down every intelligence, and the 
opinion I gave concerning you. What hills you struggled for, what fires 
you sustained, I neither saw or heard of. Your personal courage I med- 
dled not with. I had no knowledge of it and I was cautious to say 
nothing unjust or unnecessary. My objection to you is. want of sufficient 
talents, and I consider it as your misfortune, not fault. It is my duty 
as far as I can, to prevent its being the misfortune of my country. 

The purpose of this information is that you may indubitably know I 
gave Congress all the intelligence and opinions concerning you here set 
down ; and then to ask you in direct terms if you meant the disrespectful 
expressions in your late letter to Congress on the subject of your conduct 
at Brandywine, to be applied to me? If you did sir, I must inform you, 
you are mistaken in the matter contained in those expressions. My 
demeanour was entirely devoid of parade and ostentation and entirely 
simple and attentive. I did not gallop my horse at all but when t 
attempted to rally some of your flying troops. The manner of those 
expressions, which I suppose you meant for wit and sarcasm, is as unbe- 
coming the soldier as the gentleman, and inconsistent with that plain 
and dignified simplicity which ought to be the stile of persons in either 
rank. Were quaint witticisms my talent I should not [remainder miss- 
ingy 

3 Sullivan's reply is in the Sparks MSS., XX. 342, and in Force Transcripts, 
Sullivan Papers, p. 185. See also McDougall to Sullivan, May 22, 1781, ibid., p. 248. 



October, lyj^ 521 

687. Daniel Roberdeau to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town Octr. 14th. 1777 
Dr. Sir. 

Your Letter for Genl. Gates waits an Express which I expect will go 

for the Northern Department in a day or two I forgot to mention 

that Indian Affairs both North and South, are in the most promising 
train, and Colo. Morgans account now here, is no ways discouraging to 
the westward.^ Thro the medium of Congress a Rattletrap and Turkeys 
Tail was sent by numerous tribes at the Southward to their Brethren to 
the Northward, and Genl. Schyler informs that 140 had joined our Army 
and that many more were expected and what is more flattering that a 
number of the Tribe of St Francis had desired protection to their families, 
and liberty to remove to Connecticut. Some of the principle Articles of 
Confederation have passed, and I expect it will be finished in a few days, 
knowing this also is necessary to our Salvation.^ .... 

688. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

York Town : Pennsylvania 

October 14th. 1777. 
Sir, 

.... I have ordered one Thousand Copies of the Resolves relative 
to putting a Stop to any Intercourse between the Enemy in Philadelphia and 
the disaffected among us, to be printed at Lancaster, and to be forwarded 
thence to you for the Use of the Army.^ .... 

689. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.* 

York Town 16 October 1777 
My Dear Son 

.... I am writing in Congress and in the midst of much talk (not 
regular Congress) buz!^ says one 

" I would if I had been Comm"" of that Army with such powers have 
procured all the necessaries which are said to be wanted without such 
whining Complaints." 

" I would says 2d. have prevented the amazing desertions which have 
happened it only wants proper attentions at fountain head " 3d. It is 
very easy too to prevent intercourses between the Army and the Enemy 
and as easy to gain Intelligence but we never mind who comes in and 
who goes out of our Camp." 

[687] 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 724; Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 670. 

2 A letter from Morgan was read in Congress Oct. 14. 

3 See no. 679, note 4, ante. 

[688]^ Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCL 82. 

2 The resolves were passed Oct. 8. 
[689]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, John Laurens Papers. 

2 The word is probably used to indicate the general buzz of conversation. It 
may, however, be the interjection buss!, coming from the mouth of speaker number one. 



5 

" In short 4th. our Army is under no rcgfulations nor discipline " etc 
etc etc. 

You know I abhor teHtalc^ l)ut sounds hurt nie exceedingly. I know 
the effects of loose Tongues, I knmv the cruelty of tongues speaking the 
feelings of designing hearts, nevertheless I am afraid there may be some 
ground for some of these remarks, a good Heart may be too diffident, 
too apprehensive of doing right rightious proper Acts, lest such should 
be interpreted arbitrary — but good God, shall we [save?]^ five Hundred 

and destroy five Millions 

Adieu my Dear Son 

Henry Laurens. 
Colonel John Laurens 

at General Washington's 

Head Quarters. 

690. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 

(John Rutledge).^ 

York i6th. October 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

.... In Obedience to the Order of Congress and in absence of other 
Members of the Committee of Commerce, I take the Liberty of inclosing 
a Resolution of Yesterday which is thought to be of importance. I 
request Your Excellency will order the publication to be made in the 
Gazettes at Charles Town to be continued at least Six Months and Copies 
to be sent to France and the French West Indies and as many as possible 
to be distributed among the Seamen belonging to England which may 
be done by means of our Friends in France." 

691. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais.* 

York 16. October 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Our President gave notice yesterday of his purpose to quit the 
Chair and Congress next Week I moved the House to intreat and solicit 
his continuance, to my surprise I was seconded and no more ^ 

3 The manuscript is torn here. 

[690]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 188. 

2 The resolution referred to is that of Oct. 14 relative to making prize of British 
vessels. The order to publish was passed Oct. 15. See no. 789, post. 

It is convenient to note here that the resolutions of Oct. 6 relative to prisoners from 
British merchant vessels, and also that relative to the destruction of magazines of 
provisions, etc., were in like manner ordered to be published, although the Journals 
make no record of the order. Appended to a copy of these resolutions in the Maryland 
Historical Society (Red Book, VL 39) is the following statement by Charles Thomson: 

" All printers are desired to insert and continue the foregoing resolutions in their 
public newspapers at least six months. C. T." 

Thomson's note is also appended to a copy of the resolutions found in Pa. Arrh., 
first ser., V. 647. 

[691]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, P- 187; Moore, Materials 

tor History, p. 55. _ . r , • • u tt 1 c .u 

2 The Journals contam no mention of the notice given by Hancock, or of the 
motion of Laurens, recording only the appointment of a committee to report upon the 
President's allowance for extraordinary expenses. See, further, the Journals, Oct. 
29, 31. Cf. nos. 693-695. 709, 710, 715. 716, post. 



October, lyyy 523 

Several other Members are about leaving us. I regret the apparent 
defection, our House will be reduced in a few days to barely twenty 
or twenty one Members 

692. Richard Henry Lee to Hall and Sellers.* 

Oct 17th 1777. 
Messrs Hall and Sellers ^ 

Gentle'inen 

Congress having authorized their Committee of intelligence to get a 
Press fixed in this Town,^ I am, as Chairman of that Committee, to pro- 
pose to you that your Press be immediately brought here and sett up that 
the expence of bringing the Press shall be defrayed by Congress, that 
you shall be employ'd in publishing for Congress, and paid a liberal price 
for so doing. The Committee hope this will be a sufficient inducement, 
when you consider that a Newspaper published by you here, containing 
Congress intelligence, will be of extensive sale and very profitable, at all 
events, you will be pleased to give me an immediate answer, and deliver 
your Letter to General Mifflin, or the Quarter Master who may be in 
Reading in order that an express may bring it without delay to this place. 
I am Gentlemen Your Most Obedient Servant, 

Richard Henry Lee. 

693. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

York Town October 17th 1777.* 

It is now above Two years since I have had the Honour of Presiding 
in Congress, and I should Esteem myself happy to have it in my Power 
to render further Service to my Country in that Department; but the 
declme of Health occasion'd by so long and unremitting an Application 

/ ^^^i?1^i^u'7-t'^^- ^'^•' ^^^ ^^P^" *^^°Py' L. S.); Letters of Richard Henry Lee 
(ed. Ballagh), I. 333. -^ 

2 A firm of printers in Philadelphia. David Hall, the senior member, had been 
associated m the prmtmg busmess with Franklin, and when that partnership was dis- 
solved, m 1766^ he formed a partnership with William Sellers. In the sketch of Hall 
m Appleton, Cyc/o. Am. Biog., the latter name appears as "Sellen", and the same 
error recurs m Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh). 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 17. Lee wrote to George Wythe, Oct. 19: "The want 
of a i^ress here obliges us to furnish manuscript accounts of military events, and this 
is attended with great difficulty amidst pressure of much business." {Letters I 334.) 
More than a month later (Nov. 19) Cornelius Harnett wrote to William Wilkinson- 

We have neither Post, or Press here." {N. C. State Recs. XI. 807.) See no 772 post 
[693]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XIX. 11; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), II. 8. 

^J7 1-- "^"^'ther letter of Hancock, bearing the same date (Library of Congress 
Washington Papers), contains the following postscript: "I have this moment Rec'd 

^?T^^J^'''^- °^ ^*^* ^^'^'^^ ^ ^^^^^ '^y before Congress on Monday." This letter of 
Washington enclosed to Congress the famous letter of the ReA^ Jacob Duche. Washing- 
ton s letter must have arrived Saturday evening, after the adjournment of Congress or 
on Sunday. The letter was read in Congress Monday, Oct. 20 (see nos. 698, 609 708 
718, post). ' ^y. / . 



5 

to the Duties of my Office, both in Conp^ress and out of Congress, join'd 
to tlie Scituation of my own private Affairs, have at length taught me to 
tliink of Retiring for two or three Months, and I have determined to take 
my Leave the ensuing week, and set out immediately for Boston after 
this Express returns.* .... 

694. John Harvie to Thomas Jefferson.* 

York Septr [October] 17th. 1777 
Thos. Jefferson Esqr 

Dear Sir 

This morning the Inclosed Interesting Intelligence was received by 
Congress from General Gates.^ .... Our Worthy president withdraws 
from Congress in abt. 10 days.' will you be Surprized if F. L. Lee Esqr. 
Succeeds him that he will is the Genl. Opinion at present I wish in a 
publick Assembly no Gent, was found [fond] of high Offices 

695. John Hancock to Mrs. Hancock.* 

York Town, October 18, 1777. 
My Dear Dolly: 

.... I am now to inform you that I have come to a fixed Determina- 
tion to Return to Boston for a short time and I have notified Congress in 
form of my Intentions 

My present Intention is to leave Congress in eight days,^ but more 
particulars in my next 

696. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais.* 

York i8th. October 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I will say nothing about public faith and public Credit in obser- 
vation upon the intended Lottery, save this — Congress finding the Tickets 

3 Cf. no. 691, ante, and nos. 694, 695, 709, 710, 715, 716, 724, post. Hancock took 
his leave Oct. 29, and his speech on the occasion is in the Journals, Oct. 31. The 
remainder of this letter is an expression concerning his conduct of the chair, and a 
request for an escort of horse. On the same day he wrote to the Massachusetts assembly : 
" I hope in a few days after this Reaches you to pay my respects to you in person ; 
having notified Congress in form of my Intentions of Setting out for Boston in the 
course of next week." (Mass. Arch., CXCVIII. 230; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 58, pt. II., f. 295.) 

[694]^ Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second sen, XL. 84. 

2 This presumably refers to Gates's letter of October 12, read in Congress Oct. 
18. John Perm wrote to Governor Caswell Oct. 16: " We are this minute informed of a 
victory obtained by Genl Gates over Genl Burgoyne." N. C. State Recs., XL 654. In 
the letter of Penn and Harnett, Oct. 20 (no. 699), it is said : " The account we had from 
Col Trumble several days ago differed a little from Genl Gates' letter." A letter from 
Jonathan Trumbull, jr., dated Oct 10, read in Congress Oct. 16, has not been found; 
but in Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 657, is an account of the action (Oct. 7), stated to have 
been written by Jonathan Trumbull, jr., to a member of Congress. It is dated Oct. 
9, with a postscript of Oct. 10. 

3 See no. 693, note 3, ante, and no. 695, post. 

[695]^ Sears, John Hancock, p. 223; New Eng. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., XII. 106. 

2 See nos. 691, 693, 694, ante, nos. 709, 710, 715, 716, post. 
[696]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 177. 



October, z/// 525 

had not sold equal to their expectations had given orders some time before 
the evacuation of Philadelphia for drawing, but that circumstance is and 
must for a time continue to be a further obstruction.^ .... 

697 Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 

(John Rutledge).^ 

York 19th. October 1777 
Dear Sir 

.... the Board of War have entered into Resolves by which 'tis 
intended to take General Howe out of the Brigadiers List and to call him 
to Genl. Washington's head Quarters, this arrangement will probably 
afford Satisfaction to the General and at the same time remove from our 
State a bone of contention, every body here as far as I have been able to 
learn are surprised his Command in South Carolina has given offence 
to any one. In the Same paper your Excellency will see that Mr. Massey 
is recommended for Dep : Muster Master General for So Carolina and 
Georgia. The Resolves are to be reported to Congress to morrow and 
I have no doubt of their being confirmed without debate.^ .... 

698. Henry Laurens to Robert Howe.^ 

York 20th. October 1777. 
Dear General 

.... Your favour of the 28th. August reached me the very Evening 
of the people's flight from Philadelphia^ — I fled not, having foreseen 
from amazing remissness where there ought to have been the utmost 
attention and vigilance I had sent forward my Baggage followed it that 
Evening and next Morning after many thousands had passed by me I 
made my breakfast filled my Pipe and Soberly entered my Carriage drove 
gently on to Bristol took in the wounded Marquis delafayette and pro- 
ceeded to Bethleham, thence to Reading and Lancaster, here Congress 
were soon convened but hearts were still fluttering in some bosoms and a 
motion made for adjourning to this Town.' we have been here about 
twenty days within this time frequent opportunities have offered but I 
chose to defer paying my respects to you till I could say something to the 
purpose and fortune has now thrown much in my way. I refer you to the 
papers which will accompany this. 

As I have no doubt the report of the Board of War will be this Morning 
confirmed I will take it for granted, and with great pleasure congratulate 
with you on your promotion 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 6, Oct. 6. 
[697]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, iy76-i7y2>, pp. 179, 184. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 20; also no. 698, post. 
[698]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 185; ibid., Letters. 1776- 
1779, no. 20. 

2 Five letters of Howe to Congress, which doubtless came by the same con- 
veyance, were read in Congress, Oct. i. See also the Journals, Oct. 2. 
* Cf. nos. 649-653, 656-661, ante. 



5 

I am writingf in Congress, this moment came to liand a Ix;tter from 
Gen. Wasliing^ton inclosinp: a very lonpc apolog^etic cxpostulatory Cen- 
sorious, Rascally epistle from the Ir-Revd. Jacob Duche take what 
follows from memory.* .... 

This Moment is reading- the Report of the Board of War if I do not 
contradict it, depend upon it you are Major General, depend upon it also 
I am with great esteem and respect, 

P. S. I saw good Reasons while the Report was in debate for altering 
my opinion and therefore combated my own Recommendation to call you 
from So Carolina ° your promotion and the Resolution of Congress I 
sent to you by Mr. Middleton will remove all jealousy of your Command." 
I hope you will approve of this Stay among us continue to live a Life of 
temperance and Chastity and acquire greater Glory, the Commanding 
Officer of So Carolina and Georgia is moving in a Sphere preferable to 
Major General without a particular Command. 

699. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Richard Caswell).^ 

Pennsylvania York Oct. 20th 1777. 
Sir: 

.... We congratulate your Excellency on the great and important 
success of the army under the command of Genl Gates. The account we 
had from Col Trumble several days ago differed a little from Genl Gates' 
letter, that with others from him, and Genl Burgoyne's we enclose for 
your amusement." 

Yesterday we were informed by a letter from the Chairman of the 
Committee at Albany directed to a friend of his in New York, that 
Burgoyne and his whole army had surrendered themselves prisoners of 
war. It is generally believed here, indeed it is nothing more than what 
we expected, as that army had very little provision, and were few in 
number, compared to ours.^ 

* Washington's letter (Oct. i6) transmitting the Duche letter is in Writings 
(ed. Ford), VI. 114, (ed. Sparks), V. 93. The letter probably reached President Han- 
cock's hands Saturday or Sunday, Oct. 18 or 19. See no. 693, note 2, ante. Duche's 
letter is in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), I. 448. Cf. nos. 699, 708, 718, post. 

5 See the Journals, Oct. 20. Cf. no. 697, ante. 

® Probably the resolution of Aug. 5, ordering General Mcintosh to headquarters. 
See nos. 583, 584, ante. 

1699]! iV. C. State Recs,, XL 659. 

2 See no. 694, note 2, ante. 

3 " I have the honor to enclose to your Excellency an account of the surrender 
of Gen. Burgoyne and his whole army on the 14th Instant, the particulars are not yet 
come to hand, but this account is so well authenticated, that Gen. Washington on receiv- 
ing the intelligence ordered 13 Cannon to be fired, and the Bells in this Town rang for 
hours." Harnett to Caswell, Oct. 20, A''. C. State Recs., XL 657. The letter of the 
chairm.an of the committee of Albany to the president of the New York council of 
safety, Oct. 15, announcing the capitulation, was despatched by Qinton, on the night 
of the 15th, to General Putnam, by Putnam to Washington, Oct. 16, and by Washington 
to Congress, Oct. 18. {Writings, ed. Ford, VI. 125.) Although these letters were 
received by Congress Sunday, Oct. 19 (see also John Adams to his wife, Oct. 24, no. 
703, post), they are not mentioned in the Journals until Tuesday, Oct. 21. Clinton's 



October, 1777 527 

The Rev. Air Dnche * has acted such a part as will ever disgrace him, 
in short he may be said to be the first of villains, we cannot help suspect- 
ing that the letter he wrote to our w^orthy Genl. must have been dictated 
by a Howe, the design of the letter was to prevail on the Genl to negotiate 
Terms for himself and army.° You know Administration have tried 
bribery and corruption, nothing is too dirty or mean for the British Court, 
and those that are employed against us, however we trust that the day is 
not far off w^hen we shall all be free and happy. The confusion the 
different Clerks have been in for some time, with regard to their books 
etc. has prevented our getting a copy of the amount of such sums of 
money as has been received by direction of our State, we will enclose it, 
as soon as we can possibly get it, to your Excellency. 

Doctor Burke left us last week when he set out for North Carolina. 
We are with due respect, Sir, your obdt Servts. 

J. Penn 

Corn'l Harnett. 

P. S. Mr Duche remained in Philadelphia, and of course fell into the 
Enemy's hands. 

25th. Burgoyne and his whole army are prisoners, I have seen Gov'r 

Clinton's letter this morning giving an account of the matter 

John Penn 



700. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington.^ 

York the 20th. October 1777 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the i6th ^ I received yesterday, and was a good deal 
surprised to find you had been told that Congress had appointed General 
Conway a Major General. No such appointment has been made, nor do 

letter with its enclosure is found in Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 676. Putnam's letter to 
Washington, Oct. 16, is in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), II. 5. In N. C. Stale 
Recs., XI. 653, Clinton's letter covering the Albany letter appears without his signature, 
the whole covered by a note of Hugh Smith, postmaster at headquarters of the Northern 
army (see Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 703). This is no doubt the enclosure mentioned in 
Harnett's letter to Governor Caswell, Oct. 20, quoted above. Cf. nos. 700, 703, 704, 708, 
711, 713, 714, 719, 72y-72>o, post. The announcement of the surrender was premature. 
Burgoyne's offer of surrender was made on the 14th, the convention was signed on the 
i6th, and the actual surrender took place on the 17th. The articles of convention are 
in the N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, and are found both in print and in facsimile in 
the society's Bulletin, vol. III., no. 3, p. 89 (October, 1919). Gates's letter of Oct. 18 
announcing the capitulation was not received by Congress until Oct. 31. This letter, that 
of Oct. 20, and an enclosure of the 19th (see the Journals, Oct. 31) are found in Pa. 
Arch., first ser., V. 687-688. 

* In N. C. State Recs. the name is printed " Drake ". 

5 Cf. no. 689, ante, nos. 708, 718, post. 
[700] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XIX. 21; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), II. 10; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 337. 

2 Washington's letter to Richard Henry Lee here referred to is evidently that 
dated Oct. 17, found in Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 120, (ed. Sparks), V. 97. The original 
has not been found, but the Varick transcript in the Library of Congress, from which 
the texts were doubtless printed, is dated Oct. 17. 



5 

I believe it will, whilst it is likely to produce the evil consequences you 
suj^f^est. It is very true, that both within and without doors, their have 
been Advocates for the measure, and it has been affirmed that it would 
be very aj^reeable to the army, whose favorite Mr. Conway was asserted 
to be. My judgement on this business was not formed until I received 
your letter. I am very sure Congress would not take any step that might 
injure the Army, or even have a tendency that way; and I verily believe 
they wish to lessen your difficulties by every means in their power, from 
an entire conviction that the purest motives of public good direct your 
actions.' 

The business of a Board of War is so extensive, so important, and 
demanding such constant attention, that Congress see clearly the necessity 
of constituting a new Board out of Congress, whose time shall be entirely 
devoted to that essential department.* 

It is by some warmly proposed that this board shall be filled by the 
three following gentlemen, Colo. Read,^ Colo. Pickering the present 
Adjutant General, and Colo. Harrison your Secretary. And that Gen. 
Conway be appointed A. G. in the room of Colo. Pickering. It is my 
wish, and I am sure it is so of many others, to know your full and candid 
sentiments on this subject. For my own part, I cannot be satisfied with 
giving any opinion on the point until I am favored with your sentiments, 
which I shall be much obliged to you for Sir as soon as your time will 
permit. It has been affirmed that Gen. Conway would quit the service 
if he were not made a M. General. But I have been told, in confidence, 
that he would leave it at the end of this Campaign if he was appointed, 
unless his word of honor were taken to continue for any fixed time. 
And it is a question with me whether the Advocates for Gen. Conway 
will not miss their aim if he should be appointed A. General, unless he has 
the rank of Maj. General also. My reason for thinking so, is, that I have 
been informed Gen. Conway desires to retire to his family, provided he 
can carry from this country home with him, a rank that will raise him 
in France. 

It is very certain that the public good demands a speedy erecting and 
judicious fining of the new Board of War; and I sincerely wish it may 
be done in the most proper manner. I do not imagine Congress would 
appoint Colo. Harrison without first knowing whether you could spare 
him, nor do I think that so important an office as that of A. G. should be 
touched without maturest consideration. 

3 Conway had been made a brigadier-general May 13. See also the Journals, 
May 12, no. 501, ante, and Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 202. Dec. 13 Conway was 
appointed inspector-general. See also the Journals, Oct. 3, Nov. 24. Concerning the 
" Conway Cabal " see the next volume of these Letters. Cf. no. 756, note 3, post. 

* See the Journals, July 18, 22, Oct. 16, 17. The members of the new board 
were elected Nov. 7. See, further, the Journals, Nov. 17, 19, 21, 22, 24, 27; also nos. 
720, 743, 748, 7h7-7^^, post. This reorganization of the War Department was one result 
of the effort initiated nearly a year before toward conducting the executive business 
through boards not composed of members of Congress. See no. 298, note 7, ante. 

5 Joseph Reed. See no. 769, post. 



October, 1777 529 

We every moment expect the Express with an account that will enable 
us to congratulate you on the surrender of Gen. Burgoyne, and the 
remains of his shattered army. This will be one of the Prussian sixes, 
and I augur that the other will soon cast up upon the Delaware." 
I am, with sincerest wishes for your health and success, dear Sir 

Your most affectionate and obedient Servant 

Richard Henry Lee 



N' 1 



701. William Williams to Jabez Huntington.' 

York, Oct. 22, 1777 

Dear Sir. 

Your Favor of the 14th Sept by Mr. Brown, and [ ] some 

time before. [ ] 

[It] was not possible to acknowledge the same [sooner, and] am now 
stealing time from public Business [to] thank you for your Favors, and 
am sorry I have [none] to return you. a multitude of incidental [mat- 
ters] which I cant well describe and which cant [pos]sibly be dispensed 
with swallows up great part [of] the Time of Congress. Provisions and 
Regulations [of many] kinds and of great importance in [conducting] 
the affairs of such vast Extent and magnitude you can easily conceive are 
necessary and have [been] in [no] inconsiderable Degree realized in our 
Council of safe[ty] and other Departments. 

[We] are really much bent and engaged to get thro [the] Confedera- 
tion ^ and Devote as much Time as [poss]ible to it, two or three Articles 
are pasd upon [of which] I wrote the Gov*"" (which I hope has [reached] 
him) but of less importance than those, the plan of a large Taxation 
seems also fully adopted, but they conceive it will go out with much more 
weight with or after the Confederation, there are reasons for this, tho I 
am not satisfied it is best to [wait for that] so long as this will necessarily 
carry it. [The ex]orbitant rise of every article etc. as [well as] depre- 
ciation [of the currency] is greatly alarming the States [and the device] 
of coercive [measures and] of regulating [prices they find] it impossible 
to execute and Congress [have] no practicable way to remedy the great 
and growing [evil] but a firm Union to establish the Credit of the [cur- 
rency] which the Tribe of Speculators and other [gentry] begin to pick 
Flaws in etc., to [limit the quantity] but if possible to reduce it, before 
[ and to meet] future expenses by Taxation, these [measures 

will] certainly relieve us, if soon accomplished [and ch]earfully born, 
and if it please God, to grant [us] success against our [enemies] and 
[ ] we hope it will crown the attempt with [success.]^ .... 

Hon®. Maj. Gen. Huntington. 

6 See no. 699, ante, and nos. 703, 704, 708, 711, 713, 714, 719. 727, 728, posi. The 
phrase " Prussian sixes " is drawn from thegame of dice. 

[701]^ Furnished by courtesy of C. F. Libbie and Company of Boston. 

2 See no. 683, ante, and no. 712, post, 

3 Cj. nos. 659, 662, 671, ante. 



5 

yo2. Eliphalet Dyer to John Sullivan.* 

York Town Octobr. 23d. 1777 
Dear Genl 

.... The Gentn. from N — H re you mention,' am well per- 
suaded has no very Cordial friendship for you. You know him and I 
need say no more, but in Justice to him i can say that on every Occasion 
wherein you have been Attacked in Congress he has thrown in his mite 
in your favour and given his Vote against every measure which has been 
proposed against you. but to Conclude you may rest Satisfied that you 
have obtained a Compleat Victory and Conquest over your Enemies in 
Congress (and those who have attacked you without) they now ware 
long faces, they hang their heads, they are mute, you will hear no farther 
from them ; every attack that has been made upon you is now despised. 
Your friends not only rejoice but Triumph, all the malice of your Enemies 
is disarmed of its Sting, and Venome therefore I trust you will pay no 
more regard to the barking tribe but shine on; every attempt of detrac- 
tion, instead of effecting its purpose, and design, has had a Contrary 
effect, and placed your merit in a more Conspicuous light, than if no 
attack had been made upon you." .... 

703. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

YoRKTOWN, 24 October, 1777. 

.... From last Sunday to this moment, Friday afternoon, four 
o'clock, we have been in a state of tormenting uncertainty concerning 
our affairs at the northward. On Sunday, we had news from the com- 
mittee of Albany through Governor Clinton and General Washington 
of a capitulation of Burgoyne and his whole army. To this moment we 
have no express from Gates nor any authentic confirmation.' 

Howe has drawn his army into the city, and Washington is at German- 
town. Supplies will be cut off from the British army in a great measure. 

[P. S.] We shall finish a plan of confederation in a few days.^ 

[702] 1 Me. Hist. Soc, Revolution, no. 2. 

2 Nathaniel Folsom was at this time the only delegate from New Hampshire. 

3 See nos. 681, 684, 686, ante, and the Journals. Oct. 16, 20. See also Washington 
to Sullivan, Oct. 24, Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 134. 

["jo^Y Familiar Letters, p. 319. 

2 On the same day Adams wrote in a similar manner to James Warren, adding : 
" We have had Rumours, which lifted us up to the Stars." Warren- Adams Letters, I. 
373. October 23, Cornelius Harnett wrote to William Wilkinson, of North Carolina : 
"A Gentleman is just arrived in Town who has been Lately in Genl. Gates Camp and 
says he saw Gen. Burgoyne with our General. The account he brings of the Sur- 
render of the British is as follows It is however surprising that Congress has 

received not a Line from Genl. Gates on this important matter." iV. C. State Recs., 
XI. 785. Gates's despatches did not reach Congress until Oct. 31. See nos. 699, 700, 
ante, nos. 704, 708, 711, 713, 714- 719- 72/. 728, post: also a letter of James Wilkinson to 
VVashington, written from Easton, Pa., Oct. 24 {Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, 

n. 13). 

3 To James \\ arren, in the letter cited above (note 2), he wrote: "I really 
expect it will be finished by the Middle of next Week We shall consider imme- 
diately a Plan of Taxes for all the States. This is our Resource." 



October, 7777 531 

704. Henry Marchant to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke)/ 

York, Oct. 24th, 1777. 
Honored Sir: 

The inclosiires will show you how solicitous Congress are to have the 
Continental battalions filled up and deserters apprehended. The extracts 
from Gen. Washington's letter discovers his anxiety upon the subject, 
and that although he has wrote to the states upon the subject, he has 
received information but from one or two.^ .... 

We, last Sabbath week, had accounts very direct from Albany that 
Gen. Burgoyne had surrendered himself and his whole army to Gen. 
Gates, but to this hour Congress has not a word further from that quarter. 
This raised doubts with us, but before this, if it be true, you are well 
informed.^ .... 

I have daily expected to see William Ellery. If any accident happens to 
prevent his coming, I hope another gentleman will be appointed. Indeed, 
that was to have been done long since ; I informed the House at my first 
choice, I would by no means be absent more than six months. My 
affairs at home will not permit it, nor did I prepare myself for a later 
reason, so that I must return next month. By that time, however, I hope 
we shall have finished the long wished for Confederation, which we have 
at times been upon ever since I came, but lately taken up with more 
earnestness.* My presence, I presume, may be necessary when this comes 
before the General Assembly for their approbation, that they may be more 
particularly acquainted with the subject than they would be from a mere 
view of the articles of it. 



705. Committee of Congress to Jasper Yeates.^ 

York Town Pennsilvania, 24th Octr. 1777 
Sir 

The enclosed Resolve of Congress will explain to you the design of 
our appointment.^ Having acted in quality of Commissioner for Indian 

[704] 1 Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 162. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 17. The proclamation issued by Washington, Oct. 24, 
is in Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 139, note, (ed. Sparks), V. 133, note, and Pa. Arch., 
first ser., V. 700. Washington enclosed the proclamation in a letter to Hancock, Nov. 
2, requesting him to put it into " some safe channel of conveyance to the printers " 
{Writings, ed. Sparks, V. 133, ed. Ford, VI. 133, note). Hancock was then on his 
way to Boston. See no. 709, post. 

3 Cf. no. 703, ante. 
* See no. 712, post. 

[705] 1 Collection of the late David McN. Stauffer of Yonkers, N. Y. 

2 The committee was appointed Oct. 22, to enquire into the conduct of Col. 
George Morgan. See also nos. 706, 707, 717, post. A letter from the committee to 
Morgan, Oct. 30, enclosing the resolution of Oct. 22 and asking him to give attendance 
accordingly, is printed in Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 346. The 
original is in Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Collection, American Soldiers, vol. III., where 
may also be found Morgan's reply, Nov. 11, and a letter from him to Governor Hamilton 
of Detroit, May 31, 1776. On Nov. 20 a commission was appointed to go to Fort Pitt 
for various purposes (see no. 746, post), and thereupon Congress assigned the enquiry 



5 

affairs in tliat quarter where Colonel Morj^^an's scene of action has been 
as Agent under the United States, we have reason to think you may 
ilhicidate the subject of our inquiry. We desire particularly to be in- 
formed bv you concerning a letter written to Col. Morgan by Mr. Hamil- 
ton Governor of Detroit.^ We are Sir 

Yr. most Obt. and very hum* Servts. 

Richard Henry Lee 



Daniel Roberdeau 
RiCHD. Law 



Jasper Yates Esqr.* 



706. Committee of Congress to Edward Hand.^ 

York Town Octr. 24th. 1777 
Sir 

We enclose you herewith a resolve of Congress appointing us a Com- 
mittee for the purpose described in the resolution, and we apply to you 
Sir as a Friend to the cause of America, and as an Officer high in rank 
in the United States, to give us the most full and perticular assistance in 
vour power, for the better accomplishing the end of our appointment. 
We understand that Coll. Morgan has lately been confined on suspicion 
of disaffection to the interest of the United States We wish to know the 
truth of this, and if true, the cause of it. Whether any and what inquiry 
was made into the affair, and on what principles an acquittal was founded. 
We rely upon your best aid in all things, that may contribute to the right 
discharge of our duty in this business, as it must be obvious of how great 
consiquence it is, that the Agents for Indian Affairs should be of unques- 
tioned attachment to the United States, and your residence for some time 
in that part of the Country, which has been Colonel Morgan's Scene of 
action, may furnish you with knowledge on this Subject, that distance 
denies to us." We have the pleasure to inform you that the friendship 
and alliance of the Northern and Southern Indians comes well authen- 
ticated to Congress. It will be very hard and unaccountable that those 
in the middle district should alone be our Enemies. We are Sir 

Yr. most obt. and most hum^ Servts 

Richard Henry Lee 
Rich. Law 
Daniel Roberdeau 
Genl. Hand. 

into Morgan's case to that commission. A certificate from that commission, entirely 
exonerating Morgan, is entered upon the Journals, Apr. 7, 1778. A brief sketch of Col. 
George Morgan may be found in Alvord, Kaskaskia Records, p. 3. See also James, 
George Rogers Clark Papers (index). 

2 Henry Hamilton, lieutenant governor of Detroit. Nothing has been discovered 
concerning the letter to Morgan. 

* Addressed to him at Lancaster. 
[7o6]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 892; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. 
Ballagh), L 340. 

2 See no. 705, ante, and nos. 707, 717, post. Hand's reply to this letter is in Penn. 
Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XLHL 280. It is dated, "Fort Pitt 21st deer. 1777". 



October, lyyy 533 

707. Committee of Congress to [ ]/ 

York Town in Pena. 24th Octr. 1777 
Sir, 

The inclosed resolve will explain to you the design of our appointment, 
and the reason of our present application.^ As a friend to the cause of 
America, and as a Gentleman living on the spot which has been Colo. 
Morgans scene of action since his appointment under the United States, 
we are to request of you Sir your candid sentiments on the subject of 
charge against Colo Morgan and you will further oblige us by obtaining 
the fair and uninfluenced testimony of disinterested persons on the same 
point. We wish to be well informed touching the political character of 
Mr. McGee,* whether he is considered as an Agent or Friend, of G. B. 
and whether he does not profess himself a Subject of the British King. 
Whether Colo Morgan has much intimacy with Mr. McGee and whether 
the latter was not carried by the former along with him on a visit to some 
of the Indian nations, and whether it was by Colo Morgans influence that 
the Indians were induced to insist on Mr. McGees continuing to reside 
where he now does. Whether any letter has been seen from Mr. Hamil- 
ton the Governor of Detroit to Colo. Morgan, and what were the contents 
of such letter. We are satisfied that you will excuse the trouble we have 
here given you, when you reflect how important a thing it is that the 
department of Agent for Indian Affairs should be filled by a person of 
clear and unquestioned attachments to the United States, and the impos- 
si[bility, fro]m our remoteness, of rightly answering the end of our 
[appointme]nt, unless by the mediation of American friends in [that 
part o]f the Country. We are Sir your most obedient Servants 

R. H. Lee for the 
Committee of Congress 

[Endorsed :] 

" Copy of Letter to Fort Pitt concerning accusations agst Colo. George 
Morgan." 

708. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

YoRKTOWN, 25 October, 1777 
My Best Friend, 

.... Congress have appointed two chaplains, Mr. White and Mr. 
Duffield, the former of whom, an Episcopalian, is arrived, and opens Con- 
gress with prayers every day.^ The latter is expected every hour. Mr. 

[707]! Am. Phil. Soc, Lee Papers, vol, II., p. 7, no. 3 (copy) ; Letters of Richard Henry 
Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 341. The letter was possibly to a Mr, Irvine. See no. 717, post. 

2 See nos. 705, 706, ante. 

8 Probably Alexander McKee. See the Journals, Apr. 25, 29, 1776 (where the 
name appears as McGee), and Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 445. For some correspondence 
of Alexander McKee, who was for many years British deputy superintendent of Indian 
affairs, see Parker, Guide to the Materials for United States History in Canadian 
Archives (index). 

[708]^ Familiar Letters, p. 320. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. i, 20, 21, Nov. 10. 



5 

Duclie. I am sorry to inform you, has turned out an apostate and a traitor. 
Poor man ! I pity his weakness and detest his wickedness.'' 

As to news we are yet in a painful suspense about affairs at the north- 
ward, but from Philadelphia, we have accounts that are very pleasing.* 



709. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

George Washington.^ 

York Town Pennsylvania 

October 25th. 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

I was duely honoured with your Favour of the 22d. and am much 
obliged by the Expressions of Politeness and Friendship which it con- 
tains.^ .... 



As I propose setting out on Monday and shall go thro' Bethlehem, I 
must request that the Escort of Horse you so politely offered to attend 
me. may meet me there. Should I reach Bethlehem before them, I shall 
wait their Arrival. In the present critical State of our Affairs, I believe 
I should decline setting out for a few Days; but, having wrote to Mrs. 
Hancock to meet me at some Distance from Boston, I am under a Neces- 
sity of beginning my Journey on Monday Morning.^ 

710. The President of Congress (John Hancock) to 

Thomas Jefferson.^ 

York Town Pennsylva. Octor. 25th. 1777. 
Dear Sir 

.... My constant application to Publick Business both in and out of 
Congress, has so impaired my Health, that some Relaxation has become 
absolutely necessary, and to morrow morning ^ I set out for Boston with 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 20, nos. 698, 699, ante, no. 718, post. 

*Cf. nos. 703, 704, ante, nos. 711, 713, 714, 719, 727, 728, post. The news from 
Philadelphia was of the successful defense of the Delaware River against British attacks 
at forts Mifflin and Red Bank. Samuel Adams sent to James Warren, Oct. 26, a copy 
of a letter from Col. Jonathan Mifflin to Gen. Thomas Mifflin, dated Oct. 25, giving an 
account of this affair {Warren- Adams Letters, I. 374). See the Journals, Oct. 27, 
Nov. 4. In this letter Adams also said: "We have just now received a satisfactory 
Account of the great Success of our Arms on the 14th Inst, under General Gates. The 

Express is expected every Hour Congress will, I suppose recommend the setting 

apart one Day of publick Thanksgiving to be observed throughout the united States." 
See the Journals, Oct. 31, Nov. i, 7. 

[709]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XIX. S4; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), IL 18. 

2 See no. 693, ante. Washington's letter of Oct. 22 is in Writings (ed. Ford), 
VL 132, (ed. Sparks), V. 106. 

3 Cf. no. 710, post. He did not, in fact, take leave of Congress until Wednesday 
Oct. 29, and probably set out on his journey Oct. 30. See nos. 716, 718, post. Wash- 
ington's reply to this letter is dated Nov. 2. See no. 704, note 2, ante. 

[710]! Library of J. Pierpont Morgan, Autographs, p. i. 

2 In the letter to Washington, Oct. 25 (no. 709, ante), Hancock states his pur- 
pose of taking his departure on Monday, Oct. 27. It is probable that this paragraph of 
the letter to Jefferson was written later than the 25th, possibly the 29th. 



October, 1777 535 

the Leave of Congress to be absent two Months, and I should be happy to 
have it in my power to Render you or yo"" Friends any Services during my 
Stay at Boston 

Hon' Thomas Jefferson Esq. 

711. Richard Henry Lee to the Governor of Virginia 

(Patrick Henry). ^ 

York, Penn. 25 Octo. 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

The slow but sure moving Gates has not yet sent us his glorious Inven- 
tory.^ However, the intelligence of Burgoyne's surrender comes to us 
through such good channels that we do not doubt its truth, but impute 
Genl. Gates' silence to his necessary attention to the great business of 
disposing properly of so many prisoners etc.^ .... 

712. Nathaniel Folsom to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

York Town, 27th October, 1777 
Dear Sir, 

.... Inclosed I send you a Copy of the Articles of confederation as 
far as agreed to by Congress. The 9th article is, " That the pro- 
portion of public expense incurred by the United States for their common 
defense and general welfare, to be paid by each State into the Treasury, 
be ascertained by the value of all lands within each state granted to or 
surveyed for any person, as such land and the buildings and improve- 
ments thereon, shall be estimated according to such mode as Congress 
shall from time to time direct." This article w^as opposed by all the New 
England Delegates and we are yet in hopes of having it re-considered.* 

• • • • 

713. John Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Yorktown, 28 October, 1777. 
My Dearest Friend, 

We have been three days soaking and poaching in the heaviest rain that 
has been known for several years, and w^hat adds to the gloom is, the 
uncertainty in which we remain to this moment, concerning the fate of 
Gates and Burgoyne. We are out of patience. It is impossible to bear 
this suspense with any temper.^ 

[711]! Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 107; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), 
I. 342. 

2 In a draft of a letter to William Shippen, jr., Oct. 22 {Letters, I. 339), Lee 
uses nearly the same sentence, but without the word "glorious". The word is used, 
however, in what appears to be an amended draft of the same letter {ibid., p. 340). 

3 Cf. nos. 699, 700, 703, 704, 708, ante, nos. 713, 714, 719, J^T-JZO, post. 
[^12]^N. H. State Papers, VIII. 706. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 8-1 1, 13, 14. Cf. nos. 680, 681, 683, 701. ante, nos. 722, 
723, 733, 749, 765, 766, post. See also the second report and final form in the Journals, 
under Nov. 15. 

[713]^ Familiar Letters, p. 323. 

2C/. nos. 699, 700, 703, 704, 708, 711, ante, nos. 714, 719, 727-730, Post. 

39 



5 

I am in comfortable lodp^ings, wliich is a felicity that has fallen to the 
lot of a very few of our meml)ers. Yet the house where I rim is so 
thronf^ed. that I cannot enjoy such accommodations as I wish. 1 cannot 
have a room as I used, and therefcMe cannot find ojiportunities to write 
as I once did 

714. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry/ 

York in Pennsylva. Octr. 28, 1777 
Dear Sir, 

The anxiety at Williamsburg cannot be greater than it is here to have 
a particular account of our late glorious success in the North. For nine 
days past, we have hourly expected the arrival of a Messenger with 
Gates's magnificent Inventory, and in order to a quick transmission of it, 
we have detained, and still keep Colo. Masons Express. We now learn 
that Colo. Wilkinson D. Adjutant Gen. is on his way with this long 
wisht for Capitulation by which Gen. Burgoyne and his army have sur- 
rendered themselves prisoners of war.^ .... 

715. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

York Town, Pennsylva., Oct. 29, 1777 

My dear Sir^ 

.... Congress have applyd with Diligence to Confederation. Most 
of the important Articles are agreed to. Each State retains its Sov- 
ereignty and Independence with every Power, Jurisdiction, and Right, 
which is not by the Confederation expressly delegated to the United 
States in Congress assembled. 

Each State is to have one Vote in Congress ; but there must be a Con- 
currence of Nine States in all Matters of Importance. 

The Proportion of the publick Expence to be paid by Each State to 
be ascertaind by the Value of all the Lands granted to or surveyd for any 
Person, to be estimated according to such Mode as Congress shall from 
time to time direct. 

All Disputes about Boundaries are to be decided by Judges appointed 
in the following Mode : The Representatives of Each State in Congress 
to be nominated, the contending States to strike ofif 13 each, and out of 
the remaining 13 not more than 9 nor less than 7 shall be drawn out by 
Lot, any five of them to hear and determine the Matter. 

I hope we shall finish the Confederation in a few days when I intend 
to renew my Request for the Leave of Absence, and return home." .... 

[714]! Me. Hist. Soc, Fogg Coll.; Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 109; Letters of 
Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 343. 

2 C/. nos. 699, 700, 703, 704, 708, 711, 713. anie, nos. 719, 727-72,0, post. The 
despatches from Gates reached Congress Oct. 31. See the Journals, Oct. 31, Nov. 3, 
and nos. 727-72,1, post; also Washington to Gates, Oct. 30, Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 154. 
At the close of this letter, which is of some length, is the date " Octr. 30th 1777. 
10 oclock in the morning ". 
[715]! Warren-Adams Letters, I. 375. 

2 See no. 712, ante, and nos. 722, 723, 725, 731, 733, 738, post. 



October, 1777 537 

This will be deliverd to you by Mr. Hancock, who has Leave of Ab- 
sence till the first of January next.^ .... 

716. Samuel Adams to James Warren.* 

York Town, Octob. 30, 1777 
My dear Sir, 

I have just receivd your agreeable Letter of the 8th by the Post, for 
which please to accept my hearty thanks. I had written and seald the 
inclosd Letter,^ before yours came to my Hand. Yesterday Morning Mr. 
H[ancock], who had several times before given Notice to Congress of 
his Intention to return to Boston agreeable to Leave he had obtaind at 
Philadelphia, made a formal Speech to Congress in which he reminded 
them of his having served them as President more than two years; 
whether he had conducted to their Approbation or not, was left to them ; 
but he had the Testimony of his own Mind that he had done it to the best 
of his Ability. He thanked them for the Civility they had shown him, 
and if in the Course of Business he had faild in due Respect to any Mem- 
ber, as it was not intentional, he hoped it would be overlooked. It is 
likely as I have taken it from Memory upon hearing it once read, that I 
have not done it Justice in point of Expression. But it is not improbable 
that you may have a Copy of it; for a Motion was made in the Afternoon 

by Mr. D of N. Y.^ that a Copy should be requested, and Thanks 

returnd for his great Services, and a Request that he would return and 
take the Chair. This Motion was opposd by several Members, but it 
obtaind so far as to request the Copy, and this Day the latter Part of the 
Motion will be considerd.* 

I have given you this merely as a Peice of News, leaving you to judge 
of the Tendency and probable Effect of the Speech and Motion. We have 
had two Presidents before, Neither of whom made a parting Speech or 
receivd the Thanks of Congress. 

717. Daniel Roberdeau to Edward Hand.* 

York Town Pennsilvania Octr. 30th. 1777 
Dr General 

.... I wrote you the 24th. in company with Coll. Lee and Mr. Law 
a committee with myself to enquire into Coll. Morgan's conduct, concern- 
ing whom much is said, for which we cannot account, particularly your 

3 See no. 716, post. 
[716]! Warren- Adams Letters, I. S/7. 

2 The letter of Oct. 29 (no. 715), ante. Warren's letter to Adams of Oct. 8 
is not found in Warren-Adams Letters. 

3 Duane and Duer both appear to have been present at the time ; accordingly 
it is uncertain which of them made the motion. This was in the afternoon of Oct. 29. 

* According to the Journals, the question was not resumed the next day, but in 
the afternoon of Oct. 31. See no. 724, post. Cf. nos. 691, 693-695, 709, 710. 715, ante. 
In regard to Hancock's arrival in Boston, see Samuel Adams to John Adams, Dec. 8, 
in Writings (ed. Gushing), III. 416. 

[717]! Copied from the original then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. Addressed to " The Honorable Brigadier Genl. Hand, Pittsbourgh ". 



6 

having put him under arrest.* By the return of the Express please to 
give Mr. Irvine ' an Opportunity to write and the same favr. from you 
will further oblige. 

P. S 

718. Nathaniel Folsom to Josiah Rartlett.' 

York Town Octr. the 30th. 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

yesterday I inclosed and diracted to your President all the news I 
Could Pick up In this Quarter, which you will have the Redeing off as 
Soone as it Comes to hand I inclose you a Coppey of a letter from the 
Revt. mr. Ducha to general Washington that you may See what a Judas 
wase a Chaplin to Congress, wood not have you make it Publick unless 
it be by advice of Councile. as Congress have not thought fit to Publish it 
here, t'ho it is Publick anough in everybodeys mouth In the Streets." 

my Duty is Very hard, and if you have any Comepashon left for me 
hope you will Joyne Congress Soone, as the buisiness is too much for one 
to live [under, Ou]r President leves Congress this morning and I beleve 
Coll. Larance of South caralinah will be appinted in his Place ' I am 
Sr. with grate Respect your most obedent 



HumK Sert. 

Nath^' Folsom 



P. S. my Complements to the Hon'^ Board. 
To the Hon'*. Josiah Bartlet Esqr. 



719. Daniel Roberdeau to Timothy Matlack.^ 

York Town, Nov. ist, 1777. 
Dr Sir, 

Yesterday the confirmation of the northern affair arrived, the Con- 
vention at Saratoga was immediately forwarded to Council, and this day 
Genl Gates' two letters, one to Congress the other to Genl Vaughan," 
with an exact return of prisoners and stores surrendered. All these dis- 

2 See nos. 705-707, a>ite. and no. 746, post. 

3 Mr, Irvine was probably the person to whom the committee's letter of Oct. 
24 (no. 707, ante) was addressed. 

[718]^ Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. L, 1774-1778. 

2 See nos. 698, 699, 708, ante. 

3 See no. 716, ante. Henry Laurens was elected President Nov. i. 

[719] 1 Library of J. Pierpont Morgan, Generals of the American Revolution; Pa. 
Arch., first ser., V. 735. Timothy Matlack was secretary to the supreme executive 
council of Pennsylvania. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 31. Gates's letters of Oct. 18 and 20, together with his 
letter to Maj.-Gen. John Vaughan, dated Oct. 19, are in Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 687-689. 
The convention of Saratoga and returns of Burgoyne's forces and ordnance stores, accom- 
panied by a note of transmittal from Roberdeau dated Oct. 31, are ibid., V. 726-730. 
By the " slovenly manner " in which the despatches were sent, Roberdeau probably means 
the exasperating delay in their arrival (see nos. 699, 700, 703, 704, 708, 711, 7i3> 7^4, 
ante), but he may also allude to the further delay requested by Wilkinson until he could 
" digest and arrange " the papers. Cf. nos. 727, 728, post. 



November, JJJJ 539 

patches have been sent in the most slovenly manner, but it is impossible 
for me in the midst of publick Business, without assistance, to be more 
correct, therefore, I hope I have the excuse of Council. Mr. Cling-hem 
this day took his seat, pray, where are the other Dellegates? Henry 
Laurens, Vice President of So Carolina, a worthy, sensible, indefatigable 
Gentleman, was this day chosen by a unanimous vote, except his own, 
President of Congress. 

I am obliged to you for the paper and the several printed publications. 
Pray keep me advised. 

I am, Dr Sir 

Yr most obt hum^ Servt, 

Daniel Roberdeau. 

720. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Mifflin.* 

York Novr. 2, 1777 
My dear General 

I thank you for your obliging favor of the 28th. past and the inclosures 
accompanying it. I assure you Sir that having received such original 
impressions of your firm attachment to the cause of America, I have ever 
placed you among the first, and most valuable friends. Trusting there- 
fore to your patriotism, and my hopes of your returning health, I had 
ventured to mention your name for one of the three Commissioners of 
the new board of war — A most important department, on which our 
righteous warfare eminently depends. Some Gentlemen supposed yr. 
health would hinder others observed that the Continental policy forbid 
the union of two offices in the same person, supposing that you might be 
prevailed on to retain your commission of M. General would your health 
permitted \_sic\ action. The spirit of the Continental policy does forbid 
double salaries, but the Generalship might be continued with the Board 
of war Salary. Indeed, the nature of the latter business renders rank and 
knowledge in War necessary.^ .... 

721. The Board of War to Horatio Gates.* 

War Office Novr 2d 1777 
Dr Sir 

I am directed to inform you that an Idea has been suggested to the 
Board of raising a Battallion of the Canadian Prisoners lately fallen into 
our Hands many of those Persons having been represented as Friends to 
the United States altho' they have by Compulsion borne Arms against 

[720]! Univ. Va. Lib,, Lee Papers, no. 191; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. 
Ballagh), L 347- 

2 In a letter dated Oct. 8 Mifflin had asked leave on account of ill health to resign 
his commissions of major-general and quartermaster-general. Nov. 7 Congress accepted 
his resignation of the office of quartermaster-general, and appointed him to the board 
of war, permitting him to retain the rank and commission of major-general without the 
salary attached thereto. See, further, the Journals, Nov. 18, 19, 24. See also no. 700, 
ante, and nos. 743, 748, 757-/61, post. 

[721]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XL 



540 Continental Con^^rcss 

us. As this Rattallioii will in all Probability be ofticered by French 
Officers you will be pleased to p^ive your Opinion on the Measure and 
mention such OtTicers as you think worthy Appointments in such a Corps 
should it be determined by Congress to raise it." 

I have the Honour to be, with great Regard 

your very obed Servt 

Richard Peters Secy 

Honble Gcnl Gates 

722. James Lovell to William Whipple.^ 

Novr 3d York Town [1777.] 
My Dear Sir, 

.... Confederation has gone on pretty well lately.^ I suppose the 
Council of State will be thrown out and a Committee of Congress be left 
in recesses to transact prudentials.' .... 

In addition to Deanes folly, our sister, Georgia has sent blank Conti- 
nental Commissions to France for officers to raise men. Bingham gave 
us the first account. We have rapped Miss over the knuckles and sent a 
copy of the protest-like Resolve to our Commissioners.* 

i 

723. Roger Sherman to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Hartford, Novr. 3. 1777 
Dear Sir 

.... The low credit of our paper currency, occasioned partly by 
inimical persons and partly by aviritious ones, is our greatest embaress- 
ment, and I think that might be soon remedied, if Congress w^ould recom- 
mend to all the States to sink their owai Bills and tax themselves to a 
certain and sufficient amount for carrying on the war and draw in as 
much as may be by the loan offices, and collect the Taxes frequently 
appropriate about 3 million dollars annually to be burnt to lessen the 
quantity in circulation until the whole be sunk which would be in less 
than twelve years such provision being made and published would have 
an immediate effect to give credit and stability to the currency. Care 
should be taken that the two first emissions should be stopt in the loan 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 29, Dec. 2, 19. 
[722]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 435; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Ban- 
croft Coll., Langdon-Elwyn Papers (copy of part). 

2 " We hope to get over confederation in a fortnight." John Penn and Cornelius 
Harnett to Governor Caswell, Nov. 2, 1777 {N. C. State Recs., XL 667). See no. 712, 
ante, and nos. 723, 725. 731, 72,2,, 735, 738-740, 746, 749, 753, 754, 760, post. 

3 See the draft of the Articles of Confederation as reported by the com- 
mittee July 12, 1776 {Journals, V. 553), and the Articles as reported by the committee 
of the whole Aug. 20, 1776 {ibid., V. 686) ; also the proceedings, Oct. 30, Nov. 7, 1777, 
{Journals, IX. 848, 879), and the forms printed under Nov. 15 {ibid., IX. 919, 923). 
For an account of the committee of the states under the Confederation, see E. C. Burnett, 
" The Committee of the States '', in Am. Hist. Assoc, Annual Report, 1913, vol. I., 
pp. 139-158. 

* See the Journals, Oct. 18. Cf. no. 770, post. 
[723]! Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Papers, I. 47. 



November, ITJJ 541 

offices and not reinforced for it will be difikuit to get Silver or Gold to 
redeem them when the fixed periods arrive.' The mode adopted by Con- 
gress for proportioning the Quotas of the several States according to the 
value of their lands I think impracticable. The number of the Inhabitants 
I think will be the best that can be devised, the wealth of a people I 
believe will generally be found to be nearly in proportion to the numbers 
that can be supported in a State, and wealth principally arises from the 
labour of men. as to the negros I should be willing to do what appears 
equitable. If for the present it should be agreed to exclude all under ten 
years old or any other age that may be agreed on and include the rest 
until a more equitable value can be devised, and not make a perpetual rule 
at present would it not answer better than to have confederation delayed, 
for I am persuaded that the States can neither agree to nor practise the 
mode voted by Congress, and nothing effectual can be done to fix the 
credit of the currency or to raise necessary supplies until some rule of 
proportion is adopted. I doubt not of your readiness to do whatever you 
shall Judge may conduce to the general good and I am sure your influence 
will have great weight in this affair.^ .... 

I am 

With great truth and Regard 

Your Friend and humble servant 

Roger Sherman 

Hon. R. H. Lee Esqr. 

724. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

York Town, Pennsilva., Novr. 4, jj 

My dear Sir, 

I wrote to you last Week by Mr. Hancock =" and gave you a curious 
Anecdote. The affair was brought on— it labord a whole Afternoon. 
The Principle was objected to, it was urged to be unprecedented, impoli- 
tick, dangerous. The Question was then put of the Propriety of the 
Measure in any Instance. Passd in the Affirmative 6 to 4. The original 
Question was then put. Passd in the Afifve., the same Division. The 
Yeas and Nays were called for: yeas, C, N. Y., J, V, N. C, S. C. Nays, 
N. H., M. R., P. Adieu.^ 

2 Sherman evidently has in mind the report of the committee on the proceedings 
of the committee of the Eastern states, brought in Oct. 27 and acted upon Nov. 22, 26, 
27. See no. 736, post. 

3 Cf. nos. 712, 722, ante, 733, 749. 7^5, 766, post. 
[724]! Warren-Adams Letters, I. 378. 

2 The letters of Oct. 29 and 30 (nos. 715, 7i6), ante. Adams therefore made 
Hancock the bearer of a message (the letter of Oct. 30) which was not at all favorable 

to the bearer. . , . 1 ^l 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 31. The yeas and nays here set down are those on the 
"first motion" (p. 854). Maryland is not included, because, having but one member 
present, the state was " imrepresented ". Adams's statement that the vote on the 
general' question of propriety was in the affirmative, 6 to 4, does not accord with the 
Journals, which show the states equally divided. The Journals do record, however, 
an affirmative vote on the question whether the sense of Congress should be taken on a 
" general proposition ". 



r)42 Continental Con(^rcss 

725. Thomas Burke to tiik Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell),* 

Tyaguin, November 4th, 1777. 
Prar Sir: 

I left York town, in Pennsylvania, on the 13th iilto., and arrived at 

home on the 26th. after our retreat from Philadelphia While I 

was at Reading happened the battle of Chestnut Hill and Germantown, 
wherein we unfortunately lost General Nash, one of the best, the most 
respected and regretted officers in the Continental army. The particulars 
of this battle Mr. Harnett informed me he wrote you before my arrival 
at York, and I will not trouble you with a repetition. Upon the whole, 
it appears our miscarriage sprung from the usual source — want of abili- 
ties in our superior officers and want of order and discipline in our army. 
This, sir, is an evil of most dangerous tendency, and to remedy it has 
been long the object of my thoughts and endeavors. Indeed, I saw very 
little propect of success until very lately. But just before I left Congress 
I had the pleasure to find that every gentleman was equally sensible of 
the necessity of applying a proper remedy. The great difficulty will be 
to get over particular connections and personal regards, but it must be 
effectually remedied or all our efforts are in vain.^ .... 

Very little of consequence has been lately determined in Congress. 
The Confederation was the subject of daily consideration when I came 
away. But as I consider the plan now in embryo as what can never be 
suited to the States, I think nothing decided on it is of consequence. I 
fear I differ very widely on this subject with a majority in Congress. I 
deem a time of peace and tranquilty the proper time for agitating so im- 
portant a concern ; but some, and not a few, are of opinion that advantage 
should be taken of the present circumstances of the States, which are 
supposed favorable for pressing them to a very close connection. But 
more, sir, of this when we meet.^ .... 



726. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

York Town, 4 Nov. 1777 

Dear Sir: 

I have not time to say any thing of Politics or News, if We had any. 
Congress seem'd surprized that you sho*^ be at a Loss about delivering 
over Stores, as it is most explicitly mentioned in the new, (Confounding) 
Comissa. Plan, that all stores shall be delivered over to the Comis: of 
Issues his Deputy, or Assistants etc. and there seems no doubt by any 
thing you or any Body writes, but that there is such officer in the eastern 

[725]! N. C. State Recs., XX. 973; XI. 668. 

2 See Burke's letter to General Sullivan, Oct. 12 (no. 686, ante). 

3 See Burke's Notes on the Confederation under Nov. 15 (nos. 739, 740, post). 
Cf. nos. 488, 503, ante, nos. 73Z, 747> post. 

[726]^^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 



November, 1777 543 

Department.^ A Gent, whisper'd me in Congress (not knowing I sup- 
pose of my Connections) that He vvish'd some body wo'^ write Mr. 
Trumbull, that it was the opinion of all unprejudiced Persons, that He 
was so angry and chaafed, at being out of the office tho voluntary, that 
He was contriving by every way and mean in his power to thwart and 
hinder the Success and progress of the Business and disconcert their 
Affairs etc. it will make you mad, as it did me while I utterly disbelieve 
it, and think you incapable of such baseness.^ Congress some time since 
made some alteration in the plan, to ease Colt's objections etc. which 
will be sent by the Presidt. They have also impowered the Gov and 
Council to appoint a D. Corny : Gen of Issues, lest there sho'^ not be any 
to receive etc.* .... 



2 The proceedings in Congress to which Williams alludes were probably those 
of Nov. 3 on Governor Trumbull's letter of Oct. 20. See also the regulations of the 
commissary department, in the Journals, June 10. Cf. no. 664, ante, and nos. 748, 757, 
759. post. 

3 See nos. yy^i, 77(>, post. 

* See the Journals, Oct. 4, Nov. 3. Cf. nos. 727, 77^, post. The following letter 
from Jeremiah Wadsworth to William Williams (Conn. Hist. Soc, Jeremiah Wads- 
worth Papers) elucidates the matter adverted to by Williams : 

" Hartford Nov 26th 1777 
"Sir 

" I am informed that some members of Congress and many other Persons are made 
to believe that the Late Commissy. General has not been ready to deliver over the 
Stores in his Possession to the Persons who have been authorised to receive them and 
that the Publick service has been injured by his delay. I have from his first being in 
Office been acting for him and as Many of the Stores were in my hands at the time he 
left the Army I waited on him at Danbury on his way home when he was dismissed and 
reed his Orders to deliver over all the Stores in my hands to the Issuing Commsy. 
Generals Order agreeable to the Resolves of Congress — and after waiting an unrea- 
sonable time for some Person to apply for them I was informed the Army woud be 
distressed if I did not forward the Salted Provisions — 'and I sent forward a quantity 
after which Sam Grey Esq'r. D C G of Issues came to me at this place and Asked my 
Advise and Assistance finding himself much embarrassed for want of Particular instruc- 
tions and not knowing the extent of his district. I advised him to Appoint some Person 
to receive the Stores from me and to Issue Provisions here. He replied he was at a loss 
for a Proper Person and desired me to let one of my People undertake it. I agreed that 
Mr Hall then in my business and very necessary to me — should undertake it. Mr. 
Gray gave him a Warrant — and orders to rec[e]ive the Salted Provisions and flower 
only — which I immediately delivered and supplied teams to transport — and before any 
orders came to him to receive the other stores Rum was call'd for of which I sent a 
moderate supply — and then informed Mr Gray that no more wou'd be sent unless it 
was first delivered over according to the resolutions of Congress — this produced his 
Order to Mr Hall to receive all the Stores in m}' possession which I imediately began 
to deliver and have now very near compleated the delivery of the whole — if after this 
there is the least doubt in the Minds of any Members of Congress or other Person 
who has a right to be satisfied I can produce the fullest proof that from the time Col 
Trumbull resigned to this hour the Stores have been ready to be delivered and that 
constant Attention has been given, where the Stores were lodged for that purpose. 
I cou'd add and verify that had Col Trumbulls Assistants done only their Duty and 
waited for Application, the Stores would yet have been in the Magazines where they 
were deposited. Peter Colt Esqr D C G of Purchases will at any time do us the justice 
to say this and the Variety of difficulties he has to encounter will make him more 
acquainted with the disposition of Col Trumbull and his late Assistants — without 
whose Assistance he will not be able to proceed in his business — Tho he really is as 
well quallified for the Office he holds as any Man [in] this State — but the business has 
been so long delayed, that untill he has the Power to create he cannot make ample if 
tollerable supplies." 



5 

jzy. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull.* 

York Town Novr 4th 1777 

Dear Sir 

Your favour of the 20th Ultnio. came safe to hand by an Express sent 

by Govr Trumbull We never had full and Ofiicial Accounts of 

the Interesting Event at the Northward till the arrival of Coll Wilkison 
on frvday last we had almost began to despair, but at length our joy 
was full on recieving a Confirmation of the whole.^ I hope the most 
sincere Gratitude may arise to Heaven from every Quarter on this most 
Signal Interposition of Providence in our favour. I find our Assembly 
are Alarmd at the Neglect in the Commisy. Department, the plan you 
know I reprobate as do more than half of Congress and many more now 
see their Error they have mended and mended in several Instances, but 
it cannot wholly relieve, as I before wrote you such alterations were 
made, as were the principal Objections pointed out by Mr Colt to Con- 
gress, of which they advised him long agoe and supposed he was in full 
action and exertion'in the business.' but now fear the Express has fallen 

into the hands of the Enemy Congress Cannot concieve how you 

and Mr Gray * should be of Opinion that you had no Authority to Deliver 
or he or his Assistants to recieve the provisions and stores in your hands 
when it is expressly provided in the 6th Article for you or your Deputies 
to Deliver over to the Commissy. Genii, or his Deputies or Assists, all 
and every kind of Provision etc. in the Commissy. department etc. Gray 
is much blamed for not recieving them as he has authority Independt. of 
the Commisy. Genii and has a right to Appoint what Subs or Assistants 
he pleases, but that there be no further delay Govr Trumbull and his 
Council of Safety are Impowerd to appoint Commissys. of purchases or 
Issues as they find Necessary ^ it will be a Jumble when all is done but 
we must make the best of it we are about appointing a board of C over 
the Commissy. and Ouartr Master Department to super Intend and 
regulate from time etc. you are in Nomination for one of the three 
I suppose they will have good Salaries perhaps 2000 dolls pr annum.® 
my regards to Coll Wyllys tell him I will let him hear from me the 
moment Congress arrive at my favorite Wyoming but at present we think 
we are tolerably safe while we are beyond that Capital River respects to 
all friends affectionate regards to family and dear Amelia and am as 
usual Yours 

Elipht Dyer 

[P. S.] Congress calls cannot review my letter you must take it as 
it comes, have heard nothing f" Coll Thos. for some time. E D 

[727]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 See the Journals. Oct. 31 ; cf. no. 719, ante, and no. 728, post. 

3 The plan of the commissary department was adopted June 10. See also the 
Journals, June 11, 16, 18. For criticisms and amendments, see ibid., July 11, Aug. 4-6, 

Oct. 4, Nov. 3. 

4 Samuel Gray, appointed a deputy commissary of issues for the Eastern depart- 
ment Aug. 6, 1777. See also Wadsworth to Williams, Nov. 26 (no. 726, note 4, ante), 
and no. 773, post. 

5 See the Journals, Oct. 4. Nov. 3, and cf. no. 726, ante. 

6 See the Journals, Oct. 22, Nov. 24, 27. The " board of C " doubtless means 
board of Commissioners. 



November, J/// 545 

728. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 

Horatio Gates/ 

York Town Pennsylvania 
5th Novem: 1777 
Sir 

On the 1st. Inst: Colonel Wilkinson delivered your several dispatches 
to Congress and at their request briefly added a recital of circumstances 
attending the Convention of Saratoga, he has since laid before the 
House all the Papers relative to that Contract and the returns of both 
Armies.^ these have afforded satisfaction not only to the Representative 
body, but universally to the good people here, the glorious Intelligence 
is now extending from City to City diffusing Joy in the heart of every 

Loyal American to the remotest State in the Union 

I am with the Most perfect Esteem and Regard Sir 

Your Most Obedient and humble servant 

Henry Laurens, 
Presidt, in Cong ' 

Major General Gates 
Albany. 

[728] ^N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XL; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, L 4. 

2 According to the Journals Wilkinson delivered Gates's letter and a copy of 
the convention of Saratoga Friday, Oct. 31, instead of Nov. i, and on Monday, Nov. 3, 
he laid the articles of convention and other papers before Congress. Cf. nos. 719, 727, 
ante. John Penn and Cornelius Harnett wrote to Governor Caswell Nov. 2 : " Yester- 
day Col. Wilkinson arrived here" {N. C. State Recs., XL 667), but there is probably 
an error either in the date of the letter or in the " yesterday ". 

Thomas McKean wrote to John Adams, Nov. 20, 1815: "With respect to General 
VVilkinson I recollect an Anecdote: he was in 1777 an Aid to General Gates, and by 
him sent to Congress at York-town in Pennsylvania with the dispatches, giving an 
account of the surrender of Sir John Burgoj^ne and the British army to the Americans 
at_ Saratoga ; on the way he spent a day at Reading, about fifty miles from Yorktown, 
with a young lady from Philadelphia, whom he afterwards married. When the 
dispatches were read in Congress, propositions were made for paying a proper compli- 
ment to the Favorite of General Gates, who brought us such pleasing news. Governor 
Samuel Adams, with a grave and solemn face, moved Congress, that the young Gentle- 
man should be presented with ' a pair of spurs '." .... (Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean 
Papers, IV. 48.) To this Adams replied, Nov. 26: "I remember a jocular suggestion 
thrown out in a private Conversation in which Mr Samuel Adams and Mr Hancock 
were present on the morning after Wilkinson's Arrival, and before Congress met: 
that it would be proper to present the Courier with a horsewhip and a pair of Spurrs: 
but I never before heard that a Motion was actually made in Congress, in jest or in 
earnest to that purpose. I must have been absent at that moment upon some Committee." 
Ibid., IV. 4?. 

For Wilkinson's promotion see the Journals, Nov. 6. In his letter of Oct. 18, delivered 
to Congress by Wilkinson, Gates warmly recommended Wilkinson for promotion : 
"I desire to be permitted to recommend this gallant officer in the warmest manner to 
Congress, and intreat that he may be continued in his present place with the Brivet 
of a Brigadier General. The Honble Congress will believe me when I assure them that 
from the beginning of this war, I have not met with a more promising Military Genius 
than Colonel Wilkinson, and whose services have been of the greatest benefit to the 
Army." Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 687. For Wilkinson's own account of his journey with 
the despatches and his audience with Congress, see his Memoirs, I. 323 et seq. 

3 This mode of official designation was adopted by Laurens immediately upon 
his election to the presidency. See, for instance, the circular letter of Nov. i, in Pa. 
Arch., first ser., V. 735. He did not, however, persevere therein. 



54G Continental Congress 



&' 



729. Eliphalet Dyer to Horatio Gates/ 

York-Town Novembr 5th 1777 
Sir 

I most sincerely Congratulate you on the glorious Success with which 
the Almig-hty has Crowned your most faithfull Indeavours in the cause of 
your Country, against a late triumphant Enemy ; and that He hath made 
you the happy Instrument in bringing down the lofty pride and haughty 
Insolence of a vain glorious Bxirgoyne, who had spread terror and Con- 
sternation through our Northern Country, Untill Providence over ruled, 
(against a Violent Opposition) to replace you in the chief Command over 
our Northern Department 

Have no doubt but all the true and virtuous Friends of their Country 
are Impressed with a grateful sense of the goodness and favour of 
Almighty God, for this singular and most Interesting Event, at the same 
time your friends sincerely rejoice that you have more than Answered 
their sanguine expectations, yet you will not be surprised if it should raise 
the Envie of your Enemies and those who had with Violence opposed 
your Command in that Quarter, but the success which has attended your 
Conduct, and followed your plans of Operation, now forces some Ac- 
knowledgement even from those, of the Prudence of the measure in 
restoring you to your proper Command. I have the pleasure to Inform 
you that Congress are not only happy in the Event, but entirely satisfied 
in your Closing the Convention, at the time, and in the manner you did, 
and dare say the Impartial world will not only Justifye but Applaud you 
therein.^ .... 

730. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

Novr. 5th from York Town [1777.] 
Dear Sir 

.... I wish good old Putt may not think hard of the proposals of 
congress sent you at this Time. He is really wanted in the neighbourhood 
of Philadelphia* .... 

If you are not sincerely regarded here in general, yet there is at least 
a modesty as to any appearance of the old Opposition. You would have 
been pleased at an Incog Survey of Faces for Weeks back. Tho we were 
12 Days without a Confirmation of Intelligence given by the Committee 
of Albany, yet I did not find any disposition to bite as was usual formerly 
at yr. Reputation.® .... 

731. William Duer to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 
Sir, 

Notwithstanding I have had for some time Leave of Absence to return 
to New York, I have forbore availing myself of it, till such time as I was 

[729]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers. XI. 

2 Cf. nos. 719, 727, 728, ante, and no. 730, post. 
[730]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XL 

2 The orders to General Putnam are in the Journals, Nov. 5. 

3 Cf. nos. 699, 700, 703, 704, 708, 711, 713, 714, 719, 727, 728, 729, ante. 
[731]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll.; Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XXIX. 192. 



November, z/// 547 

reli[e]ved by one of the other Delegates, not chusing, at a very important 
Crisis to leave the State unrepresented. 

By my long Absence in Convention and in Congress my private Affairs 
have got into the utmost Anarchy and Confusion, and my Health, though 
somewhat mended from what it was a month since, much Impaird. I 
therefore flatter myself that you will be kind enough to inform the 
Council of Safety, that I shall not be able, consistent with the Duty I 
owe to myself to stay at this Place longer than the 25th Inst, and to urge 
them to send proper Persons to represent the State. Before that Time 
I am certain that the Articles of Confedaration will be completed in Con- 
gress, as at this Day, there is only one or two Clauses remaining for 
Decision.^ .... 

I am, Sir, with very great Respect 

Your Excellency's and the Council's 

most Obedt Hble Servt 

Wm. Duer. 
York Town, Pensa. Novr. 9th. 1777 

732. Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton, jr.^ 

York Town, Novr loth 1777. 
Sir, 

A Committee of Congress have occasion of the under mentioned Law 
Books, which one of them sais were in the Library belonging to the State in 
Philadelphia, therefore I am desired to apply to you for the immediate Loan 
of them, and that they may be sent by express, if a good opportunity does 
not very soon offer. If the books of the State were not brought to 
Lancaster you are requested to borrow these books of some Gentlemen 
there and forward them.^ 

I am very respectfully Sir, 

yr. most obt hum' Servt 

Daniel Roberdeau. 
Vattell, Puffendorf, Grotius. 

His Excellency Thomas Wharton, Esq., President of the Common- 
wealth of Pennsilvania Lancaster. 
Favoured by Mr. Adams. ^ 

733. Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke.* 

York, Pennsylvania Nov. 13th 1777. 
Dear Sir: 

The child Congress has been big with, these two years past, is at last 
brought forth — (Confederation). I fear it will by several Legislatures 

2 See no. 722> post. 
[732]! Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 757. 

2 A request for the same books, addressed by Elbridge Gerry to President 
Wharton, Nov. 8, is ibid., V. 754. In a letter dated Nov. 14, Roberdeau acknowledges 
receipt of the books {ibid., V. 772). Probably the committee desiring these works on 
the law of nations was that appointed Nov. 6, on the convention of Saratoga. 

2 Both John and Samuel Adams obtained leave of absence Nov. 7 and took their 
departure for Boston Nov. 11 (J. Adams, Diary, Works, II. 440). 
[IZZVN. C. State Recs.,yil. 677. 



5 

be thouj^ht a little deformed,— you will think it a Monster.^' I wish, how- 
ever some kind of Confederation would take place. Some carry their 
idea of this matter so far. as to believe our affairs must be ruined without 
it. i'.e this as it may, it will in a few days be sent to the Legislatures of 
the several States.' Nothing more has been done worth your notice. 
Our time has been chiefly employed in army matters and God knows we 
have had perplexity enough 

Pray let me have your opinion freely and dispassionately on the articles 
of confederation. 

The mode of settling the Quota of each State towards defraying the 
general expense, has taken up much time. Some States were for the 
valuation of all the property in each State. Others, for fixing it by the 
number of Inhabitants. Others on the valuation of land. This last 
seemed to come as near the mark as any, except a valuation of all 
property. However the Value of lands has taken place much against the 
desire of the Delegates from the Eastern States.* 

As I expect you will be directed to return immediately after the rising 
of our assembly, I hope you will take care to be properly instructed in 
every measure they may wish to accomplish. 

You ought to be here. No State should have a less number of Delegates 
than three present in Congress and I hope our State will attend constantly 
to that rule 

734. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 

George Washington.^ 

York 13th. Novemr. 1777 
Sir 

.... the Chairman of the Treasury Board in answer to my pressing 
intreaty for dispatch to replenish your military Chest has desired me to 
inform your Excellency — " that from the removal of the Office from 
Baltimore and Philadelphia the Money department has been greatly 
obstructed but that the utmost diligence shall be exerted to forward a 
supply of money to the pay master General as soon as possible." ' 

Our Treasury is nearly exhausted a circumstance the more unfortunate 
as it happens in the moment when demands have conspired which exceed 
all former sudden Calls. I trust there will be no necessity for further 
urging the Board, if there should be, I will not fail to do every thing 
proper on my part to w-ard off the impending Evil of being more deeply 
involved in Arrears to the Army 

Congress from all appearance are well satisfied with the measures taken 
by your Excellency wnth respect to the Frigates above Philadelphia and 

2 Cf. no. 725, ante, and nos. 739, 740, 747, post. 

3 The Articles of Confederation are in the Journals, under Nov. 15, and the 
circular letter of transmittal under Nov. 17. Cf. nos. 735, 738, post. 

* Cf. nos. 680, 712, ante. 
[734]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 15; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens 
Letters, 1776-1779, no. 20. 

- Laurens is replying to Washington's letter of Nov. 8, read in Congress Nov. 12 
(see the Journals, p. 893). A letter from Washington, dated Nov. 10, was read in the 
afternoon of the same day (see ibid., p. 896). 



November, 1777 549 

the disposition of part of the Northern Army, the Resolves of the 5th. 
were certainly formed while an opinion prevailed that Fort Clinton was 
garrisoned by the Enemy and apprehensions of their gaining a formid- 
able footing on Hudson's River fixed in every mind 

14th. While I was attending Congress this morning your Excellency's 
Letter of the nth. was brought into the House and reported, a Report 
relative to Claims by French Officers happened to be a subject in debate 
which continued till adjournement. I am now returning to Duty in the 
same place and will apply for directions what answer to return on the 
important article of Clothing.^ It is a Rule in Congress to commit 
Letters to the consideration of particular Boards these being dispersed in 
different parts of the Town and governed by Rules of their own for meet- 
ing, it is not always or I should rather say, 'tis seldom in the power of 
the President to answer with that dispatch which may seem necessary, 
this may give no information to your Excellency, yet my being uncertain 
in that particular. I think the intimation not improper in order to account 
for any apparent omission on my part. Under cover with this your 
Excellency will find Copies of Resolves of Congress 

it may not be amiss to intimate to your Excellency that the liberty 
granted to Major Genl. Schuyler followed a motion founded on a 
Letter received by a member of Congress from the General, that to 
Major Genl. Sinclair proceeded from the appearance of his name sub- 
scribed at a meeting of a board of Officers, and by special order I am to 
transmit a Copy of that Resolve to himself.* the Resolve relative to 
Clothing backed by a second Address to several of the neighbouring 
states will shew that Congress have not been inattentive to the necessities 
of the Army, whatever remissness may appear elsewhere.^ .... 

A report was this morning made by the Board of War on the " Opinion 
of the Officers of the Virginia Line " and recommitted.^ Among other 
papers in the present dispatch will be found a packet containing nine 
intercepted Letters for persons with the Enemy, these have been in- 
spected and are now submitted to your Excellency's disposal.'' 

Congress have ordered additional sums to be paid to the French 
Gentlemen of Mr. Du Coudray's suite and some others. Resolved to 
give Monsr. St. Colombe a Captain's Commission and appear determined 
to stop there. Some who are not provided for, I fear will be reduced to 
piteous circumstances and must be relieved from private purses or suffer 
the most grievous inconveniencies.® .... 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 14 (p. 905), 15 (p. 906; cf. p. 929). 
* See the Journals, Nov. 14. Cf. nos. 743, 756, post. 

5 It is evident from the mention of this resolve, as well as from subsequent para- 
graphs, that the latter part of this letter was not written earlier than Nov. 15. See also 
notes 3 and 4, above. 

6 See Washington's letter to Congress Nov. i {Writings, ed. Ford, VI. 156), read 
Nov. 6. The Journals appear to contain no record of the report of the board of war 
upon the matter until Nov. 26. 

'^ The Journals contain no reference to these intercepted letters. 

8 See the Journals, Oct. 13, Nov. 7, 10, 11, 14, 15, 17; also a letter of Richard 
Henry Lee to Samuel Adams, Nov. 15, in Letters (ed. Ballagh), I. 348. Cf. nos. 741, 
770, post. See also no. 648, ante. 



5 

735. The Pennsylvania Delegates to the President of 

Pennsylvania.^ 

York Town, Novr 13th 1777. 
Sir, 

Congress have referred the inclosed petition to the Council of this 
State, together with which we were desired to furnish a more particular 
account of the Petitioner, Parson Batewell's state of health etc., accord- 
ingly we have just visited him, and found him a prisoner in a private 
house much emaciated, and afilicted with Rhumatic pains in his Knees, 
which incapacitates him for walking, but confessed he was much better 
than while he was in prison. 

He ofTers his parole as well as Bail if he is allowed to go to his former 
place of abode in this County, twenty one miles distant from hence, or 
permitted to take the fresh air, and exercise here, for the recovery of his 
health, wch we are of opinion may effect it. He requests a speedy result 
of your Honble Board that he may sell or remove his effects and three 
children now at the above place, a glebe belonging to the Church, as he 
cannot afford to keep two families. The papers belonging to Mr Batwell 
taken with his person were deposited in the hands of Mr. McClane in this 
Town, who applied to one of us to know how they should be disposed of, 
which was moved to Congress, but they would give no orders concerning 
them, therefore they wait your commands, and are as yet undisclosed, 
except two letters of no great importance communicated to one of us.* 

We have the happiness to inform the state that Confideration has this 
Evening passed Congress, but have it not in our power as yet to communi- 
cate it, as the several articles tho' agreed to are not arranged in the order 
they are to appear, which we hope will be effected tomorrow, as they are 
committed for that purpose, and to have it in our power very soon to lay 
them before the State, therefore we ardently wish a full representation 
of the State may be convened to receive them, and that a Determination 
upon them may be speedily, as the ratification in our opinion is of infinite 
importance to the Independance of America.^ 

We are respectfully. Sir, 

Yr most obt very hum* Servts, 
Wm. Clingan, 
Daniel Roberdeau. 

To His Excellency, Thomas Wharton, Esquire, President of the Com- 
monwealth of Pennsilvania, Lancaster. 

[735] 1 Fa. Arch., first ser., V. 770. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 2, Dec. 27, 1777, and Jan. 5, 1778 ; also no. 792, post. 
Rev. Daniel Batwell was stationed at York as a missionary for the Society for the 
Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts. See Pa. Arch., first ser., VIII. 107, and 
Minutes of the Supreme E.vectUive Council, XII. 296. The petition of Batwell to 
Congress here referred to is not mentioned in the Journals, but is found in Pa. Arch., 
second ser.. III. 122, dated Nov. 7. The petition read in Congress Oct. 2, dated Oct. i, 
is ibid., III. 112. See also ibid.. III. 109, in, 116. The signature on the original appears 
to be " Batwell ". The Mr. McClane mentioned by Roberdeau was Archibald McClean. 
See Pa. Arch., first ser., V. (index). 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 11, 12, 13, 15, 17; also no 733, ante, and nos. 738-740, 
746, 747, 749, 754, post. 



November, z/// 551 

736. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 

Israel Putnam.^ 

York 14th. Novemr. 1777. 

Sir 

.... Congress will leave no measure unattempted for stopping the 
progress of extortion, your Letters on that head are in the hands of a 
special Committee and I hope the subject of prices of the necessaries of 
life will soon be profitably debated and considered in the House, the 
difficulty of restraining within proper bounds is great but I hope not 
insurmountable.' .... 



737. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 

Horatio Gates.^ 

York Town 14 Novem 1777. 

Sir, 

.... Liclosed you will find a Resolve of Congress touching the sub- 
ject of paying the Troops for Rations which implies an approbation of 
the measures you had pursued in that branch, restricting the practice 
within the bounds of necessity to be determined by your judgement." 
Congress have not considered the necessity for sending any of its Mem- 
bers to liquidate extra Accounts. I shall remind the House again of the 
subject that at least somewhat more explicit may be said than I am 
authorized to ofifer at present. 

On the subject of Money, when I pressed the Chairman of the Treasury 
to send you an immediate supply, he informed me that 200000 Dollars 
w^ere on the way to you when you wrote, besides the Order for the like 
Sum on the Connecticut Loan Office, that 200000 Dollars more [had 
been] provided for your department and that with all possible expedition 
a further supply shall be sent.^ 

Demands for a greater Sum than ever was called for at one time, have 
at this juncture conspired to impoverish the Treasury, the business there 
has also been greatly obstructed by the removal of Congress but is now 
restored again to good order and the fund will soon be replenished 

[736]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 25. 

- The reference is to Putnam's letters of Nov. 3, read in Congress Nov. 13. 
The special committee on the letter of Stephen Hopkins and the proceedings of a com- 
mittee of the Eastern states was appointed Aug. 18, and enlarged Sept. 10. See the 
Journals, Aug. 18, Sept. 10, Oct. 27, Nov. 13, 22, 26, 27; also nos. 592, 723, ante, nos. 
738, 746, 747. 749> 753. 754, 760, 764, 765, post. 

[737]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XL; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, I. 26. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 10 ; also the commissary regulations under June 10 
(p. 446). Cf. ibid., Aug. II, Sept. 4, n, Dec. 30. 

=» Probably the sums ordered sent by resolves of Oct. 10, 16, and Nov. 13 (see 
also the Journals, Nov. 19). Cf. ibid., Nov. 12. 

40 



5 

738. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams.^ 

York the 15th of Novr. 1777 
Dear Sir, 

.... We have at length finished the Confederation and shall send it 
to the different States in a few days with strong exortation to give it 
quick consideration and speedy return.* Taxation, Finance, and recruit- 
ing the Army will also be strongly recommended. Your utmost aid will 
no doubt be cordially applied to the expediting these important points.' 



739. Thomas Burke, Notes on the Articles of Confederation.' 

[November 15, 1777.]^ 
Article 4th 

The Constitution of No. Carolina permits not the Privilege of Citizens 
to any who have not resided therein 12 months, and paid Taxes, (local 
protection is given to all within the Territory) the Legislature therefore 
cannot ratify an artikle which gives such priviliges to persons residing in 
other States. Our Commons are voted for by all free Citizens, and if 
the Inhabitants of our Neighboring States have the priviliges of Citizens 
in ours they might insist upon the right of voting for Members of Our 
Legislature which would be a political absurdity, it seems therefore 
proper that this article should be Amended by adding after the clause 
refer'd to — tiot inconsistant zvith their respective Constitutions: The 
Provisionary clause of this article, in my opinion, deprives the States of 
every power to increase or regulate their particular Commerce, Agricul- 
ture or Manufactures, they cannot prevent by Duties or restrictions im- 
portations, or Exportations Injurious to any of them, this surely is what 
no staple state ought to admit, and that of all ours, who has so many 
Staples. 

Article 5th 

This article supposes that the appointment of delegates is at the will 
of the Legislature, tis an Error with respect to No. Carolina. Those 
officers are the creatures of the Constitution, are to be annually chozen 
by ballot, and if superceded must be in the same way. no choice can be 
made for less than one year, this article wants alteration if all the states 
are circumstanced as ours, for us I think the following would do " Dele- 

[738] ^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. 
Ballagh), I. 348. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 15, 17. Cf. nos. 733, 735, ante, 739, 740, 746, 747, 749, 
753. 754. 760, 765. 766, post. 

3 Cf. nos. 723, 736, ante, 753, 754. post. 
l739]^Oflfice of the North Carolina Historical Commission. 

2 Although Burke has labeled these comments " Some Notes on the Articles of 
Confederation while in Congress ", they were probably not put together in their present 
form until after his return to North Carolina (see no. 725, ante). Possibly they were 
laid before the joint committee of the two houses of the assembly appointed Dec. 18 to 
report upon the Confederation (see no. 740, note 2, post; cf. note 3, below). The docu- 
ment is placed at this point because the Articles of Confederation as completed are 
recorded in the Journals under Nov. 15. 



November, 1777 ^^^ 

gates Constitutionally appointed and Controlled by the respective States 
shall annually meet in Congress on the first Monday in November 
The remaining part of this article tho unjust [ ?] in the mode of determm- 
ing Questions, must be submitted to for the sake of public convenience, 
but if the latter clause exempts the Delegates from Prosecutions in their 
respective states for their misdemeanors in Congress, it takes away the 
control of the States, and being contrary to our Constitution cannot be 
admitted. 

Article 6th 

The first clause of this article in my opinion imposes very unnecessary 
restraints upon the States, the various affairs of a free commercial 
People will require them often to enter into Conferences and agreements 
with foreign states, and the commercial Interests of each state ought to 
be its own peculiar care ; and subject [to] no control or Interposition from 
others I can see no propriety in such a Restraint as each State ought, m 
my opinion, to be at least at liberty to enter into any Commercial Treaty 
it may think proper so that it be not inconsistent with Treaties entered 
into by the United States. These seem to me to be of Importance to the 
Staple States, there can be no reason for subjecting them to restraints 
which may arise from the Jealousy or ambition of others, each should 
be at liberty to increase its wealth and strength as much as possible, tis 
sufficient that they be restrained from using them to the Injury of their 
Neighbors, and that they be obliged to contribute in Just proportion to 
the Common defence. The latter part of the first section of this article 

is right. 

The second Section goes too far. the Word Treaty ought to be left 
out. the States will often have occasion to Treat on subjects which con- 
cern none but those engaged in it ; and there can be no reason for restrain- 
ing them from it, if the United States have [power to?] prevent any 
alliance or Compact injurious to the whole it is sufficient, and this purpose 
will be answered by giving them a negative on all Compacts between two 
or more States. 

The third section is right. 

The fourth section so far as it regards the Navy appears to me to be 
impolitic, it speaks a Jealousy which I fear will forever prevent the United 
States from having a powerful Navy, tho' nothing is more Essential to 
its future Security against foreign Enemies, the Emulation of the States 
in this particular ought to be encouraged by every Means, for that Emula- 
tion will be the most powerful Instrument for giving to the whole a for- 
midable Navy, and with such they will be secure against the World. I 
see no reason for the Jealousy, the fleet of one state cannot endanger 
another because they are accessable to each other by Land, and a Sea 
Invasion might very readily be counteracted by a Land Invasion, the 
rest of this Section is right. 

The fifth Section is right in everything but what relates to Indian 
Wars, and it will be difficult to frame an article to suit in this particular. 
I am inclined to think this might be left for the subject of partial alliances, 



r) 

for all the States are not Interested in it and yet Several States have one 
coinnidii Interest in it, and there are still S(M1ic particular Interests in 
which hut one or few states arc concerned. 

Article 7th 

I have no objection to this provided the provision recommended by 
Connecticut takes place/' 

Article 9th 

Tiiis article is exceedingly Comprehensive, its matter is of the greatest 
Importance, but its arrangement seems to me much too Complicated. My 
own Idea of the Power wln'ch Congress ought to possess is founded on the 
following proposition 

The United States ought to be as one Sovereign with respect to foreign 
Powers, in all things that relate to War or where the States have one 
Common Interest. But in all commercial or other peaceful Intercourse 
they ought to be as separate Sovereigns. 

The first is Necessary, because no one can be defended from the evils 
of war but by the united force of all, and to make this force the more 
Effectual their union for its Exertions should be as close and simple as 
possible. 

The Second is Necessary, in order that each may acquire strength to 
as great a degree as its circumstances may admit, without being subject to 
restraints which may arise from the Jealousy of its neighbors, and as 
the growth of each is its own proper concern, and cannot be prejudicial 
to the whole, but on the contrary advantageous to them as long as the 
force acquired is still subject to be applied for the common security, by 
one common ^Magistrate, I can perceive no reason for a power in any 
Common Council which can restrain the Commercial or other peaceful 
intercourse of the States, among themselves, or separately with foreign 
Powers, and it can answer no purpose but to subject the Property of the 
States to partial combinations in the common council. 

A private citizen who embarques a part of his fortune in a Copartner- 
ship would be deemed very unwise should he suffer the members of that 
partnership to possess a power that might restrain him from [improving] 
the remaining part of his Fortune to what extent he pleased consistent 
with the Common Interest, equally unwise in my opinion is it for a State 
who unites with others for common defence to submit to a power which 
may prevent the growth of her Strength and Oppulence. pursuant to 
these propositions my Ideas of the powers which ought to be in Congress 
are as follow. 

In General they should have the Power of declaring War, and peace. 
But wherever a war should be declared before actual Invasion or com- 
mencement or Threatening of some actual Hostilities, any State ought 
to be at Liberty to renounce the War and become a Neutral power but 
w'hen Hostilities are actually commenced against any of the States, it 
ought to be deemed common cause, and none should withhold assistance. 

3 The Connecticut proposition respecting article VII. does not appear in the 
Journals; but a motion affecting article IX. is found ibid., IX. 927. 



November, 1777 '^«>'> 

Also they should have the Power of Concluding Treaties of Alliance 
equally binding and affecting the whole for the purpose of strengthening 
the common security, this should be restrained like the former to defence, 
for it ought always to be in the Power of each state to remain Neuter in 
all offensive wars whether the United States be principles or allies in it. 

These Powers necessarily require that the Congress should send and 
receive Embassadors, but not that this Power should be sole and exclu- 
sive. I should like an Amendment to this purpose " shall have the sole 
and exclusive Power of declaring War and concluding Peace, and of send- 
ing, and receiving ambasadors /;/ the name of the United States of Enter- 
ing into Treaties and Alliances equally binding upon, and affecting the 
whole, here the Exceptions to those general rules should come by way of 
provision. The remaining powers in the first section of this article are 
Incident to the power of declaring War, they are only an execution of 
the Law of Nations quoad hoc 

The second section is [b]adly worded. " the United States shall be the 
last resort on appeal in all disputes between the States." I have no Idea 
of an appeal, or last resort unless their be some prior Jurisdiction aiid 
prior resort, and I know of no such thing between the States, but my 
objection to this section is more substantial, if the Congress are to nomi- 
nate the persons who Constitute the Judicatory I can easily foresee it 
will not always if ever be impartial, the Congress cannot know any 
persons to appoint, but such as are Suggested by the parties and that State 
which has the prevailing Interest in Congress will thus nominate all the 
Judges, their being drawn from each State and afterwards drawn by 
Lot is no Security, because three persons in each State are easily cor- 
rupted, if this article were amended by giving the Nomination by ballot 
to the States not Interested it would answer better to my Idea of an Im- 
partial arbiter between the States, and the Congress should have this 
Power only as the Official Instrument for erecting the occasional Tri- 
bunal, and for carrying its decrees into Execution, as it now stands they 
have it too much in their power to Influence the decisions which they 
themselves are to execute which in my Opinion is dangerous in any 
political Community. 

The third section might be easily fitted to the Amendment I propose 

The four[th] section includes many powers which I cannot perceive 
either to be necessary or proper for Congress, regulating the alloy of 
coin struck by authorit}^ of any of the States, fixing the standard of 
weights and measures, regulating the Trade and affairs with Indians, 
and all that Appertains to the Naval force which ought never in my 
opinion to be under any restraint or authority of Congress except in time 
of public War. the first is dangerous, because it gives to a council which 
is composed of but very few members from each state and which is with- 
out control an unlimited power over the property of Individuals, the 
power to increase the alloy is a power to pay off any Debt with less than 
the sum contracted for. and involves an extensive power over property. 

In the fifth Section the power to borrow money and emit Bills, is an 
unlimited power over all property, it is a power to Tax at pleasure, and 



5 

ouj^ht never to be in Conpfress but when g-iven by the States upon special 
Occasions, it is Contrary to the fundamental Maxims of our Constitu- 
tion, vizt [No] Man is to be subject to any Imposition but by [consent 
of] his representatives, the Congress is not the representative of any one 
community, the members are delegates from the Legislatures, not repre- 
sent [at] ives of the people, and the Delegates of one State are not the 
choice of the other states nor has any state a check on the Delegates of 
another state, if the Legislature can delegate their power to tax to any 
person they may Delegate it to the Executive Magistrate, and may make 
him absolute, by giving him the power over the property of the Com- 
munity if they cannot delegate to him they cannot delegate to any other 
the delegation in any case is transferring that power to others which the 
Constitution vests solely in the Legislative Magistrate and is as uncon- 
stitutional as if the Governor or Judges were to substitute other persons 
to exercise their respective powers, or as if the assembly were to appoint 
substitutes to Enact Laws or impower the Delegates in Congress to enact 
Law 

[Endorsed :] 
Some Notes on the Articles of Confederation while in Congress.* 

740. Thomas Burke, Remarks concerning the Confederation.* 

[November 15, 1777.]^ 

I consider the Congress at present as a General Council of America 
instituted for the purpose of opposing the usurpations of Britain, conduct- 

*Mr. Waldo G. Leland, of the Department of Historical Research, who found 
this document in the archives of North Carolina in 1905, gives the following description 
of it: "A document of five large pages, undated and unsigned, but entirely in Burke's 
writing and endorsed in his hand, ' Some Notes on the Articles of Confederation while 
in Congress '. The notes were apparently not written at one time, as a few passages are 
in a finer hand, as though written with a smaller pen. The figure '(4)' is endorsed on 
the back, in a blacker ink than that used in the body of the document, as though one 
of several relating to affairs in Congress. The color of the '(4)' corresponds to the 
color of the ink in the rough drafts of Burke's replies to the thanks of the House and 
Senate, Oct. 25, 1779. It is therefore conjectured that he had the papers with him for 
reference when, by request, he attended the assembly on that day." See A''. C. State 
Pecs., XHI. 833, 854, 922, 937, 945. Some comments of Burke upon the Confederation, 
addressed to the assembly and bearing the date Oct. 31, 1779. are ibid., XIV. 349-351 ; 
also in vol. III. of these Letters. 
[7^0]^ N. C. State Recs., XI. 701. 

2 This document is without date, but is found in N. C. State Recs., among docu- 
ments of the end of December, 1777, taken " from the Executive Letter Book ". If 
these remarks were actually submitted to the assembly, as the statement at the close 
would seem to indicate, the assembly journals do not record the fact. It is evident, 
however, that they were written before Burke had learned >Jiat the Articles of Confeder- 
ation had been completed and adopted by Congress. That instrument was transmitted to 
the assembly by Governor Caswell Dec. 16 (A'^. C. State Recs., XII. 393) ; therefore the 
remarks were evidently drawn up before that date, probably shortly after the meeting 
of the assembly, Nov. 15. Committees of the two houses were appointed on the Con- 
federation Dec. 18, and on the next day a report was brought in proposing the adoption of 
certain articles and the further consideration of others. This recommendation was 
adopted Dec 24, (See ibid., XII. 221, 229, 263, 400, 449.) At the next session of the 
assembly (April, 1778) the state's delegates in Congress were empowered to ratify the 
Confederation as it stood (ibid., XII. 599, 608, 695, 708, 717; see also ibid., XIII. 102, in, 
452). Cf. no 739, ante. 



November, 177J 557 

ing the war against her, and forming foreign alliances as necessary 
thereto. Incident to this must be the General direction of the Army and 
Navy, because they are the instruments of the war. 

Also for the providing the necessary funds for the disbursements, 
because without them neither Army or Navy can subsist. 

Also the making Treaties with Foreign Powers, to be binding on all 
the States alike and equally to affect them, because this is the essence of 
foreign alliance. 

This Idea of the Powers, use and authority of Congress, excludes all 
coercive Interpositions within the States respectively, except with respect 
to the Army and Navy because the States are competent to every exertion 
of power within themselves. Also the appointment of ways and means 
for supplying the Contingents of men, money or other things otherwise 
than by recommendation which always implies a power in the State to 
reject. 

Also the power of imprisoning or otherwise punishing any Citizen, 
because that is not necessary for the end of their Institution, and every 
individual is to be tried and punished only by those Laws to which he 
consents. The Congress for this reason can give no authority to any man 
or set of men to arrest or punish a Citizen, nor can it Lawfully be done 
but by the authority of the particular States. 

Also all pretence for continuance of a Congress after the war is con- 
cluded, or of assuming a power to any other purposes — than that are 
above expressed. The Congress now determines by a majority which 
need not be more than five, and of which seven is always conclusive if 
the last mentioned exclusion be not right, the Congress might engage the 
States in confederacies, injurious to all but the continued majority 'Tis 
my opinion that every State has a right to control the Cantonment of 
Soldiers within their Territories, but as all the Governments, are not yet 
settled, it might be inconvenient to say any thing of it, and it is not neces- 
sary. Whenever a State finds occasion to exercise this right, I think none 
will be hardy enough to dispute it. But I believe it will be necessary for 
every established State to provide a mode whereby the Civil authority 
can interpose to prevent Courts Martial from exceeding their Jurisdiction. 

'Tis true a Soldier expressly consents to be bound by the articles of 
war, and to submit to the martial Jurisdiction, but in all trials, the first 
question is the Identity which must raise in this case the enquiry Soldier 
or Citizen? If the Court Martial can determine this question, it is in 
their power to call any Citizen a Soldier, and to subject him to Military 
Law. This evidently points out the necessity of the check of the civil 
authority. This Confederation is a subject of the highest importance, 
but not having yet passed the House, except when in Committee, it seems 
it must not be laid before the Assemblies. I shall deem it my duty to 
examine every article of it with the most critical scrutiny, and submit my 
thoughts to the Assembly, and receive their Instructions. But I am told 
by the President that it will violate my obligation of Secrecy to do this 
before it has passed the House. 

If the Assembly agree with me in the foregoing Ideas, of the Power, 
use and authority of Congress, I beg leave to recommend that they 



558 Coutincntol Cow^rcss 

instruct their Deletjates not to depart from them, nor to consent to any 
act or resolve winch shall tend to exempt the Courts Martial from the 
control of the civil power in the States. 

I am not desirous of these Instructions in order to restrain the Dele- 
gates. I hclieve none of them even without Instructions would vote con- 
trary to those Ideas, but as all questions are carried by a Majority in Con- 
gress, the state may i)erhaps be bound, tho' her Delegates should dissent, 
especially where the Instructions are so general and Powers so indefinite 
as ours. I wish the state therefore to instruct, and by some public act to 
disclaim being bound by any resolves contrary to her Instructions. With- 
out some thing of this kind, according to the present Constitution of Con- 
gress it may be impossible for the Delegates to preserve the Independence 
of the State from Encroachments, for bv that constitution tliev are not 
allowed to protest or enter their Dissent. 

These thoughts are humbly submitted to the Honorable the General 
Assembly of North Carolina by their most respectful Inimble Serv't 

Tnos. Burke. 

741. Hexry L.\urens to Johx Lewis Gervais.^ 

York i8th. Novemb. 1777. 
Dear Sir 

I have of late been obliged, I may truly say obliged, to give so many 
recommendatory Letters to poor disappointed french Officers who will 
call upon you, I fear being very troublesome 

Congress have made free with the funds in their power, from motives 
of humanity and policy, by giving such sums to these disappointed specu- 
latists who had been induced to cross the Atlantic, from hearing there 
was " a Hue ivar " on this side, as they would refuse to any equal number 
of our home borne friends, w^ho had even borne the burthen of our 
Struggle.'. . . . 

742. Jonathan Elmer to William Maxwell.* 

York Town i8th. Novr. 1777 
Dear Sir 

Your Letter to Dr. Witherspoon came to my hands after he left Con- 
gress. As I was informed of the Contents of it I opened it and laid Col : 
Dayton's case before Congress. Though they seem fully sensible of the 
merit and services of Col: Dayton yet the many application [s] of a 
similar nature from Officers of the Army made them hesitate about allow- 
ing him a Horse. The affair how^ever was referred to the Board of War. 
Should I not leave Congress soon I will use my influence to obtain the 
Consent of that Board to the measure.' .... 

[741]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 196. 

- Cf. no. 734. ante, no. 770, post. 
[742]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 767. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 7. No record of a report on the matter appears in the 
Journals. Cf. no. 397, note 3, ante. 



November, 1777 S59 

743. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

York Town 19th. Novr 1777 

Dear General, 

.... I thought it adviseable to obtain the enclosd Resokition to 
enable you If you shoud think fit to repair your misfortunes at Saragh- 
toga ; and to prevent a long and disagreeable Attendance at Head Quar- 
ters where you cou'd not live but in manner the most uncomfortable and 

expensive." 

22d. Novr ^ 

[P. S.] .... A Board of War is institu[t]ed * of Commisrs. not of 
the House. Mifflin, the Adjutant General,^ and Secretary Harrison, are 
in nomination. The first has accepted and is now here. He insists that 
it is essential you shoud be at its head, and that Gates also shoud be a 
Member. When I see you I shall open my Mind on this Subject. Noth- 
ing is more essential than the proper Establishment of this Board.® .... 

744. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 

George Washington.^ 

YORK 19th. Novemr. 1777. 
Sir 

.... A person from Philadelphia well known by the name of John 
Brown was Reported to Congress yesterday by Mr. Morris as having come 
to him with a Message from Genl. Sir Wm. Howe through the medium 
of Mr. Willing to Congress, importing generally that Sir William and 
Lord Howe were desirous of treating for terms of Peace with Congress 
that every thing that ever had been expected by America (Independency 
as he understood excepted) would be granted and Congress money 
ratified." .... 

P. S= Congress in this morning session Resolved to make a strait 
inquiry into the treatment of American soldiers and other Inhabitants of 
America now or late prisoners in Philadelphia, a Copy of the Resolution 

[743] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuj-ler Papers, no. 548. 

- See the Journals, Nov. 14; also no. 734, ante, no. 756, post. 

3 A copy of this postscript, in the form of a separate letter, is in the Sparks 
MSS., no. 60, f. 154. 

4 Duane first wrote " constituted ". 

5 Col. Timothy Pickering. 

^ See the Journals, Oct. 16, 17, Nov. 7, 17, 19, 21, 22, 24, 27. Cf. nos. 700, 720, 
ante. nos. TST-'jdi, post. See also J. B. Smith to Joseph Reed, Feb. 25, 1778, in the next 
volume of these Letters. 

[744]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 33; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens 
Letters, 1776-1779, no. 20. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 18, and no. 746, post; also Washington's letter of 
Nov. 23, read in Congress Nov. 27, and Robert Alorris to President Wharton, Nov. 30, 
in Pa. Arch., first ser., VL 45 ; cf. ibid., V. 25, 30, 36. See also Minutes of the Supreme 
Executive Council of Pennsylvania, XL 344-346. 347, 394, 406, 407, 453, 459. Among the 
Laurens Papers in the South Carolina Historical Society (vol. XXL) is a copy of the 
examination of John Brown in the council of safety at Lancaster, to which Laurens 
has appended a note commenting on this " mysterious affair ", and rather clearly inti- 
mating questionable connection with it on the part of Robert Morris. Cf. Charles 
Thomson to Robert Morris, Jan. i, 1778, in the next volume of these Letters. 



5 

will be added to those above mentioned. I have been instructed by Con- 
j^ress to add a request to your Excellency to demand access by a proper 
Officer to such prisoners as remain alive in order an effectual enquiry 
may be made and a satisfactory answer as to facts returned. Congress 
are' of opinion that the demand may be justly founded on the precedent 
of Agents from the Enemy appointed on their part and permitted by 
Congress to visit Hessian prisoners on this side.° 

745. John Penn to William Woodford.^ 

York Novr. 19th. 1777 
Dear Sir 

Inclosed I send you a letter from Colo. Pendleton. I have waited a 
few days in hopes to be able to mention something to you about your 
Rank. Mr. Jones has been unwell for some days he has determined as 
soon as he can, either to make or second a motion that Justice should be 
done. 

The Congress have settled the precident, in recalling all the Commis- 
sions from the Continental officers of Pennsylva. in order to grant new 
ones, that the proper rank of each officer may be preserved, several extra- 
ordinary promotions having taken place to the prejudice of some officers.^ 

I am under no doubt but we shall do what is right with regard to you 
and Genl. Scott, tho' I can't help being vexed that it has been delayed so 
long. I have had some words ' with .... \_sic] (you can guess) he 
will be agt. you (I suspect) tho' not your State, we have rubbed very hard 
and in publick — more than once. I suspect the affair will be done this 
week, as soon as it is I will write you.* You know my opinion of your 
ability and Integrity, also of General Scot, I shall therefore use every 
thing in my power to have Justice done and as soon as possible not from 
Friendship but duty 

746. Daniel Roberdeau to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town, Novr 19th, 1777. 
Sir, 

I am honored with your several favors of the 15th, i6th and 17th 
Instant to which I will reply at length if time and the extream coldness 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 19, Dec. 6, 8, 16, 17, 19. 
[745]! John Carter Brown Library. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 12. 

' Penn first wrote " warm words " then erased the word " warm ". The unnamed 
delegate from Virginia with whom Penn had the warm words (if they were warm) 
was probably Francis Lightfoot Lee. The Lees appear to have been friends of General 
Weedon. 

* See the Journals, Nov. 29. Col. William Woodford of Virginia was one of 
eleven colonels made brigadier-generals, Feb. 21, 1777, and was ranked eleventh in the 
list. Col. Charles Scott, also of Virginia, was made brigadier-general Apr. i, 1777. The 
question of rank involved also two other brigadier-generals of Virginia, Peter Muhlen- 
berg and George Weedon. The relative rank of these four was determined Mar. 19. 
1778. A further controversy however arose as between Woodford and Weedon. This 
was settled Aug. 18, 1778. See Francis Lightfoot Lee to General Weedon, Mar. 31, 1778, 
in the next volume of these Letters. 
[746]! Po. Arch., first ser., VL 18. 



November, 1777 561 

of the weather will permit, but I no sooner express my desire than I find 
myself limited to a few minutes.^ The regulation of the prices of neces- 
saries for the army and the Quota's for each State, until better ascertained 
I expect will be both reported this day by Committee's.^ I acknowledge 
Shelly's affidavit come to hand which I doubt not will satisfy every 
Inquirer. As soon as Confideration is returned from Lancaster compared 
and signed, it will be instantly forwarded to the respective States, with 
a Letter already prepared, warmly urging the passage of it, and that 
Delegates be returned to Congress to confirm a Confideration by the 
loth March, therefore I hope our State will have a Legislative Body 
together to consider this important work, if not assembled in any State 
it is the earnest request of the above hinted address that the Executive 
should immediately call them together.* The alarming account of the 
Depredations on our western Frontier was without delay laid before 
Congress, and a report brought in on too large a scale for the occasion 
as your letter as well as the conjecture of some Members made highly 
probable.^ General Hand as you know, was sent westward authorised 
by this State to call the Militia together for the very purpose now solicited 
by the back Inhabitants,® but they, it seems were not in a humour to turn 
out, for this, that and a thousand Reasons which probably could not be 
obviated without violating the Militia Law and Discarding many Officers 
the Genl perhaps not excepted. An inquiry is on foot respecting the 
principles and conduct of Col. Morgan ; but as far as it has gone we find 
the Genl involved in the same predicament, and that it is no other than 
the unreasonable Clamour of some discontented Spirits, however I am 
resolved to go to the bottom if it has any. But I am very apprehensive 
the Duty self interest reigns predominent in the Western as well as every 
other quarter of our Land, and that a desire to enrich themselves has too 
much influence, and that from this principle many lean minds would stir 
up a dust arnong the Savages even at this unseasonable time. Your appli- 
cation I believe v/ill end among other measures in the appointment of 
Commissioners out of Congress to make a full inquiry into their discon- 
tents and particularly into a hellish design of Conspiracy therefore I beg 
the State would immediately furnish me with the names of two Gentlemen 
capable of such a negotiation at Pittsburgh, that I may be ready for a 

2 These letters have not been found. 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 22 (report of committee on the letter of Stephen Hopkins 
and the proceedings of the committees of the Eastern states) ; also no. 7^6, note 2, ante. 

* See the Journals, Nov. 17. " Confideration yi'iW be sent off for Lancaster to be 
printed." Roberdeau to George Bryan, vice-president of Pennsylvania, Nov. 16 {Pa. 
Arch., first ser., VI. 10). The Confederation was received from the press Nov. 28. 
See the Journals (ed. Ford), p. 928, note 2. Cf. nos. 72,2>, 735, 738-740, ante, nos. 747, 
749, 753, 754, 760. 765, 766, post. 

5 The matter came before Congress Nov. 15, through a letter from George Bryan, 
vice-president of Pennsylvania, to the delegates from that state, dated Nov. 14 {Pa. Arch., 
first ser., VI. 3). Roberdeau's acknowledgment of the letter, dated Nov. 16, is ibid., VI. 
10. Letters from Brigadier-General Hand and others at Fort Pitt were received Nov. 18, 
and referred (Nov. 19) to the same committee as the letter from Bryan. A report 
was brought in Nov. 19 and agreed to Nov. 20. One of the Hamilton proclamations 
therein referred to is in Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 402. See note 7, below. 

« See the Journals, Apr. 9-1 1 ; also no. 436, note 3, ante. 



5 

notnination in case it should be necessary, for of myself I cannot fix on a 
suitable person/ .... 

P. S 1 have not time to speak to Brown, he is referred to you, 

pray take care of this friend to American Independence, and do [not] 
let us be imposed on by such a miserable Toll,'* .... 



747. Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke,' 

York, Pennsylvania Nov. 20th 1777, 

, . . . Your favorite Confederation is at last finished.^ It only waits 
to be printed and sent on by the President to the Legislatures of the 
several States for their approbation, with a pressing letter from Congress 
on that subject, which you wmII soon see. Our finances are in such a 
situation, that unless the States agree immediately, to tax as high as the 
people can possibly bear, the credit of our money must be ruined. An- 
other very large emission must take place, there is no preventing it. The 
Treasury Boards see the fatal consequence of this measure, but they also 
perceive that when we have no money, we shall have no Army. The 
Loan Offices are already drained to their utmost farthing. The prospect 
before us is truly distressing, we must however continue further emis- 
sions. I tremble at the consequences.^ .... 

P. S. For God's sake endeavour to get some Gentlemen appointed in 
my stead. I can not .=tay here any longer with any pleasure.* 

" Commissioners to go to Fort Pitt were appointed Nov. 20. They were Samuel 
Washington, Gabriel Jones, and Joseph Reed. Reed declined and George Clymer was 
chosen in his stead (see the Journals, Dec. 4, 10, 11). Samuel Washington also declined 
and John Walker was then elected (see the Journals, Jan. i, 1778). On Jan. 10, since 
neither Jones nor Walker had indicated acceptance of the appointment, Congress con- 
ferred upon Governor Henry of Virginia the power to appoint others in their room 
in case they declined. February 23 Congress received notice from Governor Henry that 
he had appointed Sampson Matthews and Samuel McDowell. For further proceedings 
relative to Fort Pitt, see the Journals, passim (index, Pitt, Fort; Hand, Edward; 
Morgan, George; Mcintosh. Lachlan). See also nos. 705-707. 7^7, O"^^. nos. 751, 766, 
769, post, and Laurens to Clymer, Mar. 27, 1778, in the next volume of these Letters. 

8 See no. 744, ante. 
[747V N. C. State Recs., XI. 681. 

2 In using the word " favorite " Harnett is speaking ironically. See, for instance, 
Burke's comments on the Confederation, nos. 739, 740, ante. Cf. nos. 725. 733, ante. 

3 Cf. nos. 723, 733, 736, 738, ante, nos. 749, 753, 754- 760, 764-766, post. In a 
letter to William Wilkinson on the same date, Harnett wrote: "I never m my hfe 
went through so much fatigue, being obliged to sit all day in Congress and often very 
often in the Treasury board till 11 at night." N. C. State Recs., XI. «o«. 

* Harnett wrote to Wilkinson, Dec. 28 : " Believe me it is the most inhospitable 
scandalous place I ever was in. If I once more can return to my family all the Devils m 
Hell shall not separate us. The honor of being once a member of Congress is sufficient 
for me, I acknowledge it is the highest honor a free state can bestow on one of its 
members. I shall be careful to ask for nothing more, but will sit down under my own 
vine and my own Fig tree (for I have them both) at Poplar Grove where none shall make 
me afraid except the boats of the British cruisers." N. C. State Recs., XI. 825. 



November, lyyy 563 

748. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington/ 

York 20th November 1777 

Dear Sir, 

I have no doubt of being excused by you for not sooner answering 
your favor of the 24th. last," when you are informed that my ill state of 
health has prevented me from attending as I ought, to the important 
matter it contains. I gave Mr. Jones the letter, that he might inform Con- 
gress of such parts as it imported the public they should be acquainted 
with. As it appeared by the letters of Gen. Mifflin that he objected only 
to serve in the Quartermasters department, that his health was returning, 
and that he was willing to continue his aid to the public cause, Congress 
appointed him one of the Commissioners of the new Board, because he is 
competent to the right discharge of its duties, because that would best 
suit his valetudinary state, and as shewing a just sense of his uniform, 
vigorous, and well-founded patriotism. I have strong hopes, that by the 
skill and industrv of this new Board, and from the right execution of 
business in that important department, you will in future find great relief.' 

Gen. Conway has not lately been mentioned in Congress, nor has there 
been much talk of an Adjutant General, since it is not certainly known 
whether Colo. Pickering will accept his new appointment. Mr. Flem- 
mings character stands very fair, and so far as I am able to judge, would 
answer well in this commission.* You will see in the inclosed what Mr. 
Sergeant says of him. General Mifflin has proposed a plan for the 
Quartermaster's department that appears judicious, and well fitted to 
answer the purpose of good service and ©economy at the same time. He 
would divide this department into its military and civil branches, the 
former to be filled by a person well qualified to discharge its duties, and 
the latter, again to be divided into Commissaries of Teams, of Forage, 
of Tents etc. to be governed in their purchases by estimates from the 
Quarter Master general who is to touch no money but a moderate tho 
sufficient salary.^ .... 

It was most evident to discerning men that the change in the Commis- 
sariat, at the time it was adopted would produce most mischievous conse- 
quences, yet such was the rage of reformation, that no endeavors to pre- 
vent the evil could avail, and now I feel the most anxious solicitude for 
fear the consequences may disperse our army even in face of the enemy." 

[748]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XX. 6; Univ. Va. Lib.. Lee 
Papers (draft) ; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), IL 44; Letters of Richard Henry 
Lee (ed. Ballagh), L 349. 

- Evidently the letter dated Oct. 28, in the Century Magazine, LXXXL 663. 

3 See nos. 700, 720, 743, ante, and the Journals, Nov. 19 ; see also nos. 7liT-l(i\, post. 

* Probably William Fleming is meant. He was a delegate in Congress from 
Virginia in 1779. 

^ See the Journals, Nov. 19, 24. A plan by MiflHin is in the Journals, under May 
14; cf. ibid., Apr. 16, 23. 

® Cf. nos. 664, 726, ante, nos. 757. 759, 790. post. 



564 Continctttal Congress 

A Committee is appointed to confer witli the Commissary general and to 
try what can be done to avert the evil/ .... 

My ill state of health will compel me to return home in a few days, 
where I shall continue ardently to pray for your health and success.' 

I am dear Sir affectionately yours 

RicPiARD Henry Lee 



749. Nathaniel Folsom to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

York town, November 21st, 1777. 

Dear Sir: 

Inclosed I send you a Copy of the Confederation, the Eighth article of 
which respects Taxation, and has given me great uneasiness, as I cannot 
see any Justice in the Rule therein laid down, for proportioning the 
several States with the charges of the present war. In the first place, it 
appears to me that one third part of the wealth of the Southern States 
which consists in Negroes, is entirely left out, and no notice taken of them 
in determining their ability to pay taxes, notwithstanding it is by them 
that they procure their wealth ; neither are we to have any advantage of 
them in proportioning the number of men to be drawn from the several 
States to carry on the war, that being fixed on the number of white inhab- 
itants in each State, so that by their negroes being left at home, they can 
till their lands and get bread and riches, while some other States may be 
greatly distressed. In the next place, the wealth that is in some States 
more than there is in others, by no means fixes a proportionable Value on 
the Lands in such States, — which, if this be true, seems to prove that the 
plan laid down by Congress is not just : These are my own thoughts on 
this head ; but refer you to your own better judgment on them.^ It seems 
to be the sense of Congress, that if any of the Articles of Confederation, 
should be thought hard of or unequal to any of the States, that they will 
make a representation of the same to Congress, with the reasons of their 
disapprobation to such articles, in order if possible to give satisfaction and 
ease to each and every of the States. The time fixed on for the several 
Legislatures, to determine on these great Points, is by some members 
thought too short ; but I make no doubt but they will take as much time 
to deliberate thereon as may be thought just and necessary.^ .... 

^ This must refer to the committee appointed Nov. 22 on the letter of Nov. 21 
from William Buchanan, commissary-general of purchases, which reported Nov. 24. 
There is further evidence in an omitted paragraph that the latter part of this letter was 
written as late as Nov. 22. A committee of five was appointed Nov. 24, to devise ways 
and means for supplying the army with provisions. 

8 In a letter to Samuel Purviance, jr., Nov. 17, Lee says that he will be passing 
through Baltimore on his way to Virginia in eight or ten days (copy, from the original, 
in possession of the Carnegie Institution). It would appear, however, that he did not 
leave Congress until Dec. 6. See no. 768, post. 

[j^g]^ N. H. State Papers, Vlll. 755. ^ ^ .. 

2 Cj. nos. 712, 722. 7^Z, 738-740, 746-748, ante, nos. 753, 754, 700, 765, 700, post 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 17. 



November, 7777 5G5 

749A. The Commercial Committee to Edward Hand.* 

York in Pennsylvania Novr. 21st 1777 
Sir, 

You will receive this from the hands of Mr. James Willing who is 
charged with some P[ublic?] dispatches for New Orleans, and we are 
directed by the Honorable Congress of which we are members to require 
from you one of the Continental Boats properly manned, armed and 
provisioned to carry him from Fort Pitt to New Orleans and hereby 
request you will immediately comply with this order. The number of 
men, arms and quantity of Provisions is submitted to your discreation, but 
it is of great Importance that Mr. Willing get speedily down, and that 
he has truely faithful People with him, therefore we flatter ourselves no 
Time will be lost in doing what may be needful and are 

Sir 

Your obedt. hble Servts 

RoBT Morris 



W. Smith 



The Honorable Gen Hand or in his absence 
to the Continental Officer commanding at Fort Pitt 



[749a]^ Library of Congress, Continental Congress, Miscellaneous, Accession 2614. 

2 This letter comes to light just as this material is going into page-proof. On 
the same day the committee wrote to Oliver Pollock in New Orleans : " The present 
[letter] is dispatched by Capt. James Willing by the way of Fort Pitt and will serve to 
inform you that Congress have determined that part of the stores arrived or to arrive 
from Spain at New Orleans for the use of these States shall if possible be brought up 
the Mississippi and Ohio to Fort Pitt." The committee then sets forth its plans, which 
Pollock is asked to carry into effect. (Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 50, 
f. 40.) There is not in the Journals at this time the least intimation of the projected 
expedition to New Orleans to be conducted by Willing, although during the next four 
years various matters incidental to the expedition find record in the Journals. The first 
of these entries is under Jan. 31, 1778, when an account rendered by Willing is laid 
before Congress ; the next is under Feb. 19, when a letter from General Hand was read, 
referring to Congress for determination a matter pertaining to the expedition. A letter 
of Feb. 21 from two members of the commercial committee, Francis Lewis and William 
Ellery, to Robert Morris refers incidentally to the proceedings upon Hand's letter : 
" Messrs. Forbes and Ellery who were the only members of the Commercial Committee 
then present, laid before Congress General Hand's Letter etc. respecting the Rattletrap. 
Some of the Members were dissatisfied with that undertaking and asked a Multitude of 
questions about it. The instructions given to Captain Willing were read, but still they 
wanted more light." (See the next volume of these Letters. The Rattletrap was the 
boat commanded b}' Willing.) The remarks here quoted suggest that the project was 
probably set on foot by the commercial committee on its own initiative and without the 
knowledge of Congress as a body. 

The instructions to Willing have not been found, but they may be gathered from the 
committee's letter to Pollock referred to above. Moreover, in a memorial which he 
presented to Congress Oct. 29, 1781, Willing gives his own account briefly of what his 
instructions were. He sets forth, " That a com^e of Congress kno\\'ing your memorialist 
to be well acquainted with the local state and situation of the british settlements in that 
quarter employed him to proceed from York town to Fort Pitt there to equip and arm 
a batteau with twenty-four men the command of which was given to him with a captains 
commission and orders to proceed with dispatches to the Governor of New Orleans and 
to Mr. Oliver Pollock agent at that place on behalf of the United States. In order to 
receive and convoy from New Orleans up the Mississippi and Ohio to Fort Pitt certain 
stores which had been deposited for the use of the American army and Navy and also 
instructions to capture whatever british property he might meet with in the said rivers." 



5CG Continental Congress 

750. James Duane to the New York Council of Safety,' 

York Town Novr. 1777 * 
Honourable Gentlemen 

Your Dispatches of the 22(1 of October were safely deliver'd by the 
Express. I thou^t^ht it adviseahle. Mr Duer being absent a few days for 
the Benefit of Health, to detain him till Congress shou'd have time to de- 
liberate and determine upon the delicate and important Propositions you 
recommend to their Attention. They are now submitted to a Committee 
and you shall be acquainted with the Result.^ 

Every body here is sensibly touched at the melancholy catastophre 
which followd the Loss of the Passes in the high Lands.* When so great 
a number of Troops were withdrawn I predicted the fatal Event. In 
calling away 1500 men Congress in my opinion went too far. I strenu- 
ously remonstrated against it ; but in Vain. The Hopes of being able to 
subdue General Howe by such a Reinforcement preponderated : no body 
[nor] any member coud be Perswaded that it was in Sir Henry Clinton's 
power to give the State of New York the least disturbance. The Report 
of his having receivd Reinforcements was not credited. The unhappy 

He relates further, " that altho a superior force of the enemy prevented his return up 
the rivers yet his operations in that quarter created a considerable diversion by drawing 
off a part of the enemys force from their main army and employing a number of armed 
vessels to protect the navigation of the Mississippi ". Finally, he relates that he embarked 
from New Orleans for Philadelphia Nov. 15, 1778, with despatches from the governor 
to Congress but was taken and carried to New York," where he endured a long a cruel and 
expensive imprisonment". (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 42, VIII. 237.) Accounts of 
Willing's operations on the lower Mississippi indicate that the diversion which he created 
was chiefly an indulgence in plundering forays. See especially Claiborne, Mississippi, ch. 
XV.; Gayarre, History of Louisiana, III. iog-114; and Winsor, Westward Movement, 
pp. 156-158. Some account of Willing's invasion is related in a letter of Gov. Peter 
Chester to Maj.-Gen. Augustine Prevost, Mar. 21, 1778, in British Historical Manuscripts 
Commission, Report on American Manuscripts in the Royal Institution, 1. 213. (See 
also ibid., pp. 197, 236.) In the George Rogers Clark Papers (ed. J. A. James) are two 
letters from Willing to Clark, writen from New Orleans Aug. 22 and Sept. i, 1778, 
besides some other materials relating to the expedition. Some letters of Willing are in 
the Papers of the Continental Congress, and the correspondence of Oliver Pollock w'ith 
the commercial committee in 1778 (ibid.) pertains in considerable measure to the Willing 
expedition. In a letter of Sept. 18, 1782, Pollock recounts in particular his own efforts 
in behalf of the project (Papers. Cont. Cong., no. 50, ff. 1-14)- 

[750]! N. Y. State Lib., Revolutionary Papers. X. 213: Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks 
MSS., XXIX. 431 (copy) ; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., II. 439- 

2 The date given this letter in Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong, is Nov. 3. _. It contains 
however a postscript dated Nov. 22. In a passage of this letter here omitted Duane 
says : " The confederation is completed and I expect will be forwarded by this convey- 
ance, as it is in the press at Lancaster." According to Daniel Roberdeau, Nov. 16 (see 
no. 746, note 4, ante), the Confederation had not then been sent to Lancaster. Duane also 
speaks of a report prevailing that Fort Mifflin had already been evacuated. _ The 
Pennsylvania Evening Post of Nov. 17 carried an announcement of the evacuation on 
Saturday, Nov. 15. The absence of Duer, which Duane mentions, must have been from 
about Nov. 9 (see his letter of that date. no. 73"^, ante) to about Nov. 19. as his name 
does not appear in the Journals between those dates. 

3 The council's letter of Oct. 22 is in Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 1072, but its receipt 
by Congress is not recorded in the Journals. _ r^ r 

* Forts Qinton and Montgomery were captured by Sir Henry Clinton, Oct. 0. 
Some account of the affair from the point of view of General Putnam, who was in 
command, may be found in his letters of Oct. 8 to Washington (Letters to Washington, 
I. 438, 441). See also his letters of Oct. 16 and 25 (ibid., II. 5, IS)- An investigation 
was ordered by Congress Nov. 28. 



November, i/// ^^^ 

measure was therefore adopted ; ' to add to the misfortune General Wash- 
ington had before orderd forward a thousand men. Indeed both he and 
Congress were led into an opinion that General Putnam's Army consisted 
of between seven and eight thousand men. Had it been really the Case, 
probably no mischief woud have ensued. I was among the unbelievers 

The Loss of the Forts and the River Defences will I flatter myself be 
speedily and effectually repaird; Congress being determined to spare no 
Expence which shall be thought necessary. They view the Importance of 
Hudson's River and the Merit of our State in as high a point of Light as 
yourselves coud wish; and I am confident that there is nothing your 
Delegates cou'd ask on this occasion which woud be withheld. General 
Gates is already invested with ample Powers for every Purpose necessary 
to our Security.® .... 

751. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

York Town 22d. Novem 1777. 

Sir — 

The last I had the honour of writing to you was dated the 19th.' Your 
Excellency's Letter of the 17th. instant was [sic'] inclosed Copy of a 
Paper from Mr. Zantzinger ^ and a Return of deficiences in Clothing for 
the Army came since to hand and have been presented to Congress — and 
by their order Committed to the Boards of War and Treasury from whom 
no Reports have yet come up, I am thereby left without Instruction for 
making the necessary reply.* 

My present business is to forward to Your Excellency under this cover 
an Act of Congress of the 20th Inst, for appointing Commissioners for 
Indian affairs in the Western Frontier and for divers other matters the 
Last of which is a request that Your Excellency will send Colo William 
Crawford to Pittsburgh to receive Orders from General Hand.^ 

I have the honor to be with every respectful sentiment Sir 

Your Excellency's Most Obedient Servant 

Henry Laurens 
President Congs. 

His Excellency 
General Washington. 

6 This doubtless refers to the order of Sept. 12 to Putnam, to despatch 1500 
men to reinforce General Washington. See the Journals, Nov. 5, and letters of Hamilton 
and Putnam to Washington, Nov. 2 to 15, Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), II. 24-42. 
See also W. F. Livingston, Israel Putnam, ch. XXIII. 

8 Cf. no. 777, post. 
[751]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letters, 1776-1779, no. 20. 

2 No. 744, ante. 

8 See the Journals, Nov. 21, Dec. i, 10. 

* The action taken by Congress, Nov. 25, upon a report of the board of war, 
was probably in consequence of Washington's letter of Nov. 17. 

5 See the Journals, Nov. 20. Some account of Col. William Crawford (of 
Virginia) is in Appleton, Cyclo. Am. Biog. See also the Journals, 1776, 1777, 1778 
(index). In 1782 he conducted an expedition against the Wyandot and Delaware 
Indians, was captured by them, and burned at the stake. See Pa. Arch., first ser., IX. 
557, 576. An account of the expedition, by N. N. Hill, jr., is found in Mag. of Western 
Hist., May, 1885. See also no. 746, ante, no. 7(6, post. 

41 



6 

y^2. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 

Horatio Gates.^ 

York Town 23d Novem. 1777. 
Sir, 

I had the honour of writing to you the 14th Inst: by the Express 
Fowler, since which Your favour of the [loth]^ came to hand covering 
several Papers these were immediately Committed to the Board of War 
and remain in that Channel unreported upon, therefore I am not possessed 
of means even for filling the blank in the third Line above. 

Congress having received various intimations of a breach of the Con- 
vention of Saratoga on the part of Lieutt. Gen Burgoyne and particularly 
a serious address on that head from the Executive power of New York, 
have judged it their Duty to the people to make the necessary enquiries 
and for this purpose have formed several Resolutions under date the 226. 
Inst, a Certified Copy of which I shall have the honour of conveying with 
this.' it is only needful for me to add the Voice of Congress repeating 
what is specially contained in the Resolves that you will be pleased to 
return an answer as speedily as possible 

753. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams.^ 

York the 23d. Novr. 1777. 
My dear Sir, 

.... The confederation is not yet returned from press but we expect 
it will in a day or two when it will be sent forward, and with it will come 
this letter. We have strongly pressed the speedy consideration and return- 
of the Confederation,'^ and we have urged the necessity of immediate and 
extensive Taxation, regulation of prices, and other Measures of finance, 
oeconomy, and effectual recruiting the army.' I know my friend Mr. 
John Adams will say the regulation of prices wont do. I agree it will not 
singly answer, and I know that Taxation with Oeconomy are the radical 
cures. But I also know that the best Physicians sometimes attend to 
Symptoms, apply palliatives and under favor of the Truce thus obtained, 
introduce cause removing medicines. Let us for a moment check the 
enormity of the evil by this method, whilst the other more sure, but more 
slow methods secure us against a return of the mischief. The middle and 
southern States (particularly the insatiable avarice of Pennsylvania) 

[752]! N. Y, Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XL; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, L 37. 

2 Gates's letter of Nov. lo was read in Q)ngress Nov. i8. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 31, Nov. 3, 6, 8, 19, 21, 22, Dec. i, 12, 17, 18, 23, 26, 27, 
1777, and Jan. 2, 3, 8, 12, 13, 1778; also nos. 756, 779, 782, 786, 791, post. The letter from 
the New York council of safety, dated Nov. 5, read in Congress Nov. 18, is in Jour. N. 
y. Prov. Cong., L 1075. 

l753]^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. 
Ballagh), L 353- 

- See nos. 738, 746, 749, ante, nos. 754, 760. 765, 766, post. 

3 See the report on the letter of Stephen Hopkins and the proceedings of the 
committees of the Eastern states, the Journals, Nov. 22, 26, 27 (see also ihid., Aug. 18, 
Sept. 10, Oct. 27, Nov. 13). Cf. nos. 722, 736, 738, ante, nos. 754, 760, 764, 765, 772, post. 
See also Dyer to Trumbull, Mar. 12, 1778, in the next volume of these Letters. 



November, 1777 569 

having refused to join in the plan formerly, rendered the experiment on 
your part inconclusive and partial; therefore I do not think Mr. Adams's 
argument drawn from that trial quite decisive against the Measure. I 
incline to think that the necessity of the case will now procure its adoption 
universally, and then we shall see what great things may be effected by 
common consent. The American conduct has already shattered and 
overset the conclusions of the best Theorists, and I hope this will be 
another instance. 

Two days ago I moved the immediate recall of Mr. Deane, which was 
agreed without dissent,* and tomorrow is appointed for choosing a Com- 
missioner in his place. Our friends Mr. John Adams and Mr. Denny ' 
are in Nomination, with some others. This appointment was strongly 
pressed on me in Congress,® but my dear friend, rigid as you are in these 
matters, I am sure you would have admitted my apology. I feel the 
obligations of public duty very powerfully, but when these duties can be 
better discharged by others, why may not the private ones be suffered to 
prevail ? Why may not chari liberi have their weight, when such a sacri- 
fice is not necessary for the public service. I remember that in some 
points our opinion differed respecting Mr. Deane, but I feel myself obliged 
to think that he has pursued his best judgement for the good of his 
Country when he made those distressing contracts, and perhaps his 
peculiar situation compelled him to carry tnem further than he might 
otherwise have done. Be this as it may, after Congress had so strongly 
determined concer[n]ing these, it would have been out of all character 
to have continued him.'' Yet this is a matter of great delicacy and I am 
not well satisfied with the whole of it. If our friend Mr. Adams should 
be chosen, I have earnest hopes that he will accept. The loss of time 
that will attend his refusal, independant of other considerations, renders 
it of much consequence that he should not refuse 

754. Richard Henry Lee to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

York the 24th of November 1777 
Dear Sir, 

.... We have finished the confederation and it will go forward to 
the States in a few days, with strong exortation to consider and return 
it quickly. In this great business dear Sir we must yield a little to each 
other, and not rigidly insist on having everything correspondent to the 
partial views of every State. On such terms we can never confederate. 
If we take a view of the World, we shall find that numbers are by no 
means a just criterion to fix the relative riches of States. Of old times 

* See the Journals, Nov. 21, Dec. 8. Cf. nos. 565, 586, ante, nos. 760, 766, 768-770 
post. ' 

5 Francis Dana. See note 6, below. 

8 See the memorandum of Henry Laurens, Nov. 21, in the Journals (Ford) 
p. 947, note I ; also no. 769, note 8, post. Adams was elected Nov. 28. 

^ See no. 559, ante. 
[754]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81, A 14; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, p 48- 
Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 359. ' 



5 

take Tyre and Scythia — Germany and Carthage. In Modern look at 
Holland and Poland — England and Germany. But the truth is that let 
wealth How into a Country from whatever cause, it will forever reflect 
value upon the lands of that Country, and they rise in value in proportion 
to the influx of wealth. Thus the value of lands in England has doubled 
and trepled as commerce has brought wealth into the Island. For my own 
part, I doubt extremely whether Virginia will not pay more by the 
pres[e]nt Mode than if it had been determined by numbers. But I am 
satisfied that the mode now fixt is the most just, and so fiat justicia, mat 
Coclum. We have recommended extensive taxation, sinking the provincial 
currencies, and regulating prices. I think that if the States will vigorously 
execute the recommendations of Congress, we shall, under providence, 
be a safe and happy people.'' .... 

7S5. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Governor of North Carolina (Richard Caswell).^ 

York 25th. Novemr 1777 

Sir 

.... My present duty is to Convey a Resolve of Congress of this 
date in which your Excellency is requested and enabld to perform an 
essential Service to the United States, by appointing proper persons for 
Purchasing and others for manufacturing in the State in which you pre- 
side certain articles of Leather for the use of the Army 

Congress have been encouraged to give your Excellency this trouble 
by the Delegates from North Carolina and have only in view the general 
Interest of these States. Nothing therefore is needful for me to add but 
a reference to the Resolve." .... 

756. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

York 27 Novr. 1777. 
Dear General 

.... This present Carryer will perhaps throw you into a dilemma. 
We want you in different places, but most of all in a third which you are 
not called to ballance about.^ We want you most near Germantown." 



2 Cf. no. 753, ante. 

[755]! Library of Congress. President's Letter-Book, I. 39; N. C. State Recs., XI. 685. 

- See the Journals, Nov. 25. 

[756]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XL; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Revolu- 
tionary Papers, IIL 227 (copy). 

- Gates was elected a member of the board of war Nov. 27. A memorandum 
of Henry Laurens (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 19, HI. 165), "Norn. 24 Board of War 
Maj. Gen. Gates Richd Peters Esq.", shows that Gates and Peters were nommated 
the same day on which the resolution was adopted to enlarge the board. In a letter to 
Gates, Nov. 17 (Gates Papers, vol. XL), Lovell says: "Prepare yourself for a jaunt 
to this Place. Congress send for you. I have ten thousand things to tell." See nos. 
757-761, post. 

3 That is, to supplant Washington. Doubtless this was the principal one of the 
" ten thousand things " which he wished to talk about. In the Samuel Adams Papers 
(N. Y. Pub. Lib.) is a letter from Jonathan D. Sergeant to Lovell, dated Nov. 20. 
wherein Washington is denouiiced for his feebleness and for " such blunders as might 
have disgraced a soldier of three months' standing ". Adams has taken great pains to 
obliterate the signature. Cf. nos. 689, 700, ante. 



November, J'/'jy 571 

I hope the last Express did not cause any Uneasiness to you, as the 
drift of the Proceedings of Congress was by no means intended to throw 
any slur on your acceptance of the Convention ; But to come at a true idea 
of Burgoyne's Conduct.* 

We hear his men have behaved so as to oblige the Guards to fire upon 
them. This information however is not well authenticated. 

Upon a motion made sometime ago Genl. Schuyler is permitted to 
tarry and look after his private affairs and St Clair is permitted to do the 
same upon se^e'ling his name in a council of war at what is generally by the 
inconsiderate, called the grand army,^ Since our Resolve was forwarded, 
I see Kalb Knox and St Clair are a council reporting for the Evacuation 
of red Bank as incapable of bearing a Siege. 

Such kind of Counsel seems to be the relish of this Quarter 

[P- S.] 

27 Nov. 1777. 

We are sending Confederation Taxation and Confiscation forward to 
the States, with strong recommendations as to cloathing the Soldiers at 
prices proportionate to their pay, the Surplus Charge to go against the 
Continent. I hope these measures together will make our Currency 
meliorate and content the army.® 

757. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

York in Pennsylvania Novr 27, 1777 
Dear Sir 

Congress have lately established a new Board of War, upon a Salary 
of 2000 Dollars per Year for each Member. General Gates is appointed 
president, General Mifflin, Colo Trumbull, Colo Pickering, and Mr Peters 
are Members.^ three of the Gentlemen have accepted, there remain but 
two to give their answers. General Gates and yourself. I doubt not, that 
the first will be in the afifirmative, and hope that you will follow the 
Example, as thereby a prospect will be afforded, of introducing Oeconomy 
and Discipline into our army, and affairs in general, without which 
America cannot be free and happy. You was unanimously appointed, 
and from the Experience wch. Gentlemen have had since you left the 
Department of Commissary General, of the Incompetency of their 
Friends to fill the Office, I doubt not that You would have had the offer 
with the Power of Appointing *' of the D C Generals of purchases, had 
You been here to have executed it and there had been a Certainty of your 

* See the Journals, Nov. 22, and no. 752. note :i, ante. 

5 See the Journals, Nov. 14, and nos. 734, 743, ante. 

6 This note is found on a separate half sheet of paper, on the back of which 
appears a part of the address and Gates's endorsement. See the Journals, Nov. 22, 26, 27; 
cf. no. 754, ante, no. 760, post. 

[757]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 16, 17, Nov. 7, 17, 19, 21, 22, 24, 27; also nos. 700, 720, 
743, 748, ante, nos. 758-761, 773, 776, post. 

3 *I form my Opinion from the Temper of the House when it was proposed. 
[Note in the original.] 



5 

Acceptance. I know not your Sentiments on the Matter, but Iiowever 
they may be, I most ardently wish that You may accept of this appoint- 
ment for many Reasons. Colo Reed was nominated and would have 
been apix:»inted, had it not been known to Gentlemen that your Situation 
with respect to each would not admit of your sitting together at the same 
Board.* I think there is not the least Doubt of this Fact. Your own 
affairs need not interrupt your immediate Attendance, as the Super 
Intendance of all the Commissaries in the eastern and northern Depart- 
ment is with the Governor and Council of Connecticut, who may displace 
and appoint at pleasure, and can direct the issuing Commissaries to 
receive the provision now on your Hands, and your Accounts may be 
settled witho. a constant attendance on the Commissioners. 

the succession of Errors wch have taken place in the Commissary's 
Department, have reverberated on Congress, and had the Gentlemen Who 
were the Cause thereof been troubled with an attention to the Business of 
rectifying them, I should not have regretted the Consequences, but this 
Burthen has unreasonably fell on those who opposed the Errors from the 
Beginning, and there seems to be a general Conviction that the Business 
never will be carried on by some of the present Officers.^ .... 

I hope soon to see the Treasury Office upon a new Establishment,^ and 
that your Brother the p. M General will be a Commissioner; his Salary is 
augmented to 125 Dollars per Month, but I think him too valuable for 
that office, altho it must be acknowledged an important one/ .... 

P. S. If you decline this office, it must have all the Effects so far as 
it respects yourself of giving up the Cause ; a Measure that my Friend 
will never consent to, after having endured greater Toils than may be 
expected in future. 

General Stevens is broke for Drunkenness 



758. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 

Horatio Gates.^ 

York Town 28th. Novem: 1777 

Sir 

My last trouble was dated the 23d. Inst: and conveyed by favour of 
Mr. Pierce.^ 

By the present please to be informed, that Congress lately entered into 
Resolutions for establishing a Board of War to consist of five Commis- 
sioners not Members of the House. And I have received express orders 

* Cf. no. 700, ante, nos. 759, 761, 769, post. 

5 Cf. nos. 664, 726, 748, ante, nos. 759. 790, post. The omitted passage summarizes 
the financial measures of Nov. 22, 26, 27. Cf. no. 756, ante. 

6 The reorganization of the treasury office was not, however, very speedily 
effected. See no. 298, note 7, ante. 

7 Jonathan Trumbull, jr., deputy paymaster-general of the Northern department. 
See the Journals, Nov. 19, 22. Cf. no. 412, ante. 

[758]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc., Gates Papers, XL; Library of Congress, Presidents Letter- 
Book, L 43. ^. 

2 No. 752, ante. Mr. Pierce was probably John Pierce, jr., assistant paymaster. 



November, ijjy 573 

to notify to you Sir, You have been elected a Commissioner and by the 
unanimous Voice of Congress appointed President of the Board,' .... 

759. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

York Town 28 Nov. 1777 

Dr Sir 

Genl Gates, Genl Miflin, Adj. Genl. Pickermg, Jos Trumbull 
and Rich : Peters Esqrs. are elected etc. to constitute a newly erected 
Board of War, from which great Things are expected as You will be 
informed by the President.' as You call your Self a plaguegy obstinate 
Fellow I had some Fears least You sho"^ injure your Self, your Father, 
and your Friends and more especially your Country, by refusing her Call 
and I trust that of Providence on this Occasion, you may perceive how 
honorable and important Congress account the Business by the Generals 
employed, and by the inclosed Resolve I beg You will not suflFer Preju- 
dice or Passion to influence your Judgment, but coolly consider the nature 
and importance of the Subject and the Duty and Obligation lying on You, 
to serve your Country in this Station. Congress expect your usefuUness 
especially in the Comissary Department, and assistance to regulate the 
abuses of that and so for the other great Departments, in which other of 
the Gent, are particularly versed, it is of importance to be called by every 
voice as you was to this honble. Service and Col Read was sacrificed to 
You, supposing You co^ not sit together.^ The Department is of ver>' 
great Moment most certainly, and never was or co*^ be properly executed 
by a Board consisting of Members of Congress, if for no other reason it 
was impossible to give proper Attention and Time to both, and They are 
most heartily weary of trying, and if I was not quiting Congress sho*^ 
have some personal Interest, in the new Boards coming soon. The pay 
is 2,000 Dols. to Each, and I have no doubt but additions will be made e'er 
long. 

I much dislike the new Regulations of the Comissa. Department, but 
had no doubt Alterations wo"^ take place, as they have already and very 
likely may further as occasion and experience may require and if you had 
continued in that, I verily believe you would have [done] your Country 
a very real and great Service, and that the Army has suffered exceedingly 
by the inexperience of the new officers.* And it is a bad and wrong 
revenge to wound your already bleeding bleeding Country, to come up 
with Congress for a great mistake in my opinion, but by far the most I 
doubt not come into with the best intention. 

if Jack ^ had really an Inclination to have continued in the Army, I 
have no doubt he might have obtained Justice in the matter he complained 
off, and wo*^ have done real Service, and been also a Brigr. Genl. instead 
of Wilkinson, had his Life been spared, but enough. I hope to see You 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 24, 27 ; cf. no 757, note 2, ante. 
1759]^ Conn. State Library, Joseph Trumbull Collection, no. 568. 

2 See nos. 757, 758, ante. 

3 Cf. no. 757, ante, nos. 761, 769, post. 

* Cf. nos. 664, 726, 748, 757, ante, no. 790, post. 

^ John Trumbull. See nos. 415, 419, 466, 495, note 2, ante, no. 776, post. 



5 

before You can set out hither, designing homeward, if Mr. Law dont 
delay me next Monday 

with CompHmts to your Lady 

I am your AfTectio^ Friend and Brothr 

W. Williams 

Col Jos. Trumbull 

760. William Williams to the Governor of Connecticut 

(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

York 28 Nov 1777 
Hon^ and dear Sir 

I wrote you sometime since that the Plan of Confederation was finished, 
after revising correcting etc it was sent to Lancaster to be printed and is 
just returned.^ and after a long delay and consideration a Report has 
been made by the Com"^, to Consider the result of the N England States 
etc and a number of important resolutions relating to taxation etc etc 
are come into and will bee also transmitted, it is not my Fault it was not 
done long ago, but it cant be helpd and tis difficult to explain the reasons 
of delay in many Cases.^ But I hope it is not utterly too late 

Congress have established a new board of War, consisting of 5 Mem- 
bers, not of Congress it is deemd of vast importance for the Regulation 
and Supply etc of the Army, and highly honorable etc, and by the Influ- 
ence of his Friends Col Jos. Trumbull is chosen a member, the plan was 
to have one versed in every Department, the members are Genl Gates 
Presidt. Gen. Miflin, Adj. Genl Pickering, Col Jos Trumbull, and R. 
Peters Esq late Secrety. it is deemed of very great importance, as you 
will readily perceive by the Members appointed. The Sallery is 2000 
Dols per An : and a Struggle to get higher. And I have no doubt it will 
yet be raised and such further sums allowed as to satisfie the Members, 
if this dont.* .... 

I am with Great Affection, Esteem and Duty your unworthy 

Son and Serv 
W Williams 

P. S. on Fryd : the 21 the motion, made last July was revivd for re- 
calling Mr Deane, was again taken up and carried without a dissenting 
Voice. He died at last very easie, tho there had been at sund. Times 
before, the most violent and convulsive throes and Exertions on the same 
Question ^ 

this Day Jno Adams Esq w-as elected in his room he is not present and 
tis not certain he will not accept, but hope he will.*^ 

[760]! Library of J. Pierpont Morgan, Declaration of Independence, I. 

2 Cf. nos. 733, 746, 747, 753, 754, ante. 

3 See no. 753, note 3, ante. 

* Cf. nos. 757-759. ow'^. no. 761, post. 

^ See no. 753, ante, nos. 766, 768-770, post. In a foot-note to the Journals (ed. 
Ford), under Aug. 5, will be found two motions for the recall of Deane. Possibly that 
of Lovell was made in July. See no. 565, ante. 

6 See no. 753, ante. Notice of his election was sent to Adams by President 
Laurens Nov. 28 (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 432), and the commission was sent 



November, ij'jy 575 

A motion is also made that it be left to the remaining Comisrs to Judge 
on the Spot, whetlir. Mr D. may not yet be employed at some other Court, 
the Motion dropd, and I trust will never be carried. 

His Excelly. Govr. Trumbull. 

761. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

York Town Novr 28th 1777 
D\^ear^ Sir 

The Congress finding almost every department in the Army running 
into the greatest Confusion and disorder for want, as we apprehend of 
a proper Board Consisting of Gentn. well skill'd in the various depart- 
ments and who can at least for some time Constantly attend to the im- 
mediate concerns of the Army and our board of Warr hitherto Consisting 
of Members of Congress who could not be supposed to have a proper 
knowledge of the several departments, and beside had not time to attend 
to them Congress have Unanimously agreed to Constitute that Important 
Board, and to have it consist of such Gentn. whom they think have the 
greatest knowledge of the several departments and abilities to discern 
and discover from whence the disorders arise and how they may be 
remedied, have therefore made Choice of Ma jr. Genii Gates Majr. Genii 
Mifflin, Coll. Pickering present Adjutant Genii. Mr Trumbull late Com- 
missy. Genii, and Mr Peters, who has heretofore been Secretary of the 
Board of Warr to Constitute that Board, Genii. Gates to be President 
and who is also to be Continued Majr. Genii, and to act as such in the 
Army as Occasion may require, the Salary is at present established at 
2000 dollars Pr Annum, some were for 3000. and not quite a Majority 
for 2500, but considering the times, and in hopes and expectation that our 
Currency will soon regain its Credit it was thought best not for an 
Establishment to exceed 2000, and had better if Necessary some other 
way make an allowance for extraordinary expences to the present board, 
than make an Establishment at this time tho' just could not afterwards 
be reduced if our money in a great measure regained its Credit, and 
believe tho not certain that Congress will generously consider the present 
board over and above the present Establishment, as to your Appoint- 
ment as One, it was without any Sollicitation of those you might call 
your Friends or any movements from them, but by the Unanimous 
Choice not only of every State but of ever}^ Individual member of Con- 
gress and every State except Jersey and Deleware not represented, 
therefore I hope notwithstanding your past feelings, your present Interest 
and Inclination to tarry at home, and retire among the common Mass of 
private Citizens ; Yet that you have not so lost your strong attachment to 
your Country, their Interest and defence as to refuse them your Assis- 
tance in this present critical Situation of our affairs and of the state of the 

Dec. 3 (see ibid., II. 442). A statement of John Adams relative to the notification of 
his election to the French mission is found in an autobiographical note in his Works, 
IX. 89-93. His letter of acceptance, dated Dec. 23, 1777, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
II. 458. It was read in Congress Jan. 19, 1778. For some acconnt of the proceedings 
in connection with Adams's election, see a letter of Elbridge Gerry to John Adams, 
Sept. 29, 1779 (Adams's Works, IX. 491 ; also vol. IV. of these Letters). Cf. no. 769, post. 
[76i]iConn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 



57G Continental Congress 

Army, as to refuse Vour Aid and Assistance without which and some of 
the other dentn. at least we have every i)rospect of ruin and destruction 
at least to the Army if not to the whole Country. Coll. Reed was in Nom- 
ination and helieve would have been appointed instead of Mr Peters but 
Congress really was so Intent to avail themselves of your services and 
knowing- the former altercation and that it was possible you could not 
set with him in the same board with that Harmony which ought to Sub- 
sist, entirely omitted him on that account and Voted for Mr Peters that 
there might be no difficulty in your way of attending.^ I sincerely wish 
leaving all other cares and business that you would Immediately hasten to 
this place take your seat in the board for the present with the other Gentn. 
who will be pressed to Attend as soon as possible and hope by Spring or 
by the opening the Next Campaine that our several departments may be 
so reduced to Order and System as, if you on Trial shall think best to 
resign your place, no doubt it may be done.^ .... I readily percieve 
an Objection arising from your accounts with the publick you expect to 
settle this Winter, but that must be postponed if Necessary for this service. 
I hope before this that your Stores eastward are either taken by Genii. 
Heath or regularly delivered over as Congress have given every appoint- 
ment Necessary both in the purchasing and Issuing department to Govr, 
Trumbull that there might be no failure in that quarter.* .... 

y62. The President of Congress to Horatio Gates.^ 

York Town 29th. Novem. 1777. 

Sir, 

After I had Sealed the Packet which you will receive with this, I was 

honoured by your favour of the i6th. the weather being extremely bad, 

I judged it would be no pernicious delay to detain the Messenger till 

after the sitting of Congress, in the sitting I reported your Letter and 

the several papers which accompanied it, but received no Commands on 

the subject except an order to transmit a Copy of the Letter to General 

Washington.^ I have therefore nothing to add but that I send a Copy 

of Articles of Confederation and that I remain in every sentiment of 

respect and Esteem Sir ,^ . ,. „ 

\ our very obedient Servant 

Henry Laurens, 

The Honorable Presdt Cong. 

Major General Gates 

Albany. 

2 A similar statement is made by Gerry and also by Williams (nos. 757, 759, ante). 
Cf. no. 769, post. See also no. 77Z, post. 

3 Cf. nos. 757, 759, ayite, nos. 77^, 776, post. Mifflin wrote to Trumbull, Nov. 30: 
" It is of much Importance to the public that the Business should not be delayed and as 
the Gentlemen appointed with you in this Office are near at hand, and will wait Your 
Arrival before they enter upon the Duties of the Office let me beg you to lose no time in 
coming to Reading where I will wait for you." (Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull 
Papers.) In the end Trumbull's ill health prevented his taking his seat in the board of 
war. See the Journals, Feb. 16, Apr. 18, 1778. 

■* See the Journals, Nov. 3, and nos. 772,, 77(), post. 
[762]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XL; Library of Congress, Presidents Letter- 
Book, I. 48. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 29. 



November, ijjj 577 

763. Henry Laurens to John Laurens/ 

York Town 30th. Novem. 1777. 
My Dear Son 

.... but why have not we taken measures in many other momentous 
concerns, why were we not as active in July to guard against the Inclem- 
ency of January as we affect to be now in November — now perhaps when 
too late to enable our Troops to keep the Field. I did not fail to speak 
my sentiments, and so far, which was as far as I, almost unaided, could 
go, to do my Duty, soon after my arrival in this Country, I spoke of 
means for guarding against the disaffected, of the necessity for providing 
Clothing by times, of the preservation of Delaware, of the ruinous State 
of our funds, of the amazing misconduct of dealing Money out by 
Millions to particular Persons, under those accursed four words — " he 
to be accountable " and totally neglect I say totally neglect to demand 
Accounts 

several Members of Congress who have called here this Morning to 
read Gen. Washington's Letter of the 26th. have expressed their wishes 
that the Marquis may be appointed to the Command of a division, there- 
fore I have no doubt when the Letter is Read and the subject considered 
to morrow in Congress, I shall be charged with a Resolve equal to the 
Marquis's wishes.^ .... 

Mv Dear Son — I pray God protect you 

HL— 
Colo John Laurens 

764. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

York, State of Pennsylvania, Nov. 30th, 1777. 
Sir, 

Mr. Marchant before this reaches you will have informed you of my 
safe Arrival here after a long Journey ; and of everything material that 
occurred after his last Letter to you. The President hath transmitted 
to your Excellency printed Copies of the Confederation; any article of 
which that may need an Explanatn Mr. Marchant will explain to the 
Assembly. The President hath also sent you the recommendatory Re- 
solves to the respective States which have passed since I have been here, 
which renders it unnecessary for me even to mention the heads of them. I 
will only observe that in the Report recommending a Tax of five Million 
Dollars to be laid on the United States our Quota was One hundred and 
twenty thousand Dollars, and that upon my representing the Circum- 
stances of our State Twenty thousand were taken off and put upon 
Massachusetts.^ 

[763]! L. I, Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. I. 
[764]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1777-^77^, P- 90; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 156. 

2 The alteration of the quotas of Rhode Island and Massachusetts does not 
appear in the report as printed in the Journals, under Nov. 22. 



578 Continental Conf^rcss 

Congress have resolved tliat an Inquiry should be made into the Causes 
of the failure of the Rhode Island h^xpedition. and the Conduct of the 
principal Officers concerned in it. The Mode for conducting the Inquiry 
is committed, and Report will soon be made. Beside the public Benefit 
that may attend this Resolution, it will be beneficial to our and the other 
states who furnished the Troops for that Expedition; for Congress by 
taking this Business in hand have by Implication acknowledged that the 
Continent is to bear the Expense of it.' .... 

765. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson.^ 

York, Pennsylvania, Nov. 30th, 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

.... By the next Opportunity I shall send you the articles of con- 
federation ; they are at last completed after being under the consideration 
of Congress for almost two Years ; This has been the most difficult piece 
of Business that ever was undertaken by any public Body, it is the best 
Confederacy that could be formed especially when we consider the num- 
ber of states, their dififerent Interests, Customs etc. etc. The mode of 
settling the quota of Taxes to be paid towards the Common expense is at 
last fixed by the value of all Land held under Patent or Deed in each state. 
The Eastern people were much against this, knowing their Lands to be 
very valuable, they were for settling the quota by the number of Inhabi- 
tants including slaves, this would have ruined Poor North Carolina, she 
has as many Inhabitants as Connecticut (almost) tho' the Land in that 
state would sell for five times as much as the Lands in ours.^ .... 

766. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
President of South Carolina (John Rutledge).^ 

York ist. Decern. 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

I had the honour of addressing your Excellency in an official Letter 
under the 28th. past which lies before me Sealed in a packet wath Con- 
federation etc. these are to be conveyed by Capt Gillon ^ to which I shall 
add three packets each containing five Copies of Articles of Confedera- 
tion directed severally for the General Assembly and the two Councils 
of South Carolina, twelve Copies more I have directed to Col. Gervais 
to be distributed among Gentlemen w^hose names are written on each, 
particularly one to Mr. Wells.^ if your Excellency should be of opinion 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 28, Dec. 3, 11, 15, 1777, and Jan. 23, 27, Mar. 27, Apr. 8, 
Sept. 9, 1778; also no. 775, post. 
[765]^ N. C. State Recs., XI. 813. 

2 Cf. nos. 680, yzZy 7A7, 760, ante. See also no. 766, post. 

l766]i S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 198; ibid., Laurens Letters, 
1 776- 1 779, no. 20. 

2 Alexander Gillon. See the Journals, Nov. 20, 28. Dec. 13, 1777, Mar. 30, 31, 1778; 
also ibid., 1782, passim (index) ; and Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 239, IV. 424, 547, 
705, 827, 835, 836, 837, 838, V. 65, 219, 338 et seq., VI. 434- A brief sketch of Gillon is in 
Appleton, Cyclo. Am. Biog. 

3 See the Journals, under Nov. 15, p. 928, note 2. Cf. no. 746, ante. 



December, 1777 579 

that these papers, before they are taken under consideration by the Legis- 
lative powers ought to be made as public as I wish, you will encourage 
him to print 2 or 3 hundred Copies, and to add Copies of the Addresses 
on Confederation and Taxation. I will not presume to comment on the 
Model which is now Submitted to the Wisdom of thirteen United States 
and intended to pass a revision under the same abilities collected. 

I beg leave however to remark to my late Colleagues, that Congress 
before printing judged it proper to make Several essential alterations 
particularly in Articles 9th. parag : 2d. — that I have therefore no cause 
to blush at the appearance of my name among the feiv Nays in the 
Original Vote. I should be still better pleased to see that article undergo 
a little further amendment.* 

That, for taking Yeas and Nay's is another Item to which I am marked 
in the Journal with a disgraceful No ! and almost without a Companion.*^ 
I have never heard that question demanded, with that Calmness of mind 
which ought ever to accompany the debates of Senators, it has always 
been the product of heat and menace, besides, however proper it might 
be to incorporate in the Rules of a House, it does not strike me as a neces- 
sary ingredient for Confederation it appears to be totally Irrelative to 
the grand Subject. I do not mean to comment by exposing this bagga- 
telle. there are Articles of deeper Impression 

Congress have appointed three important Committies who are all now 
in action — one to confer with General Washington confidentially on 
future operations and if possible to prevent taking Winter Quarters,' 
One to consult with the State of Pennsylvania on the article of Provision 
and other matters,'^ a third to translate confederation into French and to 
Address the Canadians among whom we know there is a Majority dis- 
satisfied with English Government.' 

Our Indian Committee have prepared a proper Talk for the Six 
Nations and at length I have put in motion the Creek Eagle-Tail and 
Rattle Trap.® Commissioners are appointed for inquiring into the state 
of affairs at Fort Pitt and the Western Frontier and for directing a 
force to quell those Indians who, at Detroit, have been instigated to 
Murder many of the back Inhabitants and if practicable to reduce that 
nest of mischief.^" 

Our Treasury was lately exhausted. New Emissions were made in- 
stantly, and for aught I know are m.aking. the demands upon us which 
at this moment conspire and which are in daily growth are Mountainous, 
but we must be Satisfied ; happy indeed are w^e, that any quantity of brown 
paper will answer the calls of our necessities, alarming as this appears 
we must for the present submit, further necessities may, must, in a few 

* See the Journals, Oct. 23, 27 (pp. 835, 843), Article 14 in the report under 
consideration became Article 9 in the final form. See ibid., p. 915. 

5 See the Journals, Oct. 30. Cf. no. 585, ante. 

6 See the Journals, Nov. 28, and no. 774, post. 
^ See the Journals, Nov. 28. 

s See the Journals, Nov. 29, Dec. 2. 

» See the Journals, Oct. 20. Dec. 3 ; cf. nos. 777, 778, 789. post. 
10 See the Journals, Nov. 20, and nos. 705-707, 717, 746, 751, ante. 



580 Contincntiil Congress 

months perforin a work which Wisdom ought to have effected many 
months ago," 

These things Your Excellency ought to know. I do not hold it neces- 
sary to disclose my Sentiments to every body. 

This Morning is to come under consideration the Quota of General 
Officers for each State. I mean to move the appointment of two Briga- 
diers for South Carolina. I shall most candidly represent the two worthy 
men who if I mistake not are the proper Candidates, if Congress shall 
judge it necessary to give us only one, seniority will probably have 
preference." 

Mr. Deane by a Vote is recalled from the Court of France, Mr. John 
Adams elected to succeed him." .... 



767. The President of Congress to the Speaker of the 
Massachusetts Assembly (Robert Treat Paine). ^ 

York Town 3d. Decem. 1777. 
Sir, 

I beg leave to refer you to what I had the honour of writing the 1st. 
Inst, by Messenger Alexr. Tais.* 

Congress ever watchful over the Interests of the United States of 
America and diligent to defeat the numerous and various practices of our 
grand Enemy equally cruel and subtle have taken under consideration a 
device calculated for depreciating the Value of the Paper Money issued 
by authority of Congress and of the several States after the good People 
had found it necessary to assert their Rights and to take Government into 
their own hands, the pernicious Stratagem now in view, although the 
discovery of it is not quite new appears more glaring from a late Publi- 
cation in Philadelphia subscribed by a very great number of those mis- 
guided persons who chose to remain in the City and welcome the Enemy 
to rivet their fetters.^ 

It is also notorious that many timid and lukewann friends in several of 
the States have, from motives probably more avaricious than Inimical, 
long given a great preference to what is called the old Money, which 
evidently tends to lessen the Estimation and Currency of the New and 
does in the same Instance demonstrate, if not an Inclination to overturn 

11 See the Journals, Nov. 7-Dec. 3. Cf. no. 627, ante. 

12 There is no record in the Journals of the quota of general officers being con- 
sidered Dec. 2. See the Journals, Dec. 31 (p. 1073). 

13 See the Journals, Nov. 21, 28; also nos. 753, 760, ante, nos. 768-770, post. 
[767] 1 Mass. Arch., CXCVIII. 327; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 

56. This is a circular letter to all the states. In the letter-book is foixnd the following 
notation : " Introduced by recital of my last date, etc., as each case required." 

- The letter of Dec. 1 is addressed to R. T. Paine, speaker of the Massachusetts 
assembly, and merely encloses resolves of the day. 

3 The " late publication in Philadelphia " was probably a document which appeared 
in the Pennsylvania Evening Post, Nov. 6, to which three columns of names are attached. 
After reciting that a total stop had been put to " the currency of the continental resolve 
and commonwealth money ", by the arrival of the British forces in the city, the subscribers 
agree to use the old paper money on an equality with gold and silver. 



December, i/// 581 

our Independence, apprehensions which ought to be banished from tlie 
mind of every Inhabitant in the Union. 

From an earnest desire therefore to counteract the wicked projects of 
our Enemies and to rectify such errors of our almost friends, Congress 
have confirmed a Resolution of this date recommending to the States 
respectively to enact sufficient Laws for accomplishing these good ends. 
A Copy of the Resolve will be found enclosed with this, which you will 
be pleased Sir to lay before the Legislature of Massachuset Bay.* 
I have the honour to be with great Esteem, Sir 

Your obedient hum Servt. 
Henry Laurens. Presidt. of Cong. 

P. S. 4th. 

While this lay open Congress took before them a Representation of the 
necessity for preserving from waste Pine Timber fit for Masts and other 
purposes of Navigation and framed a Resolution thereupon which you will 
receive with the one above mentioned, 

H. L. 

The Honorable The Speaker of the General Assembly of Massachusetts 
Bay. Boston. 



768. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Deer. 8th. [1777.] 

Dear Sir 

The day after you left York, I moved Congress for an order in the 
following words. " Whereas it is of the greatest Importance that Con- 
gress should, at this critical conjuncture be well informed of the State of 
affairs in Europe, and whereas Congress have resolved that the Honble. 
Silas Deane Esqr. be recalled from the court of France and have 
appointed another Commissioner to supply his place there. 

Ordered That the Committee for foreign affairs write to the honble. 
Silas Deane, and direct him to embrace the ftrst opportunity of returning 
to America and upon his arrival to repair with all possible dispatch to Con- 
gress. ["]^ 

This I have sent with the other Papers to Mr. Adams, and shall send 
tomorrow a duplicate to Baltimore to go with the packet which you left 
there. 

* See the Journals, Dec. 2, 3. 
[ 768] 1 Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 This order is in the Journals, Dec. 8. Deane's recall was ordered Nov. 21, 
See nos. 753, 760, 766, ante. Lee himself says that he left Congress Dec. 6 (Letters, 
I. 381). He was evidently in Congress as late as Dec. 4, for a letter of that date from 
the committee of foreign affairs to Deane transmitting the order of recall is signed by Lee 
and Lovell (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IL 444) . Lee was also appointed on a committee 
on that day. Cf. no. 748, note 8, ante. Lovell's letter to John Adams, Dec. 8 (no. 769, 
post), does not suggest that the motion was made earlier than the 8th. 



5 

I (lid not think it necessary to move that the Committee should be filled 
up on such a petty occasion, and therefore I spread a small Plaister for a 
lari^e wound myself, by the following 

" Sir 

" By accident I find myself called upon singly to execute the duty of the 
Committee for foreign affairs, in communicating to you an order of Con- 
gress of this day respecting your return to America. 

" The order stands in need of no comment from the Committee to eluci- 
date it; and, being drawn in terms complimentary to your abilities of 
serving these United States upon your arrival here, I take pleasure in 
conveying it, being Sir, your very humb. Servt." ' 

I hope, Dear Sir, you will consider this proceeding as giving some sort 
of definition to the Recall, and in moderate language ; as it stood before, 
he was to be recalled, but the time when was not in any measure marked 
out 

769. James Lovell to John Adams/ 

Deer. 8th. [1777.] 
Dear Sir 

.... Having opposed several attempts of Jemmy ~ to do away the 
resolve of Recall, I found a necessity to offer something this day myself, 
as no limited time had been fixed to Dean's powers. I send a letter for 
you to seal. I think I have spread as small a Plaister as possible for a 
great Sore.' 

Mr. Dana is a most thorough and active member; has been put into 
the Board of War, marine Committee, and afterw^ard put at the head of 
the Treasury by the sollicitation of the members of that Board at Duanes 
Departure ; upon which Mr. Dana was excused from the Board of War.* 
Mr. Geary is yet at Head Quarters.^ we hope there was a general En- 
gagemt. last friday. 

Mr. Read has refused to go a Commissioner to the western Frontiers.^ 
He is greatly chagrined at not being put upon the new Board of war, 
after his name had been mentioned to Genl. Washington.'' 

If you should refuse to go over the water, which I pray you may not, 
He or Livingston would be chosen.® 

5 This letter to Silas Deane, dated Dec. 8, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 444. 
[769] 1 Adams MSS., Boston. 

2 James Duane. The "resolve of Recall" was that of Nov. 21, for the recall of 
Silas Deane from France. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 8, and no. 768, ante. 

* Dana was also chosen on the committee of appeals. See the Journals, Nov. 17, 
Dec. 3. 

5 Elbridge Gerry. See the Journals, Nov. 28, and no. 774, post. 

8 Joseph Reed. See no. 746, note 7, ante, and the Journals, Nov. 20, Dec. 4, 10, il. 

7 See nos. 700, 757, 759. 761, ante. 

8 The memorandum of Henry Laurens, Nov. 21 (see no. 753, note 6, ante), includes 
Reed among the nominees for the French mission, but does not mention Robert R. 
Livingston. Elbridge Gerry stated, however, in a letter to John Adams, Sept. 29, 1779 
(Adams's Works, IX. 491 ; also in vol. IV. of these Letters), that Livingston was nomi- 
nated by the delegates of New York. 



December, z/// 583 

Excuse me to Mr. S. Adams. I am obliged to sit steadily in Congress 
to make up 9 Colonies, and I have a deal of drudgerey to go through from 
a deficiency of Clerks. 

770. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

Deer. 8th. [1777.] 
Dear Sir 

.... I send you a Maryland Paper in which by the great indiscretion 
of somebody in Congress parts of Bingham's letter are printed which 
ought not to have seen the light.^ 

Among friends, we have received a most impudent letter from Mauroy. 
tis impossible to take any notice of it to him without putting him in Jail. 

We could not confirm Deane's contracts without deranging our Army ; 
but, we could take up Individuals without the same Effect. What is there 
grossly inconsistent in this? I am rejoyced we did not employ him 



3 



771. Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke.^ 

York, Pennsilvania Dec. 8th 1777. 
Dear Sir: 

.... The several resolutions of Congress sent to the Governors of 
the States will require particular attention. That of taxation, is essential 
above all. The credit of our Continental Currency depends upon it. The 
opening the Courts of Law, for the recovery of Debts, surely ought to be 
attended to. The calling in your paper Currency, especially that issued 
under the Authority of the British Government (as a distinction is made 
by the Tories and sordid Whigs already of at least 100 per cent, which in 
its consequences must ruin our public Credit) ought to command the 
attention of our Legislature.^ .... 

We are daily entertained by Members of Congress, with paragraphs 
of Letters, giving an account of the surprising exertions of their 
Constituents. 

I beg that you will inform me what has been done by our General 
Assembly in this way. We have often been before them, I hope we shall 
never be behind them 

"^22. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson.^ 

York, Pennsylvania, Dec. 8th, 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Inclosed is a Hand Bill printed by order of Congress relative to 
the late Convention at Saratoga.^ this only came to Congress three days 

[770] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 This is presumably the letter of Bingham read in Congress Oct. i8. See no. 
722, ante. Cf., however, Richard Henry Lee to Adams, Nov. 22,, in Letters, I, 353. 
' See the Journals, Dec. 8. Cf. no. 632, ante. See also nos. 734, 741, ante. 
[771]! N. C. State Recs., XL 693. 

2 Cf. the letter to Wilkinson, Dec. 8 (no. 772, post) ; also his letter to Burke, 
Dec. 16, in N. C. State Recs., XL 695. 
{^^iYN. estate Recs., y.l.B,i%. 

2 The order to publish the convention was given to the committee of intelligence 
Oct. 31. Harnett also enclosed one of the handbills in his letter to Burke, Dec. 8 (no. 
771, ante). See the Bibliographical Notes, in the Journals, IX. 1089. 

42 



5 



^.' 



ago, as we have had no press here until within these few days and no 
Gazette as yet pubHshed.* I shall send you the first 

You will be pleased first to observe that Congress knows no more of 
the intentions of the Army than you do, until some event or other takes 
place. Congress have very wisely determined to put it in Genl Washing- 
ton's power to keep his own secrets 

I hope the Assembly will open your Courts for the recovery of Debts, 
That you will immediately begin to lay Taxes as other states have done, 
that you will call in all the Currency emitted under the authority of the 
King of G. Britain etc. these are matters of the utmost Consequence, and 
Strenuously recommended by Congress to the several states. Our very 
Existence as a free People depends on Vigorous measures immediately 
to be adopted.* .... 

Your sincere friend and obedt. Servt. 

Corn. H.\rnett. 



yy^i- Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

York Town Decembr 8th 1777 
Dear Sir 

recievd yours from Boston of the 20th Ultmo. I hope before this 
comes to hand you will recieve my last ^ (by Express to Govr Trumbull) 
which as I depend you will recieve shall not repeat what I so fully wrote 
you at that time on the Subject of a Board of Warr of which you are 
unanimously chose one and hope Nothing will prevent your attending at 
least two or 3 months, you mentione often as in your last the ill Treat- 
ment you have recieved you know it was effected only by a small faction, 
who had art enough by specious pretences of publick Utility to Impose 
upon others just enough to make a Majority (Rhode-Island not repre- 
sented) that faction is now no more the greatest Union and Harmony 
subsists in Congress. I hope before this time Mr Gray has recieved the 
assignment of his District and appointed such Deputies as may recieve the 
remaining Stores on hand.^ beside Govr Trumbull has power to appoint 
both Issuing and purchasing Commiss^ so far as he thinks Necessary.* 
the Treasury Board have rendred Valid all yr receipts in Consequence of 
orders from the Genlls. as to what Coll. Williams hinted to you is but 
of little Consequence, it is not Improbable but some might Imagine that 
you had some Influence on those whom you had employed to prevent their 

3 See no. 692, ante ; cf. Harnett to Wilkinson, Nov. 19, 20, in N. C. State Recs., 
XI. 806, 808. 

* Cf. no. 771, ante. See also nos. 753, note 3, 760, ante, 
[773]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 Nov. 28, no. 761, ante. 

3 See nos. 726, 727, ante. 

* See the Journals, Nov. 3, no. 761, ante, no. 776, post. 



December, lyTJ 585 

accepting, but it is not worth minding."^ .... As I have an appointment 
for next year conckide to tarry till Spring to prevent my being Obligd to 
leave home next summer my regards and affection to Family and friends 

am Yours 

Elipht Dyer 

[P. S.] . . . . 

774. Committee of Congress to George Washington.^ 

White Marsh Deer. loth. 1777 

In Consequence of the conferences we have had with your Excellency, 
and knowing yours and your General Officers opinions on the subject of 
our Mission, we have come to the resolution's contained in the enclosed 
paper, finding them as far as we can judge most consistant with the 
Public good. 

Among the many reasons offered against a Winters Campaigne we 
were sorry to observe one of the most prevalent was a general discontent 
in the Army and especially among the Officers. These discontents are 
ascribed to various causes and we doubt not many of them are well 
founded and deserve particular attention, and in the course of the present 
Winter, will be taken into consideration by Congress, and we hope effec- 
tually remedied. 

That a reform may take place in the Army, and proper discipline be 
introduced, We wish to see the Military placed on such a footing as may 
make a Commission a desirable object to the Officer, and his Rank pre- 
served from degradation and contempt; for these purposes we intend to 
recommend to Congress 

That an half pay establishment be formed and adopted in the Amer- 
ican Service 
That a pensionary establishment take place in favour of Officers 

Widows. 
That a new regulation of Rank confining it as far as possible to the 

line of the Army be adopted. 
That an equitable mode of paying for hack ration be ordered. 
Should these several regulations be approved and established by Con- 
gress (and we have reason to suppose they will) We trust the prevailing 
discontents will subside and a spirit of emulation take place among the 
Gentlemen of the Army to promote the Public Service and introduce that 
order and discipline amongst the Troops so essential to the Military 
character. 

As a further inducement the Committee have it also in contemplation 
to propose in Congress that the Officers be permitted to dispose of their 

s The allusion is probably to the rather broad hints in Williams's letter of Nov. 4 
(no. 726, ante^. See also no. 776, post. 
[774]^ Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCL no. 



5 

Commissions under sucli regulations as may render the measure eligible.* 
We are 

Your Excellencys Most Obedt hble Servants 

RoBT Morris, 
Elbkidge Gerry 
Jos: Jones. 
To 

His Excellency 

George Washington Esqr 
General and Commander in Chief of the Forces 
of the United States of America 

774A. Henry Laurens to the Continental Congress.^ 

Gentlemen 

In the Character of a Delegate in Congress give me leave to address 
you. Your President has been confined to his Chamber and in Bed for 
three days and Nights past during which time he has not had three hours 
Sleep, the Malady under which he labours has made such a progress as 
to convince him by reflecting upon former attacks that he will not be able 
to move out of the House nor to attend his duty in Congress for some 
Weeks to come. When he accepted the Honour which you were pleased 
to confer on him it was with a single Eye to your service in the most 
comprehensive meaning. Now he finds himself incapable of performing 
his duty he is anxious to Resign that Honour, which he accepted only in 
obedience to your Vote." 

These, you may depend upon it Gentlemen, are the genuine sentiments 
of his mind. 

There already lies upon his Table much business which with pain he 
thinks of, because it is not in his power to give proper dispatch to it. 
every day unless you are pleased to prevent it, will accumulate the heap 
public business will be impeded and some branches will run into Con- 
fusion. 

I therefore humbly move you Gentlemen to proceed to the choice of a 
President as an act of propriety and necessity, be assured I should have 
continued to serve you with diligence and fidelity if my health had per- 
mitted. I trust I shall not only be seconded in this Motion but that there 
will not be a dissenting voice in Congress. 
I am Gentlemen 

Your faithful Coadjutor and humble Servant 

Henry Laurens 
York Tov;^n 

12 Decern, 1777 

The Honble Congress 

2 This committee was appointed Nov. 28. A letter from it, dated Dec. 6, was 
read in Congress Dec. 8. Its report to Congress is in the Journals, Dec. 16, and the 
enclosure here referred to constitutes the last four paragraphs of that report. Cf. ibid., 
Dec. 18, 19, 24, 30, 31 ; also Jan. 5, 1778 and passim (index, Army, Half Pay). See also 
no. 766, ante, nos. 779, 780, 782-785, 790, post. 

[774 A] ^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XIV., f. 185. 
- See no. 793, post. 



December, z/// 587 

775. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 

(Nicholas Cooke)/ 

York-Town State of Pennsylvania 

Deer. 14th. 1777 
Sir, 

.... Congress have determined upon the mode of Inquiry into the 
causes of the failure of the Rhode-Island Expedition, and have appointed 
Genl. Whipple, of N Hampshire, Robert Treat Paine, Esq. of Massachu- 
setts-Bay, H. Marchant, Esq., of Rhode-Island, Oliver Elsworth, Esq., 
of Connecticut, and Egbert Benson, Esq., of New- York Commissioners 
for that purpose : the Time of their meeting to be the first monday in 
february, and the place Providence.^ 

The Question hath been asked side ways, who is to pay the Expense of 
that Expedition ; but it hath not yet been serious asked and I hope it will 
not. If the Expedition had succeeded we should never have heard about 
the Expense, and perhaps if tlie Authors of its failure are brought to 
Light, their Punishment may appease the Resentment of Congress, and 
obliterate the Idea of an enormous useless Expense.® We have no late 
news from France or the W. Indies. When anything occurs of Conse- 
quence, I shall write to your Excellency, in the mean Time give me leave 
to subscribe myself, with great Regard, Yr Excellency's 

most obedt humble Servant, 

William Ellery 

Deer. 17th. 
[P. S.] . . . . Since I wrote the foregoing, Genl. Washington trans- 
mitted to Congress a letter from Genl. Heath to him, in which he in- 
formed G. W. that Application had been made to him by the Offi[ce]rs 
concerned in the Rhode Island expedition for their pay, and desired to 
know whether the Continent or the States who fu[r]nished the Troops 
were to pay the expence. This brot in the question which I hoped would 
never have been started, and after a slight agitation, in which I perceived it 
was the Sense of Congress that the Continent ought to bear the Expence, it 
was referred to a Committee to examine the Journals in this Regard, and 
to report to Congress 

776. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

York-Town Decembr. 15th 1777 
Sir 

I received yours by Brown of the in which I find you are still 

Complaining that you cannot get rid of the publick stores on hand in any 

[775]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1777-1/78, p. 108; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 158. 

2 See no. 764, note 3, ante ; also Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., pp. 155-166 (passim), 
174, 193, 195. 

3 See the postscript to this letter, and the Journals, Dec. 15. The committee of 
Nov. 28 was to inquire into the causes of the failure of the Rhode Island expedition, 
that of Dec. 15 into its rise. See, further, Ellery to Cooke, Jan. 4, in the next volume 
of these Letters. 

[776]! Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Collection, no. 52. 



5 

Regular way Conj^ress have done every thing in tlicir power to reheve 
you, the fault lias lain entirely with Coll Stewart in not taking care of his 
Department they have repeatedly wrote him or directed Mr. Buchanan 
to Inform him of the dificultics which lie in his department where he is 
and what is become of him we know not, we have heard that he had set 
out for the Eastern world some time agoe but to prevent every dificulty 
for the future thev have Imjwwered Govr. Trumbull to supply every 
defect in both the purchasing and Issuing Department in that part of the 
world.-" Orders have been' long Given to Mr. Buchanan for 2 hund. 
thousand dollars on the loan office in Boston for the Eastern Department 
to be paid in preference to any other (as by the return made from that 
office they were good for more than that sum) and to be Immediately 
sent to Mr. Colt, and to save and Indemnifye you the Treasury Board 
have rendered Valid, and to pass to your account all the stores any Genii 
officer shall either take or that you may deliver to their Order.* I hope 
before this you are in a great measure relieved of your dificulties You 
Inform me that you were about to set out for Boston and Salem to pur- 
chase Cloathing for the Colony and had it not been for Coll. Williams' 
letter* Informing you of the jealousies and Suspicions Congress had 
entertained of your Integrity etc you was about to undertake to supply 
with provisions from Connecticut but on his Information you declined 
having anything to do with it and was so advised by the Govr and his 
Council I should have thot that both the Govr and you had been long 
enough acquainted with Coll. Williams I mean the suddeness of his 
Temper the warmth of his Imagination, the strong Impression sometimes 
a little matter makes on his mind, (tho' of an honest good heart) to lay so 
great a Stress upon his painting. I found he had wrote and feard as for 
some other of his letters They were unguarded and would have no good 
effect but the Contrary*, he informed me the ground of his letter was 
when some affairs touching the Commissy department were agitated in 
Congress a Certain Member he would not tell me who not knowing as he 
supposes of his Connection with you whispered him that he feard you 
was so put out and Chagrined at the New Regulations that you had in 
some measure embarrassed and discouraged others in undertaking I have 
no doubt but somebody might throw out such a hint to him, and possibly 
some might have such fears or suspicion; but is that enough to lay so 
great a Stress upon, when you have been repeatedly assured that Con- 
gress in general and believe may say now Universally entertain a high 
opinion of your Abilities and Integrity in your whole Conduct in that De- 
partment, they have given you the Strongest Evidence of it by a Unani- 
mous unsolicited Vote even of every Individual in appointing you one of 
a Board, the most honourable as well as Interesting to your Country.' 
We had formerly 2 or 3 heady mischief making Gentn. in Congress they 
are gone and believe will be here no more the party is broke up all is 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 3; cf. nos. 761, 77^, ante. 

8 See the Journals, Nov. 12, cf. ibid., Sept. 16, Dec. 20. 

*See Williams to Trumbull, Nov. 4 (no. 726, ante). Cf. no. 77i, ante. 

5 The board of war. See the Journals, Nov. 27, and nos. 7S7-76i, 773, ante. 



December, J/// 589 

harmony and Union. Schuyler is no more! I was rather sorry to hear 
your long defence and Exculpation in your letter to Congress against 
Charges they had never heard nor believe suspected and was equally sorry 
to hear the Governors letter Complaining of the Treatment his sons had 
received especially at this time, when I can assure him and you that both 
you and your brother the Paymaster Stand in a fairer point of light with 
Congress than any two Gentn. ever employ'd by them, yet I am Sensi- 
ble that at a time, to serve some friend or particular purpose your brother 
was Superseded and you have had now and then a Squib thrown at you 
but without making any impression prejudicial to your Carracter. your 
brother John was ill treated I believe but all would have been put right 
had he been a little more soft in his letter old Doctor Witherspoon of 
high Scotch feeling was nettled and without any prejudice against the 
family principally opposed its being rectified.® You say it is a little won- 
derd at my and Coll Williams Recommendation of a Certain Gentn.'' I 
did it from political motives, which can explain to you when I may have 
the pleasure of seeing you again, which hope will be soon. Congress 
have great hopes and expectations from this New Constituted Board of 
Warr. the Army in every Department wants a total reform and regula- 
tion both Internal and External we are determined by the blessing of 
Heaven to have it Effected, our appointment meets with universal ap- 
plause, great Expectations are from it. We have also appointed Inspec- 
tors Genii, of the Army in every department, who will be Executors and 
assist, agts to the board of Warr. will Inspect make their returns and 
reports to you. they are Gentn. of great knowledge abilities and Integrity 
and believe will be Intent to reform abuses regulate disorders establish 
discipline in the Army, since the above received yours from Boston of 
the 7th. what is past cannot be helpd. we must make the best of what is 
to come, it is unaccountable what is become of Mr. Colts order for 2 hund 
thousand dollars, a duplicate is now sent and a large sum in Cash, the 
order on New York reversed and an order to Govr and Council of Safety 
on Connecticut Loan office in Lieu of it, which we find now to be good 
for a Considerable sum.* Congress have had every department to 
attend to, hope it is in a good way at last the Gov. and Councill may 
Employe Coll Champion and whom they please, assist Mr. Colt Cooperate 
one with another as much as possible I know they dont want the trouble, 
but the Mistakes in past will require greater Exertions in the future Our 
Army have done so much fighting this summer they seem much Inclined 
to go into winter quarters and prepare for spring, if so How will have 
free plunder possibly disturb them in their proposed quiet. 

My afifectionate regard to family and am sincerely 

Yours 
E Dyer, 
Mr Jos Trumbull 

8 See no. 759, note 5, ante ; also Henry Laurens to Governor Trumbull, Jan. 5, 
1778, in the next volume of these Letters. 

7 The allusion is to one of the members of the board of war, but it is not certain 
which one is meant. 

8 See the Journals, Oct. 10, Nov. 3. Cf. ibid., Dec. 20. 



5 

yyy. James Duane to Horatio Gates.* 

Manour Livingston i6th. Decemr 1777 

Sir 

Congress have been pleased to appoint V>r\^\- General Stark to the 
Command of an Enterprize which they have much at Heart. It's Success 
under Providence depending entirely ui)on Secrecy : For fear of a mis- 
carriage of the Dispatches, I am directed in a personal Conference at 
Albany to explain their Views and deliver to him his Commission and 
Instructions.- where that General is employd at present Congress is unin- 
formed and have therefore directed me to trouble you with forwarding 
the enclosed Letter : One from you might quicken his Journey to Albany, 
and as no Time shoud be lost I must request that Favour, as well as that 
you will be so obliging as to employ in this Business an Express on whose 
Diligence you can rely, and to order him to proceed to this place with 
General Stark's Answer as soon as possible : If you can form any prob- 
able Conjecture when it may be expected your Opinion will regulate my 
Conduct 

I hope to have the Pleasure of an Interview with you before you pro- 
ceed to Congress. From what I learn it woud ease your mind on a Subject 
which, without any Reason, has given you Pain, you may be assurd that 
you hold a high Place in the Esteem and Confidence of Congress 

Governour Clinton three days ago removd to Pocepesy where he pro- 
poses to meet our Legislature. I flatter myself that you will confer with 
him on the Defences of Hudson's River before your Departure : as Con- 
gress depends on your advice, and considers the Security of the Commu- 
nication between the Northern and Southern States as an object of 
infinite Importance.^ .... 

778. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Manour Livingston i6th. Decemr. 1777. 
Dear General. 

I am charged with Dispatches from Congress which I left the 5th. 
Instant to the Commissioners of Indian Affairs for the Northern Depart- 
ment; and directed to hold with them a personal Conference on Subjects 
which Congress have warmly at Heart.^ For this purpose I intend soon 
to visit Albany. In the mean Time it will be necessary to convene the 
Commissioners. When that can be effected I can form no Conjecture; 
but must wait for your Information. 

I am obliged to see Genl. Stark at Albany, and General Gates is desired 
to send for him. you will Judge from Circumstances, how long it may be 

[777]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XI. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 3 ; cf. no. 766, ante, and no. 778, post. See also the Jour- 
iials, Jan. 21, 22, 23, Feb. I, 2, Mar. 28, May 4, 1778; On the "irruption into Canada" 
cf. ibid, (index). 

s Cf. no. 750, ante. 
[778]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 3 ; cf. nos. 766, 777, ante. 



December, 7777 • 591 

before an Express can reach him, return to me, and he repair to Albany ; 
From your Opinion on this Point I shall regulate my Journey, for which 
I shall therefore be obliged to you : as well as for fixing the meeting of 
the Commissrs. accordingly, that I may be eased of the Trouble of a 
Double Attendance at this inclement Season. Before I shall have the 
pleasure of seeing you Congress will forward an Eagle's Tail and Rattle- 
trap sent them by the Creeks as a Token of Peace and Friendship. The 
use of it will appear from a Talk to the Six Nations with which I am 
charged, but need not now forward ; as I am entrusted to make any altera- 
tions which, on Conference with you, Circumstances may appear to 
require ; and I believe some will be found necessary.^ .... 

779. Jonathan Bayard Smith to the Vice-President of 
Pennsylvania (George Bryan). ^ 

York Town, Deer, 19 1777 
Dr. Sir 

Congress yesterday reed. acct. of the arrival of a ship from France in 
75 days with 46 Cannon 19 mortars 9 Inch 61,000 wt of Brimstone near 
4000 small arms some powder etc. we have no papers by this Vessell. 
Genl. Gates has answered some queries proposed by Congress respectg. 
Burgoynes conduct in the Convention. He says the military chest and 
standards w^ere left in Canada. He accounts for the arms be^. unfit for 
service in the return and the want of scabbards for bayonets and of Car- 
touch boxes etc. and concludes that things have been conducted tolerably 
well.' 

I wish to have the result of Colo. Bayard and Mr. Youngs business at 
Camp.^ I have not a copy of the resolution of the house on the quorum 
of their delegates. The memorial of the house and Council was laid 
before Congress the Even^ I arrived here and read. It was again read 
yesterday, and will probably be considered this da [y.] I believe Congress 
will not wish our army to be at any considerable distance from Ph^.* 
But hav^ been very unwell yesterday I could only crawl to Congress, and 
have not been able to visit many of the members. 

I expect to write to you again in a day or two. 

Yrs. etc. 
J. B. Smith. 

[P. S.] Yesterday rec'd a exact return of Burgoynes army at the time 
of surrender^. You'l see it in the next paper. 

3 See no. 789, post. 
[779]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 909; Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 108. 

2 See no. 782, post. 

3 See Pa. Arch., first ser.> VI. 61, 75. 

* This relates to the " remonstrance " from the Pennsj^lvania council and assem- 
bly concerning the cantonment of the army. See the Journals, Dec. 17-19, 22, 25. Cf. 
no. 774, ante. See also no. 780, post. The Pennsylvania remonstrance is in Pa. Arch., 
first ser., V. 307. A resolution passed at a conference between the council and assembly 
to present the remonstrance to Congress, together with four reasons to be urged against 
the proposed cantonment, is ibid., VI. 104 (see the Journals, p. 1033, note i). 



5 

780. Jonathan Bayard Smith to the Vice-President of 
Pennsylvania (George Bryan ).^ 

York Town, Deer. 19th, 1777. 

Dr Sir, 

This clay the memorial from our State concerning the cantonment of 
the regular army was taken into consideration. Congress had some time 
ago, by a Committee, recommended to Genl Washington, if he determined 
to take winter quarters, to dispose of his army in such manner as would 
most cfTectually cover the Country, etc. They have now ordered the 
memorial of our State to be transmitted to the Genl, and liave desired him 
to inform Congress whether he is about to canton his troops, and where, 
and what provision he has made for securing the East side of Schuylkill 
and the State of N. Jersey. This you will be pleased to communicate to 
the Gentlemen of both houses for their present satisfaction. A copy of 
the resolution I have not time by this opportunity to forward, but suppose 
it will be sent more formally by our delegates by the next opportunity 
that may offer.^ 

We hear that the army are about putting in the Gulph valley. This 
is the wish of Congress as far as I can judge. 

I am, Dr Sir. 

Yr afft and v. h. st. 

J. B. Smith. 



781. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 

Philip Schuyler.^ 

York 20th. Decmr. 1777. 

.... I reserve the honour of presentmg your Letter to Congress 
when I shall be able to attend the House, at present I am closely confined 
by the Gout in both feet, but hope to get abroad before Christmas day. 
I mean Sir, by this delay to quicken the business which you press, by 
intimating to Congress from the retiring of Mr. Adams and Mr. Lee, the 
necessity for nominating a new Comm^*' for enquiring into the cause of 
the loss of Tyconderoga etc. and at the same time producing all the papers 
which in the course of our past enquiry have been lodged in my hands, 
these by a very few hours attention may be properly digested and if 
Gentlemen are of my opinion that there is no ground for expecting 
further important information a Report may presently follow.^ .... 

[780]! Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 109. 

2 See no. 777, note 4, a«'^. nos. 782, 783, 785, post. 
[781]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 79. 

2 Schuyler's letter of Nov. 28 was read in Congress Dec. 26, the day on which 
Laurens returned to Congress (see no. 793, post), and three additional members appointed 
on the committee. See the Journals, July 29, Aug. i, 19, 20, 23, 26, 27, 28, Oct. 9, Nov. 14, 
Dec. 26. 1777, Jan. 20, 26, 27, Feb. 5, Mar. 10, Apr. 29, June 12, 20, 1778. See nos. 669, 
note 2, 677, ante; also Laurens to Washington, Apr. 4, 1778, in the next volume of these 
Letters. 



December, 7777 593 

782. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

York Deer. 20th. [1777.] 
Dear Sir 

.... The Returns which had been made to us of Artillery etc. taken 
from the Enemy had induced us to make several Queries to Genl. Gates 
respecting- the Standards, Cartouch Boxes Bayonetts etc. which appeared 
to have been destroyed. Genl. Gates tells us that upon Burgoyne's word 
of Honor the Standards were left in Canada ; and that the other suspicious 
Appearances sprang from the Conduct of our own People and certain 
Necessities, but not from any Breach of the Convention by the Will of 
Genl. Burgoyne or his Officers 

You have doubtless e'er this been made acquainted with G : Burgoyne's 
critical Disposition in regard to the descriptive List of his men which was 
to have been taken by Genl. Heath's order. For this and other similar 
Pride it was thought proper to take hold of Mr. Bourgoyne's manner of 
asking a Favour of Congress thro one of its Officers : In consequence, the 
following Resolve was passed the 17th. Resolved that Genl. Washington 
be directed to inform Genl. Burgoyne the Congress will not receive nor 
consider any Proposition for Indulgence or altering the terms of the Con- 
vention of Saratoga unless immediately directed to their own Body. 

With a Degree of the Arts of our Enemies this Resolve is penned to 
lead Burgoyne into direct Petition to Congress, tho it does not give an 
absolute Promise to grant his Petition.^ 

You will find in some of my attendant slovenly scrawls so much encour- 
agement to expect from me Intelligence about our grand Army upon the 
Return of the Committee, that I do not know how to avoid saying some- 
thing about it, now, though 'tis a Subject very sickening to even a strong 
Stomach. 

The Majority of the Officers were fixt and determined against a 
Winter-Campaign; and the Nakedness of the Soldiers furnished such 
abundant Argument to their Leaders that the Committee could not recom- 
mend any thing better than a Cantonment which would best tend to cover 
the Countrey and accomodate the army. 

It was evident, among Friends I say it, that our Army was not inclined 
to fight Howe when he gave them 4 days opportunity. The Committee 
therefore could not give it as their Opinion to the General that he ought, 
with that same Army, to force the Lines of the Enemy, or attempt the 
City by the Schuylkill. In short, unless we secure Half pay to Officers 
and Pensions to their Widows and make their Commissions vendible, 
severe Discipline in respect to Officers cannot be introduced, and conse- 
quently none at all in respect to Soldiers. But the General does swear 
that, if the Commissions are made desirable, he will cashier without 
favour or affection till the Army becomes vigorous: In this hope we 
breathe this day ; but verily my own Share of Hope is not great enough 

[782]! N_ Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 See nos. 752, 779, anie, and the Journals, Dec. i, 12, 17, 18, 23, 26, 27; also nos. 
786, 791, post. 



5 

on this Promise as to make me relinquish the Idea of an annual Choice 
of all officers." 

The Report of Genl. W's Intention to canton near Willmington has 
brought a Remonstrance from this State to us, and I momentarily expect 
another from the Jersies :*.... 

783. Abraham Clark to Lord Stirling/ 

YoRY Town, Deer. 20, 1777. 
My Lord, 

We have been much alarmed by a report that the Army was going into 
Winter quarters in or about Wilmington, thereby leaving New Jersey 
and a great part of Penns^ intirely open to the Enemy, This Supposed 
measure produced several Resolutions of Congress, which, with a Re- 
monstrance on that Subject from the Legislature of Penns* are forwarded 
to the Commander in Chief, requesting his particular Attention to the 
Security of New Jersey etc. We had before Congress the Opinions of 
the General officers respecting proper places for Cantoning the Army, and 
with great pleasure find you in favour of the Valley near Schuylkill, 
which in the judgment of all or most I have met with is the only place 
for defending the Country and preventing Supplies to the Enemy, as the 
Army at Wilmington would leave great part of Penns^ and Jersey 
greatly exposed to the Enemys Ravages, the Shiping up Delaware would 
be lost, and all the extensive Salt works in Jersey destroyed, and not un- 
likely a general defection take place in this State, and many parts of 
Jersey, and Supplies for the Army from the Eastern States greatly 
Obstructed.^. . . . 

784. Elbridge Gerry to Robert Morris.^ 

York, Deer. 21. 1777. 
Dear Sir 

I am favoured with yours of the 28th [?] with the inclosure and fully 
agree with you, in the Necessity of introducing " A Spirit of Enterprize 
to our Army ", and in order thereto, of encouraging every Instance of such 
a Disposition that we meet with.^ Colo. Barton proposed sending to Con- 
gress, a Petition expressing his Desires as set forth in General Green's 
Letter; I shall therefore wait a few Days in Expectation of an Oppor- 

3 A committee to consult with General Washington was appointed Nov. 28. See 
nos. 766. 774, ante; also the Journals, Dec. 16, 18, 19, 24, 30, 31, and nos. 784, 785, 790, 
post. See also Lovell to Adams, Jan. 13, 1778, in the next volume of these Letters. 

* See the Journals, Dec. 17-19. 22, 24, and no. 779, note 4, ante. Cf. nos. 783, 785, 
post. 

[783]! Hist. See. of Pa., Dreer Coll.; Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XXIX. 193. 

2 Cf. nos. 779, 780, 782, ante, no._ 785, post. 
[784]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 4. 

2 Gerry and Morris were members of a committee appointed Nov. 28 to consult 
with General Washington in regard to the condition of the army. See no. 774, ante. 
Morris's letter was probably dated Dec. 18. 



December, i/// 595 

tunity of supporting the Petition with the Letter." Nothing new at 
Congress excepting the arrival of a Vessel from Marseilles with a valu- 
able Cargo, which is published in the papers 

785. Jonathan Bayard Smith to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Thomas Wharton, Jr.).^ 

Lancaster Deer, 22 1777 
Sir, 

Inclosed you have a resolution of Congress on the subject of the me- 
morial from your State with which I was charged. I am happy to inform 
you that the army has taken quarters in a position which I presume will 
be agreeable to the State.^ Congress have now before them a number of 
resolutions concerning the army which will probably be transmitted in 
a day or two to the assembly. On the other leaf you have a copy of an 
act passed by the State of Virginia which your delegates thought it their 
duty to transmit to you.' 

I have the honor to be with great regard your Excellencys counsel 
and the humble army's most humble servant 

Jon* B. Smith 

His Excellency the President Honble the Counsel 
and Honble the Assembly 

786. The President of Congress to William Heath.^ 

York Town 23d. Decem. 1777. 
Sir, 

My last trouble was under the ist. Inst: by Messenger Tais, since 
which your dispatch of the 27th. Novem. came to hand and I believe 
another of your favours, this or these were immediately sent to Congress 
and I presume committed to the Board of War.^ I have been closely 
confined by a severe attack of the Gout for 1 5 days past, and therefore am 
not so intimately acquainted with the steps of Congress as I should have 
been if my health had not failed, nor enabled to write to you with that 
accuracy which I should do if your Letters were before me. 

The Commands which I have this Evening received from Congress to 
be transmitted to you are as follows,' . . . , 

s A memorial of Col. William Barton was presented to Congress Dec. 24. Cf. 
the Journals, July 19, 25. 

[785] 1 From the collection of the late Adrian H, Joline, New York; Pa. Arch., first 
sen, VI, 124. 

2 See nos. 779, 780, 782, ante. 

sThe Virginia act (Oct. 28, 1777)) is in Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 125. Cf. the 
Journals, Dec. 20. 

[786]! Mass, Hist. Soc, Heath Papers, XII. 84, III, 34 (duplicate) ; Library of 
Congress, Presidents Letter-Book, I. 71, 

2 Heath's letter of Nov. 27 was read in Congress Dec. 12, and a letter of Dec. 7 
was read in Congress Dec, 18, A letter of Nov. 24, to the board of treasury, was laid 
before Congress Dec. 15. 

3 The resolves of Dec. 19, 22. 



5 

I am furtlier charg:ecl by a Member to inform you as a Messajj^e from 
Congress tbat it is expected yon will see tbat all Acconnts with General 
Bnrgoyne are Settled and fnlly paid a.e^rccable to the above mentioned 
Resolves before the embarkation of himself or other Officers and Troops 
included in the Convention of Saratoga.* 

A Committee are now preparing proper Instructions for your proceed- 
ing with respect to the demanded description of Soldiers and other per- 
sons comprehended in that agreement. Mr. Burgoyne's memory has 
deceived him in tlie Account which he gives of Sir Guy Carleton's re- 
leasing many hundred Continental Troops upon their bare parol. Mr. 
Boudinot has shewn me a much more accurate state of which you will be 
fully and very soon informed, these articles are however mere baggatelle 
compared with his complaint that the public faith with respect to the Con- 
vention is infracted, in a Letter to Major Gen. Gates, it will be impos- 
sible to part with him before an eclaircissement is had on this important 
charge.^ I have the honour to be 

With very great Esteem Sir Your most obedient Servant 

Henry Laurens 
President of Congress 

787. William Ellery to William Whipple.^ 

[December, 1777.]' 
Dear Sir 

. . . . Among the prisoners we have made in that quarter is Mr James 
Delancey who was taken in Maurisania and who went over to the enemy 
since the Declaration of Independency. Congress have ordered him to 
be delivered over to the Executive Order of New York to be dealt with 
as to Law shall appertain.^ .... 

I read the paragraph of your letter relating to Marine matters to the 
Marine Committee. They liked the hint : but you know that Committee 
I wish you were here, that Committee particularly wants your services. 



788, Daniel Roberdeau to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town, Deer 24th, 1777. 
Sir, 

The Delegates of this State are honored with your favor of the 20th, 
which shall forthwith be laid before Congress, to obtain a further regula- 

* See the Journals, Dec. 19 (p. 1037). 

5 See the Journals, Dec. i, 12, 17, 18, 23, 26, 27; also nos. 752, 756, 779, 782, ante, 
no. 791, post. 

[787] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 445. 

2 Some passages of this letter, not here printed, indicate that it was probably 
written about Dec. 23. 

3 There is no record in the Journals of the order concerning James De Lancey. 
See a letter from John Jay to De Lancey, Jan. 2, 1778, and De Lancey's reply, Jan. 14, in 
Correspondence of Jay, I. 171, 172. Morrisania was a village in Westchester County, 
N. Y., now included within the city of New York. 

[788]! Pa. State Lib., P. P., XLIV, 39; Pa. Arch., first ser., VL 131. 



December, 7777 597 

tion of the hire of Waggons.^ An ambiguity in Genl Armstrongs Letter, 
and the entire silence of Council on the Subject leaves us in doubt respect- 
ing their pleasure. If a repeal of the Resolve of Congress of one Substitute 
for two Yeoman is meant, it falls in with my judgment, and shall be glad 
to have it signified.* Coll Smith has forwarded to you the Resolve of 
Congress in answer to the Remonstrance of our State, also copy of a law 
of Virginia to suppress Monopoly.* 

789. Henry Laurens to James Duane.^ 

York 24th. Decem. 1777. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The Eagle Tail and Rattle Trap nicely cased up are put into a 
Waggon now bound to Albany with public Money, under the protection 
of Peter Webber who will deliver them to your order.^ .... 

A Vessel containing 70 Hogsds. of Rum and 6 Hogsds. Sugar with 
some other goods intended from Granada to New York for the use of the 
Enemy had been carried into Charles Town by the Mate and Crew, who 
had dispossessed the Master of Command, the whole was adjudged in 
pursuance of the Resolution of Congress,' prize to the Captors, this is 
the first retort upon that species of British policy calculated for encourag- 
ing infidelity and treachery among seamen in the service of these States. 
I have no doubt but that in a few Months they will experience an hundred 
fold retaliation of their infamous example, which nothing but dire neces- 
sity would have induced virtuous Americans to Copy.* .... 

790. Daniel Roberdeau to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town, Deer 26th, 1777. 
Sir, 

A letter is just come to hand giving the most melancholy discription of 
the situation of our army on account of difficiencies in the Commissary's 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 24. President Wharton's letter is in Pa. Arch., first ser., 
VI. 116. Cf. ibid., VI. 124, 130, 136. 

3 The letter of General Armstrong referred to is probably that of Nov. 29, in 
Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 43- Cf. ibid., V. 487, 672, VI. 65, 96, 171, 251, See the Jour- 
nals, Apr. 14, Dec. 4. 

* See no. 785, ante. 

[789P S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 207. 

2 See nos. 766, 777, 778, ante. Laurens sets forth circumstantially the situation 
of Indian affairs in the South. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 14, and no. 690, ante. 

* The disposition toward retaliation is also voiced by William Ellery in a 
letter written about the same time: "Our soldiers in the hands of the enemy at Phila- 
delphia and New York, especially in the former, are treated in a most barbarous manner 
and a number of them have perished with famine. Some of them have died in the 
State house yard with grass in their mouths as I have been informed different ways. 
How long shall we forbear to retaliate on those worse than savages !".... (Library 
of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 445.) 

[790]! Pa. State Lib., P. P., XLIV. 40 ; Pa. Arch., first ser., VL 134. 



5 

and Qr master's Departments.- With respect to the article of cloathing, 
2800 are obhged to retire in a naked condition, unfit alone from that con- 
sideration for duty, that he was about to apply a remedy by taking super- 
numerary articles, particularly from the disaffected, agreeable to a resolve 
of Congress,' but desisted on an assurance from a Committee of this 
State, that provision would be made without delay in a manner more to 
the satisfaction of the Inhabitants, but although their own Troops suf- 
fered in the most extream degree, either no supply had been sent, or so 
scanty that it did not deserve to be mentioned. Thus much from memory. 
I intend Council an extract of the Letter if I can obtain it. This is no time 
for recrimination, otherwise I could trace our present distress to other 
sources, and indeed Genl Washington speaks out for the first time and 
charges the principle difficiency viz., in the Commissary's department, to 
the arrangement made by Congress. I foresaw the Consiquences and 
withstood the measure, but in vain.* .... 

791. The President of Congress to William Heath. ^ 

York Tow^n 27th. December, 1777. 
Sir, 

I beg leave to refer you to the inclosed duplicate of a letter which I had 
the honour of writing to you the 23d Inst transmitted by the hand of a 
Mr. Storer.^ 

Congress having received from Gen. Gates as intimated in my last, 
Copy of a Letter written to him by Lieut* Gen. Burgoyne in which this 
Gentleman declares that " the public faith is broke " etc., have taken his 
declaration, together with his refusal, under an assertion not founded in 
truth, to give such descriptive marks of his Non Commissioned Officers 
privates and other persons as you had demanded, into their most serious 
consideration in a Committee of the wdiole House, these weighty and 
important circumstances after having long employed the close attention 
of a select Committee, have taken up almost the whole time of Congress 
for two days past, nor have the House yet accomplished all the solemn 
and necessar}' Resolutions which the Case demands but so far has the 
House proceeded as to receive a Report from the Committee of the whole, 
and to order me to address you Sir, in terms of the Letter which you will 
find inclosed and of this which I am now^ penning, these will be followed 

2 Two letters from Washington, Dec. 22 and 23 (Writings, ed. Ford, VI. 252, 
257), describing conditions in the army, were read in Congress Dec. 26 and referred to 
a committee. December 29 this committee was discharged, and the letters referred to 
the board of war and three additional members as a committee. See nos. 794, 795, post, 
and the Journals, Jan. i, 15, 1778. Another committee, to take into consideration the 
wants of the army, together with the propositions from the committee sent to camp, had 
been appointed Dec. 24. See nos. 774, 782, ante; cf. no. 792, post. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 17, Nov. 14, Dec. 10. 
* See nos. 664, 726, 748, 757. 759, ante. 

l79i]iMass. Hist. Soc, Heath Papers, XII. 85, III. 54 (duplicate); Library of 
Congress. Presidents Letter-Book, I. 80; Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IV. 
194 (printed from the duplicate in the Heath Papers). 

2 No. 786, ante. The bearer was presumably Ebenezer Storer. See the Journals, 
Aug. II, Oct. 23. 



December, I'jyy 599 

as speedily as possible by extended Acts and Resolutions prepared for 
your further direction and for public Information on both sides the 
Atlantic.^ 

It is the express desire and injunction of Congress that you do not 
communicate the contents of these Letters to any person until it shall 
become absolutely necessary, that is to say until you shall have received 
the intended Acts and Resolves or until you shall have attempted and 
if possible completed certain essential Acts, admitting the Vessels for 
transporting Lt. Gen. Burgoyne and his Troops to be arrived at the port 
of Boston, by essential Acts, Congress mean that the Tonnage of the 
Transport Vessels and also that the Stores of Provisions and Fuel should 
be particularly enquired into and ascertained to be in your judgement 
sufficient for transportation and sustenance of the numbers of persons 
intended to be embarked for a Voyage from Boston to Great Britain, 
and more particularly that all accounts be liquidated and the Amount due 
by Lt. Gen. Burgoyne or as great a part of it as you can obtain, actually 
paid in Gold or Silver according to the rate specified in the Resolve of 
Congress of the 19th Inst, transmitted in my last Letter, in order to 
reduce within the smallest compass articles which hereafter may be made 
subjects for cavil and disputation by the Court of Great Britain on whose 
honour and justice these States cannot at present with any degree of 
safety rely. 

These Acts which Congress judge indespensibly necessary to be per- 
formed before an embarkation can take place will employ some days and 
gain so much time without subjecting the Honour of the House or of its 
Constituents to any unfavourable imputation from the world. You will 
also from what has been said perceive good ground for renewing your 
demand of the Names and particular description of the Non Commis- 
sioned Officers privates etc. but it may be prudent not to press this unless 
by appeal to expected directions from Congress and to the conduct of 
Sir Guy Carleton in the Instance adduced by Mr. Burgoyne and permit 
him if he pleases to decoy himself. 

If when you shall have sufficiently attempted or completed these neces- 
sary Acts you shall not have received the intended Resolves of Congress, 
it will then be necessary for you to disclose the Contents of the Inclosed 
Letter to General Burgoyne and peremptorily to prohibit his embarka- 
tion until you shall have received further directions on that point. 

You Avill understand the motive for dating that Letter January 1778, 
and leaving a Blank for the day to be properly and carefully filled by your 
self.* 

I have in conclusion to assure you Sir. that Congress repose the highest 
confidence in your address and abilities for conducting with propriety this 
very important business in which on one side the faith and honour of 
these Infant States are to be preserved, and on the other the magnanimity 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 26, 27, and no. 786, note 5, ante. See also no. 793, post 
• t- * The letter to General Heath, which was given the date Jan. 8, 1778, is printed 
in the Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IV. 210. It will also be found under 
Its date in the next volume of these Letters. 

43 



600 Contiucutal Congress 

and Resolution of Congress to be excmplincd in g^uarding against frauds 
and decei)tions of an Enemy who have hitherto practiced without remorse 
every act of violence, injustice, and cruelty in the prosecution of the 
present War. 

792. Daniel Roberdeau to the Vice-President of Pennsylvania 

(George Bryan ).^ 

York Town, Deer 29th, 1777. 
Sir. 

1 wrote Council, two days ago. to which please to be refered. Revd 
Mr Batwell, on an application to be enlarged on security on his parole, 
accompanied with a certificate from his Physician, that fresh air and 
exercise were absolutely necessary to his recovery, obtained the following 
resolution : 

" That in the opinion of Congress the Revd Mr Batwell should be 
discharged out of confinement on his taking an oath of allegiance to the 
State of Pennsilvania, or on his refusal that he should be allowed to go 
with his family into the City of Philadelphia" The delicacy of interfering 
with this State w^as agitated, together with the very low condition of the 
petitioner whose life was reported to be in iminent danger, and might add 
to the number of marters in the esteem of the disaffected, who interested 
themselves in his behalf, nevertheless the prayer of the petition was not 
attended to, but the above alternative given, for Congress did not know 
how, otherwise, to get rid of importunity, and apprehended this Step 
from all circumstances, would not be disagreeable to the State.^ I think 
the above resolve is a specimen of treatment Congress w^ould wish to 
other disaffected persons in every State, as was at large said in debate, 
with much concern that decisive measures had not long since been taken 
with all Enemies to the Independence of America. A Committee are 
appointed to take into consideration the deplorable condition of our army, 
and to report to-morrow.^ I make no doubt that the most vigorous 
measures will be recommended to be immediately taken, as without, the 
army must disperse as mentioned in my last. ]My situation is extremely 
delicate on this occasion ; the ruin of our Army, or the interference with 
the police of the State, I apprehend will be the alternative set before me ; 
under these circumstances I should be glad of advice and assistance. The 
House of Burgesses, in Virginia, have unanimously consented to the con- 
fideration. as handed to them with orders to their Delegates, to confirm 
it on the loth March. 

I could wish the State would favr their Delegates with Dunlap's paper 
constantly. I should be glad you would furnish me with the two or three 
last papers. Our State, I understand, have published a bill, which I have 
not seen, respecting the measures recommended to the northward, and I 

[792]! Pa. State Lib., P. P., XLIV. 45; Pa. Arch., first sen, VI. 144. 

- See the Journals, Dec. 27, and no. 735, ante. Batwell's petition, dated Dec 26, 
is in Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 95. 
3 See no. 790, note 2, ante. 



December, 7777 601 

am told have recited the recommendation of Congress, which exposes the 
views of Congress; this was never intended, and may frustrate their 
designs.* 

793. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais.* 

30th. Decern. 1777 
My Dear Friend, 

I am now sitting both feet and Legs bouiid up in a Blanket in the room 
where Congress meets, between the adjournment at -\ p : one oClock and 
meeting hour at 3, and where a scrap of some what will be sent for my 
repast to serve till tomorrow's breakfast, perhaps two, it may be three, 
hours after dark I may be permitted to hobble on my Crutches over Ice 
and frozen Snow or to be carried to such a homely home as I have, where 
I must set in Bed one or two or three hours longer at the writing Table, 
pass the remainder of a tedious night in pain and some anxiety, I hear 
you reply — why fait[h] if I was you I would resign the president ship, 
believe me my dear Sir that was my solid determination on the 2d. or 3d. 
day after my present troublesome companion had taken possession of 
me, when by reflection comparison with former attacks and making a 
proper allowance for the rigor of this Climate I foresaw a continuance of 
pain and Crippleism for many Weeks. I then dictated a Letter to be 
written to Congress expressing my apprehensions and earnestly intreating 
an acceptance of my resignation.^ an answer was returned by a Member, 
that Congress were not disposed to grant my request but would in 
preference to appointing a new President, address the Chair and Secre- 
tary during my unavoidable absence, this seemed and indeed was very 
kind and a little flattering — a Compliment which laid claim to my grati- 
tude. I summoned patience and fortitude to my Aid, I adopted every 
measure I could think of in order to restore me to strength and abstained 
from everything, except hard work, that could have the smallest tendency 
to impede my recovery, writing in Bed, and especially one particular 
Nights discipline when I kept the Pen in hand till one in the Morning 
and resumed it again before five, shook me. however on Christmas day 
I found myself so far relieved from severe paine as to encourage hopes 
that three or four days indulgence would produce a little Strength in my 
Ankles, but late that Evening and again very early next Morning I re- 
ceived visits from a Zealous Member of Congress pressing me if possible 
by any means, to attend the House the 26th. adding, the request was made 
by desire of many Members not so immediately to the President as to a 
Member who solely represented a State, intimating that the business which 
I had set or encouraged to set in motion of the highest importance was to 

* This may refer to a resolution of the Pennsylvania general assembly, Dec. 6, 
found in Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 66. November 28 a committee of Congress (Roberdeau, 
Dyer, and Penn) was appointed to confer with the general assembly. The committee 
made its representation to the assembly Dec. 2, and a committee of the assembly brought 
in a report Dec. 6. See the Journals of the House of Representatives of Pennsylvania. 
Issues of Dunlap's Pennsylvania Packet at this time have not been accessible. 
[793P S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 222. 
2 See no. 774A, ante. 



G 

be agitated that it ought to be treated with the greatest Solemnity in a 
full Representation, this address to a State, made an impression which 
would not have been felt, if it had been directed to the president. I know 
the business it had been the subject of my meditation and contemplation 
through several painful and Sleepless nights and Days, believe me my 
dear friend I Ijave been obliged to pause here a minute to wipe away a 
falling tear which in my present low and weak State of bodily health, 
rose irrisistibly with my reflections upon the great affair which I allude to, 
and to which my duty has already required me to affix my signature — a 
signature which will probably be brought before the Tribunal of the whole 
Civilized World, possibly I may find my self at liberty to be more ex- 
plicit to His Excellency the President — but to return, the summon ani- 
mated my Soul, which is more vigorous in my present condition than 
the Body — " South Carolina shall not be quite unrepresented I will be 
carried into Congress." I was carried, — two whole days trenching deep 
upon each Night were passed in a Committee of the whole, late last 
Saturday Night the business was so far matured as to enable me to dis- 
patch a special Messenger immediately to Major General Heath at Bos- 
ton.^ these exertions have thrown me back I cannot tell how far, but I 
am in a condition which would meet more compassion were you present 
from you than it seems to do from my self. I attend Congress from the 
motive premised and while I can bear to be carried and to sit here, my 
State shall not be totally Absent, the great business is not yet completed 
on our part. God only knows wdiat will be the final end of it. 

I have laboured hard very hard to advance it to its present State, con- 
scious that I am doing eminent service to my country, if my Country 
Men shall be of opinion with a few in this House who appear to me to be 
timerous dunces, I shall be very unhappy, but I shall ever enjoy that 
satisfaction which attends good designs, whether it shall be determined 
by the World to be good or bad, the Act is great and great good or Evil 
will follow as its consequences. 

there are other matters of very momentous concern on the tapis which 
duty requires me to attend to, without reg-arding my own Ease and being 
here since 'tis the desire of Congress, I may as well sit president as any 
other Character, a good seat near a warm fire must compensate for 
additional labour 

30th. January 1778. 

A whole Month has rolled over since I threw my thoughts upon the 
preceeding pages. I have just passed my Eye over them again and 
determined imperfect as they are to submit them to your candor. I could 
add a long and affecting paragraph on the Subject of Non Representa- 
tion. I could tell you truly, the House has been reduced to nine States 
represented in Units — that we have sometimes been stagnant from a 
want of ]Members — and oftener running whole days into weeks of un- 
matured conversations from a want of able Members 

8 Laurens alludes to the debate concerning the Saratoga Convention. See nos. 
786, 791, ante. 



December, 7777 ^503 

794. Francis Lightfoot Lee to the President of Pennsylvania.* 

War Office Deer. 30th 1777 

Sir, 

Congress have received such unexpected and distressing- Acounts from 
the General relative to the Situation of the Army that they have appointed 
a Committee to fall upon immediate Methods for supplying- them with 
Provisions. They are so much in Want of an instant Supply owing to 
Delays and Embarassments in the Commissary's Department and other 
unexpected Causes that however plenty we shall have them in future, at 
present at least a Removal out of this State must be the immediate Conse- 
quence of even a short Continuance of their present Circumstances. An 
instant Supply must be procured from this State for the Support of the 
Army until the Supplies expected from the neighbouring States arrive. 
As it may give Umbrage to the Inhabitants the Committee deplore the 
Necessity they are under of sending Officers with Parties to collect such 
Cattle, Flour and Grain as the Army wants without the least Delay as the 
Crisis is too alarming to admit of the Business being postponed on any 
Consideration. It will be improper to communicate the real Situation of 
the Army, but with the utmost Prudence and Caution. Your Excellency 
will therefore judge in what Manner the Concurrence of this State is to 
be procured as their vigorous Exertions are necessary in Co-operation 
with those of the Comittee who will at least 'till they see the Business 
properly conducted as doubtless it will be by the Government of this State 
be obliged to give orders for the taking conveying and driving all Cattle, 
Hogs, Pork, Flour and Grain fit for their Consumption to the Army the 
Persons employed for this Purpose giving Certificates to the owners 
expressing as nearly as possible the Weight and Quality of them and 
agreeing to pay for them at such Prices as shall be settled by the Conven- 
tion of Comittees from the several States who are to meet at New^ Haven 
the 15th of Jany. next agreeable to a Resolution of Congress of the 226. 
Novr last. 

I have the Honour to be ' 

With great Respect, 

Your very obed Servt 

Francis Lightfoot Lee, 

for the Committee." 

[P. S.] The Committee request you will be pleased to inform them 
whether the Proclamation ordering the Inhabitants of York and Cum- 
berland Counties to thresh out their Grain has been issued. 

His Excellency President Wharton 

[794]^ Library of J. Pierpont Morgan, Declaration of Independence, II.; Pa. Arch., 
first ser., VI. 147 ; Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Trans., V. 95. 

2 The committee for which Lee is acting is that committee consisting of the board 
of war and three additional members, appointed Dec. 29, on Washington's letters of 
Dec. 22 and 23. Cf. the Journals, Dec. 26, and nos. 790, 792, ante, no. 795, post. A letter 
of similar purport to this and the next following, addressed to Governor Clinton, is in 
Cal. of N. Y. Hist. MSS.: Revolutionery Papers, II. 308. 



604 Continental Coiwrcss 

795, Francis Lightfoot Lee to the Governor of Maryland.* 

War Office Deer. 31st 1777 
Sir, 

Cong^ress have received the most alarminp^ Accounts from General 
Washing-ton of the Distress of the Army for Want of Provisions 

A Comittee is appointed by Congress to take efifectual Means for 
preventing so fatal a Blow as the Dispersion or Dissolution of our Army 
would be to our Liberties. They have been obliged from the Necessity 
of the Case to g-ive Orders for siezing all the Provisions in the Vicinity 
of the Camp in this State which will afford a small but temporary Supply. 
They have written to the adjacent States and earnestly besought their 
immediate Assistance. Much Dependance is placed in your Exertions at 
this important Crisis and the Comittee need but state the Facts to induce 
you immediately to take measures for the remedying the Evil. I beg 
Leave to sug-gest to you whether an immediate Seisure of all Cattle, Hogs, 
Pork and Salt in the State of Maryland is not indispensibly necessary and 
Certificates given payable by Congress to the Possessors. You are the 
best Judge of proper Measures to be taken within your State and therefore 
the Comittee will not trouble you with their Ideas of the Plan to be 
executed for procuring the Articles wanted. They are confident you will 
be as speedy as the Nature of the Case will admitt convinced that im- 
mediate Supplies can only be had from the nearest States and the Comittee 
have taken Steps for obtaining Relief in future from those more remote.^ 

The Comittee rely strongly on the Exertions of Maryland and Virginia 
in laying up ^Magazines for future Supply as well as obtaining present 
Relief. They have the most flattering Ideas of receiving that Assistance 
from those of which they have been unhappily dissappointed from other 
States, and must depend on them for their principal Supply. 
I have the Honour to be with great Respect 

Your very obedt Servt 

Francis Lightfoot Lee 

for the Committee 
His Excellency Govr Johnson 

State of Maryland Annapolis 

[795]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, XIV. 27. 
2 Cf. no. 794, ante. 


