I. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Robert Morris.^ 

York Town ist Jany 1778 
Sir, 

This Evening I received in Congress and immediately Reported your 
very affecting Narrative under the 26th Decem. 

The Copies of Mr. Deane's Letters have not as you have been informed, 
been read in Congress, therefore I am directed by the House to request 
you will send them by the earliest opportunity ^ 

The Honorable Robert Morris Esquire ^ 

2. Charles Thomson to Robert Morris.^ 

Jany i. 1778 
Dear Sir, 

I am astonished Mr Brown could have so far mistaken me as to inform 
you that the letters from Mr Dean to you were read in Congress.^ As the 
president was absent, the com^^ on foreign affairs delivered me a letter in 
the Evening directed to Mr. Hancock which I opened and found under 
the cover a letter to him and one to you unsealed. Next Morning I car- 
ried it to congress and consulted Mr Lovel and he concurring in opinion 
with me that the letter was of a private nature I sealed that for you with- 
out showing it to any person and sent it down to Mr Brown, who I was 
told was forwarding dispatches to you. I think on the same day in the 
evening before congress rose other dispatches were brought and among 
them a duplicate of that I had sent you ; upon opening the packet I in- 
formed congress it contained a private letter to Mr Hancock and one to 
you. Some of the members however required that the letter to Mr H 
should be read which was done. The circumstance of yr letter being open 
was not attended and an objection was made fo opening that for you, 
upon which I put it in my pocket and upon calling at Mr B['s] lodgings 
after Congress rose I found your servant was in town upon which I sealed 

[i]^ Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadel- 
phia; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 97. 

2 Morris's letter to Laurens, Dec. 26, 1777, which relates principally to Thomas 
Morris, is found in Moore, Materials for History, first ser. (Correspondence of Henry 
Laurens), p. 71, and N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, IL 243. A letter 
from Deane to the President of Congress, Sept. 27, enclosing a letter to Robert Morris 
dated Sept. 23, also two letters to Morris, dated Oct. i, are ibid., pp. 145-163. The history 
of Thomas Morris's connection with the business of Congress in Europe may be gleaned 
from the Deane Papers, passim (consult index, vol. V.). Deane's letter of Sept. 22, and 
Morris's letter of Dec. 26 are also found (in part) in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IL 
393, 460, respectively. Cf. nos. 2, 3, post. 

" Robert Morris was then at Manheim, his country residence. 
[2]! Library of Congress, Morris Papers. 

2 See no. i, ante. Concerning John Brown see vol. IL of these Letters, no. 744, 
note 2, and no. 746. 



2 Continental Congress 

the letter in the cover and desired Mr. Brown to inform you, as I had 
not time to write, that the letter directed to Mr H. only was read but that 
to you was not opened nor read But as some intimations were thrown out 
of T. M's ill conduct I desired Mr Brown to mention to you it was my 
opinion you should come to town. I believe the C. are perfectly satisfied 
with yr. conduct, but I could have wished you had known these circum- 
stances before you wrote, that if there are any circumstances in letters 
you reed, as from your letter to C I think there must be which wd. give 
you pain to expose to public view, you might, if consistent with honor, 
have kept them back. 

I am Sir Yr humble Servt ^ 
[Addressed :] 
Robert Morris Esqr. 
at Manheim. 

3. James Lovell to Samuel Adams. ^ 

York Janry ist 1778 
Dear Sir 

.... Thos. Morris is dismissed by his brother's request, upon full 
conviction of his ill behaviour.^ .... 

Janry ^d. Hopkins has never made any application for tryal since he 
was furnished with the charges causing his suspension; and as we have no 
service for him, Oeconomy called for his dismission which was the work 
of yesterday.^ How comes it that we have not to this day any account 
of the R Island sham Expedition ? 

Seven Delegates are chosen in our State; which intelligence reached 
York the ist, your modest^ brethren having kept at their lodgings in the 
morning for want of it 

3 The letter is not signed. 
[3]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 
2 See nos. i, 2, ante. 
s Charges against Commodore Esek Hopkins were laid before Congress Mar. 25, 

1777, and on Mar. 26 he was suspended. May 13 a motion to appoint a court of inquiry 
to examine the charges was postponed, and on May 14 a copy of the complaint against 
him was ordered delivered to William EUery on his behalf. He was dismissed Jan. 2, 

1778. Cf. nos. 4, 10, post. See also the Journals, July 30, 1778. The affair is treated 
at some length in Edward Field, Esek Hopkins, chs. V., VI. See also Paullin, Navy 
of Am. Rev., p. 133. For an earlier case against Hopkins see these Letters, vol. I. (index). 

* Lovell underscores the word " modest " for the reason, no doubt, that he had 
just intimated (in a passage omitted here) a want of modesty in certain actions of 
Hancock. "I duely notice", he says, "your history of the different entry made into the 
capital by 3 Travelers, as I did also an account of a Resignation in Powars and Willis's 
Gazette of Deer. 4th. Risible faculties were given to man for wise purposes without 
doubt. I have let them have full exercise on this occasion, let who will be vexed or 
sorry with the correspondent of the Gazeteers mentioned ! " The " history" alluded to is 
in a letter from Samuel Adams to Lovell Dec. 8, in Writings (ed. Gushing), IH. 416. 
The letter is there printed as if to John Adams, which is of course an error (an error 
embodied, nevertheless, in vol. H. of these Letters, p. 537 n.), for John Adams had 
accompanied Samuel Adams to Boston, and it is their entry which is contrasted with 
that of Hancock some days earlier. The entry of Hancock into Boston is thus recorded 
in the Independent Chronicle (Powars and Willis's "Gazette"), Nov. 21, 1777: 

" We have only time to inform the Public, that last Wednesday arrived here, under 
the escort of American light dragoons, his Excellency John Hancock, Esq ; President of 



January, lyyS 3 

4. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Navy Board.^ 

per F. Weir ^ 
The Honble. 
William Vernon 

James Warren ^ Navy Board 

John Deshon Esquires Boston. 

York 2d Jany 1778 
Gentlemen, 

Inclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the present date by 
which it is Resolved that Capt: Esec Hopkins be dismissed from the 
Service of these States.' 

By order of the House I have transmitted a Copy of the Act to Capt 
Hopkins, you are desired Gentlemen to cause that Act to be published 
in the Boston and other Eastern News-papers and to give proper notice 
of the dismission to the Several Commanders of State Ships of War in 
your department. 



Dear Sir 



5. Nathaniel Folsom to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

YoRKTOWN Jeneuery 2d 1778 

yesterday I Reed, your Feavour of Decmber the 12th as to the Reso- 
lution of Congress, you first mentioned. So far as it Relates to Newhamp- 
shier or general Stark, it was Strenously opposed by your Delegates in 
Congress, and Six Days did not Pass before they were Convinced, of the 
good Effect of the orders of your Court given to general Stark and every 
mouth was Stopt, which gave your Delegates no Small triumph, to be told 
we ware true Prophets, and ever Since the State of Newhampsher has 

the American Congress, and first Major-General of the Militia of this State; by his 
corning into town sooner than was expected, he avoided some public marks of respect 
which would otherwise have been paid him. His arrival was made known by the ringing 
of bells, the discharge of 13 cannon of Col. Craft's park of artillery on the common, 
the cannon from the fortress on Fort-hill, and the ships in the harbour. The Inde- 
pendent and Light Infantry Companies paid him their military salutes. He received the 
compliments of gentlemen of all orders, and recent indication was given of the sense 
the pubhc has of his important services to the American cause." 

Following is the record, in the issue of Dec. 4, of the arrival of the Adamses : 

" Friday last arrived in Town from the Grand American Congress, the Honorable 
SAMUEL ADAMS, Esq. 

" Same Day arrived at his seat in Braintree, from that august Body, the Honorable 
JOHN ADAMS, Esq." 

The " account of a Resignation ", to which Lovell alludes, is doubtless a communica- 
tion by "An American", complaining that "Mr. Edes's paper of last Monday" (the 
Boston Gazette) contained a notice of the election of Henry Laurens to the presidency 
of Congress without any mention of the resignation of the late worthy President, the 
Honorable Mr. Hancock. 

[4] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 99. 

2 Frederick Weir was an express of Congress. It was Laurens's custom to enter 
thus at the head of the transcript in the letter-book the name of the bearer of the letter. 
2 See nos. 3, ante, and 10, post. 

[5]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. I., 1774-1778. 



4 Continental Congress 

been in grate Repute, on account of the Spirited Exertions of the officers 
and Soldiers in the northern Department ^ 

as to the Promotion of Coll. Willkinson, who at the Request of general 
gates Reed, a Brevet as a Brigadier general, which you Say has given 
you Pain I most Sincerly Simpothise with you, and Can Say it has given 
me Senceble Pain ever Since it was Done. I was glad he asked no more 
at that time, for assured I am that if he had it would have been granted, 
whilst they were Rejoicing for the goodness of God in Delivering our 
enemies into our hands : a Plan is laid by Sundrey members of Congress 
which I belive will be Carried to Remove him out of the way by appoint- 
ing him Secretary to the Board of War or by Sending him to gorgia.' 

you ask me how I Could be Induced to Disgrace all the field officers 
in the northern army to which I answer if when you Say you if you mean 
Congress I will not answer for them, haveing Constantly opposed the 
makeing allmost all the general officers that have been made Since I have 
been here, it appearing to me they were made more upon the Principle 
of Intrest or frindship, then Justice and ecquity, and the Consequences 
that have followed has Confirmed me in that opinion, grate uneasiness 
in the army has been the Sure and sertaine Consequence of the appoint- 
ment of allmost Every general officer Since I have been here 

if you meen me Personally Considerd, and think you Could Do better 
hope you will in twenty four hours after Reciveing this mount your horse 
and Come and Relieve me, and if you think you Cant Do So well would 
not have that Stop you as I have worne allmost all the flesh ofif my Bones 
being Exercised in my mind night and Day, and no time to Relax. 

my Predecessors in Congress made some alterations in the Commis- 
sary generals Department in the midle of a Campaign which has given 
us an infinite Deal of trouble and the most fatel Consequences were not 
only to be feared but in Some measure have taken Place the army Sev- 
eral times were with out Bread for thirty six houers at a time, this 
together with the Quarter master general being Sick and his Department 
thrown into Confusion, and the inhabitents of this State in general being 
unfriendly to the Cause in which the United States are Ingaged, has 
given us more trouble and taken up more time then all the Rest of the 
Business done in Congress But the Schuyler Party having left Congress 
in Part and many of the old members gone home hope we Shall git Right 
again soone. Wood not have you think by any thing above Expressed 
I take the least Exception to anything you have Said as I love Plaine Deal- 
ing Best 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 19, 20, 22, Sept. 4, 1777; also the letter of the New Hamp- 
shire delegates Aug. 22, in vol. II., no. 609. 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 6, 1777. Cf. nos. 29, 36, 64, post. While Wilkinson's pro- 
motion was in consequence of General Gates's recommendation, it was apparently 
influenced in no small measure by the fact that he brought to Congress the good news 
of the surrender of Burgoyne (see vol. II., p. 545, note 2). Such however was the 
opposition to his promotion (see, for instance, the letter from John Laurens to his 
father Nov. 26, 1777, in Army Correspondence of John Laurens, p. 83) that on Mar. 6 
he relinquished his brevet of brigadier-general. As forecast by Folsom, in a committee 
report Jan. 5 he was proposed as secretary to the board of war (see the erased para- 
graph in the Journals, p. 21) ; Jan. 6 he was elected to the position but resigned Mar. 31 
(see the resolution accepting his resignation). Wilkinson's account of the whole affair 
is in his Memoirs, I. 323 et scq. 



January, iy/8 5 

Inclosed I Send you the Confederation and all the news I Can git which 
is Very little. 

I am with Respect your frind and Hum'^ Sert. 

Nath^ Folsom 

To the Honbl. Josiah Bartlet. 

PS be so good as to let majr. Phillbrock know I have Reed, his letter 
and will answer it as Soon as I Can on my Jor[ney from] Congress. I 
laid his Brothers Effairs before them and it wa[s] by them referred to 
the treasury Board and alltho I am one of them have not yet been able to 
git them to Report upon it to Congress, there being many applications 
Simmeler to it they turne me off by telling me there must be a Day Set 
apart for the takeing the whole of them up, is all I Can yet git from the 
Board, but I shall harass them while here on the Subject* 

Coll. Scammell is appointed Adjutant General ° 

6. John Witherspoon, Speech on the Convention with 
General Burgoyne.^ 

[January 2, 1778?]^ 
Mr President, 

I am sensible, as every other gentleman in this house seems to be, of 
the great importance of the present question. It is of much moment, as to 
private persons, so to every incorporated society, to preserve its faith and 
honour in solemn contracts : and it is especially so to us, as representing 
the United States of America, associated so lately, and just beginning to 
appear upon the public stage. I hope, therefore, we shall detest the 
thoughts of embracing any measure which shall but appear to be mean, 
captious, or insidious, whatever advantage may seem to arise from it. 
On the other hand, as the interest of this continent is committed to our 
care, it is our duty, and it will be expected of us, that we give the utmost 
attention that the public suffer no injury by deception, or abuse and insult, 
on the part of our enemies. 

On the first of these principles, it is clearly my opinion, that we ought, 
agreeably to the spirit of the first resolution reported, to find, that the 
convention is not so broken, on the part of General Burgoyne, as to entitle 
us to refuse compliance with it on ours, and detain him and his army as 
prisoners of war. I admit that there is something very suspicious in the 
circumstance of the colours, when compared with his letter in the Lx)ndon 

■* The petition of Joseph Philbrick, dated July 3. 1777, and referred to the board 
of treasury July 24, 1777, was for reimbursement for money lost in the burning of his 
house. The petition is accompanied by a number of affidavits, one of them from a 
brother, Samuel Philbrick. The latter is probably the Major Philbrick referred to. 
His examination was taken before Josiah Bartlett, " Justo. Pacis ". 

5 This line, which is found in the margin of the letter, was doubtless written 
Jan. 5, the date of Scammell's promotion. 

[6]i Works of John Witherspoon (Edinburgh, 1815), IX. 108. 

2 At what stage of the discussion of the Saratoga Convention this speech of Wither- 
spoon was delivered, whether in the committee of the whole during the last days of 
December, or during the consideration, Jan. 2-8, of the report offered by the committee 
of the whole, is not known. There was at all events discussion of the subject Jan. 2. See 
vol. II., nos. 779, 782, 786, 791, 793; also nos. 20, 21, post. 



6 Continental Congress 

Gazette, which makes mention of the British colours being- seen flying 
upon the fort. I agree, at the same time, that the pretence of the cartouch 
boxes not being mentioned in the convention is plainly an evasion. They 
ought, in fair construction, to be comprehended under more expressions 
of that capitulation than one — arms, ammunition, warlike stores. They 
were so understood at the capitulation of St. John's. In this present in- 
stance many of them were delivered up, which certainly ought to have 
been the case with all or none. And once more, I admit that the detention 
of the bayonets in the instances in which it was done, was undeniably 
unjust. 

As to the first of these particulars, I am unwilling to distrust the honour 
of a gentleman solemnly given; and therefore as General Burgoyne has 
given his honour to General Gates, that the colours were left in Canada, 
I suppose it is substantially true, whatever small exception there might be 
to it. The colours seen flying at Tyconderoga, were perhaps old colours 
occasionally found there, or perhaps taken from some of the vessels lying 
at the place, and left there when the army proceeded farther up the coun- 
try. This is the rather probable, that if the regiments in general had had 
colours, they must have been seen very frequently by our army in the 
battles, or upon the march. 

As to the other circumstances, they are so mean and little in their nature, 
that I suppose them to have arisen from the indiscretion of individuals, 
quite unknown to the commander in chief, or even to the officers in general. 

We ought also to consider that it was so unexpected, and must have 
been so humiliating a thing, for a whole British army to surrender their 
arms, and deliver themselves up prisoners to those of whom they had been 
accustomed to speak with such contempt and disdain — that it is not to be 
wondered at, if the common soldiers did some things out of spite and ill 
humour, not to be justified. To all these considerations, I will only add, 
that though the want of the colours deprives us of some ensigns of tri- 
umph which it would have been very grateful to the different states to 
have distributed among them, and to have preserved as monuments of 
our victory, the other things are so trifling and unessential, that it would 
probably be considered as taking an undue advantage, if we should retain 
the whole army here on that account. I would therefore, Sir, have it 
clearly asserted, that though we are not insensible of those irregularities, 
and they may contribute to make us attentive to what shall hereafter pass 
before the embarkation, we do not consider them as such breaches of the 
convention, as will authorize us in justice to declare it void. 

On the other hand. Sir, it is our indispensable duty to use the greatest 
vigilance, and to act with the greatest firmness, in seeing that justice be 
done to the American States. Not only caution, but what I may call 
jealousy and suspicion, is neither unreasonable nor indecent in such a 
case. This will be justified by the knowledge of mankind. History affords 
us many examples of evasive and artful conduct in some of the greatest 
men and most respectable nations, when hard pressed by their necessities, 
or when a great advantage was in view. The behaviour of the Romans 
when their army was taken at the Caudine Forks may be produced as one. 



January, ly/S 7 

The conduct of the Samnites was not overwise ; but that of the Romans 
was dishonourable to the last degree, though there are civilians who de- 
fend it. Their consul, after his army had passed through the yoke, a 
symbol at that time of the utmost infamy, made a peace with the Sam- 
nites. The senate refused to ratify it; but kept up a shew of regard to the 
faith plighted, by delivering up the consul to the Samnites. to be used 
as they thought proper. That people answered, as was easily suggested 
by plain common sense, that it was no reparation at all to them to torment 
or put one man to death ; but that if they disavowed the treaty, they ought 
to send back the army to the same spot of ground in which they had been 
surrounded. No such thing, however, was done. But the Romans, not- 
withstanding, immediately broke the league ; and with the same army 
which had been let go, or a great part of it, brought the unhappy Sam- 
nites to destruction — Such instances may be brought from modern as well 
as ancient times. It is even the opinion of many persons of the best judg- 
ment, that the convention entered into by the late duke of Cumberland, 
was by no means strictly observed by the court of London. 

When I consider this. Sir, I confess I look upon the expression in 
General Burgoyne's letter to General Gates, of November 14, as of the 
most alarming nature. For no other or better reason, even so much as 
pretended, than that his quarters were not so commodious as he expected, 
he declares the public faith is broke, and zve are the immediate sufferers. 
In this he expressly declares and subscribes his opinion, that the conven- 
tion is broken on our part ; and in the last expression, we are the immediate 
sufferers, every person must perceive a menacing intimation of who shall 
be the sufferers when he shall have it in his power. 

Being sufficiently settled as to the principle on which I shall found my 
opinion, it is unnecessary for me to give an account of the law of nature 
and nations, or to keep up citations from the numerous writers on that 
subject. But that what I shall say may have the greater force, I beg it 
may be observed, that the law of nature and nations is nothing else but 
the law of general reason, or those obligations of duty from reason and 
conscience, on one individual to another, antecedent to any particular law 
derived from the social compact, or even actual consent. On this account, 
it is called the law of nature; and because there are very rarely to be 
found any parties in such a free state with regard to each other, except 
independent nations, therefore it is also called the law of nations. One 
nation to another is just as man to man in a state of nature. Keeping this 
in view, a person of integrity will pass as sound a judgment on subjects 
of this kind, by consulting his own heart, as by turning over books and 
systems. The chief use of books and systems is, to apply the principle to 
particular cases and suppositions differently classed, and to point out the 
practice of nations in several minute and special particulars, which unless 
ascertained by practice, would be very uncertain and ambiguous. 

But, Sir, I must beg your attention, and that of the house, to the nature 
of the case before us — at least as I think it ought to be stated. I am afraid 
that some members may be misled, by considering this declaration of 
General Burgoyne as an irregularity of the same species, if I may speak 
so, with the other indiscretions or even frauds, if you please to call them 



8 Continental Congress 

so, of withholding the cartouch boxes, or hiding or steaHng the bayonets. 
The question is not, whether this or the other thing done by the army is a 
breach of the convention. I have for my part given up all these particu- 
lars, and declared my willingness to ratify the convention, after I have 
heard them and believe them to be true. But we have here the declared 
opinion of one of the parties, that the public faith is broken by the other. 
Now, the simplest man in the world knows, that a mutual onerous con- 
tract is always conditional ; and that if the condition fails on one side, 
whether from necessity or fraud, the other is free. Therefore we have 
reason to conclude, that if Mr Burgoyne is of opinion that the convention 
is broken on our part, he will not hold to it on his. He would act the part 
of a fool if he did. It is no consequence to say his opinion is ill-founded 
or unjust, as it manifestly is in the present case; for whether it is just or 
unjust, if it is really his opinion (and we should wrong his sincerity to 
doubt it) the consequences are the same with respect to us. Men do often, 
perhaps generally, adhere with greater obstinacy to opinions that are ill, 
than those that are well founded, and avenge imaginary or trifling in- 
juries with greater violence than those that are real and great. Nay, we 
may draw an argument for our danger from the very injustice of his 
complaint. If he has conceived the convention to be broken on so frivilous 
a pretence as that his lodging is not quite commodious, after the just 
caution inserted by General Gates in the preliminary articles, what have 
we to expect from him as soon as he shall recover his liberty, and the 
power of doing mischief? It shews a disposition to find fault, and an 
impatience under his present confinement, the future effects of which we 
have the greatest reason to dread. 

The more I consider this matter, Sir, the more it strikes me with its 
force. General Gates says upon the subject of accomodation, granted as 
far as circumstances ivill admit. Was not this proper and necessary? It 
was very natural to suppose that General Burgoyne, accustomed to the 
splendor of the British court, and possessed with ideas of his own impor- 
tance, would be but ill pleased with the best accommodations that could 
be obtained for him, and his numerous followers, in one of the frugal 
states of New England. It was also in the neighbourhood of a place not 
in the least expecting the honour of such guests, which had been long the 
seat of war which had been exhausted by our army, and plundered by 
their's. One would have thought that the recollection of the ruin of 
Charlestown, the burning of which, if I mistake not, in a letter of his 
from Boston to England, he calls a glorious light, might have prevented 
his complaints, even though he had less elbow room than he wished for. 
But as circumstances stand, by what conduct shall we be able to satisfy 
him? When will pretences ever be wanting to one seeking to prove the 
convention broken, when it is his inclination or his interest to do so ? 

It has been said, Sir, that we ought not to take this declaration of his 
in so serious a manner : that it was written rashly, and in the heat of 
passion ; and that he did not mean that we should dread such consequences 
from it. All this I believe to be strictly true. It probably fell from him in 
passion — and very unadvisedly. But is he the first person that has rashly 
betrayed his own mischievous designs? Or is this a reason for our not 



January, lyyS 9 

availing- ourselves of the happy discovery? His folly in this instance is 
our good fortune. He is a man, Sir, whom I never saw, though I have 
been more than once in England ; but if I should say I did not know him, 
after having read his lofty and sonorous proclamation, and some other 
productions, I should say what was not true. He is evidently a man 
showy, vain, impetuous, and rash. It is reported of General Gates, from 
whom I never heard that any other words of boasting ostentation fell, 
that he said he knew Burgoyne, and that he could build a wall for him 
to run his head against. I do not by any means approve of boasting in 
general. I think a man should not boast of what he has done, much less 
of what he only means to do ; yet I cannot help saying, that this was a 
most accurate prediction, which, with the event that followed it, plainly 
points out to us the character of General Burgoyne. Do you think that 
such a man would not take advantage of this pretended breach of the 
convention on our part ; and endeavour to wipe off the reproach of his late 
ignominious surrender by some signal or desperate undertaking? ^ 

3 Among the Witherspoon Papers in the Library of Congress is what purports to 
be the report of the committee on the Saratoga convention. It may be the report offered 
by the committee Dec. 26, 1777, which was referred to the committee of the whole and 
formed the basis of the report adopted by the committee of the whole Dec. 27, or it 
may be only a draft of a report which Witherspoon offered to the committee of five, 
of which he was chairman (see the Journals, Dec. 18, 1777). The document is here 
subj oined : 

" The Committee to which were referred the Convention of Saratoga and the Letters 
of General Gates, General Heath and General Burgoyne upon that subject beg Leave 
to report the following State of Facts 

That some of the Belts and car [t] ouch Boxes of the Soldiers were not delivered up 
with the Arms. 

That the Word Accoutrements was not added to that of Arms in the Convention 
through oversight. 

That the Case was the very Same at the Capitulation of St. Johns and yet the whole 
were delivered up as comprehended under the Word Arms. 

That many of the Bayonets were withheld though in general delivered up. 

That many of the Muskets were twisted or damaged and the whole are now returned 
unfit for use. 

That in the Opinion of General Gates this last was in a good Measure occasioned by 
want of proper Covering for them and other Accidents. 

That no standards or Colours were delivered up. 

That General Burgoyne declared on his Honour that the Colours were left in Canada. 

That there is mention made in the Account published in the London Gazette of the 
taking Possession of Ticonderoga of the british Colours being seen flying upon the fort. 

That General Burgoyne in his Letter to General Gates of the 14 of Nov. says ex- 
pressly that the public Faith is broke on Account of his not having so commodious 
quarters as he expected. 

That General Gates in the Articles preliminary to the Convention did upon the Subject 
of Accommodation and other similar Circumstances take a Latitude from the Nature 
of the th[e]ory saying as far as Circumstances will admit. 

That General Burgoyne has refused to give the Names and Description of his Soldiers 
and refers to General Carltons Dismission of our soldiers under Parole not to serve 
during the War. 

_ That the Committee on Enquiry find that General Carlton made all our Prisoners 
sign their Names to a Paper containing Columns describing the Province, County and 
Town from which each of them came. 

Resolved that the whole Soldiers under General Burgoyne shall before they embark 
be obliged to sign a Parole with a Description of their Place of Abode exactly in the 
same form as that required by General Carlton." 



10 Continental Congress 

7. John Penn to Jethro Sumner.^ 

York, Jan. 2, 1778. 
Colo. Martin having been charged with want of courage soon after 
the Battle on the Brandywine, the Delegates for No Carolina, wrote to 
that Assembly requesting that they would recommend such of their offi- 
cers, as they thought proper to be appointed General Officers, as they did 
not think it prudent to raise Colo. Martin. We have expected an answer 
for some time past, and think it would be wrong to do any thing on that 
head before we hear from the Genl. Assembly. I make no doubt of your 
being one ; do be so obliging as to let me know as a Friend whether the 
adding Colo Clark would give any dissatisfaction to the officers as he is 
an old officer and said to be a man of merit.^ 

8. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 

Jonathan Trumbull, jr.^ 

3d Jany 1778. 
Sir, 

I was last night honour'd with your favor of the 15 Decemr. and this 
Morning the Contents were taken under consideration in Congress by 
reference to the Board of Treasury, the result is, to return again the 
duplicate Warrant of the i6th Octobr. which you will find here inclosed 
and are desired to hold it in your custody until there shall be Cash in the 
Massachuset Loan Office for supplying the Amount, which the Treasury 
are assured will by partial payments be completed at no very distant 
period, in the mean time a like Sum of two hundred Thousand Dollars 
will be conveyed to you under direction of the Board of War in the most 
expeditious manner, upon this foundation you will probably be enabled 
to raise Money for Current demands and to avert those Evils which had 
justly alarm'd you.^ 

I recommended some steps in Philadelphia for securing a return of 
our Emissions of paper into the Treasury by quicker progress than we 
have experienced.^ time and circumstances have confirmed my senti- 
ments, yet tis the judgement of a Majority to proceed in the old way and 
even to prefer new Emissions, in private I lament this determination as 
a pernicious error, but I ought modestly to suppose myself in error 

9. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 

Jean de Kermovan.^ 

York 3d Jany 1778. 
Sir, 

The Letter which you sent to me in Congress this Evening I presented 
immediately to the House, where your former had been reported with 
the same attention 

[yl^Henkels, Catalogue, no. 969, item 126 (extract). 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 10, and no. 179, post. 
[8] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 107. Addressed to Trumbull 
at Lebanon. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 3. 

3 See Laurens to Gervais, Sept. 5-9, 1777, in vol. IL, no. 627. 
[9] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 100. 



January, lyjS 11 

Congress have directed me to inform you of their determination not to 
appoint you a Brigadier, however unwelcome this Resolution may be 
the early notification, will save you the trouble of further suspense, from 
that consideration I have transmitted it without delay.^ 

lo. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the Governor 
OF Rhode Island (Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

3d Jany 1778. 
Sir — 

Since my last of the 23d Decern. I have had the honour of your favour 
of the 8th November which had been a very long time on its passage. 
it reached me no sooner than the 31st Decern., and although I presented it 
immediately to Congress, no order has been made upon it.^ The house 
have been for many days past laboriously engaged not only in matters of 
the very highest importance within their proper sphere, but also obliged 
from some unaccountable deficiency in the several departments of Quarter 
Master General, Clothier General and Commissary General to interfere 
immediately and personally in the procuring of Wagons, Clothing, Meat 
and Flour for the Army, which otherwise from all appearance and from 
the Representation of the General, would have been dispersed, the de- 
plorable state of the Hospitals has likewise demanded the same degree 
of attention, these burthens, which may truly be marked as extraordinary 
and unreasonable, fall heavy upon a very few Members from 17 to 21, 
who faithfully attend their duty at the expense of domestic happiness and 
the improvement of their private Estates.* Your Excellency from a con- 
sideration of these circumstances will account for what might in a time 
of more regularity and tranquility be a neglect of your very Interesting 
and affecting Address, and I beg you will be assured Sir, I will embrace 
the earliest proper opening for bringing the State of Rhode Island into 
view again. 

Inclosed Your Excellency will receive an Act of Congress, of the 31st 
Ulto. for promoting a speedy reformation in the Army which you will be 
pleased to lay before the Council. Also a Letter directed to Capt Esec 
Hopkins containing an Act of Congress dated yesterday, by which he is 
dismissed from the service of these States. I have sent the Letter under 
a flying seal for Your Excellency's perusal and that you may cause the 
Resolve to be made public, and particularly notified to all Continental 
Officers heretofore subject to Capt Hopkins's command. You will, after 
such measures are effected be pleased to close the Letter, and order it to 
be carefully delivered.* 

2 The Journals make no record of the action concerning Colonel Kermovan on 
Jan. 3 ; cj. no. 18, post. In regard to the former application referred to, see the Journals, 
Dec. 22, 1777. The letter-book shows that both this letter and that of Jan. 6 were 
addressed to Kermovan at York Town. In the first of these letters Laurens apparently 
spells the name " Kermowan ", in the second " Kermorvan ". 

[io]i Library of Congress, President's Letter- Book, I. 102 ; R. I. State Recs., VIII. 370. 

2 -phe Rhode Island letter is in Staples, R. I. in Cant. Cong., p. 154. It was read 
in Congress Dec. 31. 

^ This statement is made in nearly the same language in several other letters of 
this time. Cf. no. 13, post. 

■* See nos. 3, 4, ante. 



12 Continental Congress 

II. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(Nicholas Cooke)/ 

York-Town, Pennsylvania, 

Jany. 4th 1778. 
Sir: 

I very lately received a Letter from Mr Marchant in which he informed 
me that our State was at so great an expence, and so deeply in debt, that 
he was afraid we should be obliged to emit more money, or re-issue that 
which will be collected by taxation; unless a warrant could be procured 
from Congress upon the Loan-Office for a large Sum ; and proposed to me 
to make an Application therefor. If the General Assembly should think 
proper to give me any directions on this head I will execute them with 
the greatest cheerfulness, and not without hopes of Success; provided 
Loan-Office Certificates can be negotiated, and will answer in Payment 
of our Debts. The demands upon the Treasury are at present so great and 
pressing, that all the Money now in it, and which may be collected by the 
Loan-Offices for some time to come will not I am afraid satisfy them; 
but if Loan-Office Certificates will answer our purpose it is my Opinion 
that Congress would grant Warrants for them to a considerable amount, 
rather than we should be obliged to emit or re-issue Money. In the Letter 
which may be wrote to me on this Subject they will doubtless place the 
necessity they are under to make an Application in a strong and striking 
Point of Light.2 

The Comm®^ which was appointed to examin the Journals of Congress 
and report the Resolutions which have passed respecting the Defence of 
our State, and recommending an attack on Rhode-Island have not yet re- 
ported ; but I cannot entertain any Doubt but that Congress will determin 
the Expence of the late inglorious expedition to be continental, when the 
Comm^^ shall have reported. Perhaps it would be best not to apply to 
Congress for a Warrant on the Loan-office till that matter shall be de- 
cided ; as a great part of the Expence, for the defraying of which a war- 
rant may be desired, may have accrued by that expedition.^ .... 

12. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
William Heath. ^ 

York Town 5 Jany 1778 
Sir 

I flatter my self with hopes that the very important Letter which I had 
the honour of writing to you the 27th Ulto. by Messenger Mackloskey ^ 

[ii]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1777-1778, p. 131; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 160. 

2 See Marchant's letter to Cooke July 5, 1777, in vol. II., no. 538; also no. 120, post. 

3 There were two inquiries concerning the Rhode Island expedition, the first 
(Nov. 28) into its failure, and the second (Dec. 15) into its rise. See vol. II., nos. 764, 
775, and nos. 2>3, 120, 160, 459, post. See also the Journals, Jan. 27, Mar. 27, Apr. 8, 
Aug. 7, Sept. 9. 

[i2]iMass. Hist. Soc, Heath Papers, VIII. 27; Library of Congress, President's 
Letter-Book, I. 109. Addressed, "The Honorable Major General Heath, Commander 
in Chief of the Troops of the United States of America in the Eastern department, 
etc., etc., Boston ". 

- Patrick McClosky. 



January, lyyS 13 

together with one inclosed in it calculated for Barring the departure of 
General Burgoyne will be put into your hand this day. 

It may appear to Gentlemen who are not informed of the Circumstances 
of Congress, the intervening time has been sufficient for maturing their 
intended Declaration and Resolves upon that subject, but you Sir, will 
not wonder at the delay, when I tell you that from unaccountable defi- 
ciencies in the several departments, Congress have found it absolutely 
necessary for saving the Army from general dispersion to interfere per- 
sonally in the businesses of Quarter Master general. Clothier General, 
Commissary general Director general of the Hospitals etc. these extra- 
ordinary and unreasonable burthens have fallen extremely heavy upon a 
few Members who faithfully devote their time to Public service, however 
the other great work although not completed has not been neglected. 
Congress have proceeded so far as the inclosed Copy of two Resolves 
intimate, these I transmit in confirmation of what I had the honour of 
writing as above mentioned and under the same injunctions of prudent 
and necessary secrecy, tis highly probable that in the Course of the pres- 
ent Week I shall be authorized to transmit the Act complete and Certified.* 

13. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
George Washington.^ 
Sir, 5 Jany 1778. 

.... Eight or Nine days being elapsed since by possitive Order from 
Congress I directed Major Genl. Heath, to detain L. Genl. Burgoyne and 
his Troops, enjoining him at the same time to secrecy until it shall become 
absolutely necessary to disclose the Order, I intimated to Congress this 
morning the propriety of acquainting your Excellency for obvious reasons, 
with a measure of such importance and received directions to forward the 
two Resolves which will accompany the papers above mentioned. Congress 
mean to introduce these Resolutions by a suitable declaratory preface, 
the work has indeed been a long time on the Anvil I hope the whole will 
soon be perfected for the view of the World.^ the burthen of business in 
Congress lies extremely heavy upon a few Members who now faithfully 
attend and these meet with greater difficulties from being driven out of 
their regular sphere and necessitated in many Instances to Act in person 
Commissary general Quarter Master general Clothier general Director 
general of Hospitals etc. etc. in order to save the Army from dispersion.* 

14. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull.^ 
Sir York Town 5th Jany 1778 

I catch a few minutes between Adj't and meeting of Congress, to say 
a Word in reply to Your Excellencys favr. of the 2nd ulto. which I was 
unable to do by the Late messenger 

3 The resolutions referred to are those of Jan. 2 and 3 relative to General 
Burgoyne. See vol. II., no. 791 ; also nos. 6, ante, 13, 20, 21, 30, 31, 42, post. 
[13]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 112. 

2 See no. 12, note 3, ante. Washington's reply, dated Jan. g, is in Writings (ed. 
Ford), VI. 282. 

3 See nos. 10, ahte, 14, 17, 19, 22, 31, 54, 56, 98, post. 

[14]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 209; Conn. Hist. Soc, 
Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr. (extract). 



14 Continental Congress 

I have been a good deal affected by the perusal of Colo. Jno. Trumbull's 
correspondence, the cause of his disappointment and mortification is no 
secret to me. I discovered it very early after I had the misfortune of 
arriving at the State House Philadelphia, altho' I do not mean to add to 
the affront which appears to me to have been calculated for that Gentle- 
man, yet I cannot forbear wishing that had been the greatest Evil pro- 
duced from the source I allude to. My Sentiments cannot be otherwise 
than in favour of Colonel Trumbull's determination, because, I declare it 
upon my honour, I would have acted the same part had I been reduced 
to similar circumstances. Men have a right to punctilio, when an honor- 
able tenacity does not essentially injure their Country.^ 

I was almost a Stranger in Congress when the appointment of a Com- 
missary general was on the tapis, and candidly confess I was much Misled 
by Specious Representations, not that I was without some jealousies — for 
before the debate upon that Subject was finally ended, I saw Party, and 
lamented the prospect,^ every day enlightened me, and I soon prognos- 
ticated Evils, which we are now labouring under and which must be con- 
quered by Virtuous exertions, or we shall soon be exposed to the ridicule 
annexed to those who attempt to build without counting the Cost, ridicule 
will not be the whole penalty which will be laid on thousands of us. We 
are now good Sir, at this Instant on the brink of a precipice. If we have 
Wisdom, if we have Virtue, we will hasten to withdraw. I Pray God to 
aid us in the moment of danger. 

Not only the Commissarial but other departments on which the Salva- 
tion of the Army equally depends, are somewhat more than deranged, 
they are shattered and distracted. Congress for sometime past, have been 
obliged personally to act, Commissary general, Qr. Master general. 
Clothier general, Director general of Hospitals etc. etc. Since you have 
invited me Sir, to conversation, from the respect I bear to your Character, 
I wish I could communicate my Sentiments more copiously ; but present 
time will not permit. Therefore I must return.* 

I have great reason to believe that Gentlemen in general now wish that 
the demands which were made by Colo. Joseph Trumbull as the condition 
of his holding his late Commission had been complied with, because we 
must now be convinced he had only public benefit in View. I have also 
reason to believe it will be necessary for us to resort to him again. Should 
this happen, that Gentleman's Patriotism will appear in Lustre, if he, 
passing over those exceptions which the pride of human nature will first 
dictate, will step in and contribute his Talents and abilities for saving his 
Country, in the mean time I am persuaded he will, as far as it may be in 
his power, assist and promote the business of supplying the Army, and 
put out of countenance every malignant insinuation of throwing Stum- 
bling Blocks in the wa}^ 

2 See vol. II., no. 776 and passim (index, Trumbull, John). Cf. no. 85, post. 

2 Cf. Laurens's remarks in his letter to Gervais Sept. 5, 1777, in vol. II. (p. 477), 
and to Lafayette, no. 27, post. Concerning Joseph Trumbull and the commissary depart- 
ment, see vol. II., passim (index, Trumbull, Joseph). 

* Cf. nos. 13, ante, 22, 31, 98, post. 



January, lyyS 15 

15. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Timothy Matlack/ 

York Town, Jany 5th, 1778. 
D'r Sir, 

The letter from his excellency the President, and the Speaker of the 
Assembly, was this morning read in Congress. As far as could be dis- 
covered, the expediency, and indeed necessity of something vig'rous and 
immediate were in the sentiments of the whole house. They referred the 
letter to a Committee, viz. myself. Dr. Witherspoon and Mr. Fulsom. 
The articles of arms and provisions will probably be a weight. Can meat 
be procured? We are informed this day that eno' for 6 weeks for the 
army cannot be had of flour, etc. I can have no doubt. Indeed I this day 
assured congress that all the difificulties arose from the mismanagement 
of the Commissaries only. It is probable a copy of the letter will be sent 
forward immediately to the General. Possibly the army may not now be 
in a situation to support the measure, as upon a late formal discussion on 
the subject, when a Committee from congress was at camp on the purpose, 
it was deemed impracticable, and many officers are away, and perhaps as 
great a proportion of the men. I think you may rely on Congress having 
it much at heart. I will be glad to know particularly from time to time 
what [response the] inclinations of the people make. I shall feel myself 
[happy in] having an opportunity of gaining to this state a reputation 
on this head, and shall not fail of availing myself of infor- 
mations you may give.^ 

The Papers respecting waggons etc., are now with a Committee. Con- 
gress appear averse to raising the pay.^ .... 

16. Francis Lewis to Pierre Van Cortlandt.^ 

Sir, 

.... By a letter from his Excellency Governor Clinton read this day 
in Congress, I learn that he had convened the Assembly to meet on the 
same day. I hope they will advert to the appointment of one or more 
Delegates to represent them in Congress. Mr. G. Morris does not appear, 
and Mr. Duer is gone for a few days into the country, his ill state of 
health requiring a recess from business; so that our State is without a 
representation in Congress, which at this critical time is to be much re- 
gretted, as there is not a sufficient number of members to expedite the 
business hourly accumulating. 

[15]! Pa. State Lib., P. P., XLV. 4; Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 160. Addressed, "To 
Timothy Matlack, Esq., Secy, to Honble Council of Pennsylvania, at Lancaster ". 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 5, 9. The Pennsylvania letter, dated Jan. 2, is in Pa. Arch., 
first ser., VL 153. 

2 See Pa. Arch., first ser., VL 116, and the Journals, Dec. 24, 1777. 
[i6]i /owr. N. Y. Prov. Cong., L 1116. 



16 Continental Congress 

The Legislature of the State of Virginia has ratified the Articles of 
Confederation : Congress hopes the other States will speedily follow the 
example.^ 

With profound respect. 
Pierre Van Cortlandt Esqr.^ 
YoRKTOWN, 5th Jany. 1778. 

17. Francis Lewis to Evert Bancker/ 

The Express going off gives me but just time to acknowledge the re- 
ceipt of your favor of the 17th Ulto. with the enclosed papers, which I 
shall immediately lay before Congress, and urge the expediency of those 
measures therein proposed being carried into execution, and shall advise 
you with the result.^ 

Congress have been of late made sensible of many abuses crept into the 
Commissaries, and Quarter Master's departments, and which will be soon 
taken under consideration of Congress : ^ I wrote the Honble President 
Vancortlandt this day, to which beg to reffer you, and am 

Your obedient Humble Servant, 

Era. Lewis 
York Town 5th Jany. 1778 
Evert Bancker, Esqr.* 

18. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Jean de Kermovan.^ 

6th Jany 1777 [1778]. 
Sir, 

At my return from Congress I found your Letter on my Table, it gives 
me concern to read such Complaints as you exhibit, but it is not my prov- 
ince to determine upon them, all that I can do, is, to offer your Letter 
again to Congress which you may be assured Sir I will do to morrow 
Morning. 

2 Governor Clinton laid the Articles of Confederation before the assembly Jan. 
16 (Clinton Papers, II. 676), and the act of ratification, signed by him Feb. 16 (found 
in the Journals under June 27), was transmitted Feb. 25 to Philip Livingston, then 
supposed to be on the point of departure to take his seat in Congress, for delivery to that 
body (Clinton Papers, II. 807). See no. 161, post. Livingston was however delayed in 
his departure (he took his seat May 5) and was accordingly instructed to deliver the 
instrument to David Barclay, who was in turn to deliver it to the New York delegates 
(Clinton to delegates. Mar. 10, to Livingston, Mar. 11, ibid.. III. 16, 23). Barclay prob- 
ably arrived in York Town Mar. 19. See nos. 160, 161, post. 

3 Van Cortlandt was president of the New York senate. 
[17]! John Carter Brown Lib.; Jour. N. Y. Prov. Cong., I. 1117. 

2 The letter of Dec. 17 to the delegates is in A'^. Y. Jour. Prov. Cong., I. 1102. It 
relates to abuses in the quartermaster's department, especially the leather department. 
A committee was appointed upon it Jan. 6 and discharged Jan. 17. 

3 A committee on the commissariat department was appointed Jan. 14. Concerning 
the quartermaster's department, see the Journals, Jan. 30, 31, Feb. 5. Cf. nos. i, 2, ante, 
36, post. See also Washington's letters to the President of Congress Dec. 23, 1777, and 
Jan. 5, 1778 (Writings, ed. Ford. VI. 257, 280, ed. Sparks, V. 197, 208). 

* Evert Bancker was president pro tempore of the New York provincial congress. 
[i8]i Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 114. 



January, lyyS 17 

[P. S.] yth Inst. I presented Your Letter to Congress but no order 
was made upon it, which added to their determination ^ the 3d Inst, con- 
vinces me future applications will be equally troublesome and fruitless to 
yourself.^ 

19. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 

Ephraim Blaine/ 

6th Jany 1778. 
Sir, 

Immediately upon receiving your favour of the 4th Inst, this Morning, 
I presented it to Congress, and have in charge to signify to you, that the 
House being well satisfied with your past conduct and reposing the high- 
est confidence in your Zeal and abilities to serve the public they are not 
disposed to receive your Resignation without calling upon you to recon- 
sider the subject. 

Congress therefore, after adding the assurance of their purpose to 
afford every proper support for enabling you to proceed in procuring 
ample supplies of provision for the Army and particularly an Assistant, 
have some ground to expect a chearful acquiescence on your part and that 
under these considerations your attachment to the great Cause in which 
we are engaged will animate you to persevere in the Duties of your Office 
improving times and circumstances, unfavorable as these are, to the best 
advantage. 

Congress will expect your determination, which, specking their senti- 
ments, I hope will be a compliance with their desire, in this case it may 
be proper that you should name a person whom you could wish to be 
appointed as an Aid. I have no doubt but that the person you recommend 
will be the choice of Congress.^ 

20. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 

William Heath.^ 

York Town Pennsylvania 

January [8,] 1778.^ 
Sir, 

Congress having taken under their most serious consideration the re- 
fusal of Lieutent. Genl. Burgoyne to return the names and such descrip- 

2 " * signified to you." [Note in the original.] 

3 See no. 9, ante. Kermovan was dismissed Feb. 9. See the Journals, Jan. 26, 30, 
Feb. 9, II, Mar. 2, 5. 

[ig]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 113. The letter is directed to 
" Ephraim Blaine, Esquire, Dep. Commy. General of Purchases, Aliddle Department, 
Lancaster, per Post ". 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 6, 9, 14 (pp. 48, 50). 

[20] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IV. 210; Library of Congress, Presi- 
dent's Letter-Book, L 83. 

2 This letter was written Dec. 27 and the date left blank to be filled in in ac- 
cordance with subsequent action of Congress. See Laurens to Heath, Dec. 27, 1777, in 
vol. n., no. 791, also the Journals of that date and Jan. 8, 1778. Cf. nos. 6, 12, 13, a>.te, 
21, 30, 31, 42, post. See also Washington to the President of Congress, Jan. 9, and to 
Heath Jan. 22 {Writiugs, ed. Ford, VL 282, 292, ed. Sparks, V. 212, 221). A transcript 
of the report of the committee, with the resolutions adopted by Congress Jan. 8 rela- 
tive to General Burgoyne, subscribed by President Laurens, and bearing the date Jan. 6, 
is in possession of Mr. James H. Manning of Albany. The resolutions were presented 
to Burgoyne Feb. 4 (see no. 42, note 2, post). 



18 Continental Congress 

tive marks of the Non Commissioned Officers privates etc. included in 
the Convention of Saratoga as had been required by Congress, following 
in that Instance the example established by Sir Guy Carleton and himself, 
w[h]ich to you, Lieutt. Genl. Burgoyne was pleased first to misrepresent 
and then appeal to. 

And also, a declaration made upon the most frivolous pretense by the 
said Lieutt. General to Major Genl. Gates in a Letter of the 14th Novem- 
ber a Copy of which will accompany this, that " the public faith is broke " 
and that himself and his dependants were the " immediate sufferers," are 
justly alarmed by apprehensions, that the last mentioned in particular, 
is a measure projected for giving Colour to his receding from the articles 
of the Convention and which also strongly indicates a determination in 
his mind to absolve himself from his engagements. 

I have therefore in charge from the Representatives of the thirteen 
United States of America in Congress Assembled, to direct and enjoin 
you to detain the said Lieutent. General Burgoyne his Officers Troops and 
other persons and to suspend their intended embarkation until you shall 
be further Instructed, 

21. Henry Laurens, Notes on Burgoyne's Letter to Gates.^ 

[January 8, 1778.] 

General Gates transmited a Copy of that Letter to the President of 
Congress, Henry Laurens, without one syllable of remark upon or refer- 
ence to it. " The Public faith is broke " must have been understood in 
full force by Gen. Gates, who knew the subjects of Complaint on which 
that intimation was founded were trivial and feigned. 

The accommodations were the best that could on a sudden be procured 
upon the first arrival of the Convention Troops at Cambridge, nothing 
contrary to agreement and better than Gen. Burgoyne and his Officers 
must frequently have submitted to between Canada and Cambridge, but 
our General perhaps a little captivated by the flattery of a British Lieutt.- 
General, while he felt it his duty to transmit the Letter was too polite to 
animadvert, as if he had said, " I'll leave this matter to Congress." It is 
certain he was too polite to make the Lieutt. General and his Troops Pris- 
oners at discrition which might as easily have been effected as making a 
Convention. 

From the moment I perused Gen. Burgoyne's Letter to the conclusion 
of the business I always made the following comment upon " the public 
faith is broke." 

The British Commanders having frequently declared, there is no 
faith to be kept with Rebels and having as often acted in conformity, 

!^ ^^ " have directed Burgoyne whenever his Troops shall be 

Sir Wm. Howe ^ ^ ^ 

embarked to order the Transport Ships to go into New York or Delaware 

[2i]iL. I. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers. These notes are endorsed by Laurens: "Con- 
jectures on General Burgoyne's Letter of 14th Novem. 1777,. to General Gates. Re- 
specting the Convention Troops." The last paragraphs make it evident that the notes 
were written some time after Burgoyne's return to England. 



January, iJlS 19 

as the Winds may permit. General Burgoyne a little staggered by such 
an Order and feeling for his own reputation, devised means for vindi- 
cating the intended breach on his part whenever his conduct should be 
called in question and the Letter to Gen. Gates was calculated for the 
purpose, encircled by flattery of Gates in particular and of the military 
at Boston in general, a kind of loose hint is thrown in '* the public faith 
is broke." By whom and how? By the Government of Massachusetts 
or the Magistracy of Boston, because they have not in an Instant fur- 
nished the Convention Officers with more commodios ^ Lodgings than 
they were allowed when Sir Wm. Howe was in possession of Boston, 
or more commodios than probably some of them enjoyed at the very 
time for themselves and families — at the same time more commodios 
were in preparation and were very soon provided for the Officers and 
Troops. 

"This Letter["], reasoned Gen. Burgoyne, ["Jwill take up some days 
to reach Gen. Gates possibly he may overlook my hint, but should he 
forward it to Congress, that will be a work of more days, more will be 
required for their deliberations, and more again for sending their Reso- 
lutions to General Heath at Boston, in the whole at this season of the 
Year at least five Weeks, in the mean time the Transports will arrive and 
we shall be gone." (this would certainly have happened had not the 
Transports suffered delay by very tempestuos weather) " Should I go 
into New York or Delaware and be afterwards charged with breach of 
the Convention, I shall refer to my Letter written to the very General 
with whom I contracted, in which I complain, the Public faith was first 
broken by the United States and I shall obey my Orders and at the same 
time exempt myself from any imputation of dishonor. ["] 

That it was not intended to send the Troops across the Atlantic appears 
clearly from the inadequate quantity of Tonnage of the Transports which 
were sent to receive them as well as from the scantiness of Provisions 
and Water laid in, for a Voyage to Europe and from Gen. Burgoyne's 
refusal to give proper descriptions of his Officers Non-Commissioned 
Officers etc. see Report of a Committee, or of Gen. Heath or both. 
Besides Gen. Burgoyne had violated the Convention by the affair of the 
Cartouch Boxes, the Army Colours, the Military Chest, more particularly 
by rendring all the Muskets of his Army unfit for service. That Sir Henry 
Clinton and Sir Wm. Howe were equal to an Act so dishonorable as 
ordering the Convention Troops into New York, holding every thing 
fair play with Rebels, there can be no doubt when we reflect upon their 
former conduct and upon their subsequent stratagem in conjunction with 
their Brother Commissioners, for swindling Congress out of those Troops, 
pretending they were authorized to Ratify the Convention which authority 
when demanded they could not produce. See Letters to and from Con- 
gress on that point. 

2 Laurens frequently compressed the syllable ous in words of this character, 
usually but not always indicating the compression by means of a tilde (oftener a mere 
stroke of the pen). "Commodios" and "tempestuos" are not therefore to be regarded 
as misspellings. Similarly the word Southern often appears in his manuscripts as 
" Sothern ". 



20 Continental Congress 

No plausible reason ever appeared, none can be assigned, for the high 
Resentment of the British Court against Gen. Burgoyne but his having 
written that Letter, the intended business would have been accomplished 
but for his mar-plot delicacy. 

the King would not see him he remained under a heavy Cloud during 
all Lord North's Administration. He was afterwards promoted, why? 
because he had been injured. 

Had the Convention Troops reached New York or Philadelphia they 
would instantly have been employed against us, either in Garrison or in 
the Field, probably both. Congress might have clamored but their com- 
plaints would have been treated as former complaints had been, with 
contempt. And the World at large would have laughed at them. 

When Gen. Burgoyne found the ill effect of his Letter, his temper 
sowered, he became crabbed and sought for occasions to pick quarrels 
with the American Military, the correspondence between him and Gen. 
Gates, no doubt there was a correspondence, after it had been determined 
to suspend the embarkation of the Troops, would be a curiosity. I know 
Gates maintained the rectitude of the suspension.^ 



22. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

8th Jany 1778 
My Dear Son 

The day before yesterday I sent you a few hasty lines by Messenger 
Gray, last Night pretty late in Congress your very affecting Letter of 
the 3d. was brought to me.^ it accompanied a packet from your General 
dispatched the 2d. the Contents of this, as Duty required, I reported 
immediately f but your writing as discretion bids, I have concealed in my 
own breast, you speak in the warmth and affection of a Man under strong 
attachments, therefore I do not wonder at certain expressions which you 
would not have dropped to any but a friend in whose attachments you 
confide. 

If my memory does not deceive me, I hinted some time ago my dis- 
covery of party in our Councils ; the events which I dreaded and in many 
instances predicted, are now coming to maturity. Some of our friends in 
Charles Town to whom I communicated my sentiments freely, when they 
learn our present circumstances will look back to my Letters of August 

3 See nos. 6, 10, 12, 13, ante, 22, 27, 30-33. 38, 42, 76, 77, post. 
[22]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 212; Wallace, Laurens, 
p. 267 (extract). 

2 John Laurens's letter of Jan. 3 is in Army Correspondence, p. loi. 

3 Washington's letter of Jan. 2 (IVritiiigs, ed. Ford, VL 276, ed. Sparks, V. 207) 
was read in Congress Jan. 7. It was accompanied by copies of his letter to Conway 
Dec. 30 (ibid., V. 203) and of Conway's to him of Dec. 29 and 31 (extracts, ibid., pp. 
203, 204). It was the letter of Dec. 31 that contained the sarcastic comparison between 
Washington and Frederick the Great. See note 13, below. In a letter to the board of 
war, Jan. 2, Washington also touched upon Conway's machinations (Writings, ed. Ford, 
VI. 277 n.). 



January, lyyS 21 

and September.* I lament the particular unhappiness which you write of, 
but I do not confine my view to so narrow a Circle ; our whole frame is 
shattered ; we are tottering, and without the immediate exertion of wis- 
dom and fortitude we must fall flat down, among the Causes of this 
melancholy state are to be found some Men in whom your friend ^ re- 
posed an implicit confidence. I do not mean in the Army — did not I inti- 
mate to vou some distress I was under in answering a Letter soon after 
I was called to the Presidency, because I could not flatter? — the Man I 
alluded to,^ against whom I have no prejudice, for we always in our 
short acquaintance eat and drank together in great cordiality, has con- 
tributed largely to the promotion of party, his fawning mild address and 
obsequiousness, procured him toleration from great Men on both sides, 
a sort of favoritism from some : his Idleness, duplicity and criminal par- 
tialities in a certain Circle laid the foundations of our present deplorable 
State, if your friend knew these things as well as I do, he would see as 
clearly as I do, how his honest heart has been deceived — but enough of 
this until we meet. 

I am not quite sure of the fact, but I believe you have hit the pivot ^ 
upon which the late mischiefs have turned, in order however to justify 
this Idea, we must include Characters of whome your friend entertains 
the most favorable sentiments, these taken together form a Club whose 
demands upon the Treasury and the War Office never go away ungrati- 
fied. Candour obliges me to say that some of them respect your friend, 
and I am persuaded would not wittingly be concerned in a plot against 
him, but they " want the honour to defend ". in all such junctoes, there 
are prompters and Actors, accomodators, Candle snuffers, Shifters of 
scenes and Mutes. 

I have been and am uniformly opposed to all of them, the motives of 
your friend are pure, he has nothing in view but the happiness of his. 
Country, that pivot and the rest of them, one in particular * who stands 

4 See vol. II., nos. 586, 627. 

s Washington. 

6 Such a passage has not been found in any of the letters to John Laurens in the 
autumn of 1777, but see John Laurens's letters of Nov. 26 and 29 (Army Correspondence, 
pp. 83, 88) acknowledging his father's letters of Nov. 23 and 27. While it is not quite 
certain to whom Laurens alludes, his remarks are suggestive of Mifflin. The two letters 
to Mifflin Nov. 8 (Letter-Book, I. 11, 14), notifying him of the action of Congress 
Nov. 7 and 8, lend credence to this view. In other words, it seems probable that the 
person here alluded to and the " pivot " mentioned in the next paragraph are one and 
the same. Of particular interest heie is a letter from Dr. James Craik to Washington, 
Jan. 6, written from Port Tobacco, Maryland, relating what he had heard on the way 
from camp : " It was said, that some of the eastern and southern members were at the 
bottom of it, particularly one, who has been said to be your enemy before, but denied 
it, Richard Henry Lee; and that General Mifflin, in the new Board of War, was a very 
active person" {Writings of Washington, ed. Sparks, V. 493). 

■^ The allusion is evidently to General Mifflin, for John Laurens says in his letter 
of Jan. 3, to which this letter is a reply : " He [Conway] has weight it seems with a 
certain party, formed against the present commander in chief, at the head of which is 
Genl. Mifflin." 

8 The " one in particular " was probably Robert Morris, of whose integrity 
Laurens was beginning to entertain suspicions. See Laurens's Memorandum respecting 
Morris and the books of the secret committee, under Jan. 7, 1779, in vol. IV.; also 
Wallace, Laurens, p. 329 et seq. 



22 Continental Congress 

high in the good graces of your friend, make patriotism the stalking horse 
to their private Interests and some of them as I am well informed have 
already mounted to vast paper money Estates — in sound, equal to any 
made by that group of Commissaries Contractors and Tools, who were 
celebrated by Foote ® at the end of the late War — this Game at the public 
expence, cannot be successfully] played without the knowledge and the 
Aid of a Circle, those among them who love money best, must sacrifice 
peace offerings to the passion of those of their Colleagues whose ambition 
is most impetuous, and some there are whose vanity and avarice must 
both be fed. all these, in course of time will be exposed to public view; 
at present they seem to triumph. God knows I feel no regret from pri- 
vate considerations, I never touched, I desire never to touch public Money, 
and I have no ambition to gratify. I feel for my Country — I feel for 
thirteen Infant States. I have delivered my sentiments very freely against 
Maladministration and pointed to that of the " one in particular " nor will 
I ever spare my honest opinion, when it shall be proper to deliver it. To 
break the combination, is a work not to be easily, nor suddenly performed, 
and you will perceive it is the more difficult from the texture which I 
have very fairly described. 

I will attend to all their movements and have set my face against every 
wicked attempt however specious, but there is no other measure so likely 
to defeat the projects against your friend as a steady perseverence in 
Duty, of which he, if I may judge from his conduct, is truly sensible. 
His virtues are admitted and admired by all Men, and if there be such a 
Devil in the opposition as a rooted Enemy to him, yet even his knoivledge 
of Mankind must dictate despair of degrading that worthy Man without 
the procuration of his own consent and Aid. these I trust he will never 
afford to him or them, in his would be involved the ruin of our Cause, 
on the other hand his magnanimity, his patience will save his Country 
and confound his Enemies. Comparison, I have often heard, of the mis- 
carriages and inactivity in the Southern, with the successes of the North- 
ern department, but I have never been at a loss for argument to convince 
reasonable men, there was no ground for censure in one Case, and that in 
the other we had been fortunate — it would be endless to relate stuff of 
this Class. Men of Sense treat these things with contempt. 

The affair of G. C.^° which has so deeply affected you must be a little 
troublesome to your friend, but it cannot long continue so, if the fact 
relative to the Letter be exactly as you have been informed, every Man 
of honor and sensibility throughout these States will feel himself wounded 
and will think and speak of the circumstance according to its demerit. 
While I lay 111 of the Gout the G " explained that translation to me, but in 

^Samuel Foote (1720-1777). An account of him is in Diet. Nat. Biog. The 
reference is to The Commissary, a comedy produced by Foote at the Haymarket Theatre 
in 1765 (printed in London the same year). 

10 General Conway. 

11 The General, i. c, Conway. Concerning the extract of Conway's letter to Gates 
referred to in this paragraph, see Washington to Conway Nov. 9, 1777 {Writings, ed. 
Sparks, V. 139), MifHin to Gates Nov. 28, Gates to Conway Dec. 3, Gates to Mifflin 
Dec. 4, Gates to Washington Dec. 8, Gates to the President of Congress Dec. 11, Lafayette 
to Washington Dec. 30, Washington to Lafayette Dec. 31, 1777, Washington to Laurens 



January, lyyE 23 

much softer language than your quotation speaks, indeed he denied there 
was such a sentence in his Letter and averred he had spoken of your friend 
in terms of respect, however there v/as something in the manner of his 
representation, which raised doubts in my mind, the correspondence even 
under the favor of his own narrative appeared to me to have been indis- 
creet and dangerous. I never wished for you more in my Life than I did 
upon that occasion. I have nobody here to whom I can with pleasure and 
safety unbosom myself, but dont mistake; I have not lowered my tone 
when I am called upon to speak of public Men and public measures. I 
have been twice called to account by a Stricken Deer and I suppose stand 
open at this instant to a third attack by Interrogatories, the Visitor who 
came next to my Bedside ^^ introduced the subject which the G. had just 
dropped. I very candidly said according to the G's. explication there ap- 
peared no criminal intention, but there was something about it which did 
not look well, the G's late behaviour towards your friend is, in my judge- 
ment, through the whole, very reprehensible, but the taunts and sarcasm 
contained under the 31st Dec.^^ are unbecoming his Character and unpar- 
donable. Your friends Letter and the correspondence which accompanied 
it are committed to the B. W.^^ the event will be known in two or three 
days, I hope there will be no appearance of disrespect by delay, the occur- 
ance demands attention and determination. 

I could not forbear remarking because it produced a striking evidence 
of party-afTection and prejudice, to say nothing of 111 manners and breach 
of Order, when I had read the name of Bar. d'Arendt ^^ it was instantly 
followed in a loud voice, " as great a Rascal as any in the Army ". pray 
Sir, tell me who is this Baron d'Arendt who is also stigmatized by the 
same tongue, as an Indolent worthless Creature. 

Jan. 4, 1778, Gates to Washington Jan. 23, Conway to Washington Jan. 27, Washington 
to Gates Feb. 9, John Fitzgerald to Washington Feb. 16, Gates to Washington Feb. 19, 
Wilkinson to Washington Mar. 28 (ibid., pp. 485-493, 500-507, 510-512, 516) ; also 
Washington to Fitzgerald Feb. 28 (Library of Congress, acquired in 1921). See also 
no. 61, post. 

12 The identity of this visitor has not been discovered. 

13 In his letter to Conway Dec. 30, replying to one from Conway of Dec. 29, Wash- 
ington had remarked that he had no other wish " but that good, attentive officers may be 
chosen, and no extraordinary promotion take place, but where the merit of the ofticer 
is so generally acknowledged, as to obviate every reasonable cause for dissatisfaction 
thereat". In his reply, Dec. 31, Conway made the sarcastic comparison between Wash- 
ington and Frederick the Great to which Laurens alludes : " The general and universal 
merit, which you wish every promoted officer might be endowed with, is a rare gift. 
We see but few of merit so generally acknowledged. We know but the great Frederic 
in Europe, and the great Washington on this continent. I certainly never was so rash 
as to pretend to such a prodigious height." Laurens again alludes to this passage in his 
letter to John Laurens Feb. 3 (no. 72, post). Cf. note 3, above, and note 17, below. 
Washington's letter of Dec. 30 is in Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 268 (ed. Sparks), V. 150. 
Conway's letter of Dec. 31 is printed (in part) in Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 270 n. (ed. 
Sparks), V. 204 n. 

1* The bqard of war. See the closing paragraph of this letter. 

1^ John Laurens replies to the question concerning Baron d'Arendt in a letter of 
Jan. 23 {Army Correspondence, p. 109; see also ibid., p. 209). He had been appointed 
to the command of the German battalion Mar. 19, 1777. Washington had mentioned 
in his letter of Jan. 2 that the idea of the office of inspector-general had originated with 
Baron d'Arendt, who had been particularly considered as a proper person for the 
appointment. 



24 Continental Congress 

G. W/^ must be willfully blind if he cannot discover such glaring- de- 
fects in a Man's character as denominated him a first rate Rascal — I have 
no apprehensions that he is so — it is impossible that he should recommend 
such a Character to an important trust. 

Your private opinion is that G. C. never meant to act in his late ap- 
pointment/^ my private opinion was from the first, that he did not mean 
to cross the Atlantic until he had made further attempts on this side, our 
first conversation justified my conjecture. I was not satisfied of the pro- 
priety of his returning to the Army, but from the high opinion generally 
entertained of him, I wished he were sent to Georgia and to conduct an 
expedition a little further South. I proposed the subject for his consid- 
eration and he most heartily approved of it. what may follow the present 
appeal is uncertain. Mens mouths are shut, they wait to hear a Report, 
but you know me, and after what I have said you know it is not in my 
power to take any part but that which Conscience and honour have dic- 
tated. I have made my Report — here the subject must rest a few days. 

I have heard nothing yet in favor of your friend Duplaisis.^^ if it 
falls to my Lot to give him a Commission a Resolution of Congress shall 
be amended to it. 

You must excuse this patch work, I began it yesterday morning, 'tis 
now 10. at Night the 9th. this finishing stroke is the 6th effort to com- 
plete the performance and I have not time to make a second impression. 
I'll go to Bed now, and add in the Morning any thing that may occur 

loth. By Candle Light Upon a review of the former parts of 

this Letter I have determined how it ought to be disposed of after you 
shall have read it, you will undoubtedly be of the same opinion and act 
accordingly. 

My dear Son — I pray God to bless and guide you and etc. I will thank 
you for as explicit an account as you can collect of all the prizes lately 
made in Deleware on both shores. 

P. M. loth. I am just returned from a large Company where I heard 
a discussion, I should say such a discussion on the necessity of appointing 
a Quarter Master General and the recommendation of your friend and 
his opinion treated with so much indecent freedom and Levity, as affected 
me exceedingly and convinced me that your suspicions of a baneful influ- 
ence are not 111 founded, it would give me too much pain to repeat the 

1*5 General Washington. 

i'^ Conway had been chosen inspector-general of the army Dec. 13, and then im- 
mediately promoted to the rank of major-general. Laurens here alludes to remarks in 
John Laurens's letter of Jan. 3. In a letter of Jan. i {Army Correspondence, p. 100) 
John Laurens had said : " The promotion of General Conway has given almost universal 
disgust." See Richard Henry Lee's letters to Washington Oct. 20 and Nov. 20, in vol IL 
of these Letters, nos. 700, 748. Washington's letter, dated Oct. 28, to which the latter 
is a reply, is in the Century Magazine, LXXXL 663, with an introduction by Dr. Worth- 
ington C. Ford. See also, besides the references already given, Conway's letter to Charles 
Carroll of Carrollton Nov. 14 (read in Congress Nov. 24, in Rowland, Charles Carroll 
of Carrollton, I. 225), his letter to Washington Nov. 16 {Writings, ed. Sparks, V. 483), 
and Washington's letter to him Nov. 16 {ibid., p. 150). Cf. nos. 49, 52, 57, post. 

18 The Chevalier de Mauduit Duplessis. See John Laurens's letters of Jan. i, 14 
{Army Correspondence, pp. loi. 106), and Jan. 22 {S. C. Hist, and Gcneal. Mag.,_ VL 
47). Duplessis was given a brevet of lieutenant-colonel Jan. 19, in accordance with a 
recommendation of Washington Jan. 13 {Writings, ed. Sparks, V. 214). See also nos. 
46, 60, post. 



January, lyyS 25 

Comparison drawn or rather the parallel between de Arendt and Hay/^ 
let us have a little more patience we shall discover if there is a system 
to over turn or rule — for aught I know, to throw into confusion and 
bring in the ancient Rule. 

2T). The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the Governor 
OF Maryland (Thomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 

York town 12th Jany 1778. 
Sir, 

.... Inclosed is an Act of Congress of this date calculated for secur- 
ing a quantity of Salt lately arrived at Baltimore for Public use. as that 
article is and from all appearances will be most extremely wanted for the 
Army service, Congress are anxiously desirous of securing every Cargo 
that is or shall be imported. The term, " secure " in the Resolve, Your 
Excellency may be assured comprehends the Idea of purchasing if this 
shall be judged to be a mean preferable to an Act of power,^ 

24. The President of Congress to the Governor of 
North Carolina.^ 

York Town 12th January 1778. 
Sir: 

I had the honour of Your Excellency's Letter of the 27th December 
last Evening, brought to me by Mr. John Folger, who delivered me a 
Packet which he said contained dispatches from the Commissioners of 
these States at Paris, and in the same instant, intimated that the Packet 
had been opened by your Excellency and found to cover nothing more 
than a number of pieces of blank Paper, to my great grief and morti- 
fication I presently discovered the latter part of his information to be true, 
and accordingly Reported to Congress this Morning. The House was 
exceedingly chagrined by the disappointment and suspicions were so 
strong against the man, as to occasion an immediate examination into 
particulars which ended in an order to confine his person until some 
further inquiry shall be made into this mysterious circumstance. 

Congress request Your Excellency will be pleased to transmit as early 
as possible all the information you can collect from the Master and Pas- 
sengers of the Vessel in which Mr. Folger came from France, concerning 
dispatches which They may have seen, or heard from him were, in his 
possession. And also such as Your Excellency can give from your own 
knowledge. 

Upon his Examination he declared — " within eight Miles of Newbem 
I met Govr. Caswell on the 26th December and two other Gentlemen 

13 Presumably Lieut.-Col. Udny Hay, sometime assistant deputy quartermaster- 
general. 

[23]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VH. 156; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, L 119. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 12; also nos. 25, 48, post. 
[24]iN. C. Hist. Com., Caswell Papers; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, L 117 ; A'. C. State Recs., XHI. 8. 



26 Continental Congress 

one a Colo. Alcot, they questioned me so closely that after some time 
I told them I came from France in a french Vessel, the Captain of which 
was a stage behind on his way to see His Excellency, one of the Gentle- 
men told me that was His Excellency pointing to Govr. Caswell. We all 
lodged at the same House that Night. I showed Govr. Caswell the Letter 
I had from Mr. Deane. I desired the Governor's Passport which he gave 
me. I asked His Excellency, not knowing whether he might suspect me 
as Mr. Deane's letter was unsigned whether he had a mind to see my 
Papers, and took out the Main Packet directed ' dispatches ', and did not 
think of his breaking it open, we were in a private Room together the 
Governor broke it open. I informed him it never had been broke open 
before, after he had broke open the three Seals with which the wrapper 
was Sealed, he run over the directions on the Letters, he resealed the 
Packet marked * Dispatches ' (A) putting ^ into it the same Letters. When 
the Governor saw the Blank Paper he said he was surprised and did not 
know the service of sending clean paper so far. I answered I was sur- 
prised and did not know I had clean Paper under my care, we both as- 
sisted in repacking the Letters and the next Morning the Governor gave 
me the Papers." 

The line marked (A) and the next following contains information 
which implies that Letters were put into the Packet of clean Paper, but 
when that Packet came to my hand it certainl)^ contained nothing but 35 
pieces of blank french Paper, there was another Packet about the size of, 
or a little larger than, the first which contained foreign news Papers and 
Letters as Congress have been informed, but that was directed to Robt. 
Morris Esqr., and I sent it to his Clerk with eight other Letters and 
Packets which Folger had laid on my Table. 

By the Main Packet he means this, and that, and intimates that Your 
Excellency opened both, but the Man's behaviour is such as induces most 
of the Members of Congress to believe him an Arch Knave affecting the 
Fool, my private opinion is that he is a very confused stupid Creature 
altogether unfit for the Charge which Mr Deane committed to him and 
that some Emissary of the British Court played him a trick before he left 
France by robbing him of the original Packet and palming this Counter- 
feit on him ; if he is a Knave, he has pressed and prevailed on Your Excel- 
lency to look into the packet in order to gloss his Roguery. I will trouble 
you no further Sir with conjectures but conclude by subscribing with 
great Respect and Esteem, 

Your Excellency's 

Most Obedient and humble Servt. 

Henry Laurens 

President of Congress.^ 
His Excellency 

Govr. Caswell North Carolina. 

2 The letter " A " is placed above the word " putting ". Its purpose is explained 
by Laurens in the next paragraph. 

3 Governor Caswell's replj' to this letter is in A^. C. State Recs., XIII. 22. Con- 
cerning the Folger episode see the Journals, Jan. 12, Feb. 22,, May 8, 28. A letter from 
the committee of foreign afifairs to the commissioners in Paris Jan. 12, giving an account 
of the affair, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 468 (original in N. Y. Pub. Lib., Ford 



January, ly^S 27 

25. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Samuel and Robert Purviance/ 

York Town 12 Jan 1778. 
Gentlemen, 

I had the honour of receiving and reporting your Letter of the loth, to 
congress this Morning it is referred to the Marine Committee from 
whence you will receive a proper reply I hope by return of the Post. 

Congress having received information by divers means of the arrival 
of the Cargo of Salt intimated in your Letter above mentioned, framed 
the Inclosed Act of the present date for securing if possible the whole for 
the use of the Army for which it is wanted in the extremest degree. As 
some days may elapse before the Governor and Council can act, I am 
directed to transmit the Copy enclosed as above mentioned to you and to 
request you to exert your endeavors to prevent a Sale or removal of the 
Salt until His Excellency shall give directions in consequence of the 
present recommendation and Resolve. The term " secure " in the latter 
part of the Resolve, you may be assured comprehends the Idea of pur- 
chasing, and I have so explained it to the governor.^ .... 

To Samuel and Robert Purviance Esquires agents for the United States 
at Baltimore. 

26. James Duane to the President of Congress (Henry Laurens) } 

On publick Service. 

Albany 12th Janu'y 1778. 
Sir 

I entreat that you will do me the Favour to inform Congress that, as 
soon as the Commissioners for Indian Affairs ^ in this Department cou'd 
be convened, I attended them at this City. The Result of our Deliberations 
they dispatch by Express. The Entreagues and Liberality of our Enemies 
have made a deeper Impression on the Minds of many of the six nations 
than Congress apprehended. The Senecas and Cayugaes in particular 
can, I fear, no longer be regarded as Friends or even Neutrals ; while the 

Coll.), and a letter of Arthur Lee Apr. 14, relative to the transmission of the despatches, 
is ibid., p. 550 (see also a statement of John Adams July 26, ibid., p. 664). In a letter to 
Lovell June 3 Arthur Lee adds the remark : " Comparing and connecting all things 
together, it is my private judgment that this Mr. Chaumont was employed by the 243 
a xvii [i. e., the ministry] to take the public despatches; and that he availed himself 
of the opportunity to take my letters for Mr. Deane and Dr. Bankroft, with whom he 
was in close connexion" {Life of Lee, IL 142). The letter of Jan. 12 from the com- 
mittee of foreign affairs is also found in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deanc Papers, IL 
314 et seq., accompanied by the examination of Folger by the committee of Congress. 
An account by Silas Deane of the European end of the affair is ibid., V. 345, and numerous 
other statements found in the Deane Papers, vols. II. , III., and V., cast light on the affair. 
Cf. nos. 36, 240, 280, post. 

[25]! Md. Hist. Soc, Portfolio VIII. (i) ; Library of Congress, President's Letter 
Book, I. 120; Purviance, Baltimore in the Revolution, p. 214. 
2 3ee no 2*^ ante 

[26] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XII. 

2 Duane was instructed, in a resolution of Dec. 3, 1777, to co-operate with the 
commissioners of Indian affairs in the Northern department. Cf. vol. II., nos. 778, 789. 



28 Continental Congress 

past Declarations of the Commissioners denouncing Vengeance against 
tliem for any Act of Perfidy or Hostility, which they might presume to 
commit, have engagd Congress, from a Regard to their own Dignity as 
well as the publick Interest, to proceed to more vigorous and decisive 
Measures than we had conceivd to be necessary 

But all this is explaind so fully by the Commissioners ; as well as our 
Joint Sentiments on the part which ought to be pursued at the approaching 
Treaty, that it is needless for me to be particular. These misguided nations 
must Feel the Power of the united States, since we have not the means of 
preserving their Fidelity by our Bounty, and they slight our Conde- 
scention. 

The other important object of ni)^ Commiss'n is put in a proper Train.^ 
Secrecy with the Blessing of Heaven, will bring it to happy Conclusion. 
I can foresee no unsurmountable obstacle. The only Person who ought 
at present to be acquainted with it is clearly of the same Opinion. There 
being no money in the military Chest I have procurd 2000 Dollars, and 
it is advanced to the Gentleman to whom I allude. 

I have the Honour to be, with all possible Respect Sir 

Your most Obedient and very hum* servant 

Jas. Duane 
Hon* President of Congress ^ 

27. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

I2th Jany 1778. 
Sir, 

I am grieved by reflecting upon the length of time I have been indebted 
for the several Letters which you have lately honoured me with under 
the 14th and i8th of the past, 2d and 5th of the present Month, ^ and 
more because it is not in my power even now to return such answers as 
these demand and as I wish to give, that condescension however which 
is apparent in your kind and indulgent expressions on this head, afford 
me encouragement and forbid a laboured apology either for past or pres- 
ent unavoidable remissness — I say present, because I confess I am urged 
to this address by the inclosed Letter which I received from France last 
Night and which I am anxious to forward without delay, perhaps if this 
circumstance had not happened I might from a desire of answering all 
your favours have deferred some days longer, now I shall confine my- 
self to that of the 5th — I say I shall, in obedience to an hundred other 
calls which say I must. 

2 The other commission was to concert with General Starke a plan for the destruc- 
tion of the enemy's shipping on Lake Champlain. See the Journals, Dec. 3, 1777 (pp. 994, 
999) ; also vol. II., nos. 777, 77^, an^l no. 150, post. 

4 This letter is endorsed, in the writing- of Charles Thomson, " Letter from Jas. 
Duane Esqr. Albany Jany. 12. 1778. read 21. referred to board of war". See the Journals, 
Jan. 21. 

[27]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 217. Addressed to Lafayette 
at Valley Forge. 

2 A series of letters from Lafayette to Laurens, 1777- 1780, is found in 5. C. Hist, 
and Geneal. Mag., vols. VII. and VIII. The four letters here mentioned are doubtless 
those found in vol. VII., pp. 57, 63, 115, 120. The first is dated Dec. 14 and endorsed as 
received Dec. 18 ; the second, which is without date, is endorsed as received Jan. 5 ; the 
third is dated Jan. 2; while the fourth is undated, but endorsed as received Jan. 12. 
The one to which Laurens is chiefly responding is evidently the second. . 



January, ly/S 29 

Very early after my arrival at the State House Philadelphia I dis- 
covered the spirit of party triumphant.^ I lamented the prospect exhibited 
to my view and predicted certain evil consequences which have naturally 
followed. I was a stranger, a by stander, I was careful to take no de- 
cided part except that of Speaking and voting according to the dictates 
of conscience. 

I will not boast of having been instrumental in promoting beneficial 
measures which from all appearance would otherwise have failed, nor of 
defeating attempts which if they had succeeded would greatly have in- 
jured our Cause, you would smile Sir to hear me say that America is a 
little indebted to me for her successes against the threatening flood of 
the invincible Burgoyne if I were to attempt to prove this, it would be 
with no other view but this of showing my steady opposition to party. 
you will conclude therefore that upon questions I have not been found 
always on one side. 

I mean only to say. Yes Sir, I have long known there were divisions 
among those, whose duty required from them as honest Men, Strict 
Union. I have observed fuel to be so carefully supplied as never to fail 
of keeping up a spark of discord, hence I have often been induced to 
believe there were Agents from our Enemies if not within Doors, yet too 
closely connected with some who sat there. 

You will however be pleased to observe Sir, or I should rather say, you 
very well know Sir, there is no subject more abstruse than this of party, 
it is said to be the Sinews of Liberty. I have neither Leisure nor abilities 
for going deeply into the enquiry, nor is it necessary. I will only say that 
party animosity between the Eastern States and the Inhabitants of New 
York is almost coexistant with the Inhabitants, these are grand divisions, 
each has its atmosphere, they are sometimes very troublesome in their 
disputes which are carried to such extremes as seem to threaten a disso- 
lution of all friendships, nevertheless, danger from a common Enemy 
will reduce them to good order and as it were by a Charm, instantly estab- 
lish a coalition. I have said so much on this subject in order to remove 
in some degree the strong apprehensions which you seem to be under 
from reports of prevailing parties in Congress, they make the Road rough 
but not impassible, so much upon party in general, concerning the par- 
ticular influences which you speak of, I must acknowledge your conjec- 
tures are not ill founded, but I think the friends of our brave and vir- 
tuous General, may rest assured that he is out of the reach of his Ene- 
mies, if he has an Enemy, a fact of which I am in doubt of. I believe I 
hear most that is said and know the outlines of almost all that has been 
attempted, but the whole amounts to little more than tittle tattle, which 
would be too much honoured by repeating it. 

All Men acknowledge General Washington's virtue, his personal Brav- 
ery, nor do I ever hear his Military abilities questioned but comparatively, 
with the fortunate event which you allude to. why cannot Genl. Wash- 
ington grasp Genl. Howe abounding with every advantage of situation 

3 Cf. Laurens to Gervais, vol. II., p. 477, and to Trumbull, no. 14, ante. See also 
Lafayette's remarks in the second of his letters mentioned in note 2, above. 



30 Continental Congress 

and every necessary article for defence or attack, as Genl. Gates con- 
quered Genl. Burgoyne, under every disadvantage of situation and re- 
duced to the last extremity? answers are easily given to such silly re- 
marks, when one is disposed to reply. 

In a word Sir, be not alarmed I think it is not in the power of any 
junto to lessen our friend without his own consent. I trust his good sense 
and his knowledge of the World, will guard against so fatal an error. If 
you desire it sir Mr. John Laurens will communicate what I have written 
in confidence to him,* I say in confidence not because I am afraid of 
having my sentiments known, I speak them honestly and unreservedly 
upon every proper occasion but I very much dislike correspondencies 
which may be misconstrued and charged with design to foment dissen- 
tions. it is my constant endeavor to reconcile and make peace. 

I am not insensible that Genl. Washington has been in several In- 
stances extremely 111 used by the neglect of those who ought to be his 
grand support and to prevent every cause of complaint on his part, but if 
I were with him half an hour and would persuade myself he wanted in- 
formation, it would be very easy to convince him there has not any thing 
been designedly done or omitted to affront him — I speak of so large a 
majority as 9 in 10. 

the General very well knows what we are, and will continue to make 
suitable allowances for all defects seeming or real, we are in a State of 
Infancy, yet thank God, we are not quite so foolish nor so wicked as our 
Parent. Men whisper and very harmless things too of Genl. Washington, 
loud bellowing scandal appears in every Newspaper upon the name of 
his Antagonist Sir William — but I will dwell no longer upon this matter. 

A large Committee appointed by Congress of four of its own Members 
and three from the New Board of War ^ will shortly be in Camp in order 
to concert measures with the Commander in Chief for the reformation of 
the Army. God grant every good purpose may be answered by their con- 
sultations, to these Gentlemen Sir you are particularly referred for an 
answer to your last favor without date relative to Monsr. du pin de Mon- 
tauban,'' and also for the desired promotion of Monsr. Gemaut.^ the 
powers of this deputation are very ample I will not say unlimited. 

the Clothing which you had been informed of, Colo. Lee assures me is 
little more than a collection of old wearing apparel of all shapes and sizes 
and that the whole is appropreated. 

You will learn by the dispatches now sent to Genl. Washington, that 
Mr. Burgoyne is destined to pass the present Winter in Massachusetts 
Bay and the reasons which urged Congress to a determination which 
must undergo the Criticism of all the Politicians in the Civilized World. 
I shall be happy to have the approbation of those in our own Country. 

* The letter of Jan. 8, no. 22, ante. 

5 Concerning this committee, see no. 62, note 2, post. Cf. nos. 28, 37, 40, 44, 46, post. 

6 This was the Marquis de la Tour du Pin de Montauban. See no. 104, post. 
In the text of Lafayette's letter in 5". C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VII. 120, the name 
appears as " de La tored du pin de montauban ". 

"' Lieutenant-Colonel Gimat was aide-de-camp to Lafayette. See the Journals, 
Feb. 2, 3. 



January, i/y8 31 

If I had not honestly thought the measure justifiable as well as necessary 
I would not have been a strenuous advocate in favor of it. I think he 
will appear to have been the dupe of his own policy, the intimation which 
he gave to Gen Gates who was at Albany of a breach of Public faith was 
artfully enough insinuated calculated for a particular purpose but not in- 
tended for the view of Congress. If in this we have acted wisely, it will 
be set to our Credit in opposition to some of our supposed errors.® 

28. James Lovell to Samuel Adams. ^ 

Jan'ry 13th 1777 [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

I prevented Congress sometime ago from inserting Massachusetts 
among those states to whom pressing recommendation has been sent to 
afford more members to transact the business which is great and various 
here at this period; but I find reason to repent my interposition, tho', 
otherwise, you would have been summoned back immediately upon get- 
ting out of your Saddle in Boston.^ 

When 5 were actually at York, 2 Delegates were a Representation; 
now only 3 are here, 3 are essential in Congress.^ This, at the worst sea- 
son of the year, to 3 shabby constitutions is irksome ; more especially as 
each is on 2 standing committees, and according to the usual fate of eastern 
members are seldom forgot upon perplexing transient calls. Mr. Dana 
goes to Camp, with three others of Congress, and 3 * of the new Board 
of War. upon the great Business of introducing Discipline and Oeconomy 
into the army.' Poor Geary will get a double portion of Treasury-toil 
by this : ® which, upon the back of a great deal of System- Patching lately, 

will go near to put him past the salutary power of Vegetables 

We have wanted 2 of our Colleagues lately, as Mentors; tho' we should 
not, even with them, have been quite unanimous. Just cause, ground or 
reason to fear that a contract made will be violated warrants a suspension 
of the agreement, till that fear is done away ; but, that just cause must be 
something consequent to the Convention; ^ and the degree of fear arising 

^ See nos. 10, 12, 13, 21, 22, ante. 
[28] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 9, 1777. 

3 See the resolution of the Massachusetts legislature, Dec. 12, 1777, in the Jour- 
nals, Jan. 7. Cf. nos. 44, 161, 164, 174, 203, post. In Austin, Life of Gerry, I. 274, is an 
extract of a letter from Gerry (to James Warren?), Jan. 14: "Mr. Dana has been 
ordered by Congress on a committee to camp. He will probably be absent a month. I 

am_ alone of our delegation, and the state will lose its vote I am worn down with 

fatigue, and have been waiting with some impatience to return to Massachusetts; but 
I have wished to see certain measures accomplished before I left Congress ; when those 
were finished, others presented themselves equally important and I waited for them, and 
so on ; but this mode of travelling will never get me home. I must therefore determine at 
all events to leave this place in the spring." Similar laments were voiced in letters of 
Apr. 24 and May 26 (ibid., I. 275). 

*" Gates, Mifflin, and Pickering". [Marginal note by Lovell.] 

^ See no. 27, note 5, ante, and nos. 29, 31, post. 

" Gerry and Dana were both on the board of treasury, the former since Feb. 17, 

1776, the latter since Dec. 3, 1777. 

^ The allusion is to the convention of Saratoga and the action of Congress Dec. 27, 

1777. and Jan. 8, 1778. See nos. 10, 12, 13, 20, 21, 27, ante. 



32 Continental Congress 

from the same word or deed will operate variously according [to] the 
characters of persons and circumstances of things. It is not to be won- 
dered at, therefore, if a great variet}^ of Judgements should be formed 
in the world upon the late decission of Congress. Those who have been 
chiefly theoretic students w^ill shake their heads and cry nay. These will 
be joined by some timorous christians, who are always doubting even 
when they say they have sure hope. On the other hand practical Politi- 
cians, joined by all such good Folk as, supposing themselves past the 
days of miraculous Exhibition, look upon natural vigorous exertions as 
somewhat connected with the essence of Hope, these, I suppose, will cry 
aloud aye. G — and I are in the latter Classes. Brother D — tho not fully 
with us was honestly and jiidgematically differing, as far as he did differ.* 
I suspect the two Alentors ^ if here would not have been quite in Unison. 

But there has been another particular Case in which I think I should 
have had you both on my part, tho I have stood single against two worthy 
patriotic Brethren. You must have observed in some of my past Scrawls 
that there was an appearance of a wash or design to put our military offi- 
cers upon the footing of european. " To put them on Half pay after the 
end of this War either for Life or 20 or lo or 5 years, to secure Pensions 
to their Widows, and to make their Commissions vendible ".^° In my 
rage against Extortioners I have thrown out these things in the Course 
of my Correspondence, but not so much to frighten them into an amend- 
ment of manners, as to draw reproof to myself from old veterans, as 
Clark " calls one of my Friends, and from any others who have not for- 
gotten that this was in its beginning a patriotic war. 

Are we not in a young Country where a living is easily gotten by labour 
and where it is not a disgrace to work? so that Officers after the War 
may with ease and wathout shame maintain themselves upon land, which 
is to be given to them as well as to soldiers. 

Are not our soldiers, many of them, married Men as well as their 
Commanders ? In Europe they are single, or if married, they have Wives 
like themselves without any home. Let this equallity in America be con- 
sidered, and say whether the soldier's Widow shall not have a Pension, 
and the soldier surviving the War be put on Half-pay. 

Are not Militia Officers almost as much in the Field as our Continental 
Gentlemen? Must we not enlarge the half pay Scheme or disgust the 
Militia ? a Case of the Kind not happening in Europe. There, this mode 
of introducing into Society a set of haughty idle imperious Scandalizers 
of industrious Citizens and Farmers may be practiced. I have no reason 
to look for a Half pay majority in Congress; as there is really no argu- 
ment for it but a fear of all our best officers leaving the army 

I must go back to my first Subject as an apology for not writing the 
history of York Town at large. 

" G. and D. are Gerry and Dana. 
^ Presumably the two Adamses. 

10 See the Journals, Jan. 5, 9, 10; cf. vol. II., nos. 774, 782, and no. 67, post. 

11 Abraham Clark of New Jersey. 



January, lyjS 33 

Fulsom. Dana, Reed, Harvey ^o to Camp Pen to the Hospitals.^^ 
Therefore the 13 States have their Business managed by a snug set indeed. 

N. Hampshire i 

Massachusetts 2 no vote 

Rh. Island i 

Connecticutt i 

N- York 2 

N Jersey 2 

Pensylvania 4 

Delaware — 

Maryland — 

Virginia i no vote 

North Carolina . . . . i 

Sth. Carolina i 

Georgia 2 

18 Delegates — 9 States '' 

With frozen Fingers but much warmth of friendly attachment to you 
at heart I am 

Dear Sir 

Your Servant 
JL 

29. Elbridge Gerry to George Washington/ 

York 13th of Jany 1778 
Dear Sir 

I have waited some time, in expectation of informing You with the 
Sense of Congress on the several Subjects mentioned in your agreable 
Favour of the 25th Deer. ; but am not yet fully able to answer my Pur- 
pose.^ .... 

The Resolutions for allowing hereafter to Officers, the Cost of their 
retained Rations, and for enabling your Excellency to increase the number 
of your Aids, I find by your letters to Congress are at Hand.^ And the 
proposals of allowing to Officers who shall continue in the Service to the 
End of the War, and whose Regiments shall then be reduced, half pay for 
a limited Time; of enabling Officers after the War to Sell their Commis- 
sions under proper Regulations; and of giving to the Widows of such 
Officers as shall hereafter loose their lives in the service, pensions while 

^2 See the Journals, Jan. 6, 10, 12. Cf. nos. 40, 44, post. 
^3 Cf. no. 31, post. 
[29]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXL 88; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), IL 66. 

2 7he letter to Gerry Dec. 25 has not been found. It would appear to have been 
similar in tone and substance to the letters to Congress Dec. 22 and 23, in Writings (ed. 
Ford), VL 252, 257, (ed. Sparks), V. 192, 197. Gerry was a member of the recent com- 
mittee of conference (see these Letters, vol. IL, no. 774). The passage here omitted 
relates to the constitution of the committee of conference appointed Jan. 10 and 12. 
See no. 27, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 30, 1777, and Jan. 3, 1778. 



34 Continental Congress 

they remain in a State of Widowhood are now before Congress. The first 
has been largely debated, and I am apprehensive that it will meet with a 
negative ; there are many weighty Arguments against it, Such as the In- 
fant State of the Country, its Aversion to placemen and pensioners 
whereby G Britain is likely to lose her liberty, the Equality of the officers 
and soldiers of some States before the War, and the bad Effect that Such 
provision would have on the Minds of the latter ; but I must confess that 
none of these weigh so much in my Mind, as the Necessity of making a 
Commission so valuable that a Dismission will not only be disgraceful to 
an Officer, but injurious to his Interest. This will introduce That Subordi- 
nation to civil Authority which is Necessary to produce an internal Secur- 
ity to Liberty ; and to the high Officers of the Military Department such 
authority as to enable them to establish discipline, without which an Army 
can be neither vigorous, nor Successful.^ 

Colo. Wilkinson is appointed Secretary to the Board of War, which, 
I hope, he will accept, that the just Causes of Complaint arising from his 
hasty promotion may be removed : should he refuse I think Congress will 
be justified in taking effectual Measures to remedy the evils resulting 
therefrom.^ 

General Heath is directed to procure and send to your Excellency one 
thousand bell tents, to prevent in future the Danger arising from heavy 
Rains at the critical Moment of an Engagement with the Enemy.*^ Is it 
not necessary that Measures Should be taken by Congress or your Ex- 
cellency for further providing against this Evil, by appropriating a Drum- 
mer, fifer, or some other Officer in each Company to carry a Bell tent for 
the Same, in Times of Action when the Baggage Waggons are ordered 
to leave the Army; that whether advancing or retreating, the Soldiers 
may never be in danger of having their Muskets and ammunition ren- 
dered useless from the Want of this Article ? 

30. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
William Heath. ^ 

14th Jany 1778. 
Sir 

.... You will likewise receive two Copies of an Act of Congress 
dated the 8th Inst., for suspending the embarkation of Lieutt. Gen. Bur- 
goyne and his troops until the Convention of Saratoga shall be explicitly 
ratified by the Court of Great Britain and notified to Congress. One Copy 
of which you are directed by another Act, dated the 12th, which will 
accompany the abovementioned, to deliver to Lieutt. Gen. Burgoyne; by 
the same Act you are injoined to order such transports if arrived, or when 
they shall arrive, to quit the port of Boston immediately. 

Congress have directed Gen. Washington to renew his demand on 
Gen. Sir Wm. Howe for passports for vessels to transport provision and 

*■ Cf. no. 28, ante, no. 67, post. 

5 See the Journals, Jan. 5, 6. Cf. no. 5, ante, and nos. 36, 64, post. 
^ See the Journals, Jan. 5. 
[30]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IV. 202; Mass. Hist. Soc, Heath 
Papers, VHI. 55, j:^ (dupHcate) ; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 133. 



January, ly/S 35 

fuel for General Burgoyne's army, but as good policy dictates that we 
should keep the Court of Great Britain from a knowledge founded upon 
authentic accounts of the Act of Congress of the 8th inst. as long as we 
can fairly do so, that demand will not be made until Congress shall be 
informed that you have delivered a copy of the Act to Gen. Burgoyne. 
The transporting provision under such expected passports, admitting 
such will be granted, may therefore be long delayed ; from these consid- 
erations you will judge, Sir, of the expediency or necessity for applying 
to Gen. Burgoyne to order provision for the use of his troops from on 
board the British transport vessels, which probably from motives of 
©economy he will interpose — for it is not intended he shall ever depart 
until he shall have paid up all his accounts in terms of a Resolve of Con- 
gress lately transmitted you." 
P. S ' 



31. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the Governor 
OF New York (George Clinton).^ 

York Town 14 Jany 1778 
Sir 

The last I troubled you with was under the 2d Inst, by Messenger 
Weir, since which I have been honoured by the receipt of Your Excel- 
lency's favour of the 20th Ulto. this I immediately Reported to Congress 
but have received no commands which authorize me to make a particular 
reply.^ Business for some time past has not been dispatched in Congress 
with that degree of Celerity, nor, possibly in some Instances, accuracy, 
which the peculiar exigency of these Infant States demands, not owing 
to negligence and inattention of the few Members who now faithfully 
devote their time and drudge in the services of their Country but to a 
deficiency of numbers necessary for the discharge of the very important 
matters which every new day brings forth. There are at present no more 
than 21. Members on the floor of these 3. are ordered on a Committee 
to Gen Washington's Camp,' and i, to visit the Hospitals* and of late 
from some unaccountable delinquencies, Congress in order to guard against 
a total dispersion of the Army have been obliged to Act personally by 
several of its Members, Quarter Master general, Clothier General, Com- 
missary general and as Your Excellency will conclude from the intima- 
tion just now dropped Director of Hospitals and I might with strict pro- 
priety add two or three et caetera.^ I have taken the Liberty of being so 

2 See nos. 13, 20, ante, 38, 42, 52, post. 

3 The postscript (Letter-Book, p. 137) is principally a request to Heath to render 
Baron Steuben financial and other assistance to come to Congress. See Heath's reply 
Feb. 7, in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., IV. 211 ; also Washington's Writings 
(ed. Sparks), V. 213, 526-530, and nos. 81, 103, post. 

[31]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. HL, p. 3 (original) ; Library of 
Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 128; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), H. 68 n. 
2 See the Journals, Jan. 5. 

' See the Journals, Jan. 10, 12, and nos. 28, 29, ante. 
* See the Journals, Jan. 6. 
5 Cf. nos. ID, 13, 14, 22, ante, and no. 98, post. 



36 Continental Congress 

full on this head in order to shew Your Excellency the necessity for hasten- 
ing a more ample Representation from the State of New York as well as 
to apologize for any unavoidable delay on the part of Congress and I 
have been urged more particularly to do so from a hint which Mr. Lewis 
gave me this Evening of his intention to leave us in a few Days. 

Under the present Cover Your Excellency will receive a very solemn 
and important Act of Congress of the 8th Inst : for suspending the em- 
barkation of Lieutt.-General Burgoyne and his Troops until the Conven- 
tion of Saratoga shall be distinctly and explicitly Ratified by the Court of 
Great Britain and properly Notified to Congress — a measure which Con- 
gress after long and dispassionate consideration judged to be equally 
justifiable and necessary and are therefore confident their Resolutions will 
be confirmed by the approbation of all their Constituents in these United 
States who are most immediately concerned, and that the Justice and good 
Policy of the Act will be acknowledged by every disinterested Court in 
Europe.^ 

32. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

York Town 14th Jany. 1778 
My Dear Son 

This will be delivered to you by Monsr. le Chevalier Lanuville a Gen- 
tleman who at a very great expence is come to offer his service in our 
Army, you will learn from himself in a very few words, his pretensions 
and expectations and in further conversation I believe you will find him 
to be a Man of great Military talents. 

He anxiously wishes for a Yes or a No to his applications to Congress, 
this is his own Language — but as he has determined to go to Camp, where 
the Committee of conference to whom all power for the present is given, 
it was judged best to defer an answer until their return, if you can with 
propriety, introduce him to some of those Gentlemen. I know you will 
shew him every civility that circumstances will admit of.^ tell me your 
thoughts on our determination to suspend the embarkation of ]\Ir. Bur- 

® This paragraph, with occasional small changes of phraseology', is contained in 
letters to the several northern states under date of Jan. 14, and in letters to the southern 
states Jan. 17. They appear in the Letter-Book at pp. 127-133, and 139-142. .\ copy of 
the letter to President Weare of New Hampshire, taken from the original, then in pos- 
session of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia, is in possession of the Carnegie Insti- 
tution of Washington. The original to President Wharton of Pennsylvania is in Haver- 
ford College, Roberts Coll.. 723 (printed in Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 176). The letter 
to the speaker of the Massachusetts assembly is in Mass. Arch., CXCVIII. 396 (duplicate 
at p. 393). That to Governor Cooke of Rhode Island is in R. I. State Recs., VIII. 371. 
The letter to Governor Johnson of Maryland is in Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 159. 
[32]! S. C. Hist. Soc, John Laurens Papers; S. C. Hist, and Gencal. Mag., VI. 11. 
Addressed : " Lieutt. Colonel John Laurens at Head Quarters Valley forge Camp, 
favoured by Monsr. Le Chevalr. Lanuville." 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 5, 27. Feb. 2, and no. 58, post. John Laurens has endorsed 
on this letter a memorandum relative to the two Laneuvilles and letters of recommenda- 
tion brought by them. See also his reply, Jan. 23, in Army Correspondence, p. 109. In 
the index to the Journals the Chevalier de Laneuville and his younger brother, Noirmont 
de Laneuville, are confused, many references appertaining to the former being assigned 
to the latter. Noirmont de Laneuville is, however, distinguished from his elder brother 
by the use in the journal record of his praenomen (he is sometimes mentioned as " Monsr. 
de Noirmont" only), whereas the chevalier is usually designated as "Monsr. Laneu- 
ville", or " Monsr. de la Neuville ". 



January, ly/S 37 

goyne. I am not answerable for nor do I claim the merit of, the manner 
in which the thing is ushered into the World, 'tis plain and simple not 
free from exceptions I know, all that was done while I sat in the Chair 
and is mere fringe and Lace from an infant manufactory, but for the 
thing itself, the propriety the justice and the sound policy I contended in 
the Comni^^ of the whole, so well was I persuaded of the rectitude of the 
Act, I declared I would rather lose my whole Estate, than hear a majority 
of dissenting Voices, the grand Resolve passed Nem. Con.^ 

This great determination will have its eflfect in Europe, in England 
more especially, whether good or Evil time will inform us. I feel strongly 
confirmed, that the Act is good and therefore entertain no alarming 
apprehensions. 

I pray God protect you 

Henry Laurens, 
[P. S.] 

33. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

York Town Jan. 14th 1778. 
Sir, 

Congress hath lately resolved for reasons specified in their Resolution, 
to suspend the Embarkation of Gen. Burgoyne and the Troops under his 
command ; until the Convention of Saratoga shall be ratified by the Court 
of London and notified to Congress. This circumstance, the Arrival in 
Newport Harbour of a number of Men of War, some of them of the line, 
and my Fears of our not being able to sustain an Attack made by the 
Troops at Rhode-Island — joined by Marines and Seamen from those men 
of War have made me anxious for the Town of Providence particularly 
against which the Enemy w^ould, in my opinion, bend their whole force 
if they should think there was any Probability of Success. Impressed with 
these anxious feelings I have represented the State of Rhode Island to 
Congress in such a manner as to procure a Resolution recommending it 
to the States of N. H., Mts. B., R. I., and C, to immediately furnish and 
constantly keep up in the State of Rhode Island, the Troops stipulated by 
the Comm'ee which met at Springfield last July.^ The President will im- 
mediately transmit to you authentic Copies of the Resolutions hinted at, 
and also of other Resolutions enter'd into in Consequence of Genl. Spen- 
cer's Letter, whose Resignation Congress have accepted. 

I am suspicious that the enemy will consider the suspension of the 
embarkation of General Burgoyne and his troops as an infraction of the 
convention, attempt to rescue those troops, and at the same time pour 
their resentment on our State. If these should be their Ideas it seems to me 

^ See nos. 6, 12, 13, 21, 22, 27, 30, 31, ante. 
[ZZV R- I- Arch., Letters to the Governors, i777-'^77^, p. 145; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 162. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 13. Cf. ibid., June 25. The committee referred to as 
having met at Springfield was the convention of committees from New Hampshire, 
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, and New York. See the Journals, Aug. 18, 
Sept. 10, Oct. 27, Nov. 22, 26, 27, 1777; also vol. II., no. 753, note 3. 



38 Cotttinental Congress 

that Providence will be their first object. Because when possessed of that 
town, they might communicate by Spies with Burgoyne, a Day might be 
fixed by them for the latter to burst with his Troops through the Guards, 
and at the same time the Enemy might advance from Providence to meet 
and receive them. If the Assembly should not think this chimerical they 
will without doubt be on their guard, and make the best preparation they 
can to repel any Attempt that may be made upon our State. 

Apprehensions of an Attempt of this kind have induced Congress to 
recommend it to the State of Massachusetts-Bay to increase the number 
of the Guards upon Burgoyne's Troops, and to the New-England States 
to furnish and keep up their Quotas of Men in the State of Rhode-Island 
as before mentioned.^ 

The provision made for the future Payment of the Troops in that 
Quarter will prevent any demands on our Treasury in future. I hope that 
this Consideration, and the Question about the Payment of the Expense 
of the late inglorious Expedition not being yet decided,^ will induce our 
State to put off any Application they may have in contemplation to make 
to Congress as long as they can 

34. Elbridge Gerry to Timothy Pickering.^ 

York Town Jany 15, 1778 
Dear Sir 

.... The proposition in your Favour of Deer. 14th for obtaining a 
reimbursement of the Cost of provisions and other articles supplied to 
General Burgoyne and the other prisoners of the Convention of Saratoga 
before their Embarkation, were necessary in the opinion of Congress, who 
had previously issued their orders to General Heath for accomplishing 
this purpose.^ .... 

35. The Commercial Committee to Samuel and Robert Purviance.^ 

Commercial Committee. 

York January 15th 1778. 
Gentn. 

.... We don't doubt at all Gentn. but that 3^ou cant make it con- 
venient to take bills on the Commissioners at Paris ; but we have not heard 
that Congress had any thoughts of drawing on them. We hope you will 
be able to get the draft on the Loan Office paid a[nd] negotiate Certifi- 
cates otherwise we don't know how we shall be able to pay the balance 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 13 ; also Laurens to Cooke, Jan. 14, in R. I. State Recs., 
VIII. 371. 

■* See no. 11, ante. 
[34]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Pickering Papers, XVII. 72. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 19, 1777, and vol. II., no. 786. Pickering was then adjutant- 
general, although recently chosen a member of the new board of war. See the Journals, 
Nov. 7, 21, 1777; Jan. 5, 12, 20, 1778. See also Pickering and Upham, Life of_ Pickering, 
I. 188 et seq. Pickering left the camp at Valley Forge for York Jan. 30 {ibid., p. 203). 
His letter of Dec. 14 to Gerry has not been found. 
[35]! Md. Hist. Soc, Portfolio, VIII. (i). 



January, lyyS 39 

which it seems will be due to you. Indeed we shall be averse to making 
any applications to Congress for Monies for any of our Agents until they 
shall have furnished us with their Accounts, that we may show to Con- 
gress what ballances are due and urge the necessity of granting Warrants 
on the Treasury or Loan Offices for the Payment thereof. We hope that 
this will prove an effectual spur to you Gentn and compel you to do what 
we have long since requested and what we repeat, to wit, to transmit to us 
your accounts and vouchers immediately ^ 

We are Gentn Your obedt servt 
Frans Lewis 
William Ellery 
James Forbes 
Messrs. S : and R : Purviance 

36. Abraham Clark to Lord Stirling.^ 

York Town Jany 15, 1778 
My Lord, 

Your favours of Deer, and Jany 3d but lately came to hand. The want 
of provisions in the Army gives me great concern. Complaints of this 
kind are frequent. This defeciency arises in part from a defect in the 
System, but much more from the indolence Ignorance disaffection or 
avarice of the Commissaries. Measures are frequently taken to remedy 
the Evils, but all hitherto have proved ineffectual, and will I believe con- 
tinue to do so untill a reform is made in the department, which is now 
under Consideration of a Committee.^ 

On Sunday evening a person with dispatches from France Arrived in 
this Town, but upon opening the Packet to our great Surprize we found 
little more than blank papers ; every Letter of importance had been taken 
out, and their places Supplied by Clean paper, some few Letters on Com- 
merce remained but not one Containing any intelligence, how or where 
this villany was effected is hard to determine. The bearer reed, the dis- 
patches at Nantz with a Letter of directions from our Commissioners, 
which Letter he produced, he says the packet was longer on its way from 
Paris than usual, and he Supposes the Letters were taken out before he 
reed, it, as measures of that kind had been practised before ; he gives but 
a poor Acct. of his proceedings. Acknowledges he had opened several of 
the bundles to see if no instructions were inclosed for him. he is ordered 
to be Confined till the affair can be enquired into.^ 

Your Lordship mentions the want of Military merrit in a Gentleman 
lately promoted ; * I always before heard him mentioned as having great 

2 See Purviance, Baltimore in the Revolution, p. 216. 
[36]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Stirling Papers, IV.; Library of Congress, Force Trans., 
Stirling, L; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXIX. 112. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 14, 26, and passim (index, Commissary general of pur- 
chases). Cf. nos. 12, 17, ante. 

2 See no. 24, ante. 

* The allusion is to General Conway, who was made brigadier-general Dec. 14, 
1777- See Washington to the President of Congress Jan. 2, and to Gates Jan. 4, in 
Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 276, 278. The letter of Jan. 2 is also in Writings (ed. Sparks), 
V. 207. In an appendix to the latter volume (pp. 483-518) is a series of letters pertaining 
to the Conway Cabal. See also the Journals, Jan. 7, 19, and cf. nos. 52, 64, post. 



40 C ontinental Congress 

Military Abilities, and this was all I had ever heard concerning- him. 
the kind of Correspondence he carried on with General G — was not known 
at the Time of his promotion, his Letters to General Washington is of 
late date, was the business now to be done Congress would probably Act 
otherwise; a dissention among the principle Officers of the Army must 
be very injurious to the Publick interest. I can't say what Congress will 
do ; by the Letters sent them An Appeal seems to be made, which I trust 
will be carefully attended to. The Authority and Credit of the Com- 
mander in Chief must be supported. 

Upon such a disagreable Subject as Contained in Genl. Gates Letter to 
General Washington. I reed, some Consolation at finding the offence so 
highly complained of fall (as it must fall somewhere) upon a person for 
whom General Gates's unbounded friendship and earnest solicitation 
had procured a promotion very injurious and disgustful to the Army.^ 
I was not in Congress at that Time, but think the measure injudicious. 
To remedy this hasty step, Congress lately took Mr. W — from the 
Military line by appointing him Secretary to the board of War of which 
Mr. Gates is President ; what will be done with him next I can't say. 
if he betrayed the Confidence of his Pattron he may do the same by his 
Country,*^ and from the Opinion Mr. Gates seems to have of such a Char- 
acter, I think he will not hereafter chuse to have him near his person 

As the Reduction of the battalions is become necessary, a Committee 
of Congress with three of the board of War are going to the Army for 
that purpose 

37. Daniel Roberdeau to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town, Jany i6th, 1778. 
Sir, 

A Committee of Congress, Coll. Reed, Mr. Harvey, Mr. Dana, and 
Genl. Fulsom, are ordered to consult with you and Council on the Expedi- 
ency of an Expedition this winter against Philada. ; and on your encour- 
agement depends the undertaking, which is to be determined by the Com- 
mittee in conjunction w'h G. Washington, and three members of the new 
board of war, Genl. Gates, Genl. Mifflin and Coll. Pickering.^ The expedi- 
ency or inexpediency, I believe, will chiefly depend on our State's supply- 
ing at least our own Militia that shall be called out, with provisions at the 
Continental expence, grounded on yr offer, and surely, every nerve will be 
exerted, for if we do not retake our Capital this winter, besides the horrid 
devastation the Enemy may make next Spring, in this State, when rein- 
forced, when shall we be able to rout them out of Philadelphia? .... 

Baron Steuben, a Lt. General, and experienced Officer in the King of 
Prussia's Service, has offered his Services to Congress, which are ac- 

5 James Wilkinson. See nos. 5, 29. ante, 64, post. 

6 In view of Wilkinson's subsequent history, this utterance should entitle Abraham 
Clark to be enrolled among the prophets. 

[37]! Pa. State Lib., P. P. XLV. 17; Pa. Arch., first ser., VL 183. 

2 See the letter of the Pennsylvania council Jan. 2 {Pa. Arch., first ser., VL 153), 
the Journals, Jan. 5, 9, 16, and no. 71, post. With regard to the committee, see nos. 27-29, 
ante. 



January, ly/S 41 

cepted, and he required to repair to Genl. Washington's Hd Quarters.^ 
The Business of the Committee w[it]h the three Gentl'n of the board of 
war and Genl. W., are to reform the army by reducing- the Regiments, and 
introducing discipline. The Baron may be very useful on the occasion. 

P. S. The Council will naturally correspond with Coll. Reed on this 
occasion, who may have considerable wait in the Council at Head Quarters. 

38. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 

George Washington.^ 

19th Jany 1778. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive by the present conveyance a Letter which 
I had the honour of writing the 14th ^ and was returned to me with a 
Report that Susquehana was impassable. 

Congress having upon further consideration judged it impolitic and 
unnecessary to inform the Court of Great Britain authentickly of the 
suspension of Genl. Burgoyne's embarkation until such information shall 
proceed from him, have directed me to desire your Excellency will delay 
the intended requisition for passports to General Howe for further deter- 
mination.^ 

39. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Timothy Matlack.^ 

York Town, Jan 19th, 1778. 
Dr Sir, 

Your letter to Mr. Thompson concerning the Journals of Congress 
was given to the Committee for conducting the publication of which I am. 

The Committee wish them to remain at Lancaster till further orders, 
and are negotiateing with Mr. Dunlap for continueing them. If you see 
him I wish you would urge his coming to this place immediately.^ .... 

Congress has [given] decisive orders in the case of our unhappy pris- 
oners.^ We have a deputation from the friends in Virginia in behalf of 
their Society, which is referred to a Committee.* 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 14. 
[38] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 143. 

2 Laurens's letter to Washington of Jan. 14 was principally with regard to the 
suspension of the embarkation of General Burgoyne. See nos. 12, 13, 20, 21, 30, 32, ante, 
and nos. 42, 52, post. 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 13, also Sept. 2-4, 11, Oct. 16. 

[39]! Fa. Arch., first ser., VL 191. Addressed, "To Col. Timothy Matlack, Sec. to 
S. Ex. Council, Lancaster ". 

2 J. B. Smith was placed on the committee for printing the Journals Jan. 16. 
May 2 the committee was " empowered and instructed " to employ John Dunlap to 
continue to print the Journals, instead of Robert Aitkin. 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 21. The latter part of this letter was probably written 
as late as Jan. 22, for the next statement in the letter^ appears to refer to transactions 
of that day. See note 4, below. 

■* The reference is probably to the petition of Isaac Zane and others, read in 
Congress Jan. 22. See, further, the Journals, Jan. 28, 29. A memorial dated Dec. 19, 
from the Friends who were prisoners in Winchester, Va., was presented to Congress 
Jan. I, and also to the Pennsylvania council, by whom the matter was referred to 
Congress. The memorial is in Pa. Arch., first ser., VL iii, and the council's letter, 
dated Jan. 5, read in Congress Jan. 7, is ibid., p. 158. See also ibid., pp. 74, 75, 102, 106. 
For the earlier history of the affair, see vol. IL, no. 619, note 3. 



42 Continental Congress 

40. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

20th Janry [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

Yesterday I received yr. favour of Deer. 28th I v^^ould not have 

you think, however, that the Gentry you hint at are allov^red to look after 
their private affairs to hide them from the public ; a Committee is ordered 
to examine what papers are now at hand ; ^ but it was expected that 
Mr. J — Adams and Coll. R. H. Lee would collect some materials, tho' 
absent. You cannot have been more surprized than some here have been 
chagrined at the notice taken of St. C — . You could not expect more 
smartness in a Resolve which was meant to rap a Demi G — over the 
Knuckles than what you found in the one hinted at.' What a fatality at- 
tends some men in the choice of their favorites ! It seems as if honest men 
are not to be found in the 13 United States sufficient to make Aids de 
Camp Secretaries and privy Councellors to one great Man whom no Citi- 
zen shall dare even to talk about, say the Gentlemen of the Blade.* 

Genl. Gates is arrived here ; I suspect he will not consent to go to camp 
on the Com'ttee mentioned.^ In short I begin to think our army will not 
be properly reformed, thro' the winter, which is half gone already. 

Mr. Dana is gone on with Genl. Fulsom.^ I ought to have told you 
that both my Colleagues have altered their minds about Establishment of 
Half-pay 

41. Daniel Roberdeau to John Adams.^ 

York Town Jany 21st 1778 
Dear Sir 

. ... A lex talionis has this day unanimously passed Congress, so 
matured by the repeated barbarities of our Enemies that a very long re- 
port from the board of war on the subject had an uncommon quick passage 

[40]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 20. Adams's letter of Dec. 28 has not been found, but 
Lovell's allusion is to the resolve of Nov. 14, 1777, relative to Schuyler and St. Clair. 
Cf. vol. II., no. 756. 

3 The " Resolve vi'hich was meant to rap a Demi G — over the knuckles " is 
probably that of Dec. 10, 1777. Lovell frequently gives vent in his letters to his hos- 
tility to Washington, particularly to the large powers which Congress had vested in the 
General. Cf. Samuel Adams's letter of Jan. i to Richard Henry Lee (^Writings, ed. 
Gushing, IV. i). 

■* Lovell is evidently criticizing the resolve of Jan. 3 authorizing Washington to 
appoint aides-de-camp. 

5 See the Journals, Jan. 20 (pp. 65, 66) ; cf. no. 27, note 5, ante, and no. 44, post. 
The question whether Gates would consent to serve with the committee of conference 
with Washington was raised in the morning of Jan. 20, apparently at the opening of the 
session. In the afternoon it was determined that he was to be excused. This letter was 
therefore evidently written before the afternoon session, and it may have been written 
before the matter was brought up in Congress at all. 

The arrival of Gates at York is thus recorded by Rev. George Neisser, a Moravian 
minister : " January 19. This afternoon Gen Horatio Gates, who has been appointed 
President of the Council of War, arrived in town and was received with demonstrations 
of joy " {Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XVI. 433). 

^ See no. 28, ante. 
[41 ]i Adams MSS., Boston. 



January, iy/8 43 

thro the House, a fate you know unusual even on trivial occasions, but it 
would exceed the bounds of Letter to transcribe it and unnecessary as 
your State and most probably yourself will be furnished with a Copy by 
this Opportunity.^ The treatment of Canadian Prisoners on parole on 
their return home, being constrained by cruel usage and whippings to 
enlist with the Brittish Troops, coroborates the reasons for suspending 
the Convention at Saratoga. But I forbear a work of supererogation for 
our communicative friend Lovel is writing at the same table. May the 
Lord bless and preserve you I am with real regard 
Dear Sir 

Yr. very affectionate friend and huml Servt. 

Daniel Roberdeau 
P. S a Committee is this day appointed to prepare a Manifesto which 
will exhibit species of Cruelty in our Enemies, unheared of among Na- 
tions called civilized, except from the same Tyranical hand in the East 
Indies. " Vengeance is mine I will repay saith the Lord " 

42. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
William Heath.^ 

York Town 22d January 1778 
Sir, 

After I had closed my Letter which will accompany this, under yester- 
day's date. Messenger Jones brought in your favours of the 6th and 8th 
Inst., which together with the Correspondence with Gen. Burgoyne I pre- 
sented to Congress this Morning, the House appeared to be pleased 
with your conduct in every respect relative to that Officer.^ 

I detained the bearer hereof one day in order to know the determina- 
tion of Congress on your very alarming Calls for Money, and I have 
received direction to refer you to a Letter which I writ the 14 Inst, to 
Mr. Hancock, D. P. g. in the Eastern department advising of 350,000 
dollars ordered to be transmitted to him by the Board of War from which 
Sum you may draw for present relief.^ I am indeed extremely sorry to 
find that Money is not yet gone forward, but it will go tomorrow, and you 

2 The reference is to the report of the board of war and consequent resolves rela- 
tive to prisoners. Cf. nos. 44, 47, 56, 83, post. The manifesto contemplated in the resolve 
does not appear to have been prepared until the following autumn. See no. 596, post, 
and the Journals, Oct. 30. 

[42]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Heath Papers, VIH. 76, Library of Congress, President's 
Letter-Book, L 147. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 22, and no. 30, ante. Laurens's letter to Heath of Jan. 21 
(Letter-Book, I. 144; Heath Papers, VHL 73) was principally to send a duplicate of 
his letter of Jan. 14 and of the act of Congress which accompanied it. Heath received 
Laurens's letters of Jan. 14, 21, and 22 on Feb. 3, and presented the resolve to Burgoyne 
the next day. See his letter to Laurens Feb. 7 (Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., 
IV. 211) ; also his letter of Feb. 19 {ibid., p. 215). His letters to Burgoyne Jan. 3 and 8 
are ibid., pp. 196, 200; Burgoyne to Heath Jan. 4, ibid., p. 197. See also Burgoyne to 
Howe Jan. 18, Heath to Burgoyne Jan. 19, and Heath to Washington Jan. 18, 19, Feb. 19 
(ibid., pp. 204, 206, 207, 216) ; Washington to Heath Jan. 2, 9, Feb. 27 (ibid., fifth ser., 
IV. 81, 82), Jan. 22 (Writings, ed. Ford, VI. 292, ed. Sparks, V. 221) ; Howe to Wash- 
ington Feb. 5 (ibid., p. 535), and Washington to Howe Feb. 10 (ibid., p. 234). 

^ The determination relative to money for Heath does not appear in the Journals 
Jan. 22; but see the orders on the treasury in behalf of Ebenezer Hancock, Jan. 14, 22. 
See also no. 106, post. 



44 Continental Congress 

may expect a further considerable Sum will follow in a few days, at 
present the demand of the Pay Master general for arrears of the Army 
at Valley forge has gleaned the Treasury, but from loans and other 
mearis * it will speedily be replenished and you may depend upon me Sir 
to remind the Board of your pressing necessities. 

43, Joseph Jones to George Washington.^ 

Dear Sir 

On my return to Congress I found the Speakers Letter informing me 
my resignation was accepted by the House of Delegates and that I might 
as soon as I pleased return home which I did after staying abt a week to 
put the Business we had been sent upon to Camp in a proper train — the 
Issue of which I had then every reason to expect wo^ be according to the 
wishes of the Army but what the event has been I have not yet been in- 
formed — many reasons pressed me to retire from Congress and if I felt 
a concern it was only that in case I continued I might possibly be of 
some use in obstructing or endeavouring at least to prevent the mis- 
chevous consequences of those base Arts and machinations that are but 
too prevalent among some people, and which it is the Duty of every good 
Man to resent and suppress. I knew not so much of these matters before 
I went to Camp as I discovered there, and after my return ; for it was on 
my return only, that I had the first information given me of the conduct 
and language of a certain popular pensylvanian lately appointed to the 
New Board of War — of the disposition and Temper of another Gentle- 
man of that Board, whose Name the fortunate events of last fall have 
greatly exalted, I had before heard. But whatever may be the design of 
these Men, and however artfully conducted, I have no doubt but that in 
the end it will redound to their own disgrace.^ You stand too high in 
the public opinion to be easily reached by their attempts and the same 
equal and disinterested Conduct, the same labour and attention, which 
you have manifested in the public Service from the first of the Contest, 
will shield and protect you from the shafts of Envy and malevolence. 
There may be instances, and these your good sense will point out to you, 
which require your Notice and the public welfare may be injured if 
passed over in silence, but in all other respects such petty Larceny attacks 
as these may be called deserve, as they will ever meet with, your Con- 
tempt ^ 

Wmsburg 226. Janry 1778 

■* The " other means " was an emission of $2,000,000, ordered the same day. 
[43]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXL 170; Letters of Joseph Jones 
(ed. Ford), p. 5; Writings of IVashington (ed. Sparks), V. 499 (extract). 

2 The allusions are to Mifflin and Gates, respectively. See nos. 22, 27, ante, 44. 46, 
post. A similar sentiment is expressed by Benjamin Harrison in a letter to Joseph 
Hewes, Mar. 3 (N. C. State Recs., XIIL 61). 

3 In a paragraph omitted here Jones says : " We are this day to choose a Deligate 
to Congress to serve from roth of May to nth Augt. as R. H. Lee was chosen only to 
that time, and as some thing [think] he ought not to be longer continued as he will then 
have served three years, it is uncertain wh. will be chosen. Mr. Mercer is the other 
Gentleman proposed." 



January, iiyS 45 

P. S. The Letters you delivered the Com : were called for by Congress, 
being- in my possession they were by order of Congress delivered.* how 
the Members got information the Letters were in our custody I know not 
unless from Mr. G — y ^ as he and myself were the only persons of the 
Com : in Town and I never ment'd. them to any person, but he as a Mem- 
ber of the Com : wanted them to be referred to in the Report and of course 
produced. 

44. James Lovell to Samuel Adams. '^ 

Janry 22d 1778. 
Dear Sir 

I fear that, upon the recommendation passed some time ago to the 
states to seize necessaries for the army,~ our own state will exert itself 
while almost every other shirks. Jersey and Maryland acknowledge the 
receipt of the Recommendations, with many objections. In short it was 
a measure founded in very horrid descriptions of the miseries of the army 
and of the abominations of monopolizers and speculators. I think a supply 
may be gained by other means. I was ever afraid it would discourage 
trade too much 

A report is to be made next monday respecting the Evacuation of 
Ty — etc.^ I cannot tell yet what materials it is to be made out of, but 
will set about it as soon as this Express is sent away. We shall have full 
17 members o'monday, unlucky number ! 

Pray get a supplement to the 7th delegate * and hurry him on, at least, 
if you cannot persuade two others to come with him 

We yesterday determined upon the plan of Retalliation which is too 
lengthy for me to copy it will be printed immediately.^ I think I have 
told you that the Members of the new board of war who were to go to 
camp are found necessary here, which is the reason others have been 
chosen in their stead — Mr. Carryl and Govr. Morris — but I left out osten- 
sible before reason. It is best as it will now be managed. The tale is too 
long or I would tell you the why and the wherefore ® . . . . 

* See the Journals, Dec. 19, 1777, Jan. 16, 1778. Joseph Jones was a 'member of the 
committee appointed Nov. 28, 1777, to confer with Washington. The committee made 
its report Dec. 18. 

5 Gerry. 
[44] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 20, 1777. 

^ See the Journals, Jan. 20, 26, 27, Feb. 5. 

^ Lovell was seventh in the list of delegates from Massachusetts. See the creden- 
tials in the Journals, Jan. i. Cf. nos. 28, ante, 161, 164, 174, 203, post. 

^ Cf. no. 41, ante, and nos. 47, 83, post. 

® See the erased resolve in the Journals, Jan. 20; also nos. 27, 40, ante, and nos. 
46, 56, post. After receiving Washington's letter of Jan. 4 Gates would naturally wish to 
be excused from service on the committee at camp. 

Richard Peters wrote to Robert Morris Jan. 21 : " Congress have directed the new 
Board of War of which there are none here but General Gates and myself immediately 

to take up the Business You will be informed that Congress have thought it 

most prudent considering the State of Parties at Camp to keep General Mifflin and 
Gates here and send you and Mr. Carroll as Commissioners to the Army. [Peters here 
falls into an error ; it was Gouverneur Morris who, with Charles Carroll of Carrollton, 
was added, Jan. 20, to the committee of conference with Washington. He continues:] 
It is a Custom among some of the Gentlemen there as I am told but I know not with 
what Truth, to make free with Persons in the Civil Departments and I am informed 



46 Continental Congress 

45. Henry Laurens to Baron de Kalb.^ 

22d Jany 1778 
Dear Sir, 

.... I presented all the latter part of your Letter to Congress, your 
remarks and opinions on the State of the Army were received with Satis- 
faction.^ most of the Evils complained of arise from measures adopted 
by the States, out of the province of Congress, nevertheless as the Legis- 
latures are convinced of their errors in the former Militia arrangements 
tis probable they will attempt to pursue a wiser Course. Congress have 
interposed so far as to recommend an alteration, and I trust proper regard 
will be paid to their opinion.^ .... 

I am made of Consequence enough not to escape my share of Slander. This I did not 
know until the Day before yesterday when I was drawn into an unprovoked Dispute with 
Col. Morgan of Virginia which proceeding to the last Extremity convinced me that the 
Col. has little understanding and notwithstanding his Character as a Soldier by no means 
satisfied me of the Soundness of his Spirit. He told me I was spoken of at Camp as 
concerned in a Party against General Washington, and misconceiving some thing I said 
or designedly mistaking it, offered to turn out as Champion for the General's Char- 
acter. On my denying that charge and agreeing to put our Dispute upon o personal 
Footing the Col. declined the Matter. I mention this Matter to you lest it should be 
misrepresented and I desire you as a Friend if you hear anything that I am said to be 
concerned in inimical to General Washington that you will please to inform me as I am 
conscious of being concerned in no Party Transaction of any Complexion and I am 
determined to keep myself clear of all these dirty Matters. As to the General, I love 
him to a Degree of Adoration. As from my Station I must necessarily have Inter- 
course with the Gentlemen of the Army, I cannot be of that Usefulness I otherwise may 
if I am masked out as an Enemy to the Army or its Commands. If any such Charge 
exists it is the most villianous of all Falsehoods." (Copied from the original, then in 
possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia. The letter is printed, in part, in 
Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 197.) 

In a letter to Morris Feb. 3 (ibid., item 198) Peters says : " I am glad I made the 
Mistake as to your going to Camp, because it afforded me an Opportunity of telling you 
the Story which interested your Friendship, to set the affair in its true Light. I am 

much obliged to you for the kind Part you took in the Matter For my part 

I wish myself anywhere but in this disagreeable Scene. If the Jealousies which seem 
to exist and in which God knows I have no Hand, continue to rage much longer, 
I don't see how any Man of Feeling or Sentiment can continue in a public Department 
where every measure is looked upon with a jaundiced Eye and of course all Mistakes 
magnified into Sins political or moral. Unless great Alterations take Place the first and 
most capital of which is the Restoration of personal Harmony, I don't expect much from 
an arrangement of this Department in which I confess, leaving myself out of the 
Question, I promised great Advantages to the Cause." 

[45]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 229. 

2 An extract of a letter from Kalb was read in Congress Jan. i, but no letter from 
him at this time is recorded in the Journals. In the latter part of December Kalb made 
an extensive report to Comte de Broglie on conditions in the army, in which he criticized 
both Congress and Washington (Kapp, Life of Kalb, pp. 132-144). In a letter to Laurens 
Jan. 7, 1778, he appears to have modified considerably his views of Washington (ibid., 
p. 144). In Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1290, item 63 (also in Catalogue, no. 1343, item 160), 
is an extract of a letter from Kalb to Laurens, written probably Jan. 26 or 27 (he is 
replying to Laurens's letter of Jan.. 19, and the letter is endorsed, " Received Jan. 29, 
1778"), in which he says: " I have only time to complain to you of a public report of 
which I got intelligence from york town, viz. that Several french off'rs were disgusted 
with the American Service, and that I was named as being one of them. I have reason 
to be surprised at Such an imputation. I have given charge to no body of telling any 
such stuff, especially to Congress. I want no Interpreter nor Guardian but am of age 
to tell myself every thing I have a mind to. People should mind their own business. 
Another News of a different kind and which I hear with Pleasure is that the Marquiss 
de la fayette is to command a Northern Army. I heartily rejoice at it." See Lafayette 
to Laurens Jan. 26, 6". C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VII. 125. 

s Laurens probably alludes to the resolution of Dec. 31, 1777 (Journals, p. 1073). 



January, ifyS 47 

46. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette/ 
Sir, -2d Jany 1778. 

The 19th Inst. I was honoured by the Receipt of your favor of the 
1 6th by the hands of a French Gentleman whose name you have omitted 
and I have not seen him since he brought me the Letter.^ 

The Committee appointed to confer with His Excellency the Com- 
mander in Chief in Camp, are now stripped of all their intended Military 
Coadjutors and will consist of Members of Congress.* perhaps I ought 
to except Colonel Reed who is at the same time a Member of Congress 
and a Military Man. Genl. Gates, Genl. Mifflin and Colonel Pickering are 
called to attend the duties of their appointment at the Board of War. 
An application to that Committee will be as likely a measure for obtain- 
ing employment for the Young Gentleman as any I can think of, but it is 
much against him that he speaks not a word of English.* 

P. M. Just returned from Congress, where a Report was made from 
the Board of War making out a seperate Command for Major Genl. 
Marquis delafayette. this will undergo debate this evening and probably 
you will very soon receive minute information from the Board of War 
or from the President of Congress, if the plan is Resolved upon the 
Young Gentleman in view will be provided for.^ .... 

47. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 
My Dear Son, York Town 22d Jany 1778. 

Your friend and fellow Soldier DuPlessis leaves York Town with a 
heart full of happiness as yours and mine used to be when Mr. Staytape 
had brought home the 'New Coat — he will tell you everything.^ .... 

[46]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter- Book, 1776- 1778, p. 228. 

2 In 5". C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VIL 122, 123, are two letters from Lafayette to 
Laurens, both bearing the date Jan. 15, of which the first is endorsed by Laurens " 15th 
Jany 1778 Reed 20th ", while the second is endorsed " i6th Reed. 19 Jany 1778 ". The 
first relates to the unnamed French officer, a postscript mentioning that he is accompany- 
ing the Chevalier de Mauduit Duplessis to Congress (see no. 22, ante) ; the second relates 
chiefly to Duplessis. In a letter about Jan. 26 {S. C. Hist. Geneal. Mag., VII. 125) 
Lafayette again mentions the young French officer without naming him. This officer, 
hitherto unknown to him, had brought warm recommendations from friends of La- 
fayette, and had also brought a letter from Dr. Franklin to Richard Peters. In a letter 
to Franklin Mar. 5 Peters acknowledges several letters by the hands of foreigners, 
without naming them (Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, VIII. 151), and remarks that it 
is impossible to find places for them, because of their ignorance of the language. Among 
the Franklin Papers (IX. 31) is also a letter from one D'Alagnan, dated at Clermont- 
Ferrand, Apr. II, 1778, inquiring after the Chevalier de Pontgibaut, who had left Nantes 
Oct. II with letters to Lafayette and General Conway. It is probable that Pontgibaut 
is the officer referred to. He is among those assigned to Lafayette as aides Feb. 2 
(see the Journals). 

^ See the Journals, Jan. 20, and nos. 27, 44, note 6, ante. 

* See the Journals, Mar. 13, 1777. 

5 The reference is to the irruption into Canada. See the Journals, Jan. 22, 23, 28, 
Feb. 2, and also nos. 49, 52, 60, 61, 64, 77, 87, 98, 120, 126, 135, 137, 150, 151, 167, 168, post. 
See also sundry letters from Lafayette to Laurens, S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VII. 
125, 179-189, VIII. 3-18, 57-60; Lafayette to Washington Feb. 19, 23, Writings (ed. 
Sparks), V. 531, 534; Duane to Clinton Feb. 19, ibid., p. 533; and Washington to La- 
fayette Mar. 10, ibid., p. 264. 

[47]iS. C. Hist. Soc, John Laurens Papers; ibid., Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, 
p. 228; 5". C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VI. 47. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 19. Cf. nos. 22, 46. ante, and no. 60, post. 



48 Continental Congress 

Congress last Night confirmed an Act consisting of much recital and 
many Resolutions, calculated for retaliating the Injuries and Insults of- 
fered by the Enemy to the Inhabitants of these States when made Pris- 
oners. This when the Secretary's Clerks are pleased to Copy, will be 
transmitted and published in your Camp.^ 



48. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the Governor 
OF Maryland (Thomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 

York town 24 Jany 1778 
Sir. 

.... I have likewise the honour of transmitting to Your Excellency 
the thanks of Congress, expressed in an Act of this date and here inclosed, 
for the Contents of Your Excellency's favour of the 19th which afforded 
the House great satisfaction. Your Excellency will perceive from the 
tenor of this Act that the Commissary general is directed to receive the 
1350 bushels Salt, therein mentioned and to purchase as much more as 
shall be necessary, nothing further has been said concerning the Owners 
of the Salt Vessel or Cargo. ^ .... 

49. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

York Town 25 January 1778. 
My Dear Son, 

Mr. DuPlessis who went from York I believe on Friday did me the 
honour to bear a Letter to you,^ I did not tell you then that the Marquis 
delafayette is offered a Command upon an intended expedition into Can- 
ada, which will separate him from the General, there can be nothing else 
intended but honour to the Marquis and benefit to the Public. General 
Conway is voted second in Command and General Starke third. ^ 

General Conway called on me and sat an hour, he introduced the un- 
happy dispute subsisting with the General, and assured me there were no 
such words in his Letter to Gen. Gates as those quoted by the General — 
this he had learned from G. Gates he had not kept a Copy of his Letter — 
pray can you explain this Mystery, but you know tis not my wish or de- 
sire to pry improperly into the affairs of other Men. this indeed may be 
called a public affair and I am afraid will become very public, but as one 
party has appealed to me and the friends of the other delivered their 
sentiments, I have some Claim upon each to inform me truly.'* .... 

^ Cf. nos. 41, 44, ante, and no. 83, post. 
[48]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 163. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 12, 22, 24; also nos. 23, 25, ante. Johnson's letter of Jan. 19 
is in Arch, of Md., XVI. 469. 

[49]! S. C. Hist. Soc, John Laurens Papers; ibid., Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, 
p. 232; 5. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VI. 48. 

2 The letter of Jan. 22 (no. 47, ante). 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 22, 23; also no. 46, note 5, ante. 

4 See nos. 21, 22, 36, 43, ante, 52, 61, 63, post; also John Laurens's reply, Jan. 28, in 
Army Correspondence, p. 112. 



January, iy/8 49 

50. Daniel Roberdeau to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town, Jany 26th, 1778. 
Sir, 

The Dellegates of this State are honored with your Letter in Council,^ 
with its inclosures respecting the extraordinary interference of Mr. Harvey 
and Mr. Morris in the affairs of the Brittish Convoy and the Innholder at 
Lancaster which were laid before Congress this afternoon, and deferred 
for consideration 'till tomorrow, when I doubt not your spirited Conduct 
will be highly approved and the treatment you met with impunged {sic'\. 
The subject was introduced under the idea of the Trojan Horse travelling 
thro' our land not filled with men, but most probably with the more dan- 
gerous Enemy, Counterfeited continental money, which may be part of the 
contents of the Bails in the Waggons, agreeable to the Specimen obtained 
of the Waggoners, whose imprisonment was applauded by every member 
who spoke on the subject, as the searching every person of the Escort 
and of all the packages would have been ; but most of all the bringing 
every traitorous Conspirator against the Liberties of these States by so 
diabolical a scheme, would redound to the honor of our State, and would 
be seasonable Victims, in ierrorein, to our much injured Country. You 
will have opportunity of special inquiry into any further hidden machina- 
tion, as the Board of War have stopped the progress of the Waggons, and 
I hope it will be improved, and that you will not hold the sword of justice 
in vain. Congress has no right to interfere in our civil policy, nor will it 
be presumed ; however, their result on the Subject of the papers above 
mentioned, will be communicated as soon as I have it in my power. The 
copy of the Letter forwarded to Genl. Washington, found on the Serjeant, 
would have been very satisfactory ; pray, favor me with it without delay, 
with a particular account of the Escort, and the ostensible rank they bear, 
for I very much suspect ficticious Characters. I also request to know 
something more particular of the conduct of the Capt. and Lieut, bearers 
of the indecent paper delivered to the Secretary of Council, and whether 
they are not Continental Officers. The astonishing Conduct of the two 
members of Congress who were to have consulted with the State on the 
Subject of Supplies, is a presage of the unfortunate issue of that measure, 

[50]! Pa. State Lib., P. P. XLV. 34; Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 206. 

2 The letter of President Wharton here referred to has not been found, but the 
principal facts in the matter of the British convoy may be gathered from Washington's 
letter to the board of war Jan. 26, and that to General Gates Jan. 27. The letter of 
Col. William Stephens Smith to Washington Jan. 25, referred to in the first of these 
letters, and Washington's reply Jan. 27, are in the Washington Papers. Other aspects 
of the aflfair appear from nos. 54, 63, post. Cf. Pa. Arch., first sen, VI. 200, 201, 209, 214- 
217, 221-226, 233, 268. Some account of the episode is given in Marshall's Life of Wash- 
ington (Philadelphia, 1804), III. 430. Exactly one year from the date of Roberdeau's 
letter Joseph Reed, then president of Pennsylvania, laid before Congress a complaint in 
a matter pertaining to General Arnold (see the Journals, Jan. 26, 1779) which led to 
the prosecution of a series of complaints against Congress on the ground of the inter- 
ference of that bodj' or of some of its members in the affairs of Pennsylvania, and in- 
cluded in that bill of particulars was the part which Morris and Harvie, members of the 
committee sent to headquarters, took in the affair at Lancaster, Jan. 24, to which 
Roberdeau refers. What that part was is explained by Morris in his letter to Reed 
Apr. 9, 1779, in the next volume of these Letters. 



50 Continental Congress 

concerning which you are intirely silent. I could weep over my suffering 
Country, cramped at this season for vigorous exertion, by the want of 
provisions, with which our Country abounds, and I wish I could clear our 
own State of the horrid sin of the Commissarial Department, from which, 
at the very time of that most mischievous arrangement, carried, I believe, 
but by one voice, I predicted the injuries we have and still suffer; for 
God's sake, for our Country's sake, never let a Dellegate represent the 
State from any consideration, one moment longer than he is faithful, or 
one moment after he is a Subject of just suspicion. You would pardon me 
if you knew my sufferings and indignation on account of this and other 
less distructive measures, tho' very hurtful to the common cause, which a 
very feeble voice could not prevent. I pray you to cast about for some 
Characters 2, 3 or more, expert, faithful and active in the way of pur- 
chasing, that you can recommend to me ^ — will Robt Towers do as one? 
I know he was indefatigable in another line of Duty. I pray you also to 
point out some elligible mode of procuring large quantities of biscuit, and 
proper persons for that branch, that I may be furnished with proper 
Characters to recommend to Congress ; Ludwick, I fear, is incompetent. 
The use of flour instead of hard bread has been, I believe, the death of 
thousands. I beg to be favored with hearing from you soon, and 

am, Sir, 

Yr most obt hum' Servt, 

Danl Roberdeau. 
The Commissary General, warmly recommended by our State, has just 
found out that he is incompetent to the business.* 

51. gouverneur morris to the president of congress 
(Henry Laurens).^ 

Camp 26th Jany. 1777 [1778.] 
Sir 

I have taken Occasion to speak to the Marquis de la Fayette upon the 
Appointment you know of. The Sentiments of his Heart which are fully 
expressed in a Letter to you do him so much Honor that any Expressions 
of mine would be impertinent. I am deeply surprized at the mature Judg- 
ment and solid Understanding of this young Man for such he certainly is. 
The impropriety of having the first and second in Command from a 
foreign Country is strongly stated by him and his Apprehension that it 
would be disagreable to the Subjects of America are certainly not ill 
founded for great Liberality in vulgar Minds is not common even in 
America. It deserves the Consideration of Congress whether in Case an 
Accident should happen to the Commander in Chief it would be prudent 
to trust a Person whose object it is to push his Fortunes in France with 
an opportunity to imbue the Minds of the Canadians with a Love of the 
Grand Monarque who may as probably like Canada as any of his Prede- 

3 See no. 54, post. 

•* The reference is presumably to William Buchanan, commissary-general of pur- 
chases, whose department was at this time undergoing reorganization. See the index to 
the Journals, Commissary-general of purchases. See also nos. 54, 62, 82, 84, post. 
[51 ]i Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XV., f. 295. 



January, lyiS 51 

cessors. This Consideration has not the less Weight from being men- 
tioned by the Marquis.- His having pitched upon AIcDougall who you 
may remember I wished to have vv^ith him may have prepossessed me in 
Favor of what some Gentlemen may call his Prejudices and this Prepos- 
session is as you may well suppose not weakened by his Declaration that 
he would willingly act under him as second in Command if deemed neces- 
sary for the Service 

52. Henry Laurens to Isaac Motte.^ 

26th Jany 1778 
Dear Sir, 

.... this exertion My Dear Sir has likewise put it in my power to 
attempt to serve Mr. Dart ^ in the appointment intimated in your Letter. 
I have made the necessary enquiry of the pay Master General Mr. Palfrey, 
he informed me that Mr. Benj. Harrison Junr. of Virginia is his deputy 
P. M. G. for the So[u]thern district, that he is not authorized to appoint 
any other. If I were to apply to Congress in form, I ought to be arm'd 
with arguments in order to shew the utility and necessity of such appoint- 
ment, 'tis true Mr. Clay was appointed for Georgia and also that it was in 
consequence of my particular request and recommendation.' a Million of 
Dollars were granted for that State. I judged it exceedingly necessary that 
such a sum of public Money be distributed in a State distracted in their 
politics and Councils should be deposited in the hands of a Man on whose 
accuracy and Integrity the public could rely. Without meaning to dis- 
parage any other Man or to pay so much attention to the benefit of 
Mr. Clay as to the Safety and Interest of the public I named him as a 
Citizen in whose custody the public Treasury would be safe. 

the Delegates from Georgia, whether they had any other person or 
mode in view I cant say, could have no objection to the Man, nor to the 
measure, they acquiesed. and Congress from these considerations made 
a special appointment altho' Mr. Palfrey is pay Master Genl. of all the 
Forces of the United States 

We have been from time to time for above a month past alarmed by 
accounts from the Commander in Chief of the near and almost inevitable 
dispersion of the Army from a want of provision. Nakedness is chear- 
fuUy submitted to. the Genl. has made the most affecting complaints of 
neglect in the principal departments, has proceeded even to say that " never 
was Officer so impeded as he has been ", yet. I intimate it with deep feel- 
ing and much regret, too little regard has been paid to his sensible, spirited 
Manly Representations. This great and virtuous Man has not acted the 
half patriot, by a hasty resignation, his Complaints are well founded, 
nevertheless he will not take a step which may greatly injure thirteen 
United States, because of the inconsiderate conduct, design, ignorance or 

2 There is a suggestion of this sort in Lafayette's letter of the same day. See 
nos. 60, 61, post. 

[52]! S. C. Hist. Soc., Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 235. 

2 John Sandford Dart of South CaroHna. Cf. the Journals, May 29. 

^ Joseph Clay was appointed deputy paymaster-general Aug. 6, 1777. See the 
Journals, Aug. i, 5, 6, 1777. Cf. Laurens to Gervais Aug. 5, and to Mcintosh Aug. 11, 
1777. in vol. II. of these Letters. 

8 



52 Continental Congress 

negligence of a Majority of twenty-one, too often only of fifteen Men. 
No internal Enemy can hurt him without his own consent. I trust he will 
not gratify the wishes of those who seek to remove him, if there be any 
such, and I hope the States will be roused, fill their Representations in 
Congress with Wise and spirited Men by whose exertions the heavy Cloud 
which now hangs over our heads may be dispelled 

but I will say no more. I will go to Congress, endeavor to Counteract 
some, and reconcile the honest hearts now at variance. 

It is impossible that you should be kept ignorant of an unhappy dispute 
subsisting between our Commander in Chief and Genl. Gates. I was long 
ago told of jealousies, but lately dangerous altercations have appeared 
and passed through Congress ; a Letter written by Genl. Conway to Genl. 
Gates fanned up this alarming flame.* you will see in Charles Town some 
particulars of this affair. Genl. Conway has been with me assured me 
Genl. Washington had been deceived and imposed on, that his Letter con- 
tained no such expressions as had been reported to the General, he was 
pleased to ask my sentiments upon the propriety of printing the Letter 
but did not offer to shew it me.^ these I delivered in every dissuasive 
argument to the measure, and added all the reasoning I was capable of to 
press the necessity of drawing a Veil before the Eyes of our Enemies, 
who from the very appearance of so capital a division would collect fresh 
encouragement for continuing their attempts to destroy our Independence, 
and their success would be followed by Scenes of Calamity in thousands 
of families of these States horrible even in Idea, under a Strong allusion, 
I remarked, it was the duty of every Citizen who pretended Love to his 
Country to employ his Talents in attempts to heal wounds upon our 
fraternal connexion, none but Enemies in disguise, would recommend 
a measure which must infallibly widen the breach etc. etc. the General 
was pleased to receive my opinion with apparent cordiality said he was 
convinced of the justness of my observations, and that it did not become 
Soldiers to print. 

I have seen the Letter * ^ this day (the 27th) it is true Genl. Wash- 
ington was misinformed, the letter does not contain the words which had 
been reported to him, but ten times worse in every view. 

I say these things dear Colonel to your Self, the World will be in- 
formed, but while it is not my province I desire not to appear officious or 
to be held up as an author, depend upon me for this Duty, I will strive to 
make peace by every proper means, and here I will leave this disagreeable 
subject. 

As I strove hard for effecting* the determination of Congress for sus- 
pending the embarkation of Mr. Burgoyne, it affords me great satisfaction 
to find that measure approbated by the most sensible and by all the' Officers 
in the Army, as well for the justice as the policy of the Act. 

* See the Journals, Jan. 7, and no. 22, ante. 

^ See nos. 22, 49, ante, 61, post. 

6 " * in the hands of one of your good sort of Men who shews it only to proper 
persons. I gained a perusal by intreaty." [Note by Laurens.] Cf. no. 61, post. From a 
letter of John Fitzgerald to Washington Feb. 16 {Writings, ed. Sparks, V. 510) it is 
learned that the person to whom Laurens alludes was Daniel Roberdeau. Washington's 
reply to Fitzgerald Feb. 28, 1778, is now in the Library of Congress. 



January, lyjS 53 

We have now in motion an Irruption into Canada under the Command 
of Marquis delafayette, provided he will condescend to accept of Mr. Con- 
way for his second.' if I may judge from his Letters to me in which he 
speaks of this Officer with the utmost abhorrence, he will not. what Con- 
gress may then determine is uncertain. Genl. Conway having learn'd the 
Marquis's disposition, pushed forward only yesterday (29th) which ac- 
cording to the plan of his friends, will make a shew of his activity in 
having commenced the enterprize. the Marquis will be here this Morning, 
a particular friend of Genl. Conway has lamented to me that all the 
French Officers hated him, and I learned from others that none of the 
English Officers (except a little party) love him. I had, before some late 
discoveries, entertained a very high opinion of this General. 

A late determination in Congress has mortified me more than a little, 
upon my application for appointing a Brigadier in our State it was deter- 
mined to postpone the consideration until a Committee now at Camp 
should return, in justice to Colonel Huger I nominated him, expressing 
my wishes at the same time that Colonel Motte on Account of his personal 
Merit as well as from real necessity of our State, should also be appointed, 
but there was nobody on the floor to take up and improve the suggestions 
from the Chair, or to reply to the Specious reasonings for postponing 
in which I perceived a good deal of design relative to Rank. I was neces- 
sitated to content my self, however much discontented, with barely de- 
manding the appointment as a Right.* We deserve the Evil of this delay 
and greater for our shameful unpardonable delay of filling up our Dela- 
gacy with sensible vigilent faithful Citizens 

53. James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

Janry 27th 1778. 
Dear Sir 

Your Letter of the loth from Windham has come to hand, and I assure 
you gives me all the pain which a stranger to you would conjecture you 
wished it might give me at the time you wrote it. But, be equally assured 
that ninety nine hundreths of that pain arrises from the consideration of 
your ill state of health. Personally I deserve not any of your railing. And, 
if I was the main instrument in bringing about all you complain of, yet 
the present sufferings of the public Cause would, as they well may, so 
fully occupy my mind and occasion so much regret and pain that there 
would be no room left for your complaints of a personal nature to make 
impression. To be very honest with you, I think you have more than 
bodily Jaundice. The Gentleman who now presides here has a great re- 
gard for your bond. Father, and perhaps from an aim to show it has put 
you into a rage. A circular letter was written by a Committee to go to 
the Legislature of each of the 13 States it begins Sir; and the President 
was ordered to transmit it. This he ought perhaps to have done variously 
as the Legislatures are variously constituted. He ought to have Sent to 

' See no. 46, note 5, ante. 

* There is no record of this matter in the Journals. 
[53]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 



54 Continental Congress 

the Govr. or the Presidt. or the Speaker ; for Sir is meant for the Head 
of the Legislature. But you have taken it for granted that yr good Father 
was treated differently from the Head of the other Legislatures, and this 
designedly by Congress. The President being sick at Home thought Sir 
was intended for the Speaker of the lower house ; here is the Mystery.^ 

I feel a little vexed with myself for having wrote so many lines upon 
this subject when I ought to have spent the same Ink in persuading you 
to come and help other honest men to mend bad plans or make some new 
ones. 

I must remark that you are as much rong about P 's ' being pre- 
ferred before you as you were about yr Father's being ill treated, a Board 
of War was chosen while a Committee was planning a Victualling board. 
This last Committee reported that the addition of yr honor alone to the 
board of war would compleatly answer all the end proposed, thus you 
was elected, and the addition of one more was made as Genl. Gates may 
be occasionally called away in a military line ergo Mr. P . 

I have no arguments to use with you to come here but merely that of 
serving your country, for be assured that your accommodations will be 
bad and your Salary little adequate to the avaricious griping Spirit of 
these anglogerman People.^ 

I recon, dear Justice, you will call this Letter a new Insult, but be pre- 
pared, for I will continue to ask you from time to time to help us through 
the dangers of Shipwreck tho' I should be scolded by you ten times more 
than I have been. 

My best Regards to your Amelia who I suppose could hang me for per- 
suading you to forget your Injuries and consequently to leave her and 
wear yourself out for the public. 

Yr obliged Friend 

JL 

54. Daniel Roberdeau to the Acting President of Pennsylvania 

(George Bryan ).'^ 

York Town, Jany 27th, 1778. 
Sir, 

I have but time to forward the enclosed which came to hand since my 
letter to the President last Evening, as it relates to the subject then 
treated of you'll be pleased to present it to Council with my Respects.^ 
.... I am of the committee to revise and report on the Commissarys 
department, and I think it probable that purchasers will be appointed in 
each State, therefore I repeat my request to Council that proper persons 

2 The reference is doubtless to the circular letter of Dec. 23, 1777. See the Journals, 
Dec. 20, 1777. Cf. nos. 84, 85, 98, 148, 291, post. 

3 Timothy Pickering, who was elected a member of the board of war Nov. 7. 
Joseph Trumbull was elected to the board Nov. 27. See vol. II., nos. 700, 720, 743. 748, 
757-761. Cf. no. 98, post. 

•* Cf. nos. 78, 196, post. 
[54]! Pa. State Lib., P. P. XLV. 2^; Pa. Arch., first sen, VI. 209. 

2 The enclosure cannot be identified. For the subject to which it related, see no. 
SO, ante. 



January, ij'jB 55 

may be recommended.^ I asked in my letter to Council, whether Robt.- 
Towers would do, I now desire to know what you think of F. Wade and 
Mr. Geo. Kennedy, as purchasers ? . . . . 

55. Francis Lewis to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Baltimore 27th Janry 1778. 
Dear Sir 

Being indulged by Congress with a few day's absence in order to Visit 
my family at this place, as a member of the Marine Committee, I have 
been charged by that Board, to inspect the fitting out some Continental 
Vessells now in this Harbour ; of which one is a new Vessell built for a 
Packet Boat, destined to carry the Congress's dispatches to their Commis- 
sioners in Europe ; This Vessell is ordered to be fitted for the Sea with 
the utmost expedition, and Commanded by Thomas Read Esqr. of the 
Effingham Frigate now laid up at Borden Town.^ .... 

56. John Henry, jr., to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

York Town Jany 27th, 1778. 
Sir 

The unsettled State which I have been in since I got here, has put it out 
of my power to answer your Letter of 19th Jany before this Time.^ 

Congress is extremely sorry the Salt could not be procured ; at the same 
Time they highly approve of your Excellency's Conduct, and desired the 
president to return you and the Council the Thanks of Congress for your 
respect and Attention to their resolve. 

Congress have accepted the Salt you offered, and I expect the president 
has wrote you fully upon that head ; the Commissary is likewise to pur- 
chase such quantities as he may think necessary ; and I am in hopes with 
what he will receive from you, there will be a sufficient quantity for the 
present Demand 

The Situation of our Army is truly alarming and unless we can supply 
it with provisions by some means more effectual than any now adopted, 
I am afraid they must seperate. a Committee is now out for that purpose ' 

The Army is to under go a Reformation Mr. Carroll was one of the 
members of Congress appointed on that Business, but the indisposition of 
Mrs. Carrol called him home, the other Gentlemen that were appointed 
are now at Camp.* 

3 See no. 50, ante ; also the Journals, Jan. 14, 26, Feb. 23, 24, 27, Mar. 9, 10, 12, 13. 
Cf. nos. 56, 82, 97, 98, 108, post. 

[55P Hist. Soc. of Pa. Etting Coll., Signers, no. 54. 

2 The omitted part of the letter is an application for cannon with which to equip 
the packet. The reply, Feb. 11, is in Arch, of Md., XVI. 488. 
[56]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 66; Arch, of Md., XVI. 475- 

2 The reference is doubtless to Johnson's letter to Congress Jan. 19, in Arch, of 
Md., XVI. 469. See nos. 23, 25, 48, ante. 

2 The reference is presumably to the committee on the commissariat system. 
See no. 54, ante. Cf. the Journals, Jan. 15, Feb. 5, 9, 11, 12, 14, 23. 

* See the Journals, Jan. 10, 12, 20. Cf. nos. 28, 44, ante, and no. 62, post. 



56 Continental Congress 

Congress have at length agreed upon the just and equitable Doctrine of 
Retaliation,, which you may see by the enclosed papers.^ 
We have no news. 

57. Henry Laurens to George Washington.^ 

York, 27th Jany 1778. 
Sir, 

While I was sitting in Congress yesterday a Member came in and de- 
livered me the inclosed paper just in its present State except the broken 
Seals, the Gentleman's declaration as he was putting the thing into my 
hand, that he had picked it up on the Stairs, was a sufficient alarm. I 
passed my Eye cursorily over the pages, put them into my pocket and 
intimated to the House that it was an anonymous production containing 
stuff which I must be content with, as perquisites of Office, that the hearth 
was the proper depository for such Records. 

I have shewn them to no body and have long hesitated upon the pro- 
priety of troubling your Excellency with the knowledge of an attempt for 
which I want a proper Stigma. If I have erred in my present determina- 
tion I beg Your Excellency will believe that my motives are pure, and 
that as I wish to avoid the very appearance of being a party Man or an 
Informer Your Excellency will be pleased to receive this in confidence 
and in the favorable light of an innocent intrusion.^ 

58. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Chevalier de Laneuville.^ 

27th Jany 1778 
Sir, 

The Letters and documents which you put into my hands for the con- 
sideration of Congress were duly presented this Morning, and after the 
opinions of several Members had been delivered on the subject, it was 
Resolved upon a question to postpone a determination until the House 
shall have received a Report from a Committee lately sent to General 
Washington's Army, who have, among other Duties, in charge to make 
new arrangements in some Ranks of Officers. 

I pressed the House as forcibly as became me, to consider your request 
for a decisive answer, but it was their pleasure to rest at the Resolve above 

5 See the Journals, Jan. 21, and nos. 41, 44, 47, ante, and no. 83, post. 

[57] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 239. 

2 A copy of the mysterious paper, in an unidentified writing, and bearing the date 
Jan. 17, is in the Washington Papers under the date Jan. 27. It is entitled " Thoughts 
of a Freeman ", and is addressed on the cover, " To the Honble the President of Con- 
gress and every Member thereof ". On a second cover is found the address, " The Honble 
Henry Laurens, Esq., Presidt of Congress ". The document is printed in the Writings 
of Washington (ed. Sparks), V. 497. This document is not to be confused with the 
anonymous communication to Patrick Henry, written from York Town Jan. 12 (ibid., 
p. 49S), transmitted by Governor Henry to Washington Feb. 20 (ibid., p. 512; see also 
Henry's letter of Mar. 5, ibid., p. 513), and by Washington fastened upon Benjamin Rush 
(see his letters to Henry Mar 27, 28, ibid., pp. 514, 515). Washington's reply to Laurens 
Jan. 31 is in Writings (ed. Ford), VL 353 (ed. Sparks), V. 504. See nos. 22, 49, 52, 
ante, and nos. 61, 72, post. 

[58] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 155. 



January, iiy8 57 

mentioned, from whence, it is my private sentiment, Congress are disposed 
from Considerations of your Merits as well as of those respectable recom- 
mendations which accompanied your application to grant the Rank you 
desire in the Army of the United States of America, provided this may be 
done without prejudice to the Service.^ 

59. John Witherspoon to William Churchill Houston/ 

York town Jany 27, 1778 
D'r Sir 

Your Favours of the 20th and 31st of last reached me at the same Time 
and no Sooner than the Day before Yesterday by Capt. Lane. I was sorry 
for this as some things required an immediate Answer for want of which 
I am probably bearing Some Blame. You would however I hope receive 
two Letters written by me since I came here which by making no Mention 
of such a Thing would convince you that a Recess of Congress was not 
in Contemplation. I never heard it so much as mentioned in this Place 
and I am persuaded that the Circumstances of Affairs do not admit of it. 

My former Letters would convince you how much Anxiety I felt for 
the State of New Jersey this Winter but you have reason to be thankful 
that the present situation of the Army is favourable indeed compared to 
what was fully intended when I passed through the Camp in my Way to 
this Place They designed to have gone as far back as Lancaster Reading 
and Easton. I spoke to Gen. Washington with great Earnestness upon 
the Subject and as soon as I came here obtained a Resolve of Congress 
recommending to him to pay a particular Attention to the exposed State 
of New Jersey.^ .... 

I am sorry indeed that your Tax Bill failed but you must set about it 
again immediately. The State of Massachusets have besides large Taxes 
called in all their own Paper Money to be paid either by the Taxes or by 
Treasury Notes on Interest which has already raised the Value of conti- 
nental money 15 per Cent — I could heartily wish our State would do the 
same. Measures of so essential Importance at such a Season ought to be 
pursued without minding unpopular Clamours of wrong headed People. 
I have always found that Time justified what was in itself right when 
done upon right Principles. You were right to send a Committee to New 
Haven ' since it was desired and the rest were to do it but I look upon the 
scheme to be impracticable and absurd. Fixing Prices by Law never had 
nor ever will have any Effect but stopping Commerce and making Things 
scarce and dear. That Circumstance with some other Defects in the Com- 
missary Department has brought our Army frequently near to starving. 
I believe the Congress is now convinced of that and though late will try 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 27, Feb. 2; also no. 32, ante, and nos. 265, 266, post. 
[59P Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 720; Brotherhead, Book of Signers, p. 211 
(extract, dated Jan. 28) ; Potter's American Monthly, V. S97 (extract). 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 19, 1777. 

3 The convention of committees from the states New Hampshire to Pennsylvania, 
inclusive, which met in New Haven Jan. 15-20. See the Journals, Jan. 15, Feb. 16, 
Mar. 16, Apr. 8, May 7, Aug. 27. 



58 'Continental Congress 

to lay up the Magazines for next summer by voluntary contracts.* I wish 
the Legislature of each State would take the Direction of this Matter — 
They are doing so in Connecticut — When your Assembly meets could 
not the Members point out Dealers in the different Counties who would 
Contract for and collect Quantities of Flour Beef Pork and have the meat 
salted up before the Hot weather came on — ^but I cannot enlarge 

You will have heard by this Time that Congress have ordered that 
Gen. Burgoyne shall not be suffered to embark till the Convention is cer- 
tified by the Court of Britain. I arrived here just in Time to help on that 
Measure. It appeared to me both just and necessary. There were many 
Circumstances that indicated an Intention in him on frivolous Pretences 
to break it and if he had availed himself of these Pretences after he had 
got aboard the Public would not have easily forgiven us for not acting 
with greater Caution.^ 

There are no other News that I am at Liberty to communicate. Mr. Hart 
will inform you what was done as to the Demand for mone)\ Since that 
time there has been an Order in favor of Gov. Livingston for lo.ooo 
D'rs out of the Loan Office of New Jersey ^ and as I suppose before the 
[latter?] part of March a considerable sum will be there We shall take 
Care that no Body shall get it but over our State. 

A Committee of Congress is gone to Camp to regulate the Army ^ in 
which I wish they may succeed. Our Officers are infected with such a 
seizing Thirst for Rank and Pay and there is sometimes such a Want of 
Firmness in Congress that there is Danger of their throwing Things into 
Confusion. In this as in most Cases we grow wise though late b}'' Ex- 
perience so that I hope they will not obtain these exorbitant Demands 
and yet be brought into Order. Some of them to my certain knowlege 
have threatned to resign — who if they did resign durst not shew their 
Faces in their own States. I believe I would have been chosen upon that 
Committee but I positively refused it chiefly on Account of my Character 
and Reputation but not from any fear of encountering them or yielding 
to any unjust Demand 

I am at a Loss what to say about the Time you mention for my Return 
home. It is now so near that unless Dr. Scudder came immediately it is 
impracticable and it is really improper to leave Congress at present when 
much Business of the last Consequence is to be done and the Time is ap- 
proaching when we must hear from England and France after the News 
of Burgoynes Surrender reaches them. I must expect to hear from you in 
Answer to this which will determine me 

Wednesday Jany 28 

Since writing the above I am favored with yours of the 19 and 21 by 
Dr. Bloomfield or Dr. Tilton [ ?]® and take the Opportunity of their Re- 

* Cf. the Journals, Jan. 15. 

5 See nos. 6, 12, 13, 20, 21, 30, 31, 42, ante. 

6 See the Journals, Dec. 24, 31, 1777, Jan. 24, 1778. 

■^ See the Journals, Jan. 10, 12, 20, and nos. 27, 28, 40, 44, 46, ante. 

8 Dr. Moses Bloomfield and Dr. James Tilton were surgeons attached to the 
hospital at Princeton. In Potter's American Monthly the latter name is printed " Filen ", 
a reading which the manuscript suggests ; nevertheless it is probably Tilton. 



January, ly/S 59 

turn to add some what further. I am obliged to you for the particular De- 
tail of Abuses which I know to be real and great and shall make every use 
in my Power of the Information given, particularly I hope soon to obtain a 
Request of Congress to the Legislature of our or perhaps all the States to 
take the Oversight of the Continental Officers in their Bounds.® This has 
been done already in particular Cases in N. York and Connecticut and 
from what happened in these Instances I am convinced there will be no 
Difficulty in obtaining it. 

Pray let Dr. Scudder come here without Delay — a Committee of 6 
Members of Congress are gone to Camp. There are at present 4 or five 
Single Persons if any one of whom Should be sick there could not be a 
Quorum. 

Dr. Rush and Dr. Shippen are here just now and were Yesternight and 
this forenoon examined before a Committee of whom I am Chairman as 
to the Abuses in the Hospitals.^" No Pains will be spared to rectify what 
is amiss as far as practicable. The unluckey movement you mention in 
December was the Consequence of an Order from Headquarters though 
a very improper one 

The Congress have now positively determined that Burgoyne and his 
Army shall not be suffered to embark till there is a formal Ratification of 
the Convention sent from the Court of London and that all the Expences 
of his Troops shall be paid in hard Money or Provisions. ^^ I inclose you 
the Proceedings of Congress relative to the Prisoners ^^ and mean to send 
some english News Papers, not any late in deed but which you must keep 
and return by a safe Conveyance when it can be found. If Dr. Scudder 
comes I shall probably set off immediately but am very much pressed to 
stay and in Case any important Intelligence come from England or France 
it may seem to demand it.^^ .... 

60. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

York, 28th Jany 1778 
Sir, 

Very late last night (and it is now not day light), I had the honour 
of receiving your favour by the hands of Colonel Duplessis.^ I perused 
it very carefully and will pay the most honorable regard to the Contents, 
forgive me Dear Marquis, for expressing some regret that you disclosed 
any part of them to a Gentleman who though very Sensible appears to me, 

8 A resolution adopted Feb. 9 {Journals, pp. 139-140) appears to correspond to 
Witherspoon's idea. 

1° See the Journals, Jan. 6, 26, 27, 30, Feb. 6 ; also nos. 69, 83, 187, post. 
11 See the Journals, Jan. 8. and nos. 20, 21, ante. 
^2 See the Journals, Jan. 21. Cf. no. 41, ante. 

13 William Churchill Houston, to whom this letter was addressed, was a professor 
in Dr. Witherspoon's college at Princeton, now Princeton University. He was at this 
time a member of the New Jersey assembly. See no. 92, post. 
[6o]iS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 239. 

2 The letter is in 5". C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VIL 125. It is without date, but 
is endorsed by Laurens, " supposed to have been written 26th. Reed. 27 Jan. 1778 ", and 
internal evidence confirms the supposition. See note 3, below. 



60 Continental Congress 

and has given Some proof, to be often guardless and incautious.^ you 
command me to keep parts of your Letter in confidence, be assured Sir, 
the whole will be held in that Esteem, if I can produce or procure any 
good from the knowledge which you are pleased to communicate, it shall 
be effected without disclosing the Source 

I know from the Gentleman himself that Genl. Conway is desirous of 
accompanying your Excellency upon the intended expedition and I am 
equally sure a rejection on your part will be received as a great disap- 
pointment. I took the liberty of intimating that it would be decent if not 
necessary to consult your Excellency upon the Question of who should be 
your Second, but the thing has been not only preconcerted but apparently 
predetermined, indeed by some contrivance I was deprived of the honour, 
and the means of doing my Duty, of informing you Officially of the 
appointments.^ 

As I do most sedulously avoid even the appearance of being a party 
Man, Your Excellency will the more readily excuse me for speaking only 
in general terms. I think I can discern on which side Virtue and honour 
predominate, as well as that where Craft and design are lurking under 
specious guise when perhaps the party themselves are blinded by preju- 
dice and not sensible of their own errors, and as I judge charitably I 
would endeavour to act circumspectly even with such characters, who 
divested of the spirit of party may be valuable Men in community 

6i. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

My dear Son, •' j '» ' 

.... Genl. Conway has been twice say thrice with me the second 
time he consulted me on the propriety of printing, Lll call it, the Letter. 
I replied by every dissuasive argument, he did not offer to shew me the 
Letter, but I have since seen it in the hands of a good sort of Man, and 
'tis possible the poison will by such means be disseminated. I cannot com- 
mend the Liberality of this proceeding, but I take it for granted he has 
first sent a Copy to the General, in that case there will [be] less crime or 
no crime in shewing it to his friends, from this consideration I say noth- 
ing of the Contents." 

3 This was Gouvemeur Morris, one of the committee sent to headquarters (see 
no. 27, note 5, ante, and nos. 61, 62, note 2, post). In a postscript to his letter Lafayette 
wrote: "When I had just finished M. Moriss came into head quarters and as I did 
know that he was a friend of ours I have communicated to him almost all my letter — 
he will wrait to you — I have been very happy to hear that he was of the same opinion 
as myself for gnl Mg. douggal." See no. 51, 07!^^, and no. 61, post. 

4 See the Journals, Jan. 23. Cf. nos. 52, ante, 64, 126, post. 
[6i]i S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 243. 

2 Cf. nos. 22, 52, 60, ante, and no. 72, post. The following passage in Conway's 
letter to Washington Jan. 27 is particularly pertinent here : " General Gates Delivered 
to me the Letter Which I had Directed to him last October, and of Which I had kept 
no Copy. I find With great satisfaction that the paragraph so much spoke of Does not 
exist in said Letter nor anything Like it. the Letter was communicated before my 
arrival to several members of congress, and as soon as I received it, I Delivered it to 
three other members who have perused it. as this calumny had gained ground, and was 
spread through the army, I meant to have the Letter publish'd with the certificate of 
General Gates, but Was prevented by President Laurens and some other members 
whom I had consulted on the subject, and who were of opinion that such a Measure 
would inform the enemy of a Misunderstanding prevailing among the generals of the 



January, ly/S 61 

Yesterday I read to Congress a Letter from Mr. Gk)vr. Morris recom- 
mending Genl. McDougal to be the Marquis's second.^ in the afternoon 
Genl. Conway called upon me to take leave and entered immediately upon 
his Journey to the Northward. " there was not a moment to be lost " 
and a Resolution is framed ordering Bills of Exchange to be drawn to a 
certain amount to be put into the hands of Marquis delafayette or any 
other Commanding Officer of the Troops intended to be sent to Canada, 
these are facts which you and I may think of, but I have neither time nor 
inclination to paraphrase, which I would do and boldly too if I were on 
the floor 

62. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

Minutes of Committee- Jany. 28th 1778 

Present 
Mr. Dana Chairman, Genl. Fulsom, Genl. Reid, Colo. Harvie. Mr. 
Morris.^ 

american armj-, therefore, sir, I must Depend upon your justice, candour, and Generosity 
for putting a stop to this forgery." In a postscript he adds : " if your Excellency thinks 
proper to honour me with an answer I wish you Would be so kind as to inclose it to 
President Laurens" (Library of Congress, Washington Papers; Writings of Wash- 
ington, ed. Sparks, V. 502, without the postscript). 

3 Morris's letter of Jan. 26 (no. 51, ante) was read in Congress Jan. 28. This 
part of the letter must therefore have been written Jan. 29. McDougall had, in fact, 
been one of the nominees, Jan. 23, for officers to conduct the Canadian expedition. He 
was assigned to the expedition conditionally Feb. 2. Cf. no. 64, post. 

[62]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., Misc., Portfolio 104. These minutes 
are partly in the writing of Gouverneur Morris, partly in that of Francis Dana, and 
partly in that of Joseph Reed. Beginning with Feb. 8 the entries were made almost 
entirely by Dana. 

2 In a letter to Congress, Dec. 23, Washington had set forth at length the de- 
plorable condition of the army and had urged the appointment of two or three members 
of the board of war or a committee of Congress " to repair immediately to camp .... 
and with the commanding officer, or a committee of his appointment, prepare and digest 
the most perfect plan that can be devised for correcting all abuses and making new 
arrangements", etc. {Writings, ed. Ford, VI. 257, ed. Sparks, V. 197). For the first 
steps taken by Congress in response to this request, see the Journals, Dec. 26, 29, 31, 
1777, and these Letters, vol. II., nos. 790, 792, 794, 795. A motion, Dec. 31, to send a 
committee to camp was debated and finally referred to another committee. The latter 
committee brought in a report Jan. 10, and a resolution was adopted for appointing 
three members of Congress and three members of the board of war to constitute a com- 
mittee, who, in concert with General Washington, were to effect extensive reforms in 
the army. The three members of Congress, Dana, Reed, and Folsom, were designated 
that day. This was at the close of the session on Saturday. On Monday, Jan. 12, the 
three members of the newly constituted board of war were chosen, namely, Gates, 
Mifflin, and Pickering, none of whom had, however, yet arrived at the seat of Congress. 
At the same time a fourth member of Congress was added, namely, John Harvie. By 
Jan. 20 (see no. 40, ante) Dana and Folsom had taken their departure for camp. By 
that date also General Gates had arrived at York (see no. 40, note 5, ante). Meanwhile 
the Conway Cabal, involving both Gates and Mifflin, had but a day or two before burst 
into exposure. Gates at once " offered such strong reasons for his not going to camp " 
that he was excused, as were also Mifflin and Pickering; and two other members of 
Congress, Charles Carroll of Carrollton and Gouverneur Morris, were added to the 
committee. Morris and Harvie were in Congress Jan. 21 (see the Journals), but were in 
Lancaster Jan. 24 (see no. 50, note 2, ante), and Morris at least was at camp Jan. 26 
(see nos. 51, 60, ante). Carroll does not appear to have been with the committee at 
any time (see no. 56, ante). The committee's minutes extend only to Mar. 12, although 
it remained at camp some time thereafter. 

3 The minutes appear to have been entered originally in a small book, from 
which the leaves were subsequently removed. What precedes occupies a single page ; 
hence the second date. 



62 Continental Congress 

28th Jany. 1778 

Committee met 

Wrote Letter to Cloathier Genl. No. i.* 

Genl. Washington appeared 

Petition from Captn. Dnrkee, Lieutt. Spaulding and Ensign Pierce 
referred to Committee 19 Jany, was read. Petitioners to attend upon 
Notice to be given. ^ 

Wrote Letter to Congress No. 2 recommending Genl. Schuyler as 
Quarter Master Genl. to which Genl. Fulsom dissents.^ 

2pth Jany. Comm. met the Genl. present as before. 

Read the Genls. Representation of the State of the Army etca.'^ 

Wrote Letter to Congress No. 3 recommending Mr. Wadsworth as 
Commissary Genl. of Purchases.* 

Resolved that the Commissaries of Issues and Forage the Quarter 
Master and Waggon Master General be requested immediately to make 
return to this Committee of the several Assistants, Deputies etca. em- 
ployed within their respective Departments together with the Pay and 
Appointments of such Assistants, Deputies etca. distinguishing therein 
those who are taken from the Army together with their Rank and Station 
there. 

Sent it inclosed in circular Letter No. 4 to the Persons mentioned 
in it." 

6;^. Daniel Roberdeau to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town, Jany 30th, 1778. 
Sir, 

This day a Letter from Genl. Washington to the Board of War was 
before Congress, respecting their detention of the British Officers and 
Waggons, of which he disapproved, as it was a measure stipulated be- 
twixt him and Genl. Howe; nor does he disapprove the number of men 
in the escort, although it exceeds the stipulation, as he thinks they were 
as few as might be expected on the occasion, therefore they are ordered 
to proceed w[it]h their charge. The Letter was returned to the Board of 

•* The clothier-general was James Mease. 

5 See the Journals, Jan. 19, June 23; also no. 71, post. 

^ See the Journals, Jan. 31. The letter is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 33, f. 71. It 
was written by Reed and signed by Dana as chairman. 

'Washington's representation, Jan. 29, is in Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 300. 

8 See the Journals, Feb. 4. The letter sets forth in particular that an inquiry into 
the department of the commissary-general had not been favorable to the capacity and 
abilities of the gentleman in charge (William Buchanan). Cf. no. 84, post. 

^ The circular letter, transmitting the committee's resolutions, is in the Library 
of Congress, U. S. Revolution. Beyond the examination of Papers Cont. Cong., no. 33, 
containing a body of the committee's correspondence with Congress, and the several 
volumes of letters (ibid., no. 78), of which there is a card catalogue, no effort has been 
made to locate the numerous letters and returns mentioned in these minutes. The com- 
missary-general of issues was Col. Charles Stewart ; the commissary-general of forage 
was Col. Clement Biddle; the wagonmaster-general of Pennsylvania was James Young, 
and he was probably the officer here alluded to, as the committee later had conferences 
with him. 

[63]! Pa. State Lib., P. P., XLV. 40; Pa. Arch., first sen, VI. 214. 



January, i^/8 63 

War with Instructions to enquire into the Conduct of the Escort in our 
State, and I suppose you will be applied to. This brought on some debate 
and a Resolution approving your conduct, but as it did not touch the main 
point the indecent interference of the two Members of Congress, they 
being absent, the plaudit was at least suspended by the previous question. 
However the sense of the House was very appearant, particularly respect- 
ing your proceedure against the three Waggoners, who it was hoped 
would be brought to condign punishment, and it was the earnest desire to 
[of] the delegates of this State, that you should be acquainted therewith, 
therefore I am so particular in this relation, although I think it unneces- 
sary. Our State opposed the Resolution, informing Congress we sought 
no Compliment but justice. I hope you will not forget to furnish me with 
a copy of the Letter found on the Serjeant. I must not omit mentioning 
that your Letter on the subject did the State great honor, and extorted 
a compliment from a quarter least expected, and the President desired me 
to allow him to take a Copy.^ While I write, much interrupted by Con- 
gress, I am informed that you have taken up seven retailers of Counter- 
feit money, this opp'y I hope will not be omitted to do justice to our in- 
jured cause, which at the same time will strongly mark the propriety of 
Congress in the late Resolves requiring the payment of all provisions 
either in kind or in gold and silver. 

64. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge.^ 

Dear Sir, 30th Jany 1778 

.... consider Sir, the Circumstances of Congress, left to reap the 
fruits of former shameful Idleness and dissipation of time to correct the 
effects of some very gross and Some very wanton errors of those times 
with the aid of about 21 Members, often 13, sometimes barely 9 States 
on the floor represented by as many persons. I need say no more to your 
Excellency who are so well acquainted with business to shew that these 
are not sufficient even in number to perform the ordinary drudgery of 
Committees.^ the Mornings are filled up till 10 or 11 oClock in those 
Circles, if we can then make a House we set till i or 2 and never take 
more than two hours respite, then sit again till 8 or 9. what time will this 
allow for refreshment resolutions and dispatch of business out of Doors — 
to me very little more than what I delve out of the Night, because my 
Mornings are unavoidably expended in giving answers to incessant 
applications. 

Nine Brigadier Generals have made an humble Representation of in- 
jury which they feel from an undue promotion of Gen. Conway,^ an 

2 See nos. 50, 54, ante, and the Journals, Jan. 30. Washington's letter to the 
board of war Jan. 26, also a letter of Jan. 27, touching the same subject, are in Writings 
(ed. Sparks), V. 226, 227. See also his letter to Sir William Howe Jan. 30 (ibid., p. 230; 
tVritings, ed. Ford, VI. 352). The letter from the board of war to Wharton Jan. 31 is in 
Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 216; the reply, Feb. 16, is ibid., p. 268. Cf. nos. 97, 108, iii, post. 
[64]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 246. A notation in the 
letter-book indicates that the letter was despatched " per Gray 6th Febry ". 

2 Cf. a postscript, dated Jan. 30. 1778, to Laurens's letter to Gervais Dec. 30, I777. 
vol. II., no. 793 ; also letter to George Read, Jan. 30, Life of Read, p. 294. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 19; also Washington to Laurens, Jan. 5, Writings (ed. 
Ford), VL 280. 



64 Continental Congress 

humble Petition has also appeared from eight valuable meritorious Colo- 
nels complaining of the promotion of Lieutt. Colo. Wilkinson to the Rank 
of Brigadier both are treated with the Contempt of lying on the Tables. 
Such a display of Wisdom and Justice may provoke a resentment exceed- 
ingly detrimental to the service.* .... 

(3d Febry) 
Congress have projected an Irruption into Canada, and have appointed 
Marquis delafayette ist, Major Gen Conway 2d, and Brigadier Genl. 
Stark 3d in Command, the Marquis came from Camp to York, discovered 
a noble resentment for the affront offered to his Commander Genl. Wash- 
ington, to whom his appointment had not been intimated by Congress, 
said he would not go without a General Officer of the Rank of " Major 
General " in whom he could put confidence, and therefore demanded 
Genl. McDougal or Baron Kalb and that their appointment Should be 
through his General. 

Congress and the Board of War hesitated, the Marquis said if he was 
disappointed he must immediately go to France to account for his con- 
duct, and that every foreign Officer could accompany him. had an Irrup- 
tion of this nature taken place, the World at large must have been in- 
formed of the unmeritted insult offered the General and Commander in 
Chief, and Censure must have followed both on Congress and the Board 
of War. Ignorance perhaps might have accounted for the conduct of the 
former, although they were warned against the unjustifiable step, a good 
deal of struggle was made to elude the Marquis's demands, he was firm 
and succeeded, and this morning he took leave of me and proceeded to the 
Camp in order as he says, to receive the Commands of his General, to take 
either Genl. McDougal or Genl. Kalb with him and go rapidly forward 
to Albany, he speaks of G C in the most unfavorable terms, who will be 
much mortified by this new arrangement.^ 

* Cf. nos. 5, 29, 36, ante. 

5 See the Journals, Feb. 2, and no. 46, note 5, ante. See also Lafayette's letter 
to Congress Jan. 31, read Feb. 2 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 156, f. 5; printed in Tower, 
Lafayette in the Revolution, I. 277). An account of the projected Canadian expedition 
is ibid., pp. 268-291, including (pp. 272-275) the text of the board of war's instructions 
to Lafayette. 

Lafayette's opposition to Conway and his solicitations for the appointment of either 
Kalb or McDougall were fervently pressed in a number of letters to President Laurens. 
Besides that of Jan. 26 (?) already mentioned (no. 61, note 2, ante), and one written 
probably the following day (S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VIL 179), this is particularly 
true of those written while he was at York. This visit to the seat of Congress extended 
from probably Jan. 30 to the morning of Feb. 3. In 5". C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VH. 
182, 183, are two communications to Henry Laurens, without date, but endorsed by 
Laurens as of Jan. 31. The latter of these (dated "At half past nine", evidently in 
the evening) begins with the statement : " I am coming from that board. I spoke to 
them with a great frankness and finished by telling that if they don't give me mgdougall 
or Kalb, and the french officers appointed according to my ideas I decline the appointe- 
ment and will go to france with most all the french officers in the army. I am sorry my 
dear sir, to think that two or three rascals oblige me to make out such a conditions 
and take such steps, tho he [probably erroneous reading for Lee ; see below] was I 
believe for me, duer quite against, the secretary charmed with that dispute, and the old 
fellow scratching his wigg — I think they'l beg Congress to meet tomorrow tho' it is 
Sunday — then my propositien and my leave in case of refusal will be layd down in the 
worst light possible." The board of war brought in its report Feb. 2. The members of 
the board who appear to have been present when the conference with Lafayette took 



January, i^yS 65 

I count it a misfortune that I do not approve of this Canada expedition 
because I am almost Single in opinion, however there is no Man in our 
Army So likely to succeed in it as this Young Noble Man. he is skilful in 
the Art of War, is sensible and brave and will have great Influence in 
Canada with the Noblesse, the Church and the Commonalty, he takes in 
his suite some eight or ten french Officers in order to raise Companies in 
that Country.® .... 

I have heard it avowed in full Congress that we have sustained losses 
of several hundred thousand Dollars in the passage from the Board of 
War to distant departments, not in my time thank God. is it not very 
extraordinary we have not taken the trouble even to enquire into this? 

65. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

[January 30, 31, 1778.] 
^oth. Took into cons, the arrangemt. of the Battalions and settled it.^ 

Also cons'd half pay, but not concluded.^ 
5 J. Took into cons, the scarcity of prov : and wrote to Mr. Blane (No. 5)* 

Received the return of persons emploved in the Forage Departmt. 
{No. 6) 

Reed. Return of Asst. Comrs. of Issues for the middle Departmt. 
{No. 7) 

Reed. Clothier Gen: Lettr. (No. 8) 

66. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

Dear Sir Yo^¥. Town Jany. 31st 1778 

I take the Liberty to inclose to your Excellency the Last papers to which 
I refer you for News 

place were General Gates, Francis Lightfoot Lee (Lafayette must have written "Lee" 
where the text above has "he"), William Dtier, and Richard Peters, the secretary. It is 
Peters, doubtless, to whom Lafayette alludes as being charmed with the dispute. There 
are three other characteristic letters from Lafayette to Laurens, written immediately 
after his visit to York {ibid., pp. 185, 186, 188). In the first of these, written from 
"Anderson ferry at three oclock in a great hurry" (apparently the afternoon of the 
day of his departure from York, Feb. 3), he mentions that he had encountered "one 
other rapid incursor from the board going to reading ", meaning that he had met General 
Mifflin on his way to Reading. In a postscript to the letter of Feb. 3 from Richard 
Peters to Robert Morris, from which some extracts have been quoted (no. 44, note 6, 
ante), is found this remark: "General Gates and myself had concluded to go to Man- 
heim but found we could not leave the office, Mifflin being gone and none of the other 
Members attending pour quelle raison Je n'scay pas." 

® In some manner a rumor had gained currency to the southward that Canada 
had already cast in her lot with the United States. Allen Jones of North Carolina 
wrote to Governor Caswell Jan. 31 : "A Gentleman from Virga. yesterday told me that 
he saw a person from the No'ward who says it may be relied on that the Canadians 
have acceded to the Confederacy with the 13 United States and that their Delegates 
are at Congress. I heartily wish this may prove true, and I do not think it improbable 
as the British Force in that part is almost annihilated " (copied from the original, then 
in possession of Mr. W. R. Benjamin of New York; A''. C. State Recs., XIII. 25). See 
also ibid., XIII. 32, 35, 36, 40, 46, 370 ; Letters of Richard Henry Lee, I. 385 ; and Writings 
of Washington (ed. Sparks), V. 388. 

[65] 1 See no. 62, note i, ante. 
2 See nos. 71, 75, 79, post. 

^ See the Journals, Mar. 26-28, and no. 174, note 2, post. 
* Ephraim Blaine was deputy commissary-general of purchases. 

[66]i Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; A^. C. State Recs., XIII. 20. 



66 Continental Congress 

Congress have a high Sense of the Offer made by Our Country, of 
marching 5000 MiHtia to the Assistance of the Grand Army, and greatly 
applaud their Spirit, whether they will be called for, is not yet known. 
I suppose they will not, (having so great a distance to March) unless in 
case of Immergency. But this is no more than my Private Opinion and 
not to be mentioned.- .... 

67. George Frost to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

York Town, Jan'a. 31st 1778 
Sir, 

.... It is said that a Council of Officers in the Armey has proposed 
to Genl. Washington to nominate 6 Levt. Genls. said Levt. Genls. to nomi- 
nate 12 Ma jr. Genls. and the Ma jr. Genls. to nominate 24 Brigr. Genls. 
.... it is also proposed that all Officers in the Armey to be setled on 
half pay that may not be in actuel service on the Conclusion of the War, 
and that all Officers Widows shall have a penson dureing their widowhud, 
we have some Advocates in Congress for the penson. Your prudence will 
Sergest how far to Communicate this Inteligence Should be glad to have 
your and our best friends oppinion on the matter.^ .... 

68. Gouverneur Morris to John Jay.^ 

Camp, Valley Forge, Feb. ist, 1778. 
Dear Jay: 

Congress have sent me here in conjunction with some other gentlemen, 
to regulate their army,^ and in truth not a little regulation hath become 
necessary. Our quarter-master and commissary departments are in a most 
lamentable situation. Opportunities have been neglected last campaign 
which were truly golden ones, but omnipotent fatality had, it seems, de- 
termined that the American capital should fall. Our sentiments on this 
occasion are so perfectly coincident that I will not enlarge. The mighty 
Senate of America is not what you have known it. The Continental cur- 
rency and Congress have both depreciated, but in the hands of the 
Almighty Architect of empires, the stone which the builders have rejected 
may easily become head of the corner 

69. John Witherspoon to Benjamin Rush.^ 

York town Feby 2, 1778 
Sir 

I was favoured with youc Letter covering two Forms of Resignation. 
There was nothing exceptionable in any of them. I however gave in that 

2 Feb. 10 Harnett wrote that Congress had not yet determined to call for the 
reinforcement offered by North CaroUna (A^. C. State Recs., XIII. 37). Cf. no. 149, post. 
[67]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 459; Hist. Mag., first ser., VII. 49. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 5, 9, 10 ; cf. nos. 28, 29, ante. 
[6BY Correspondence of Jay (ed. Johnston), I. 173; Sparks, Life of Gouverneur 
Morris, I. 153. 

2 See no. 62, ante. 
[69]! Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS., XLIII. 46. 



Febmary, ly/S 67 

which says you found you could not discharge your Duty as you would 
etc. which was accepted without a word said by any Person upon the 
Subject." I am sorry for the Necessity of the Measure and yet I question 
whether you could have done anything more proper for Dr. Shippen was 
fully determined to bring the Matter to a Contest between you, refusing 
positively to serve with you which would have occasioned an Examination 
and Judgement troublesome to us hurtful probably to both of you and 
uncertain in its Issue. I have mentioned to some Members what you pro- 
posed to me about the Expedition ^ you know of but they seemed to be 
at a Loss what Station or Character you could sustain. Some Difficulties 
are likely to arise in that Expedition if however it go on and I can find 
any Opening I shall remember your Proposal. In the mean time as you 
make use of the word Retirement in your Letter to me I beg you may pay 
some Regard to my former Opinion upon that subject which you must 
well remember. I suppose I shall see you at Princeton in a short time as I 
shall probably go home when Dr. Scudder arrives My Compliments to 
Mrs. Rush and Mr. and Mrs. Stockton with the young Folks 

70. James Lovell to Benjamin Lincoln.^ 

York in Pennsylvania Feb. 2d 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

I am sorry, but not altogether surprised to find from a mutual good 
Friend that the Resolve of Congress of the 29th of November, which I 
inclose connected with one of the 12th of that Month supposing a Chance 
of your not having been furnished with it, has made you uneasy. 

I see Circumstances attending your Case which are not common to the 
Cases of those among the Brigadiers who will be affected by the Arrange- 
ment of Woodford and Scott, and also the Cases of St. Clair Stephen 
Mifflin and Stirling.^ 

It had been often possitively declared upon Debates prior to Novr. 29th 
that the Gentlemen who were created Majors Genl. on the 19th of Febry 

2 Dr. Benjamin Rush was made surgeon-general of the hospital in the Middle 
department Apr. 11, 1777, and was chosen physician general of the hospital in the same 
department July i following. Dr. William Shippen (the younger) had been director 
general of all the hospitals since Apr. 11, 1777. See the Journals, Jan. 30; cf. no. 59, ante, 
and nos. 83, 187, post. Richard Peters, secretary to the board of war, wrote to Robert 
Morris, Feb. 3 : " I received your Favor by Dr. Shippen and complied with your Request 
or rather authority as to mentioning your opinion about him. He will inform you about 
the Situation of that Department which like all others seems to be convulsed to its 
Center. Rush has resigned. There is so much said on both Sides that I fancy both were 
wrong at least in some Degree." (Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 198.) Among the 
Rush MSS. in the Ridgway Branch of the Library Company of Philadelphia (Yiz 
724SF119) is the draft of a letter, without date, to Dr. John Morgan, giving in extenso 
the reasons for his resignation, together with an account of the contest between him and 
Dr. Shippen before the committee of Congress. 

3 Doubtless the projected expedition to Canada. See no. 46, ante. 

[70] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of C. F. Libbie and Company of 
Boston. 

2 The four officers last mentioned, together with Benjamin Lincoln, were elected 
major-generals Feb. 19, 1777. Concerning the cases of Woodford and Scott, see vol. IL, 
no. 745. With regard to the question of rank as between Woodford and Weedon 
(involving also Scott and Muhlenberg), see nos. 95, 99, note 2, 104, 178, 49S, /'O.v/. 



68 Continental Congress 

had signified their entire Willingness that A^ should have the same Rank 
as if he had been made a Major General on the same Day with them. 
Though this Declaration had been made without Effect formerly, yet, it 
had Influence on the 29th of Novr. when his Name was added in a Re- 
solve which was on the point of passing in regard to two other Officers,* 
whose Case, it was asserted, was similar to his. 

This Resemblance was true in a Refference of A. to the 4 other Gentle- 
men promoted on the Day you was chosen a Continental M. G. but it is 
not true when referred to your former Situation. And this Nicety was 
not adverted to at all I believe when the sudden Addition was offered and 
passed Novr. 29th or if adverted to it did not opperate so powerfully as 
the Influence of the Declaration before mentioned. 

You may be assured that your Name and Character is as highly es- 
teemed in Congress [as?] at both Camps, than which I cannot find a more 
honorable Comparison. 

I cannot boast of an Intimacy with you in any measure proportionate 
to my Regard, but I hope you will let that be no Obstacle to your pointing 
out to me in a plain Manner how I may in any Measure promote your 
Happiness which I most sincerely wish to do. 

I will depend so much upon finding Credit to my Assertion as to expect 
to hear from you soon either directly or through Genl. Gates who is the 
mutual good Friend I have hinted at before. 

I am Dear Sir 

Your affectionate humble Servant 

James Lovell. 

71. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

/[February 2, 3, [1778.] 
Fehy. 2d. Present as before 

Reed. Letter from Qur. Master Lutterlow {No. pY 
Reed, the return of the W. M. Genls. Department {No. loY 
Resolved to recommend to Congress the Draught of a Number of Men 
to complete the Battalions on the Establishmt. also fixed the Quotas of 
the several States. Agreed that the German Battalion belong to Maryland 
as part of their Quota. James Livingstons and Hazens to be united on the 
new Establishmt. under Hazen the Surplus to be added to Warners 
Armand's to be reduced and thrown into the 9 of the 16 to be kept up.'* 

■■' Benedict Arnold. See vol. II., nos. 419, 476, 582, 583, 585, 586, 607, 671. In ac- 
cordance with the resolve of Congress Nov. 29, Washington had sent to Arnold, Jan. 20, 
a new commission, restoring him to the rank which he claimed in the army, and on the 
same day had apprized General Lincoln of his action {Writings, ed. Sparks, V. 215, 217, 
ed. Ford, VI. 289, 289 n.). Lincoln's reply, Mar. i, is in the Library of Congress, Wash- 
ington Papers. 

■* That is, Woodford and Scott. 
[71]^ See no. 62, note i, ante. 

2 Henry Emanuel Lutterloh was deputy quartermaster-general. Cf. Pa. Arch., 
first ser., VI. 210, 212. See also the committee's letter of Feb. 12, Life of Reed, I. 360. 

^ See no. 62, note 9, ante. 

4 See no. 65, ante, and nos. 75, 79, post. 



February, i/yS 69 

Took into Cons. Colo. Campbell's application to Congress and denied 
his request to go in upon parole to solicit his Exchange.^ 

^d. Consider'd Capt. Durkee's and others petition and denied the prayer 
of it.^ 

Wrote a Letter to Congress on the Exp[e]dition agst. Phila. forwarded 
by Col. Fitzgerald. (No. ii.)^ 

Reed, the Return of Persons employed in the Qr. M'r Genl. Departmt. 
{No. 12) and Lutterloh's 2d Letter (No. 13) 

Conferr'd with Col. Blaine D'y Comm'y of Issues ^ on the State of 
Provisions of the Army and reed, his Return of Meat purchased — No. 13. 

Reed, from Gen. Green Returns of the Army and an Acct. of Returns 
drawn during the Month of December. 

y2. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

York Town 3d Febr'y 1778 
My Dear Son, 

.... In conversation with Gen. Gates without seeking on my side, 
I discovered an inclination in him to be upon friendly terms with our 
great and good General.^ it cannot be doubted but that there is the same 
disposition on the other side, what would I not give to see a perfect and 
happy reconciliation. 

talking of Gen. Conway's Letter which has been circulating as formerly 
intimated, and of which Gen. Gates declared both his ignorance and dis- 
approbation,^ I took occasion to say, if Gen. Conway pretends sincerity in 
his late Parallel between the great F — and the great W — * he has, taking 
this Letter into view, been guilty of the blackest hypocrisy — if not, he is 
chargeable with the guilt of an unprovoked sarcasm, and is unpardonable, 
the General perfectly acquiesced in that sentiment and added such hints 

^ See the Journals, Jan. 13, 16, Mar. 2, 30, Apr. 10, and no. 203, post. 

^ See no. 62, ante. 

■^ This letter, which is in the writing of Reed and signed by all five members of the 
committee present (Dana, Reed, Folsom, Harvie, and Morris), relates to the memorial 
of the Pennsylvania assembly and council, beseeching that the enemy be driven out of 
Philadelphia (see the Journals, Jan. 5, 9, 16), and was read in Congress Feb. 16. The 
committee disapproved of the proposal. The letter of the Pennsylvania council, Jan. 2, 
is in Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 153. A copy of the memorial is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 
33, f. 85. See no. 27, ante. 

^ Blaine was deputy commissary-general of purchases, not of issues. See no. 65, 
ante. 

[72]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll.; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776- 
1778, p. 251; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 1. 281 (extract, with erroneous date, Apr. 9). 

2 It is significant that Gates should have approached Laurens with such overtures 
straightway after the banquet (supposed to have been given the night before) at which 
Lafayette confounded the conspirators by demanding a toast to Washington. 

^ See no. 21, note 2, ante. 

* The allusion is to the passage in Conway's letter to Washington, Dec. 31, quoted 
under no. 22, note 13, ante. It is proper to observe that Wharton, in quoting the passage 

(see note i, above), incorrectly interprets the "F " as " Fabius ". Evidently he 

had not seen Conway's letter. Wharton's misapprehension with regard to the date of 
this letter also naturallj' affected his interpretation of the conversation, as well as of 
Gates's letter to Laurens, May 27 (see no. 320, post). Cf. Gates to Washington, Feb. 19, 
in Writings of Washington (ed. Sparks), V. 511. 



To Continental Congress 

as convinced me he thought Hghtly of Conway, shall such a Man seperate 
friends or keep them asunder? it must not be.^ 

My Dear Son I pray God protect you 

Henry Laurens. 
Lt. Colonel Laurens. 

z'^. Jonathan Bayard Smith to the Acting President of 
Pennsylvania (George Bryan).'- 

York Town, Feb. 3d, 1778. 
Dr. Sir, 

I wrote you a few days ago by . Nothing since has occurred 
worth your notice. The Assembly of Virginia has acceded to the Con- 
federation. I do not think, however, they have treated the matter with 
form equal to its importance. Does it appear proper to raise so great a 
fabrick on the slender basis of a simple resolution of the two houses? 
Will not legal consequences follow from this confederation? I apprehend 
it would be not only proper, but that it would answer many valuable pur- 
poses if more form were used, at least if the articles were approved and 
acceded to by a law of each State solemnly enacted, and in which law per- 
haps it may be expedient to insert certain matters connected therewith.^ 
It is a question in this house, whether suits can be supported for the re- 
covery of particular * ^ moneys in the several States. What think you of 
this? This may be one object in the act I speak of 

74. John Penn to Robert Morris.^ 

York Feby 4th 1778 
My dear Sir 

I intended before this to have seen you at Manheim. Mr. Harnet ^ being 
unable to attend Congress having the Gout, will make it some days before 
I can have that pleasure. 

The design of this letter is to inform you that I wish you would lay the 
accounts of the Secret Committee, before Congress as soon as you can 
possibly, some members at times drop expressions on that subject that 
I do not like. There are few men whose Ability and Integrity I have so 
high an opinion of, as I have of yours. I do not mean to alarm you by 

^ Replying to his father, Feb. 9, John Laurens says : " I could not forbear com- 
municating a part of your favour of 3d inst., to our friend ; he seems sensible that the 
gentleman, who you mention to have conversed with you upon certain matters, is only 
the instrument of more dangerous and inveterate personages." Artny Correspondence, 
p. 121. Cf. nos. 60, 61, ante. See also Washington to Landon Carter, May 30 {Writings, 
ed. Ford, VII. 37, ed. Sparks, V. 388). 
[73] 1 -Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 232. 

2 The Articles of Confederation were approved by the Virginia house of dele- 
gates Dec. 15, and by the senate Dec. 16. From the modern point of view at least the 
act of ratification was sufficiently formal and dignified. Cf. Lovell's remarks respecting 
the ratification by New York (no. i6r, post), and the form of ratification proposed 
by Congress, June 26, 1778. See also nos. 112, 122, 140, note 2, post. 

3 " * Owing to the seal, a part of this word cannot be seen." [Note in Pa. Arch.] 
[74]iHist. Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., Signers, no. 77. 

2 See Harnett to Caswell, Jan. 31, N. C. State Recs., XIII. 20, and no. 86, post. 



February, I'jjS 71 

what I have said, but only to induce you to attend to this matter more than 
perhaps otherwise you would.^ when I see you I shall be more ex- 
plicit* .... 

75. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

[February 4, 5, 1778.] 
4th. Conferr'd with Col. Palfrey ^ on the State of the military Chest — 
proceeded on the Arrangemt. of the Army and the Draught to fill up the 
Continental Battalions.^ 

5. Reed. Proposals from Col. Plain in the Provision Department — No. 14. 
Reed, a second Lettr. from the Clothier Genl. (No. 15). 

76. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

York Janry. [February] 5th, 1778. 
Dear Sir. 

Your favors of the 15th and 23d of January came yesterday to hand. 
I am exceedingly pleased with the proceedings of your General Assembly. 
I hold them out in all my letters to the eastward as a fine example. 

I shall send you the oath of Allegiance which passed in Congress yes- 
terday as soon as it comes from the Press. It is our Business to take 
measures with all continental officers whatever. The states will take care 
of their particular citizens. Maryland besides excluding non jurors from 
offices etc. makes them liable to a treble tax ; which I think falls well in 
with your idea of making it as inconvenient as possible for such vermin to 
exist among us. 

I ought to have informed you that Mr. /. A. has accepted, and that I 
constantly forward to him letters and papers for F — .^ and Mr. Iz[ard] 
also accepts for Tu[rin], and speaks of the probability of obtaining a 
Loan in It[al]y. I have therefore obtained a Resolve (similar to that 
passed on Deer. 3d) for 1,000,000 stg. upon an interest to accumulate 
(if it can be obtained) during the war, afterwards to be paid off annually. 
You must have heard from your Brother of the great disappointment we 
met with about our dispatches from France.^ I have no doubt the robbery 
was committed on the other side of the water, and by a person near the 
Commissioners; as, besides the main packet, one for you was changed 

3 See nos. 109, 462, post, also Morris's letter to the public, Jan. 7, 1779, in vol. IV. 
For a resume of the episode pertaining to the books of the secret or commercial com- 
mittee, see Wallace's Laurens, ch. XXII. 

•* See no. 133, post. 
[75]^ See no. 62, note i, ante. 

2 Col. William Palfrey was paymaster-general. 

8 See nos. 65, 71, ante, and no. 79, post. 
[76]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., IV. 8. 

2 Franklin. The words " Izard ", " Turin ", and " Italy " have been filled out in 
the manuscript by another hand. 

^ Against this sentence, in the same hand that made the emendations mentioned in 
note 2, above, is the following marginal note : " allusion to certain despatches from the 
Commissioners at Paris, and private letters from A. Lee, which were del'd to Capt. 
Folger in France, but were stolen by S. Deane out of the envelopes, and the latter were 
del'd to Congress by the Capt. on his arrival in America." 



T2 Continental Congress 

which was under a cover among Gazetts, while a very considerable for 
the President of Congress another for me and another for Barnabas Deane 
and a 4th for R Morris were untouched. But then, all these were upon 
private concerns, tho their Directions were more tempting than yours 
could have been. I have the satisfaction of remarking to you that my 
Letter from Doctr. Franklin as well as Genl. Roberdeau's, and all for 
other Gentlemen from the Doctor or other friends were written with an 
air of ease and pleasantry which I should not expect to find if the public 
packet had been quite the reverse 

I am in hopes that we shall get our army both cloathed and fed by the 
good care of the Several States and our own after wisdom in regard to 
certain Systematic attachment. I think we grow more and more practical 
daily, I wish we had not waited for the teachings of woeful Experience. 

I have not reed. Letters from Boston for a long time. Our good Friends 
Adams were well the 7th of Jan'ry. I am glad they are in the way to 
advise Heath in his present difficult task with Burgoyne. I wish you had 
been present in our debates upon that Subject, I think you must have 
approved the Step of detaining him upon the grounds which appeared for 
such a procedure.'* 

yy. John Penn to Theodorick Bland.^ 

York Feby. 6tli 1778 
Dear Sir: 

My having been unwell for some time past is the reason of my not writ- 
ing to you as often as I intended. We are informed that the King's offi- 
cers behave with great severity to the Canadians, that by Flogging those 
that were taken with Burgoyne on their return, they had Compelled all 
of them to inlist again, tho' expressly contrary to the Convention of Sara- 
toga, and that the Inhabitants in general were much incensed against 
their oppressors. Congress have determined to have an expedition made 
as far as Mountreal at least, in order to get possession or destroy the 
enemy's Fleet on the lakes, and in order to induce the Canadians to exert 
themselves and Join us, the Marquis De lay Fayette will command. 
Generals McDougle, Conway and Stark attend him. The men employed 
will go from Albany and New Hampshire.^ The reputation we have ac- 
quired in taking Burgoyne, and the dissatisfaction of the people against 
the English, make me hope for something Clever, besides it will rouse us 
a little which we want and distress the Ministry in their Councils, they 
will be at a loss where to send reinforcements if they have any. I informed 
you that Burgoyne and his whole Army were to be detained untill the 
Convention is Confirmed by the Ministry. Burgoyne wrote to Gen. Gates 
that we had broke the Convention, on account of his not having so good 
lodgings as he wanted, and soon after refused to suffer a discriptive list 
to be taken of his Troops wch. was done by Genl. Carlton before he would 

* See no. 21, note 2, ante. 
[77]! Library of Congress, J. P. Morgan Collection, Signers of the Declaration. Ad- 
dressed, "The. Bland Esqr. Colo, of the ist Regimt. of Horse Prince George Co'ty 
Virginia ". 

^ See no. 46, note 5, ante. 



February, lyyS 73 

suffer our soldiers to come out of Canada.^ My Complimts. to Mrs. Bland. 
I am with great respect 

Your obt. Servt. 

J. Penn 
A Committee of Congress is at the Camp with General Washington 
endeavoring to reform our Army. I have not had an opportunity of say- 
ing any thing on the subject of Rank since you went away nor can it be 
done before the Committee returns.* 

J. P. 

78. James Lovell to Samuel Adams. ^ 

Feb :6th. 1778 
York Town 
Dear Sir 

I write only to tell you that you are exceedingly wanted here. I wish 
I could add that you will be better accommodated than before ; but really 
I have no grounds upon which to assert that you will be as well off. 

I have at times hoped that we should move nearer Boston, but I now 
look southward for the next ride if we make one in any other course than 
to the City of Philadelphia." .... 

79. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

[February 6, 7, 1778.] 
6th. Finished the Resolves on the Drafts — also Letter to Congress on that 
Subject — with the Establishmt. and Arrangement of the new Army.- 

7. Conferr'd with the Marquis de la Fayette on his Return from Congress.^ 
With Col. Blain on the State of Provisions, forwarded the above Let- 
ters of yesterday to Congress.* 

3 See nos. 21, note 2, ante. 

■* See no. 104, post. Cf. no. 70, ante, and nos. 95, 99, post. 
[78]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The earliest entry in the Journals relative to the removal of Congress from 
York was Apr. 9. The subject was then assigned for consideration Apr. 11, but no 
further mention is found in the Journals until June 24, when it was voted to adjourn 
from York June 27 to meet in Philadelphia July 2. Cf. no. 196, note 2, post. 
[79] 1 See no. 62, note i, ante. 

2 See nos. 65, 71, 75, ante. The letter concerning the arrangement of the army 
was dated Feb. 5 and was read in Congress Feb. 16. For the enclosures nos. i to 4 
(Infantry, Artillery, Cavalry, Provost), see the Journals, May 27. The arrangement of 
the engineering department, found ibid., is " No. 6 " and appears to have been a later 
addition. No. 5 related to the matter of quotas (see the Journals, Feb. 26). The com- 
mittee definitely laid the proposed arrangement before Congress May 18. See, further, 
the Journals, May 19, 20, 29, June 4. A letter dated Feb. 6, also read Feb. 16, related 
chiefly to the question of provisions, but in part to the convention prisoners (see the 
Journals, Feb. 19). 

3 Cf. no. 87, note 6, post. Lafayette had returned two or three days previously 
from York, whither he had gone to lay before Congress his wishes (or demands) re- 
specting the officers who were to accompany him on the projected Canadian expedition. 
See no. 64, note 5, ante. On this particular day, " the seventh a five in the morning ", 
he wrote to President Laurens, presumably from Washington's headquarters, touching 
briefly the Canadian expedition, but more especially in behalf of some of his French 
compatriots. (S. C. Hist, and Gencal. Mag., VIL 188.) 

* The entries in the minutes for Feb. 8 and 9 are merely " Sunday ", and " No 
Committee ", respectively. 



74 Continental Congress 

80. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 
^.^^ 7th Febry 1778. 

I had the honour this Morning of receiving your Commands by the 
hands of Lt. Colo. Fleury. 

This Gentleman not withstanding the aid of some able advocates in 
Congress has failed in his pursuit of a Colonel's Commission, you will 
wonder less, when you learn that the preceeding day I had strove very 
arduously as second to a warm recommendation from a favorite General, 
Gates, on behalf of Monsr. Failly, for the same Rank, without effect, the 
arguments adduced by Gentlemen who have opposed these measures, are 
strong and obvious. 

" We are reforming and reducing the Number of Officers in our Army, 
let us wait the event, and see how our own Native Officers are to be dis- 
posed of." and besides, there is a plan in embrio for abolishing the Class 
of Colonel in our Army, while the Enemy have none of that rank in the 
Field. 

Some difficulty attended obtaining leave for Monsr. Fleury to follow 
your Excellency. Congress were at first of opinion he might be more 
usefully imployed against the Shipping in Delaware and formed a Re- 
solve very flattering and tempting to induce him, but his perseverence in 
petitioning to be sent to Canada, prevailed.^ 

Monsr. Fleury strongly hopes Your Excellency will encourage him to 
raise and give him the Command of a distinct Corps of Canadians. I am 
persuaded you will adopt all such measures as shall promise advantage 
to the Service and there is no ground to doubt of your doing every reason- 
able and proper thing for the gratification and honour of a Gentleman 
of whom Your Excellency Speakes and writes so favorably 

81. Elbridge Gerry to Henry Knox.^ 

^ „. York, in Pennsylvania, Feb. 7, 1778. 

Dear Sir, 

I have not yet been able to make any discoveries that can justify a sus- 
picion of a plan being formed to injure the reputation of, or remove from 

[80] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 254. 

2 Lafayette's letter, without date (probably Feb. 3), but endorsed, "Reed 6th 
Feby 1778", is in S. C. Hist, mid Geneal. Mag., VIL 186. Cf. his letter of Feb. 7 {ibid., 
p. 188). A letter from John Laurens Feb. 3, introducing Colonel Fleury, is in Army 
Correspondence, p. 118. Cf. his letter of Feb. 9 {ibid., p. 119). Laurens wrote to his son 
John, Feb. 6 : " Your friend Fleury this moment takes leave of me and in pouring 
freely a thousand good wishes, drops a few to you in particular and desires I would tell 
you so. With some difficulty he obtained leave to pursue the Marquis but failed in his 
attempt to Climb Rank" {S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VL 51). See the Journals, 
Feb. 5, 6 (erased entry), 7, 11. Concerning the Chevalier Du Failly, see these Letters, 
vol. IL, no. 576, the Journals, Feb. 5 (erased entry), and no. 135, post. In a group of 
miscellaneous papers of Henry Laurens possessed by the Library of Congress is a much 
faded letter from Fleury to President Laurens which is without date, but is probably 
the letter read in Congress Feb. 6. In the Correspondence of Henry Laurens, p. 95, is a 
joint letter from Fleury and Du Plessis to Laurens Feb. 25, relative to their promotion. 
At the close of the letter they say, " Comme notre lettre pourrait etre consideree comme 
une sorte de petition pour obtenir une promotion nouvelle, nous declarons que nous ne 
demandons rien de cette espece, et sommes plus empresses a meriter les graces qu'a 
les obtenir ". See no. 228, post. 

[81] 1 Austin, Life of Elbridge Gerry, I. 241. 



February, iiyS 75 

office, the gentleman hinted at in your favour of January the 4th ; ^ and 
the alarms that have been spread and jealousies that are excited relative 
to this matter, appear to be calculated rather to answer mischievous than 
useful purposes ; at least, I fear this will be the consequence. It is essen- 
tially necessary to the authority of an officer, that those who are under him 
should have confidence in his abilities, and pride in his character; and 
certain it is, that those cannot long exist where they are frequently called 
in question. How then can we account for such groundless rumours at 
a time when the character of this worthy officer is high in congress, and 
when there appears to be an intention of the members to support him, but 
by considering them as the effect of a party spirit, that is dangerous to 
the cause in which we are engaged? .... I know not the source of the 
uneasiness which we are speaking of, but it would not be any ways sur- 
prising to me to find the enemy at the bottom of the dispute; and if they 
did not originate it they will certainly promote it, unless the officers of 
the army should wisely prevent it. The disputes relative to rank have 
probably had some share in exciting this spirit ; but here I must condemn 
some of the officers, in opposing a constitutional exercise of the authority 
of congress. A resolution was after the most mature deliberation entered 
into in February 1777, to appoint general officers upon three principles, 
which respected their former rank, their merit and the proportion of 
troops raised by the states to which they severally belonged. This was 
necessary to give satisfaction to the states, was considered as a wise and 
politic measure, and I have reason to believe will be invariably pursued at 
all events. But what has been the consequence of every appointment of 
general officers made by congress? If it did not suit the whole army, 
opposition has taken place, and reduced congress to the necessity of assert- 
ing the rights of themselves and their constituents, or consenting to give 
them up in a manner that would sap the foundation of liberty. I have ever 
thought that such an opposition has been the effect of inadvertence, and 
of not recurring to first principles; but the injury which the civil liberties 
of America derive therefrom is the same as if a premeditated attack had 
been made against them. It appears to me that the army have generally 
mistaken notions of honour when they suppose that a foreign officer of 
great experience cannot be introduced to high rank without disgracing 
all below him. I have as great prejudices in favour of my countrymen as 
any person perhaps, on earth, and will readily grant that with the same 
degree of experience and under similar advantages, no officers whatever 

2 Following is the passage in Knox's letter to which Gerry alludes : 
" When we parted I expected soon to have had the pleasure of some conversation 
with you, but the movements of the enemy prevented. 

" The subjects then started appeared to me of such magnitude and pregnant with such 
consequences, that I freely confess I wished to have had my mind relieved from some 
painful apprehensions, which possibly might have been taken up without sufficient in- 
formation. You then seemed to think the matter which was mentioned improbable and 
impossible, and it appeared so to me too; but intrigue, misinformation, caprice and un- 
successful efforts combined, may very probably have bad effects on the minds of good 
men. How far these have been practised you best know. I think from the conversation 
General G. and we had together, you will be able to recollect enough to have a clue to 
this paragraph, which may otherwise be obscure." {Ibid., I. 238). See nos. 22, 51, 64, 
72, ante. 



76 Continental Congress 

will exceed them in skill and prowess ; but can any person suppose that a 
year or two in the service of the United States will qualify an officer as 
well as ten or twenty years' service in the armies of Europe? And has 
not our cause been almost ruined ? Does it not at this instant suffer greatly 
from the want of experienced officers ? Under these circumstances then, 
is it not evident that the honour of an officer, who readily consents to 
promote the service of his country by giving place to experience, is estab- 
lished, whilst those who oppose this do it at the expense of their reputation? 
I know of no promotions of any consequence by congress that have not 
been made on the purest principles, and a full conviction of merit in the 
officer appointed : but such are the prejudices of each person in favour of 
himself, that it rarely happens when he exercises a judgment in his own 
cause that he can divest himself of partiality in every respect ; whence the 
necessity of decisions in all cases of a legal or public nature by disinter- 
ested persons. 



82. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams/ 

York in Pennsylvania Feby 7. 1778 
My dear sir 

.... the Business of Congress in the winter Season is greatly en- 
creased on account of the necessary Reformation, Plans and Preparation 
for the succeeding Campaign, and at this Time there is half the Number 
of Members to transact it. few can stand it as well as our Friend Mr. 
Lovell; he writes Morning Noon and Night, sickens once a Fortnight, 
and devotes a Day to Sleep, after which, like the Sun from behind a Cloud, 
he makes his Appearance with his usual Splendor 

The Department of the Commissary General of military Stores is now 
under the Consideration of the Board of War. your Letter relative to 
Major Ayers, shall be communicated to General Gates, who is very at- 
tentive to the Business.^ 

The Commissary of provisions has made frequent Applications to Con- 
gress for their Assistance in conducting the Business of his Department : ^ 
indeed. We have had little Assistance from his Appointment, neither could 
it be expected from a better Officer whilst the Regulations prevented him 
from appointing his Deputies, but you well know from whence this Part 
of the Plan originated, and for what Purpose it has been obstinately sup- 
ported. Its Advocates have finally given it up, after distressing the Army, 
Congress, and the Continent with it for six or eight Months. I wish 
We may be successful in Measures to correct the Errors, but it is easier 
to prevent than remedy an Evil 

[82]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 10, 11 ; cf. ibid., Nov. 24, 1777. " Major Ayers " was prob- 
ably Maj. Benjamin Eyre, assistant deputy quartermaster-general. 

^ Presumably the commissary-general of purchases, William Buchanan. See the 
Journals, Jan. 6, 9, Feb. 9, and passim (index to the Journals, Buchanan, Commissary- 
general of purchases). See also no. 50, ante, and nos. 123, 141, 142, post. 



February, lyyS 77 

83. James Lovell to John Langdon/ 

York Town 8th Feby, 1778. 
Dear Sir 

Your favor of the 12th of January has at leng^th reached me 

Retalhation is another thing- you mention. You know where the main 

clog has been ; but he ^ as well as Congress seems now determined 

The Baron whom you mention arrived here two days ago.^ Congress had 
sent a very complimentary Resolve to Boston which did not get to his 
hand before he set off from thence. If Genl W — should be able to make 
use of his talents as a Or M'r Genl, it would be of eminent service. We 
have divided the system into 4 parts, ist. A military genius to perform 
the scientific parts as laid down in military books. 2d a Forage Master. 
3d Commissary for purchasing and regulating horses * and waggons. 4th. 
Agents for purchasing tents and other military utensils. We have also 
taken the purchasing part from the hands of the Director General of Hos- 
pitals ; the Deputy D. G. is to act as Purveyor in consequence of the plans 
of the D. G. and the Ph : and Surg: Genl conjointly, and the orders of 
the two last with such other vouchers as they shall direct and report to 
the Treasury from time to time are to be produced in proof of expendi- 
tures.^ Rush has resigned, there being a mortal enmity between him and 
Shippen.^ .... 

84. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

YoRK-TowN Feby 8th 1778 
Dear Sir 

I recievd yours of the 13th Ulmo. in which you mention the decline of 
your health a bad cold and Jaundicy habit, a deccoction of strong soot 
with the yolk of an tgg repeated a few mornings will relieve you of your 
Jaundice, as I have found by repeated experience, and a long ride not to 
expose your self to Storms or Night Air is the best relief for a fix'd cold 
tending to a hectick disorder however you must Consult self on the latter, 
it gives me much concern that a meer unthought of mistake and Accident 
should give the Governor or you on his Account so much Sollicitude, as 
am absolutely Certain there was no design in the direction, the letter was 
Circular some Assemblys have no upper house. I have often before recti- 
fied mistakes of that kind but believe was then Absent or Inattentive but 
can give the strongest assurance that it was a meer accident ; but when an 
unhappy jealousy prevails there is no wonder of a misconstruction, 

[83]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 471; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft 
Coll., Langdon-Elwyn Papers (copy of part). 

2 Washington ? Cf. nos. 41, 44, 47, 56, ante. 

3 Baron Steuben. See the Journals, Jan. 13, 14, and no. 30, note 3, ante, no. 103, 
post; also Samuel Adams to [James Lovell] Jan. 10, and to General Gates Jan. 14, in 
Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 6, lo. 

* The transcript has " stores ". 

5 See the Journals, Jan. 30, Feb. 5, 6. Cf. no. 98, post. 
^ See nos. 59, 69, ante, and no. 187, post. 
[84]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 



78 Continental Congress 

but unhappily at this time Many concurrent circumstances tended to 
Strengthen the suspiccion, but the President has since been directed to 
assure the Governor how it happened and that the supposed Neglect or 
affront was purely accidental ^ and I am warranted to say there is neither 
Governor nor President in any of the United States who is held in so much 
Esteem by Congress as Govr. Trumbull, tho there has been a party in 
Congress and on some occasions I have no doubt some of his family have 
suffered b}'- it. Yet it is now gone, the same as to you, tho there has no 
doubt been some who were Vexed to see the new plan they were so fond 
of turn out with all the mischievous consequences of which they were 
foretold, were vex'd and Chagrin'd and ready to Impute the misfortune 
to any thing and every thing and upon you among the rest rather than 
their mighty Wisdome and Judgment should be Impeached, is not this 
Natural ? and why then such mighty Stress to be laid on such feeble dis- 
pairing efforts of an expiring faction; why again so much alarmed, on 
your not recieving an Answer from a Body to your letter of exculpation, 
when Congress as such were entirely satisfied and it is rather unusual to 
direct answers on such occasions, and when the suspicion if any, arose 
from Individuals ; if the body had passed any Censure most certainly they 
ought to have taken it of when the Occasion was removed, or they better 
informed but there had been no Censure from the body, beside the amaz- 
ing croud of business has prevented attention to many things, as answers 
to letters and the like, which were rather matters of Complaisonce. Con- 
gress the Country and Army have suffered sufficiently for the Impru- 
dence of their new regulation, and they are enough sick of it, and if they 
can possible relieve themselves by new men or measures they are ready to 
adopt them : they therefore as well as Genii. Gates and board of Warr 
most ardently wish your Attendance with them ; and nothing but your 
want of health has excused you in my View ; for the security of our Coun- 
try in no measure ought to be Neglected on account of any real or sup- 
posed affronts or Injuries whatever; this I must hold, to Vindicate my 
own conduct as I never should have seen this place, and sacrificed my 
Intrest, and the Comforts of my family had not I valued my Country and 
held my self superior to reproach Ingratitude or Calumny. I trust it will 
be no pleasure to you when I tell you that by the New Commissariate plan 
and the Ignorance, inattention and sloth of many of those employ'd, our 
Army has been at times starving, and many advantages over the Enemy 
lost for want of provisions and at length many of our Army dispersed in 
the Country and suffered to return home on furlow, and what is worse 
the most advantageous oppertunities for attacking the Enemy this Winter 
and driving them out of Philadelphia could not be taken nor a force called 
in for that purpose for want of Stores and Magazines of Provisions neces- 
sary for that purpose, and fear we may be as destitute in the Spring, the 
flower most certainly is to be had in this Country yet much doubt where 
a sufficiency of the meat kind can be provided ; they hear much of Capt. 
Wadsworth. the eyes of the publick, the army and Congress, are mostly 

2 See no. 53, ante, nos. 85, 148, 291, post. 



February, ly/S 79 

on him, next to you, as they are told no Inducement will be sufficient to 
Induce you to undertake again in that Department. I dare say Mr. Wads- 
worth might have any terms and moddle the plan as he pleased with your 
advice, if he would undertake, but I dare not assure them he will. I wish 
I knew.^ .... 

85. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Jonathan Trumbull.^ 

9th Febry 1778. 
Sir, 

.... Colo. Dyer has signified to me that the mode of Address by 
Congress to the General Assembly of Connecticut, conveyed under a 
flying seal in my Letter of the 23d Decemr. had been interpretted as a 
slight and given some offence to Your Excellency.^ It is at the request 
of that Gentleman I trouble you with the present explanation. When the 
paper above mentioned was sent to me I was in extreme pain confined in 
Bed. I perceived it had escaped Congress in an unusual dress and bespake 
a new Channel of Correspondence in almost all the states and that there 
were also some roughnesses in the Composition which required amend- 
ment. I therefore requested a sensible Member of Congress whose senti- 
ments I found to be consonant with my own, to present the piece to the 
House for a review, this Gentleman, as he informed me, pointed out the 
objections alluded to, in the House, and proposed a reconsideration, but 
Congress being deeply engaged in other affairs of great moment declined 
receiving it, saying in general, the president would send it in a proper 
manner, under this intimation I judged it proper to pass the Address 
through Your Excellency's hands in the manner above mentioned, in 
order that the Contents might be previously known to Your Excellency 
and the Council. 

I am persuaded Sir, there was no design in Congress to overlook Your 
Excellency and I beg Your Excellency will be assured it is impossible for 
me to attempt the smallest degree of disrespect towards a Character which 
I have long held in the highest Esteem, under this declaration I have the 
honour to subscribe with great truth Sir 

Yours etc. 



' Jeremiah Wadsworth, elected commissary-general of purchases Apr. 9. See the 
Journals, Feb. 9, Mar. 30, Apr. 3, 8, 9. Cf. nos. 50, 54, 62, 82, ante, and nos. 98, 123, 141, 
142, 175, post. 

Alexander Scammell wrote to Timothy Pickering Feb. 6, " Can you lay any plan to get 
Trumbull, or such another man, appointed Commissary vice the present one ? " (t. e., 
Buchanan; Life of Pickering, I. 203). Pickering replied Feb. 17. Among other things 
he wrote : " The Quartermaster-General's department, too, remains unsettled, and 
General Mifflin, who knows more about it than anybody, is absent. He went home just 
before I arrived; disgusted, as I understood from Jonathan Mifflin, at the jealousies 
entertained of him, at camp and elsewhere, that he was or had been, aiming to remove 
General Washington, a thing he solemnly disavows" {ibid., p. 205). 

[85]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 177. 
2 See nos. 53, 84, ante, and no. 98, post. Cf. no. 148, post. 



80 Continental Congress 

86. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

York Town Pensylvania Feby lo 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

I had it not in my power to send you the Pay and Rations of a Major 
General on the Continental Establishment,^ until yesterday, tho' I applied 
to Our Secry Mr. Thompson, soon after receiving Your Excellency's 
Favour to Mr. Penn and myself ; indeed I have been Confined to my room 
for these 10 days past by a fit of the Gout, which has prevented my At- 
tendance on Congress much against my Inclination 

87. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

[February 10, 11, 1778.] 

10. Examined Clothr. Genls. Depy ^ Considered the Establishmt. of 

Engineers and agreed to recommend it to Congress agreable to the Genls. 

plan. Monsr. De Portail to give a more particular arrangement of the 

Companies, and of his Assistants ^ 

Wrote to the Comissary of Hides to attend the Committee.* 

nth. Wrote Genl. Washington on the proposed exchange of Prisoners 

by Gen. Howe — (No. 16)^ 

Wrote to Congress upon the Canada Expedition (No. 17)® 

Pass'd proposals for procuring Horse and Saddles for the Cavalry 

(No. 18)^ 

[86] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; N. C. State Recs., XIII. 37. Addressed, "His Excellency Richard Caswel 
Esquire Governor and Commander in Chief of the State of North Carolina". 

~ The information is given in a postscript. See the Journals, June 16, 1775, Feb. 
16, Apr. 26, June 5, Oct. 7, 1776, Mar. 24, June 17, 1777. 
[87P See no. 62, note i, ante. 

2 Presumably Daniel Kemper, deputy clothier-general at headquarters. A letter 
from him to Washington Mar. 26, relative to the conduct of his department, is in the 
Washington Papers. Cf. Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. S3- 

" See nos. 104, 121, post. 

* The commissary of hides was George Ewing. See the Journals, Apr. 21, May 11. 

^ The letter is no. 88, post. 

•^ See the Journals, Feb. 16, 23, 24, Mar. 2, 13, and nos. 98, 120, 126, 135, 137, 151, 
167, 168, post. A slight emendation of the citation in the Journals, Feb. 16 (p. 172, 
note 2), is necessary. The letter found in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 33, f. 117, is a draft 
of the letter of Feb. 11 to Washington (no. 88, post), the original of which is in the 
Washington Papers. A draft of the letter to Congress referred to in the committee's min- 
utes is found in the volume above mentioned (no. 33, f. 121). The letter sent (which con- 
tains the endorsement quoted in the Journals) is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. VII., 
f. 167. The letter must have been written, at least begun, Feb. 7; for the draft, which 
is in the writing of Gouverneur Morris and without date, originally began thus : " We 
yesterday did ourselves the honor to write you upon the state of the Commissary De- 
partment. This morning the Marquis De Lafayette favored us with a Visit on his way 
to the Northern Army." This was altered by writing "lately" in place of "yesterday", 
" since which " in place of " This morning ", and inserting " hath " before " favored ". 
The visit of Lafayette was doubtless that of Feb. 7 (see no. 79, ante). 

"• See the Journals, Mar. 2, 10, 11, and no. 129, post. 



February, i/yS 81 

88. The Committee of Conference to George Washington.^ 
e- Moore Hall Feby : i ith, 1778. 

The travelling is so bad that we wish you wou'd not attempt to meet us, 
while it continues. We shall emplpy ourselves in that part of our business 
which can be done without your personal attendance ^ 

We have been considering General Howe's letter which you was pleased 
to lay before us yesterday, and seem agreed and confirmed in the opinion 
that he hath some latent meaning in those parts of it which were then 
pointed out. We flatter ourselves you will not take it amiss that we 
express to you our sentiments upon the proposition of a general exchange 
made, at this time, by General Howe. We think he wou'd not do this, but 
for very cogent reasons, and altho' we are not able to conjecture what 
they are with any very strong probability : yet this is clear that he con- 
fines his proposed exchange to Officers and Soldiers, and is totally silent 
as to Citizens. As the latter were expressly comprehended in the original 
Cartel proposed by himself, and agreed upon between you ; and as he has 
been called upon by Congress, if not by yourself, to explain certain pas- 
sages in his former letter which you laid before Congress, and explicitly 
to declare in what light he held the faithful Citizens of these States, who 
by the fortune of war, or other accident had fallen, or should fall under 
his power : yet he has never deemed proper as we can learn, to make any 
reply at all, much less a full and satisfactory answer on that subject. We 
cannot but think that he affects to consider every such Citizen as a rebel 
unexchangeable, and amesnable to the Laws of England, and therefore 
treats them, if possible, with more rigour and cruelty than those whom 
he is pleased to say, properly fall under the denomination of prisoners of 
war. Impressed with the manifest injustice of such apprehensions which 
if well grounded, we deem a breach of his faith plighted in the Cartel, we 
cannot but think the present a happy opportunity of drawing forth from 
General Howe the most explicit declarations on a subject of so great 
importance to every mere Citizen of these States, and making a renewal 
of the Cartel, the sine qua non of an exchange.^ 

We are Sir 

with much esteem and respect 

your obedient humble Servants 

Fra Dana by Order etc. 
His Excellency Genl. Washington 

89. Henry Laurens to Baron de Kalb.^ 

n /- , nth Febry 1778. 

Vear General -^ 

I have before me the several favours which you have honoured me with 

under the ist and 7th Inst, the former imparting your sentiments upon 

[88] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIL 71 (in the writing of Francis 
Dana) ; Papers Cont. Cong., no. 33, f. 117 (draft in Dana's hand). 
- See no. 62, note 2, and no. 87, ante. 

3 Cf. the Journals, Dec. 6, 8, 1777, Feb. 17, 25, 26, Mar. 18, 1778, and nos. 139, 163, 
188, 202, post. 

[89] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 255. 



82 Continental Congress 

the propriety of suspending the embarkation of Lieutt. Genl. Burgoyne 
and his Troops affords me singular satisfaction. Conventions and sus- 
pensions are new articles in the American War and perhaps there is not 
an Instance in History of a General's having so completely betrayed him- 
self the Dupe of his own policy. Mr. Burgoyne's duplicity Vv^ill be quoted 
as a precedent by future Writers, while the resentment of Congress will 
be recorded as an example of sound policy.^ In these Ideas and under a 
consciousness of having passed my own Vote from conviction of the recti- 
tude of the measure, I rest content within and assured that Congress will 
be vindicated in every disinterested Court in Europe. 

I shall have the pleasure to deliver tomorrow Morning a Commission 
of Lieutt. Colonel to the Chevalier Dubuysson, whose impetuosity had 
nearly rendered his journey fruitless, a hint from you on this head with- 
out intimating the notice I have taken, may be of particular service to a 
Young Gentleman by leading him to reflect that hurry and urgency, which 
may be extremely necessary in a quick March, are exceedingly disgusting 
to a deliberative body of Representatives, particularly so, when the appli- 
cation is for Grace and favor. Congress had not promised Monsr. Dubuy- 
son the present Rank until he should be returning to France, had I been 
as rapid in presenting your Letter as the Young Gentleman was vehement 
in his desires, he would have returned a Major, owing to his Minor 
Judgement.^ 

I wish you Dear General a good Campaign, that you may Succeed in 
the intended enterprize, and return with Glory.* 

90. Thomas McKean to George Read.^ 

Sir, 

Your favor of the 29th of December did not reach me until the 24th 
of January, vi^hen, duly reflecting upon every circumstance, I thought it 
my duty to come here, though, I confess, I am almost tired of serving 
my country so much at my own expense. I left home on [the] 29th of last 
month, and went into Congress next morning, where I found only nine 
States represented, and, including myself, but eighteen members, though 
five, now at the camp, and some others are expected in a few days. I hope 
General Rodney and Major Van Dyke will come as soon as possible; but 
don't tell them that I lived in a little Dutch tavern, at an enormous ex- 
pense, for ten days, before I could get other lodgings, and that I still am 
on sufferance 

I shall endeavour to procure the account against the State, from the 
Auditor-General, as soon as possible. The votes of Congress, since Janu- 
ary, 1776, printed by Aitken, are not yet come to hand, though they have 

2 See nos. 6, 12, 13, 21, 30, 31, 42, 52, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 11 (" Major Buisson "). Laurens's customary notation in 
the Letter-Book, at the head of each letter, of the mode of conveyance shows that 
Dubuysson was the bearer of this letter to Kalb. 

* The allusion is to the expedition to Canada. See the Journals, Feb. 2. 
[90] 1 Read, Life of Read, p. 298. 



February, lyyS 83 

been sent out of Philadelphia. I shall send )'0U all that can be got, not 
knowing to what time they are printed up. 

Who can I propose in exchange for the President? Do inform me, if 
you can think of any one. None occurs to me but Governor Franklin, 
and hearing a gentleman say that he could do more mischief than the 
President could do good, and for other reasons, which will readily suggest 
themselves to you, I have little hope of success from that proposition. I 
was told the other day that he lodged at widow Jenkins's, along with his 
old friends Robinson and Manlove, and seemed very happy; these obser- 
vations, and many others, from different gentlemen, whenever I name him 
in private to any member, almost discourage me ; however, after I hear 
from you, I shall attempt to have him released (though I could wish m)'- 
colleagues to be present and assisting), lest it should be thought that I 
was indifferent about the event.^ .... 

York, February 12, 1778. 

91. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

[February 12, 13, 1778.] 
12. Conferred with Genl. Green abt the Qr. Mastr. Gen. Departmt.^ 
J J. Conferred upon the starving condition of the Army. 

Wrote to Colo. Cox {No. iqY 

Reed. Lettrs. and Resolutions from Congress respect'g Qr. M'r Gen. 
Departmt.* 

Sent Lettr. to Cong: respect'g Canada Expedition and the Qr. M'r 
Departmt.^ 

92. William Ellery to William Churchill Houston.^ 

York town Febry. 13th 1778 
D'r Sir, 

.... You, it seems, have leaped out of the frying-pan into the fire 
of business. What think you of leaping back again ? Mr. Rush hath re- 
signed, and the office of Dep : Sec : is now vacant. But you are a par- 
liament man and are immersed in politicks ; and perhaps, mounted in the 
chariot of glory, look down upon so low an office with disregard. Come 

2 Concerning the exchange of President McKinly of Delaware see nos. 180, 462, 
post; also Read to McKean, Mar. 4, 1778 {Life of Read, p. 303), and McKinly to Read, 
Aug. 29, 1778 {ibid., p. 313). In Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1236, item 113 (see no. 149, 
note 3, post), is an extract of a letter from Caesar Rodney to McKean Mar. 9, in one 
passage of which, adverting to this statement of McKean respecting McKinly, he in- 
sists that McKean is in error. A paraphrase of Rodney's statement (with blanks for 
names) is found in Read's letter of Mar. 4, referred to above. Robinson and Manlove 
were presumably Thomas Robinson and Boaz Manlove. See Sabine, Loyalists, II. 45, 
231. 

[91]^ See no. 62, note i, ante. 

2 A letter to Congress of Feb. 12 relative to the department of the quartermaster- 
general, which was written by Joseph Reed, is found in Reed, Life of Reed, I. 360. 
It was read in Congress Feb. 16. 

■'' Col. John Cox. See nos. no, 115, note 3, post; cf. Life of Reed, I. 364. 

•* See the Journals, Jan. 30, Feb. 5, 7. Cf. no. 62, ante, and nos. no, note 5, 116, 
n8, post. 

5 On the draft of the letter of Feb. 12 is a memorandum by Reed, " Forwarded by 
express Feb. 13, 1778" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 2Z, f- 128). 

[92] 1 Hist. Soc of Pa., Conarroe Coll., I. 12; Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XL. 486. 



84 Continental Congress 

then a delegate. I should be exceedingly glad to see you here in any 
shape.^ .... 

We have not taken Rhode Island yet. Inglorious Expedition. We have 
lost Philadelphia ! But this would be nothing if avarice and peculation 
did not rage irresistibly. The Love of country and public virtue are anni- 
hilated. If Diogenes were alive and were to search America with candles, 
would he find an honest man ? I knew an honest man once in office. Be- 
lieve me to be his Friend 

William Ellery. 

P. S. Dr. Witherspoon will acquaint you with a Resolve of Congress 
lately passed, which may give some check to the Shoals of Officers who 
are rioting on the Spoils of the Publick.^ 

93. James Forbes to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

York Town Febry 13th 1778 
Sir 

I should have don my self the honour to have wrote you before now, 
had I any thing worth communicating. This is to inform you that the 
appointment of Commershall agents in France has been moved for in 
Congress, in consequence of Mr. Wm. Lee's being appointed, a Commis- 
sioner, to the Courts of Vienna and Berlin, and of a Letter from Mr, 
Robt. Morris, recomending Mr. Jno. Ross, to suckseed his Brother. 
I put Mr. Joshua Johnson in the nomination, and I believe, had Congress 
made the appointment, he would have been chosen, but they resolved that 
the Commissioners in France shoud appoint them, and they are wrote 
to on the 9th Instt, for that purpose, had I known how to have directed 
to your Brother, I would have wrote him on the Subject." 

The Committee that went to Camp for reforming the Army is not yet 
returned, nor have we heard from their for some time, the communication 
being stopt by the River being impassable. The Demands on Congress 
for money is immence it cant be emitted fast enuff, and I apprehend the 
demand, will encrease in proportion to the Emission 

Commissioners appointed in this State, and the Board of War, are 
empowered to purchase 50,000 Bbls Flour,^ and all the Pork and Beef 
they can get, and lay it up in Magazeens, for a supply, in case the Com- 

2 Jacob Rush, deputy secretary of Congress, resigned Jan. 28. Houston did not 
succeed him, although he did hold that office in 1785-1786. Meanwhile he was chosen 
a delegate to Congress in May, 1779, serving until the end of 1781, and again in 1784. 
See no. 59, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 3. 

[93]i Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 65; Arch, of Md., XVI. 496. 

- See the Journals, Feb. 9 ; cf. no. 94, post. The letter from the committee of 
commerce (signed by WiUiam Ellery, James Forbes, and Francis Lewis) to the com- 
missioners at Paris, Feb. 9, is in Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, VIH. 99, LXXV. 46 
(duplicate). 

3 The Journals, Jan. 15 and Feb. 2, say 30,000. The resolutions of Feb. 12 relative 
to laying up magazines of flour principally stand erased in the Journals, a substitute 
measure having been adopted Feb. 14. See the Journals, Feb. 5, 12, 14, 17; cf. nos. 97, 
108, III, IIS, post. 



February, iJjS 85 

missary falls short in his purches which there is grate reason to fear, 
their is very grate complaints of his departmeiit from every quarter Con- 
gress have had noe accounts from Europe since I have been here. Ten 
States only, are represented in Congress, and one half of them, by one 
member only Masechusits, New York and Virginia have noe representa- 
tion. I shall doe my self the honour of writing you when any thing 
offers worth communicating and am very respectfully Sir 

94. John Henry, jr., to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

York Town Febry 14th 1778. 
Sir 

Congress a Day or two ago, took up the appointment of commercial 
Agents, and concluded to refer the same to the commissioners in France. 
Mr. Ross and your Brother were in nomination. If you have an oppor- 
tunity it would be well to write to Mr. Johnson. I do not at present know 
in what part of France he resides, possibl}'- upon inquiry, I may be in- 
formed. At this time I do not know of an opportunity, but as soon as 
there is one I shall write to him myself.^ .... 

The state of our Army is critical. Four Month pay, if not more are 
due them, and no Money in the Treasury to satisfy their just and reason- 
able Demands. The press is at work, and attended with all vigilance and 
care, and has been for some time past; near a million a week is now 
made, and yet our Demands are greater then we can answer. They come 
in from all parts of the Continent. The Avarice of our people and the 
extravagant prices of all commodities, joined with the imperfect manage- 
ment of our Affairs, would expend the mines of Chili and Peru. 

For the want of pay, of Cloths, and provisions our Army is decreasing 
every hour, not by one or two at a time, but from seven to twelve. By a 
Letter from Col. Smith ^ he tells me some of the troops have been eight 
Days at different Times without meat, and only a bare allowance of flour. 
The State of Pennsylvania has passed a I^w appointing certain commis- 
sioners in every county of the State, with full power to purchase or to 
seize at stated prices all provisions necessary for the Army. These men 
are subject to the orders of Congress as to the quantity of each article of 
provisions to be purchased or seized. Besides this the Board of War 
have Authority from Congress to purchase twenty thousand Barrels of 
flour and other provisions necessary for the Army. From these resources 
I expect fifty thousand Barrels of flour, and quantities of other provisions, 
but to what amount is uncertain.* Our commissary Genl. does not at this 

[94]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 60; Arch, of Md., XVI. 499; Scharf, Hist, of 
Md., II. 343 (extract). 

2 See no. 93, ante. 

8 Lieut.-Col. Samuel Smith. Cf. Washington to Governor Clinton Feb. 16, 
Writings (ed. Sparks), V. 238, and to Robert L. Hooper, jr., Jonathan Mifflin, jr., and 
Nathaniel Falconer, Feb. 15, in Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 263; also no. 108, post. 

■* See no. 93, ante. 



86 Continental Congress 

time as I am informed, know that he has five thousand Barrels of pork 
or Beef. Upon such foundations the existance of our Army depends. At 
whose door this prospect of ruin lies, time will discover 

The Committee at camp I understand will recommend measures for 
filling the Army, which I expect will not be very agreeable to our people. 

N. Carolina has agreed only to part of the Confederation the other 
States I believe have done nothing with it as yet. 

Virginia New York and Massachusetts Bay is unrepresented. 

95. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

[February 14, 16, 1778.] 
14. Wrote to Gov. Livingston respect [ing] Waggons to transport Provi- 
sions and the mode of obtaining Horses to remount the Cavalry 
(No. 20.) — sent them forward 9 o'Clock ^ 

Conferred with Genl. Woodford and others and Stated their Case 
(No. 2iy 

Wrote to Congress abt. Genl. Varnum.* 
16. Wrote to Govr. Johnson on the Article of Provisions a similar Letter 
to that sent to Govr. Livingston ^ 

Conferred with Colo. Bayard ® 

96. The Committee of Conference to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Camp at the Valley Forge i6th Febry 1778. 
Sir 

We have the Honor to compose a Committee of Congress appointed 
to confer with the General upon the Affairs of the Army and with him to 
concert measures for opening the Campaign with Vigor and Activity. 
During the Progress of this important Business the critical situation of 
the Army on the score of Provisions hath filled our minds with Appre- 
hension and Alarm, fed by daily supplies and even those uncertain we 
have to fear a total Want. Some Brigades have not tasted Flesh in four 
Days and the Evil great as it is seems rather to increase than diminish. 
The Commissaries inform us that they have not only met with great 
Difficulties in purchasing Provisions in your State but that they cannot 
even transport what they have purchased for the want of Waggons and 

[95]^ See no. 62, note i, ante. 

2 The letter to Governor Livingston has not been found. See note 5, below. 

^ See nos. 99, note 2, 104, 178, post. 

* A letter of Feb. 14 vi'as read in Congress Feb. 19. It discussed in particular 
the distresses of the army, but also mentioned the want of a general officer in Rhode 
Island and recommended General Varnum for the post. In Writings of Washington 
(ed. Ford), VI. 381 n., (ed. Sparks), V. 240 n., is an extract of a letter from Varnum 
to General Greene, Feb. 12, portraying the conditions in the army. 

5 The letter is no. 96, post. See also a letter from. Dana to Gerry, Feb. 16, on 
conditions in the army {Life of Gerry, I. 245). 

^ Presumably Col. John Bayard. Tlie conference was probably on the subject 
of clothing. Cf. Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 61, 75, 189. 

[g6]'^Arch. of Md., XVI. 503; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, I. 11. 



February, ly/S 87 

the like. Whether these apologies are justly founded we will not presume 
to say but this is certain that upon an early Transportation of large Quan- 
tities of Provisions to this Camp from the State you preside over the very 
Existence of our Army depends. Let us then intreat you Sir to exert the 
full Influence of your Abilities to forward such supplies as may have been 
already bought up and also to obtain by such measures as you may think 
most adequate to that Purpose as much as can be spared by the Inhabi- 
tants from their own particular Consumption ^ 

97. Daniel Roberdeau to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town, Feb'y 17th, 1778. 
Sir, 

My Colleague, Mr. James Smith, obtained a warrant for 300,000 Dol- 
lars, to be remitted to you for the purchase of Provisions, reserving-, as 
he informs me 52,000, which he has put into the hands of Commissioners 
for this County and Cumberland. The low state of the Treasury has occa- 
sioned since a division of the 300,000 D'rs, one half to the Board of War 
and Ordinance and the other half for this State, both being- for the same 
purposes, the Bal'e of your moiety, viz., 98,000 will I expect, be ready 
this day, to go under the care of some one of the members of Assembly 
who may be passing thro. As Mr. Smith undertook this business in my 
absence, being at the Treasury, when the Grant obtained, I shall leave 
the whole to his management.^ I shall urge forward the supplies of Cash 
as you shall from time to time advise to be necessary; and I beseech 
Council not to put too much confidence in any Servant under them, lest 
some wheel in the machine should rust or clog, to the injury of the cause, 
which now labours in the article of provisions. The exuberant care of the 
late board of war in providing Superintendants over the Commissioners 
in the respective Counties, and the delegecy of their choice, has occa- 
sioned a good deal of perplexity. Last evening a modest request came 
before Congress to indemnify the Superintendants in violation of the pro- 
vision act, in having given more than the stipulated prices, this is refered 
with the depositions concerning Mr. Hooper to a Committee.' You will 
see by the resolve of last Saturday that a new System has been contrived 

- This letter accompanied a letter of the same date from General Washington 
to Governor Johnson, on the same subject (ibid., p. 501). Similar letters were sent to 
Governor Qinton of New York: from Washington Feb. 16 (Writings, ed. Ford, VI. 
379, ed. Sparks, V. 238), from the committee Feb. 17 (Clinton Papers, II. 766). See 
also Washington's address to the inhabitants of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, 
Maryland, and Virginia Feb. 18 (Writings, ed. Ford, VI. 382). The address is also 
in Arch, of Md., XVI. 513, together with an explanatory letter, Feb. 19 (ibid., p. 512). 
Cf. nos. 95, ante, 99, post. This letter was signed by Dana, Folsom, Harvie, and Morris. 
[97]^ Pa. State Lib., P. P. XLV. 64; Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 27^. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 12, and Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 269, 270. The original 
of the letter of James Smith at p. 269 (Feb. 16) is in the John Carter Brown Library. 

2 The letter of R. L. Hooper presented by the board of war Feb. 16. See, further, 
the Journals, Feb. 17, 21, 25, Mar. 10, 20, Apr. 17; also Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 177, 178, 
234, 240, 241, 256, 269, 270, 272, 276, 278, 279, 281, 284, 289, 292, 296, 303-315, 329, 22Z> 2Z^i 
277- Cf. no. 94, note 3, ante, and nos. 99, 108, iii, 115, post. 



88 Continental Congress 

to accommodate the appointment of Superintendants to the late law of 
the State, and to prevent any interference. Mr. Smith informs me he will 
transmit the System which prevents me.* .... 

98. Eliphalet Dyer to William Williams.^ 

York Town Feby 17, 1778 
Dear Sir, 

.... I hope the Governor before this time is somewhat pacified and 
his jealousies removed, as all was mere accident without design or the 
least intention of so much as neglect.^ I am very anxious for Mr. Trum- 
bull on account of his ill state of health tho I am glad to find his resent- 
ments in some measure abated and that if his health permits he will attend 
the board. ^ His presence there is much desired but it seems Providence 
denies us his help when to appearance it is most wanted. The Commissary 
and Qtr Master department is in a most ruinous state, but on report of 
board of War the qtr master department is divided up into three or four 
branches which is agreed to there is now the military part which requires 
a person of skill and abilities in that way, a forrage master, part to pro- 
cure forrage another for waggons and another to collect Tent[s] warlike 
stores and the like and we are now looking out for persons proper to head 
each.* Congress are quite sick and discouraged on their late plan in the 
Commissary Department and of the person employed in the execution 
and we have lately received a letter from the Genii, and other Genii. Offi- 
cers recommending Coll. Wadsworth as the only Gentn. they can think 
of v^hose abilities and exertions can under Providence relieve us, and tho 

Congress have not yet dismissed Buc n yet they have unanimously 

sent off an express to Coll. Wadsworth to come forward immediately to 
Congress ; ^ and dare say if he comes he may have almost his own plan 
and terms if he will only undertake as they entertain the highest opinion 
of his abilities and think him the only person next to Mr. Trumbull who 
can effect their purpose I hope he will not fail to come forward soon 
he will be well rewarded I trust for his trouble even if he should not 
undertake but hope he will as I know he loves his country and is zealous 
in her cause. Why in the name of common sense could you the most 
averse to Frenchmen after we had been plagued beyond measure to send 
one the most insignificant of all upon us and recommend him to me who 
could not speak a word of French nor he of English. I received the letter 
and that was all and sent him to Mr. Lovell but he can have no birth and 
seems to have no claims or any thing or quality to recommend him. You 
doubtless before this will have various rumor [s] of a Canada expedition 

* The measures adopted Feb. 14 in place of those of Feb. 12. Cf. no. 93, ante. 
[98]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., LVII. 359. 

2 See nos. 53, 84, 85, a7ite ; cf. nos. 148, 291, post. 

3 See nos. 14, 53, ante, and no. 101, post. 

* See the Journals, Jan. 30, Feb. 5, 20, 21, Mar. 2; cf. nos. 50, 51, 83, 84, ante, and 
nos. 99, id8, 1 10, post. 

^ See the Journals, Feb. 9, and no. 84, ante. Jeremiah Wadsworth was elected 
commissary-general of purchases in place of William Buchanan Apr. 9. Cf. nos. 123, 
141, 142, 175, post. 



February, lyyS 89 

and may wonder among- our many wants we should undertake this wild 
plan.^ The truth is Genii. Gates had laid the plan and made every prepa- 
ration for Genii. Starks with a party under him at the proper season to 
make an irruption into Canada as his accounts were the garrisons at 
St. Johns and Chamblee were very weak, the Canadians highly disaffected 
to the Britons, large stores for the Indians in Montreal and that by a 
sudden push they might soon fall into our hands and if not we might 
burn or destroy their navigation on the lake, which would entirely prevent 
the enemy from annoying us from that quarter for a year or two beside 
the report of our forming a descent on Canada again would reach the 
Court in Great Britain and must perplex their counsels in carrying on 
the war for the ensuing year and would divide their forces as they would 
undoubtedly send a considerable part to Canada. We imagine it will have 
that effect even if we do not succeed and we expect our forces to return 
again before the lake breaks up and will be ready to give their assistance 
on the North River. There is it is true a considerable number of French 
Officers gone that way viz Marq : Fiatte,^ Genii. Conway I believe Baron 
Kalb Young Fleury and several others of spirit to convince the French in 
Canada that France is really engaged on the side of America which may 
prevent their joining or giving any assistance to the few British troops 
now in Canada 

99. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

[February 17, 18, 1778.] 
77. Submitted State of the Case of Genls. Muhlenbirgh, Weedon, Wood- 
ford and Scott relating to Rank to a Board of Genl. Officers.^ 

Wrote to Gov. Clinton for aid in procur'g or transport'g Provision.^ 
Reed, from the Genl. Copies of the Instruct, to certain Superintendants 
for the purchasing Flour, and other papers relative to that business. Re- 
ferred for Consideration.^ 

^ See no. 46, note 5, ante. 

^ The Marquis de Lafayette. 
[99]! See no. 62, note i, ante. 

2 See nos. 70, 95, ante, 104, post. The committee's " State of the Case of Brigr. 
Genls. Mulenbergh, Weedon, Woodford and Scott, with their Claims of Rank", with 
the date Mar. 2, is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. Z3^ f- 213- Cf. Fitzpatrick, Calendar of the 
Washington Papers, II. 561. In a letter to the committee. Mar. i, Washington discussed 
the cases of Woodford, Weedon, and Scott, particularly (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 33, 
f. 209; draft in Washington Papers) ; and the board of general officers made their 
report on the question Mar. 4 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 152, vol. V., f. 369)- Washington 
transmitted this report to Congress Mar. 12, and took action upon the matter Mar. 19 
(see the Journ<ils). Meanwhile (Feb. 19) Woodford had offered to Washington his 
resignation (Washington Papers). On Mar. 30 Weedon indicated his purpose to resign 
and sent his resignation to Washington Apr. 13 (ibid.). On Apr. 10 Muhlenberg also 
spoke of resigning (ibid.). He had made a statement of his case to the committee of 
conference Mar. 7 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 33, f. 217). See also Washington to the 
President of Congress Apr. 10 (Writings, ed. Ford, VI. 461, ed. Sparks, V. 311). There 
were numerous other letters between Washington and these officers, which may readily 
be found by means of Fitzpatrick, Calendar of the Correspondence of Washington tvith 
the Officers. Cf. nos. 178, 495, post. 

^ See no. 96, note 2, ante. 

* See the minute of Feb. 18, and note 5, below. 



90 Continental Congress 

i8. Took into cons, the above papers and reported ag-t. the Contract as 
unnecessary and unreasonable and exorbitant — Genl. not present.^ 

100. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott.^ 

York Town i8th Febry 1778 
My Dear, 

I Arrived here the 15th Well after having been detained about Two 
Days by the Susqhennah .... I am now with Mr, Huntington at a 
publick House well and in comfortable Circumstances. We hope soon to 
get into private Lodgings, but We do not know where and find that they 
are not to be had but with the greatest Dificulty and Expence the latter 
is so great that I understand that a single Man exclusive of Horskeeping 
cannot probably live under at least ten pounds per Week. Every thing 
here bears an enormous price. The Town is much more pleasant than 
Baltimore but publick and private Virtue I suppose is much the same here 
as there. 

Govr. Clinton is impowered to secure the North River which has been 
totally neglected. Genl. Putnam - will douptless be soon ordered to join 
the Main Army and Genl. McDougall will probably Command on that 
Station. An Order has gone to the States requesting them to fill up their 
Battalions — Measures taken to support a large Force in the spring.^ .... 

10 1. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Joseph Trumbull.^ 

York Town 19th Febry. 1778. 
Sir, 

I am directed by Congress to inform you that in expectation of your 
recovering health and strength and being enabled thereby to attend the 
Duties of your appointment at the Board of War in a short time, no other 
appointment will be made on account of the delay which shall be unavoid- 
able on your part.^ 

s This probably refers to the instructions and proceedings in pursuance of the 
resolve of Congress Jan. 15, relative to laying up magazines of flour. A principal 
group of papers pertaining to the matter are in Pa. Arch., first sen, VI. 303-314. The in- 
structions from the board of war Jan. 31 to the superintendents are ibid., p. 307. Because 
of confusion in carrying out this measure in conjunction with the agents of Pennsyl- 
vania, Congress reconsidered the question Feb. 12, and on Feb. 14 passed additional 
resolutions. Cf. the letter of the board of war to President Wharton Feb. 20 {ibid., 
p. 281). The contract referred to is probably the terms set forth in letters of tlie super- 
intendents (Hooper, Falconer, and MifBin) Feb. 11, 12, 14 {ibid., pp. 310-313). This 
matter had already been brought before Congress Feb. 16, through a letter from the 
board of war, and the action of the superintendents condemned in a resolution of Feb. 17. 
Cf. no. 97, ante, and nos. 104, 108, post. 

[100] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. H., no. 47. 

2 Cf. nos. 102, 126, post. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 26. 

[ioi]iConn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 190. 

- See the Journals, Feb. 16. Cf. no. 98, ante, and no. 196, post. 



February, lyyS 91 

102. John Penn to Robert R. Livingston/ 

YoRKTOWN Feby 19th 1778. 
.... Your Govt is invested with all the powers that General Gates 
had for securing the pass on the North River, and is requested by Con- 
gress, to take effectual means to have that important service done as soon 
as possible.^ General Putnam will be removed from the command he now 
holds. Will not General Parsons do under General Clinton for some 
time : ^ . . . . 

103. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
George Washington.^ 

19th Febry 1778. 
Sir, 

.... This will be delivered to Your Excellency by the Baron Stiiben 
who proceeds to the Army with the Rank of Captain, granted by a Brevet 
Commission at the Barrons special Instance in order to guard against 
inconveniences which might attend him, if he should without any Com- 
mission in his pocket be made a prisoner. 

Upon the arrival of this illustrious stranger at York Town, Congress 
ordered a Committee consisting of Mr. Wetherspoon Mr. McKean Mr. 
F. L. Lee and Mr. Henry to wait upon and confer with him to pay the 
necessary Compliments on his appearance in America and to learn ex- 
plicitly his expectations from Congress, and the Committee were directed 
to deliver me the substance of their conference in writing, to be trans- 
mitted for Your Excellency's information. All that I have received or 
know on this head will be seen on an Inclosed paper marked Committees 
conference with Baron Stiiben to which I beg leave to refer your 
Excellency. 

[P. S.] The Baron declines the Commission above mentioned or any 
other for the present ^ 

104. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

[February 19, 20, 1778.] 
I p. Mr. Harvey left the Committee ^ 

[i02]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, IL 99 (copy of part). 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 18. 

3 Cf. no. 100, ante, and no. 126, post. 

[103]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 190. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 13, 14, Feb. 18, and nos. 30, note 3, 83, ante ; also Wash- 
ington's remarks, Feb. 27, upon Steuben's arrival in camp {Writings, ed. Ford, VL 
385), and John Laurens's letters of Feb. 28 and Mar. 9 {Army Correspondence, pp. 131, 
134). Steuben was appointed inspector-general May 5. See Washington's letter to 
Congress, Apr. 30 {Writings, ed. Ford, VI. S04). Washington's letters are also in Writ- 
ings (ed. Sparks), V. 243, 347. 

[104]! See no. 62, note i, ante. 

2 Harvie probably returned forthwith to Congress. He had, at all events, resumed 
his seat by Feb. 26. Whether he returned for the purpose of furthering the measures 
advocated by the committee or for some other reason is nowhere intimated. Apparently 
on the very day on which he left camp a letter was addressed to him by Gouverneur 
Morris on behalf of the committee, an extract of which was read in Congress Mar. 3. 
See also the Journals, Mar. 9, 11. The letter is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XV. 



92 Continental Congress 

Settled the order of promotion as follows 

Promotion shall be regimental to the rank of Captain inclusively. 
From that rank to that of Brigadiers inclusively, to be in the line of the 
State. Promotion from that rank, in the line of the army, at large.^ 

The Genl. laid before the Committee, Duportail recommendation of 
Capt. de Murman * for an Engineer with the Rank of Major — referr'd. 
Colonels power of granting Furloes — 

The Article of War touching Capital Offences, weak or [as?] lOO 
Lashes only insufficient.^ 

Mr. Lawrence Judge Advocate's letter laid by the Genl. before the 
Committee, on the subject of the articles of war.'' 

Consid'n of Marquis Fayette's Proposition respect'g the Marquis de la 
Tour de pin and agreed to write a civil [letter] declining his Offers and 
Service.^ 

20. Reed. Letters from Col. Mifflin, and Young Waggon Master Genl. to 
Col. Lutterlogh on Waggons ® — Also from Capt. Selin ^ Command[ing] 
Officer of Armands Corps requesting Directions respect[ing] it. — Re- 
ferr'd to the General. 

Wrote Blane D'y Com'y Genl. of Purchs. respecting the purchase of 
Fish in Maryland — and Lettr. to Govr. Johnson introduc'g him. (No. 

22.)'° 

105. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Francis Dana.' 

Sir^ 20th Febry 1778 

I had the honour of addressing you on a subject of high importance 
the 7th Inst, by Messenger Barry, who returned without a Line from 

3 See the Journals, May 27 (including the report found in an appendix, p. 1269), 
Nov. 24, 1778. Cf. the cases of Woodford, Muhlenberg, Scott, and Weedon, no. 99, 
note 2, ante; also those of Lincoln and others, no. 70, ante. See also no. 178, note 2, post. 

*Jean Bernard de Murnand. Duportail's recommendation of him is in the 
Washington Papers (under the date Feb. 23). See the minute of Mar. 2 (no. 121, 
post) ; also the Journals, Jan. 13, 1779, Sept. 15, 1783, Feb. 3, 1784. Other facts may be 
gleaned from the Washington Papers (see Calendar). A brief record of his service 
is in Heitman, Hist. Reg. (" Murnan, John Barnard de "). 

5 The entry as first written read, "weak or [as?] nothing — Corporal Punish- 
ment to be introduced such as whipping ". 

" The letter of John Laurance, dated Feb. 5, is in the Washington Papers. 

^ The Marquis de la Tour du Pin de Montauban. See no. 27, ante. 

^ Col. Jonathan Mifflin was one of the superintendents appointed by the board 
of war in pursuance of the resolution of Congress Jan. 15. See no. 99, note 5, ante, and 
Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 235, 240. James Young was wagonmaster-general of Pennsyl- 
vania. See especially ibid., pp. 276, 282, 289, 298. A letter from Lutterloh to Washington 
Feb. 17 (Washington Papers) mentions a conference with Blaine on the subject of 
wagons, and the consequent directions to Young. 

^ Capt. Antoni Selin. See Heitman, Hist. Reg. A return of the commissioned 
officers of Armand's corps Aug. 28, 1778, made by Selin, is in the Washington Papers.' 
The signature there is "Antoni"; but in a document of May 29, 1783 (ibid.), it is 
" Anthony ". 

10 A draft of the letter to Blaine is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 23> f- I59- Two 
letters from Blaine to Dana Feb. 20, one on the subject of wheat and flour, the other 
concerning meat, etc., are ibid., pp. 161, 167. 

The committee also wrote to Congress Feb. 20, by the hand of Gouverneur Morris, 
suggesting the employment of Indians in the army. The letter is in Reed, Life of Reed, 
I. 418. See the Journals, Feb. 26, Mar. 4; also no. 121, note 3, post. 
[105]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 193. 



February, i/y8 93 

you nor have you touched on the Quarter Masters department in your 
favor of the 14th hence several Members of Congress entertained suspi- 
cions of the miscarriage of my Letter and therefore moved the House 
to the Act of this date which you will receive inclosed in this, desiring 
you will by the return of the present Messenger nominate proper per- 
sons to fill the Quarter Masters department, conformable to the plan 
adopted." .... 

106. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
William Heath. ^ 

^•f, ^1,, York Town 20th Febry 1778 

.... The Inclosed piece of Paper which I writ in Congress this 
Evening and slipped into the hand of a Member of the Treasury Board 
will shew you Sir, that I have not been unmindful of your Calls for 
Money, the subjoined answer is all I am authorized to say on that head.- 
I shall persevere in applications and I hope you will find means for sub- 
sistence until you receive the promised supply. 

107. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Joseph Reed.^ 

^^y Lancaster Feb: 2 1st 1778. 

Yours of 8th met me at this place where I have been very much indis- 
posed with a severe cold. In conformity to your request, I wrote to 
York town concerning any letters for you, and directed them to be sent 
down. Tomorrow, I expect, I shall go over myself. 

It gave me real pleasure to find your sentiments on some important 
subjects so perfectly coincide with my own.^ In many instances I have 
dreaded the effects of measures, tho' at the same time a principle of 
charity, and a confidence in the zealous attachment of those who favored 
them, almost forbid any suspicions of undue motives. The Generals con- 
duct on occasions truely affecting to a man['s] honor, evinces how much 
more infinitely he prefers the good of his country to any personal consid- 
erations. If in any instances Congress has seemed to favor an adverse 
party, it ought not to be resolved into a design of injuring him; a concur- 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 7, 20. Dana was chairman of the committee then at 
Washington's headquarters (see no. 62, note 2, ante), and this letter was addressed to 
him at Valley Forge. For the plan of the quartermaster-general's department see the 
Journals, Jan. 30, Feb. 5, Mar. 2; cf. no. no, post. Concerning the committee's letter 
of Feb. 14, see no. 95, ante. 

[106] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Heath Papers, VIII. 145; Library of Congress, President's 
Letter-Book, I. 194. 

2 Accompanying this letter, in the Heath Papers, is a note in the writing of 
Laurens, entreating gentlemen of the treasury what he shall advise General Heath. On 
the same sheet is a reply in the writing of Elbridge Gerry, stating that the money will 
be sent next week unless accident prevents. See no. 42, atite, Heatli replied to this 
letter Mar. 10. See no. 171, post. 

[107]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, MSS. of Joseph Reed, IV. 

2 Reed's letter of Feb. 8, to which Smith is replying, has not been found. There 
is, however (Pa. Arch., first scr., VI. 218; Reed, Life of Reed, I. 358), a letter from 
Reed to President Wharton, Feb. i, concerning conditions in the army, and one on the 
same subject from the committee at camp, Feb. 12, (read in Congress Feb. 16), which 
was written by Reed (ibid., p. 360; cf. no. 91, ante). See no. 115, post. 



94 Continental Congress 

rence of untoward circumstances have impelled to those steps which appear 
most exceptionable, and the tendency of which I foresaw and dreaded. If 
an individual or two are unhappily under the influence of an undue im- 
pression, the effects, it is to be hoped, will be very circumscribed, and 
the evil will carry in itself its own remedy. At the same time, something 
should be done to prevent the body of the people, especially of this state, 
losing their confidence in the Commander in chief. Rectifying the conduct 
of the different departments ; and putting an end to the impositions, and 
irregularities of some of the agents, would do much towards accomplish- 
ing this important end. If it were possible to avoid secures and acts of 
force except in particular cases many disaffected persons, more of the 
indetermined, and all real whigs would be with us. By the present system 
of conduct, we suffer a fearful encrease of dissaffection. 

You have much to do, and however anxiously I wish to have your aid 
and council in Congress, yet I cannot wish you from your present post 
'till the important business shall be well done. This will require time and 
patience; nor is it improbable that new business will present itself 
every day. 

As I rise from my bed to embrace an opportunity by Colo. Bayards ^ 
boy; and now feel myself worse, I must refer myself to another oppor- 
tunity of being more full on several subjects. In general you may depend 
on my conduct being such in Congress, as considering my abilities, such 
sentiments as yours ought to produce. Inclosed you have a copy of Abing- 
dons pamphlet which perhaps you have not seen.* 

I am D'r Sir with great respect 

Yr. V h St. 
J B Smith 

io8. Daniel Roberdeau to the Speaker of the Pennsylvania 
House of Representatives (James McLene).^ 

York Town, Feb'y 21st, 1778. 
Sir, 

I have the honor to address my Constituants the Representatives of 
this State now assembled, on Subjects the most distressing and alarming, 
the deficiencies in the Commissaries and Quartermasters departments, 
which threaten the dispersion of our army and all the horrid train of Evils 
consequent to this State more immediately, and to the common cause 
more general in its baneful influence. The Letters and resolves of Con- 
gress ordered to be forwarded, makes a particular discant on the distresses 
of our army unnecessary from me. I have only to assure the Hon'ble 
House that under God the Salvation of our Cause now depends on you, 
as from your Situation timely supplies of provisions, especially meat, of 
forage and Waggons, and immediate conveyance can only be expected, 

3 Presumably Col. John Bayard. See no. 95, ante. 
* See nos. 330, 335, note 3, post. 
[io8]i Pa. State Lib., P. P. XL VI. 5; Pa. Arch., first sen, VL 295. 



February, ifyS 95 

and without the most vigorous exertions you may depend the army will 
disperse, nothing but indispensable duty would extort a Secret which 
might by being divulged, prove ruinous ; therefore what is my duty, is 
equally the duty of your Hon'ble House, now the fact is disclosed, to 
impose the most enviolable restraint on yourselves, that our Enemies may 
not triumph in our Disgrace. Congress will begrudge no expence attend- 
ing the execution of your orders, in dependence on which is now the 
whole trust of Congress for an immediate supply, or in other words, for 
preventing the most direful distress. It would be impertinent in me to 
attempt to enforce a Subject so important on your Hon'ble House.^ 
Congress have displaced Officers who infringed the Law of the State 
respecting the prices of Articles ; ^ to this Enemies will attribute the Evils 
we should deprecate, but our cause does not depend on the weak efforts 
of a few individuals, much less on any restless spirits among us who 
probably, in the Struggle, mean to overset the freedom of this State. 
Your endeavours, I trust, will be succeeded. 

I am most respectfully. Sir, 

Yr most obt and very humb. Servt. 

Dan'l Roberdeau. 

P. S. A moments delay may be our ruin, which must apologize for 
my hasty scrawl, which I have not time to copy or correct. 

109. The Commercial Committee to Robert Morris.'- 

Commercial Committee 

York Feby 21 1778 
Sir 

We acknowledge the Receipt of your favours of the 7th 8th 12th and 
17th instant. 

In answer to that of the 7th respecting our misterious commerce we 
laid it before Congress together with Monsr Hortalez's Letters (one of 
which was a highly finished Political performance) who have added two 
members to the Commercial Committee to take the same into considera- 
tion. They will enter upon the business this afternoon, and when Congress 
shall have determined upon this important matter, we will give you the 
Result.^ .... Congress have ordered General Hand to send Provisions 
to the Arkansaws. 

In answer to the 8th would observe that we think Mr. Duer would 
have been very illy employed in telling you anything that might have 
passed in Congress in which you were concerned, especially we think him 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 21 (p. 189). Washington's letter to Robert L. Hooper, 
et al, Feb. 15, is in Pa. Arch, first ser., VI. 263 ; an extract of that from Duer to F. L. 
Lee,_Feb. 19, is ibtd., p. 276. See also Laurens to Wharton, Feb. 21, ibid., p. 284. The 
original of Laurens's letter is in N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS., Laurens. Cf. no. 94, ante. 

3 See no. 93, ajite, and no. iii, post. 

[log]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 20, 23, and passim (index, Francy, Hortales and Co., 
Beaumarchais). Cf. nos. 133, 186, 240, 279, 281, 437, post. 



96 Continental Congress 

highly culpable in representing to yon that the Commercial Committee 
had complained to Congress that their not having the- Books in their pos- 
session was a grievance to them; because it was a gross misrepresentation, 
Messrs Forbes and Ellery who were the only members of the Commercial 
Committee then present, laid before Congress General Hand's Letter etc. 
respecting the Rattle Trap.^ Some of the Members were dissatisfied with 
that undertaking and asked a Multitude of questions about it. The 
Instructions given to Captain Willing were read, but still they wanted 
more light, when accidentally it was mentioned that the Books and Papers 
of the Secret Committee were in your hands. This occasioned a Conversa- 
tion about them, which, if we could, we should think it not worth our 
while to relate. Let it suffice that so far from complaining against you 
on account of the Books, the Members of the Committee were for your 
retaining them till they should be settled. We laid this Letter before 
Congress who desired us to inform you that they would have you still 
keep the Books in your possession and settle them as soon as you could.* 

We have asked your advice frequently and freely and have as often 
and as freely received it and shall continue to trouble you while we 
remain of the Commercial Committee (which we hope for reasons we 
have already mentioned to you will not be long)^ whenever we find 
ourselves embarrassed. In answer to yours of the 12th we leave the dis- 
position of the Indies entirely to you. 

Yours of the 17th is now before Congress and will be answered in 
due Time. 

We have the Honor to be Sir 

Your obedt Hble Servants 
Fra. Lewis 
William Ellery 
The Hon'ble 

Robert Morris Esqr. 

no. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

[February 22-25, 1778.] 
22. Reed. Presidts. letter dated 20th.' 
2^. Reed. Do. dated 2ist.^ 

Conferred with Colo. Cox and Genl. Green * 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 19. The Rattletrap was an armed boat in command of 
Capt. James WilHng. Concerning the expedition under his command, see these Letters, 
vol. II., no. 749 A, also the Journals, Jan. 31, Oct. 10, 31, Dec. 14, 1778, Jan. 12, 14, 
Mar. 8, Apr. 3, May 21, 1779, and no. 172, note 2, post. In Rivington's Royal Gazette, 
July 4, 1778, is the text of an agreement, dated at Natches District, Feb. 21, 1778, between 
Willing and a committee appointed to adjust matters with him. In the issue of Sept. 22, 
1779, is a statement of Thomas Newman relative to acts of Willing Feb. 12, 1778. 

* Cf. no. 74, ante. See also a remark of Henry Laurens, found under May 15, 
1779, in vol. IV. 

^ A plan to establish a board of commerce consisting of others than members 
of Congress seems to have been under discussion about this time. See nos. 199, 274, 471, 
505, 602, 603, post. Cf. vol. II., nos. 272, 273, 298. 
[iioji See no. 62, note i, ante. 

2 The letter is no. 105, ante. 

3 The President's letter of Feb. 21 transmitted the authorization of that date 
to the committee relative to the quartermaster-general's department. 

^ See nos. 91, ante, 115, note 3, post. 



February, I'J'jS 97 

24. Conferred with the same gentn.'' 

2^. Closed the business of the Quarter Master Genl. Department ^ 

III. Daniel Roberdeau to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Thomas Wharton, jr.)/ 

^. York Town, Feb'y 23d, 1778. 

The papers by you transmitted to the Board of \\'ar were refered to 
Congress read and committed to be returned ; accordingly I do mvself 
the honor of handing them to you, and hope the violators of the Laws of 
the State will be brought to condign punishment.^ 

112. Samuel Huntington to Jabez Huntington.^ 
j^. York Town 24th February 1778 

You will see King Georges Speach at the opening of his parliament 
before this comes to hand which is as late as au}^ Intelligence we have 
from there. The Assembly of Virginia have fully approved and Acceeded 
to the Articles of Confederation have not heard the determination of 
any other State on the Subject.^ 

A general Cartel for exchange of prisoners hath taken place between 
Generals Washington and Howe, which is all the Intelligence I am able 
to communicate more than you will find in the public papers." 

113. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
President of Pennsylvania (Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

<^. York Town, 24th Feb'y, 1778. 

I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency the 21st. 
Yesterday, Mr. Joseph Simons, of Lancaster, addressed Congress with 
a Letter — which Your Excellency will find inclosed — meaning, as he has 

^ A letter from the committee to Congress Feb. 24 was read Feb. 27 (see the 
Journals, p. 207 n.). The committee assure Congress that the\^ "will pay the utmost 
Attention to their Commands by placing the Quarter Master's Department fas far as 
lies in their Power) upon such a Footing and in such Hands as will provide for the 
various Wants which now distress the Army and shackle the General ", and that 
" notwithstanding the Powers which Congress have thought proper to intrust us with 
we shall not presume absolutely to fix the Appointments, but .... will submit the 
whole to them ". 

^ A letter of Feb. 25, relative to the quartermaster's department, was read 
in Congress Mar. 2. It is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. ZZ, f- 187 (not f. 197, as cited in the 
Journals, p. 210 n.; see no. 115, note 3, post). Cf. no. 124, post. 

[iii]i Pa. State Lib, P. P. XLVI. 4; Pa. Arch., first ser.. VI. 287. 

2 This probably refers to the letter of Wharton and enclosures read in Congress 
Feb. 18. The letter was presumably that to the board of war Feb. 16, in Pa. Arch., first 
ser., VI. 268. See nos. 50, 54, 63, 97, 108, ante, also nos. 115, 159, post. 

[ii2]i Conn. Hist. Soc, Collections, XX. 400. 

2 See no. 73, ante, and nos. 122, 140, note 2, post. 

3 Huntington either did not anticipate the obstruction which Congress was about 
to place in the way of a general exchange of prisoners, or else he felt himself under 
obligations to refrain from revealing the discussion of the subject then in progress. 
See no. 88, ante, and nos. 139, 163, 188. 202, post. 

[113]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 108: Pa. Arch., first ser., 
VI. 298. 



98 Continental Congress 

explained, to obtain permission for going within the Enemy's Lines, in 
order to account with Mr. Franks. Congress judged it best to refer this 
apphcation, for determination, to the Supreme Council of the State; 
Hence Your Excellency receives the present trouble.^ 



114. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Samuel Alleyne Otis.^ 

24th Febry 1778 
Sir, 

Very late this Evening your favor of the 24th Ulto. came to hand. 
I will present it to Congress to morrow, but as the Messenger by which 
this is intended will proceed earlier than our Meeting, I will barely 
acknowledge the receipt of your Letter which has travelled much more 
deliberately than you could have expected. 

And I mean to afford you the further satisfaction of assuring you the 
Resolves of Congress which you intimate have affected an Individual, 
Mr. Jackson, were certainly not intended to apply to him or personally 
to any other Gentleman and that they were grounded upon general infor- 
mation of the exhorbitant demands which had been made for such 
Merchandize as you had attempted to purchase for the use of the Army. 

The Letters which you wrote on that occasion to Congress are at 
present in the Secretary's Office and at this time of Night not accessible, 
therefore I cannot possitively say, the name of Jackson is not mentioned 
in them, but my memory which in such Cases is not deficient, assures me 
it is not, and you may, if it be needful, safely aver to that Gentleman that 
neither his name nor conduct were animadverted in Congress, this would 
probably have happened, had your Letter exhibited either or both in an 
unfavourable light." 

Be all this as it may, when I say you merit thanks for your attention 
to the public welfare in your department, I believe I speak the sentiments 
of every Member of Congress 

P S 2^th. A. M. the Messenger having been unavoidably detained 
affords me an opportunity of adding, that I have presented your Letter 
to Congress and that it was well received and your conduct applauded. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 23. The Pennsylvania council referred the case to 
General Washington. See the council's letter of Mar. 3, Pa. Arch., first sen, VI. 327. 
[ 1 14] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 200. 

2 Otis's letter of Jan. 24 is in the Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 
78, vol. XVIL, f . 285. The passage to which Laurens particularly alludes is as follows : 
" I find my Representation to Congress of the exorbitant prices given for the goods 
referred to in General Heath's Letter and Resolve thereon, has given uneasiness to 
some of the Venders of those goods, and Mr. Jackson, a principal Contractor in the 
Business, thinks himself severely reflected upon by the Resolve of Congress of the 
31st, and tho he desires the withholding the goods, he owns his asking me 2000 per Cent, 
and justifies the price he sold the goods for, at the same time avers nobody can say that 
he sold for 1800 or 2000 per Ct. for he did not sell by advance." See the Journals, 
Dec. 31, 1777- 



February, ly^S 99 

115. Jonathan Bayard Smith to Joseph Reed/ 
^.^ ^l^ York Town Feb : 25th 1778 

On arriving at this place I find myself indebted to yon for two or three 
letters." 

I wish the idea of employing Genl. Schuyler in the department referred 
to could have met the approbation of Congress.^ Besides the objections 
arising from his present situation which founded the 'declared impedi- 
ment, I found on conversing with gentlemen privately that they feared 
the ill effects of an intrigueing mind ; a temper unfriendly to the disposi- 
tions of officers in the army and its peace ; and that out of the sphere of 
his particular influence and knowledge of the country he would not be 
able to conduct the great business. This last objection I own was counter 
to every idea I had formed of the man 

The several transactions respecting the laying up provisions of flour etc. 
in this state are truely unaccountable, unless one should give way to some 
very disagreeable reflections.* The State feel themselves truely uneasy. 
Last monday Council received a letter from the board of war inform'g 
that the purchase of flour on the East side of Susquehanna was now 
unnecessary and that the Commissioners were directed to stop their hands 
in purchasing that article and to confine themselves to the purchase of 
meat.^ Council have directed a copy of the several papers on this subject 
to be sent to them and yesterday I procured an order of Congress for 
this purpose. I wish the order of Congress, and the application of the 
delegates of a State had been met with rather more attention at the 
board than they were. However the copies are making.*' I believe the 
Assembly and Council will very seriously address Congress on the 
subject. Not many days ago Congress stopt any purchases by the Super- 
intendents on the East side of the River, and the money was sent to the 
Council. An additional 20,000 bbls. are ordered to be procured, and the 
State Comm'rs are now directed to discontinue their purchases of flour 
in the East 

Congress yesterday passed thro' the plan for reinforcing the armv with 
drafts from the militia.' I fear it will have a tendency to draw us back 

[115]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, MSS. of Joseph Reed, IV. 

2 The words " or three " appear to have been erased. However, at the close of 
the paragraph dated Feb. 26 Smith says : " The several letters I have the pleasure of 
from you are of Feb. 8 from Norriton, which I suppose the long one, as you call it, 
and which I consider as confidential, Feb. 13 Camp Valley forge, Feb. 19 do., Feb. 24 
Moore Hall." 

3 Schuyler had been under consideration, had in fact been recommended by the 
committee at camp Jan. 28 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 33, f. 71, read in Congress Jan. 31), 
for the post of quartermaster-general. In the paragraph omitted Smith discusses tlie 
merits of Col. John Cox and General Greene, evidently in response to suggestions in 
Reed's letter to him. In the letter of Feb. 12 from the committee at camp (see no. 107, 
note 2, ante) all three were discussed. In accordance with the recommendation of the 
committee (Feb. 25) Greene was appointed Mar. 2, with Cox and Charles Pettit as his 
assistants. 

* See the Journals, Jan. 15, Feb. 5, 12, 14, 17. Cf. nos. 93, 97, 11 1, ante. 

'^ See Pa. Arch., first sen, VI. 281. Cf. ibid., p. 278. 

^ See ibid., pp. 292, 303-314, and the Journals, Feb. 25 ; also no. 117, 145, 159, post. 

'' There is no record in the Journals of the consideration of the subject Feb. 24. 
The matter was, however, twice before Congress Feb. 25. and action upon it is recorded 
under Feb. 26. It is of course possible that Smith misdated his letter. 



100 Continental Congress 

again to 3 months men. Nor does it appear to be practicable in this State, 
Delaware, perhaps Jersey and I am told not in Maryland. As the body 
of the people are so circumstanced that the loss of one year must be the 
cries of their families or at least their very great distress those who return 
in the winter will find unprovided families, and with them become a 
burden on the public, instead of being the source of its strength and riches. 
A few repetitions will render the evil general and perhaps decisive if 
the experiment should succeed. But the trial made with the flying camp 
forebodes the event, especially as that was for 5 months only, and this 
for 9 months. The disadvantages arising from having to redeem persons 
from captivity who are to yield no future services by an exchange of 
others who are to serve during the war are manifestly against us; and 
the danger of meeting an enemy disciplined and hardy with new troops 
every campaign is alarming. Perhaps the Committee had good reason to 
think this mode was the last reserve. I am truely sorry for it. Sure I am 
these things and many more could not have escaped them. Their proposi- 
tions have suffered no alteration that I remember except that in the first 
proposition recommending to reinforce the army by drafts these words 
are admitted immediately following or in such other manner as shall 
be effectual.^ 

I observe an exchange on the old cartel is likely to take place. Can 
nothing be done for our friends who are cruelly confined in the goals of 
Britain, and who are sent to the East Indies? Of the last circumstance 
Congress has undoubted testimonies. 

Genl. Burgoyne has had the resolutions to detain him communicated 

to him An aid from B. is now in York Town on the subject of 

his detention.^ 
Feb: 26. 

Not having an opportunity of forwarding the above, I have to thank 
you for yours of 24 Inst : which came to hand this Evening. I have heard 
no complaints concerning the slowness of your proceeding. Indeed such 
is the importance, multiplicity and delicacy of the matters you have to do, 
that time, much time, must be necessary to do it well. Of this I have 
reason to beleive Gentlemen here are fully convinced. However taking 
it for granted that you have had hints on this head, I shall omit no 
opportunity of giving my sentiments freely. Much dependence is had 
on your proceedings. The consequences of doing Your business thor- 
oughly may be great. If the army, or if the Congress should be disap- 
pointed the effects may be fatal. Indeed it may be a matter of some doubt 
whether the continuance of a Committee in camp would not be productive 
of great advantages.^" .... 

s The words were added by Henry Laurens to the report as submitted. See the 
Journals, p. 200. 

^ The aide-de-camp was R. R. Wilford. See the Journals, Feb. 28. 
^° Here follows the passage quoted in note 2, above, but there was evidently 
another sheet of the letter, which is missing. 



March, ijy8 101 

ii6. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

[February 26-28, 1778.] 
26. General not present. 

2"/. General called away — Conferred with Baron Steuben — Sent dis- 
patches to Congress respecting the Or. M'r G. Department." 
28. Agreed to apply to the States of New-Jersey, Pennsylvania and 
Maryland to procure Horses for the Cavalry and Sadies.^ 

117. Jonathan Bayard Smith to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town, Feb. 28, 1778. 
Sir, 

On other side you have copy of a letter yesterday Evening read in 
Congress. It was referred to a Committee, whose report you shall be 
made acquainted with. As I was that day confined to my bed, cannot say 
what strictures were made on the subject by Congress.^ 

The packet of copies was returned to me from the ferry as the river 
was impassable. I this moment had the honor of forwarding it by Genl. 
Wilkinson.^ 



118. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
George Washington.^ 

I St March 1778. 
Sir 

.... I have the honour of being specially charged to signify to Your 
Excellency that Congress highly approve of Your Excellency's conduct 
in support of the Civil authority of the United States as expressed in 
Your Excellency's Letters in answer to General Howes Letter of the 
19th January and 25th [5th] February.^ 

[116]^ See no. 62, note i, ante. 

2 See no. no, notes 5 and 6, ante. 

2 The letter to New Jersey has not been found. Those 'to Pennsylvania and 
Maryland, dated Feb. 28, are in Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 316, and Arch of Md., XVI. 522, 
respectively. In the latter text, p. 523 (middle), a word is missing. The reading should 
be, " Men natives of the Country ". The Maryland letter also contains a postscript not 
found in that to Pennsylvania. See the Journals, Mar. 2. 

[117]! Pa. State Lib., P. P. XLVI. 14; Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 314. 

2 Evidently the letter of the board of war dated Feb. 26. The Journals (Feb. 27) 
record, however, that it was read in the morning session. The board's letter is found in 
Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 315. See the representation of the Pennsylvania council and 
assembly Mar. 6 (ibid., p. 333), and the Journals, Mar. 10, 20; also nos. 145, 159, post. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 25, and Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 292, 303-314. Cf. no. 
115, ante. 

[ii8]i Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 201. 

~ See the Journals, Feb. 17, 25, 26. Howe's letters to Washington Jan. 19 and 
Feb. 5 (copy) are in the Library of Congress, Washington Papers ; that of Feb. 5 is 
found in Washington's Writings (ed. Sparks), V. 535. Washington's replies to these 
letters, Jan. 30, Feb. 10, are ibid., pp. 230, 234, the latter also in M^ritings (ed. Ford), 
VI. 369. Howe's reply, Feb. 14, is in Washington's Writings (ed. Sparks), V. 537. See 
also John Laurens to his father, Feb. 9, Army Correspondence, p. 122. 



102 Continental Congress 

I am also directed to intimate to Your Excellency as a recommendation 
from Congress that every proper precaution be taken against putting it 
in the power of the Enemy to take any unfair advantages in the Exchange 
of prisoners, and that Congress take for granted, Genl. Lee is included in 
the late stipulation between Your Excellency and the British Commander 
and have therefore refrained from repeating a special demand for the 
restitution of that Officer.^ 

119. Henry Laurens to Francis Dana/ 

1st March 1778 
Dear Sir — 

'tis now late Sunday Evening and your favor of the 25th Ulto has 
but this Instant made its appearance, had it been less deliberate in its 
progress and not made so long a halt at the Waggon Tavern I might 
yesterday have received authority for confirming your acts in the arrange- 
ment of the Qur. M'r General's department, as the case now stands, 
tomorrow is mortgaged and it will be difficult to bring the business upon 
the tapis before Tuesday — however I will make an attempt and if not 
balked by some six-deep Orator will get it in edgeway in the after- 
noon.^ .... 

A Resolve will go to Genl. Washington by the present Messenger 
which will probably reach those partizans whom you were afraid would 
escape justice,^ and there is one upon the Anvil which I parted with 
yesterday every stitch Crimson, it will return to morrow probably with 
small White facings,* We are vex'd I assure you Sir, and we shall roar 
when we come to hear the story of the Connecticut deserters — this I am 
determined to keep a secret to the very proper moment for disclosing the 
melancholy subject.^ 

An Act upon your Resolves for filling up the Continental Battalion's 
will also now go to the General.'' .... 

I begin to dread the enemy's driving the army into the City and sending 
a detachment for your humble Servant and Company. I have in the mean 
time been calculating how to repair the lack of so much Beef this may 
be done by a Recommendation from the Committee to the Army to 
observe Lent which will begin on Wednesday by three Pan Cake days in 
each of the Six Weeks. ^ .... 

You intimate good Sir, that most of the Evils which have attended our 
Camp flow from gross neglect and abuse in the department of Qur. M'r 
general, if it be so, and I am inclined to believe it, why are we so Courtly 

3 The Journals do not record such action at this time. See, however, under 
Mar. 30. For the outcome of the resolves of Feb. 26 relative to the exchange of prisoners, 
see nos. 163, 177, 188, post. Washington's reply to this letter. Mar. 12, is in Writings 
(ed. Ford), VI. 414, (ed. Sparks), V. 269. 
[iigJ^S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 260. 

- See the Journals, Mar. 2; cf. no. no, ante. 

3 The reference is doubtless to the resolve of Feb. 27. 

* Possibly the resolves relative to Burgoyne. See the Journals, Mar. 2. 

^ It is not clear to what Laurens here alludes. 

8 See the Journals, Feb. 26. 

■^ This is followed bj' some more serious comments on the situation. One extract 
is found in Wallace's Laurens, p. 231. 



March, 1778 103 

and mincing ? is there a name under Heaven that shall sanctify the pecula- 
tor or screen the man whose neglect of Duty has brought thousands to 
Misery and Death? forbid it torpid patriotism of 1775 — No! let the 
Offender be dragged forth, and the people told, this is the Man! — God 
awaken us. 

120. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

Sir, York Town March i, 1778. 

.... We are about obstructing and fortifying Hudson's River, in 
order to secure the communication between the Southern and northern 
States ; altering the System of the commissariats and quartermaster, which 
departments with the Clothier's, have been most miserably executed the 
last campaign; calling public officers to an account, and taking every 
method we can devise to fill up and supply our Army, and correct Abuses. 
I hope they will prove efficacious ; but so great, alas ! is the corruption and 
avarice of the people, that it is extremely difficult to find persons, to fill the 
public offices, who will by their honest exertions give efficacy to public 
measures. 

Congress have directed Genl. Washington to send a proper Major Genl. 
to fill the place of Genl. Spencer.- It is not yet determined who is to pay 
the expense of the R. I. Expedition.^ I have not urged a determination; 
because Massachusetts hath been a long time and is still unrepresented, 
one of her members being of a committee now at Head Quarters.* There 
are so many and such large demands on the treasury, for supplying the 
great departments of the army, that an application for a considerable 
Sum would be ineffectual. I opposed the last warrant being issued on our 
Loan-Office, but in vain.^ So soon as those departments shall be supplied, 
our State may have a chance. If the Assembly should think proper they 
can send forward an Abstract of their Accounts against the United States, 
with directions to their Delegates to apply when a good time shall present. 
If Loan Office certificates would answer it would mightily facilitate a 
Grant. 

Some of the citizens of this state having been lately kidnapped and 
carried into Philadelphia, Congress have resolved that all offenders taken 
within 70 miles of the main army, or any detachment or post, under the 
command of a General, shall be tried by a court martial, and suffer 
the pains of Death.® 

A certain northern expedition is for good reasons laid aside. ^ .... 

[i2o]i R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778, p. 29; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 165. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 13, Feb. 21. Gen. John Sullivan was assigned to the 
command Mar. 10 (Washington's Writings, ed. Sparks, V. 266). 

3 This question was not determined until Aug. 7, 1778. See vol. II. of these 
Letters, nos. 764, 775, and nos. 11, 33, ante, 160, 459, post. 

*■ Francis Dana. See the Journals, Jan. 10, and no. 62, note 2, ante. 

''See no. 11, ante; also vol. II., no. 538. 

® See the Journals, Feb. 27. Broadsides of these resolutions, preceded by an 
admonitory paragraph (see the Bibliographical Notes, Journals, XII. 1282), are found 
in the Mass. Hist. Soc, Heath Papers, VIII. 160, 161. 

■^ The expedition to Canada. See the Journals, Mar. 2. Cf. no. 98, ante, and nos. 
126, 13s, post. This part of the letter must have been written subsequently to Mar. i. 



lO-i Continental Congress 

121. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

[March 1-4, 1778.] 
I March. Forwarded Letter to Gov. Livingston by Col. Cox.^ 
2. Wrote to Congress by Colo. Guest ^ — Agreed to recommend M. de 
Murman to Cong, for a Major in the engineering department.* 
J. Conferred with the Majrs. Generals at Head Quarters 
4. General not present. Wrote to Cong, upon the Engineering Departmt.' 



122. John Henry, jr., to the Speaker of the Maryland House of 
Delegates (Nicholas Thomas).^ 

York Town March 2d 1778. 
Sir, 

.... One of the principal subjects for which our Assembly stood 
adjourned to this Day, has not yet been taken up in Congress. The 
Confederation will be generally approved by the States. Virginia has 
acceeded to it and some other States. N. Carolina has agreed to part only. 
In the principal point on which your Delegates are instructed, I despair 
of succeeding in.^ 

The success under our late recruiting Law I am unacquainted with. 
The necessity of filling up our Batallions agreeable to our quota, will 
appear by some late resolves of Congress w^hich have been transmitted to 
our Governor to be laid before the General Assembly. The mode pri[n]- 
cepally recommended is the last effort that should be made. Whether it 
is to be embraced at this Time, is left to the wisdom of the Legisla- 
ture.^ .... 



[i2i]i See no. 62, note i, ante. 

-See no. 116, ante. The committee wrote to Congress Mar. i relative to the 
armorer's department, concerning which they had just received a letter from Washington. 
The committee's letter, read in Congress Mar. 6, is in Papers Cent. Cong., no. 33, f. 221 ; 
Washington's (dated Feb. 29) is ibid., f. 225. Cf. the Journals, Apr. 18, 23. 

2 Col. Nathaniel Gist. The committee's letter of Mar. 2, written by Gouverneur 
Morris, was a further discussion of the employment of Indians in the army, broached 
in their letter of Feb. 20 (see no. 104, note 10, ante). It discusses in particular the part 
which Gist was to undertake. The letter is printed in Reed, Life of Reed, I. 420. The 
original is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 33, f. 201, a draft (with the date Feb. 25 erroneously 
endorsed on it by Thomson), at folio 197. See the Journals, Alar. 6, 7; also Washington 
to the commissioners for Indian affairs in the Northern department Mar. 13 {Writings, 
ed. Sparks, V. 273). 

* See no. 104, ante. The recommendation of Murnand was in a letter of Mar. 3. 
See note 5, below. 

^ The letter transmitting the plan of the engineer corps is dated Mar. 3, and 
was read in Congress Mar. 6. A letter from Washington to the committee Mar. i 
(Papers Cont. Cong., no. 2>2>' f- 209) discusses Duportail and the engineers. Cf. nos. 87, 
104, ante, and the Journals, May 27. 

[i22]iMd. Hist. Soc, Portfolio IV. (61). 

2 The allusion is to Maryland's demand for the cession by the claimant states 
of their western territory to the United States. See no. 140, note 2, post; cf. nos. 72,, 112, 
ante. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 26, and nos. 131, 155, post. 



March, lyjS 105 

123. William Ellery to John Langdon.^ 

York town March 2, 1778 
Dear Sir 

.... We are altering the commissariate plan and are looking out for 
a new Commissary General.^ We have chosen General Greene Quarter 
Master General in the room of General Mifflin resigned, and a Col Cox 
and a Mr. Petit two very good characters assistant Q. M. G's, so that 
I hope things will go on better in that department than they have done.' 
That of the Clothier General wants rectifying.'* Avarice and corruption 
run through disorder and confound the execution of all our measures. 
What effect the regulation of prices will have I cant say. I wish it had 
been universal, that a full experiment might have been made of its effi- 
cacy; although I was never fond of the measure. Unnatural restraints 
eventually do no good.^ .... 

124. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Francis Dana.^ 

3d. March 1778. 
Sir, 

Yesterday I had the honour of sending forward a Letter written the 
preceding Evening as a private to yourself to which I beg leave to refer.^ 

Congress upon my presenting the Committees Letter from Camp dated 
the 25th, Febry. entered upon the subject without hesitation and con- 
firmed divers Resolves which you will find in the Inclosed Act of yester- 
day's date by which you will be pleased to govern your future proceedings 
relative to the department of Quarter Master General.^ .... 

125. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

York Town 3d March 1778. 
My Dear Son 

.... General Burgoyne has transmitted to Congress a long remonstra- 
tive Epistle on the Suspension, to which we shall return a very laconic and 
decisive answer, this event must have been preconceived by the unfortu- 
nate General, who had therefore put into the hands of his Aid de Camp 
Messenger Capt Wilford a No. 2 to be delivered after the receipt of our 
answer, but without waiting, he enabled me to report it yesterday, this 
contains a request, that himself and certain Officers chiefly of his family 

[123]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 475. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 10, Feb. 9, 23, 24, 27, Mar. 9, 10, 12, 13; cj. nos. 84, 98, 
ante, and nos. 141, 142, 175, post. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 2. 

* Cf. no. 120, ante. A committee on the department of the clothier-general was 
appointed Apr. 18. 

'•' See no. 147, post. 
[124]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 206. 

- No. 119, ante. 

2 See no. no, ante. 
[125]! Long Island Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers. 



106 Continental Cong^ress 



&' 



may under proper restrictions embark for England. I have communicated 
to several Members my sentiments, and I believe a vote will pass in his 
favour Nem Con I think good may be produced from this Political con- 
descension, however let me say the representation he has made of the 
state of his health and private affairs including his Character is an appeal 
to humanity, or in the General's own term to our Generosity.^ .... 

126. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 
^^y the 4th March 1778. 

I am much honoured by the receipt of your Excellency's Letter of the 
19th Febry. which was delivered to me by Colo. Kosciuszko in person, but 
not early enough by 24 hours to prevent my troubling Baron de Kalb to 
say " I had nothing to offer the Marquis delafayette on the 25th except 
respectful Compliments and good wishes." this would not have been true, 
had Your Excellency's favor been delivered to me, soon after the de- 
livery of a Letter dated the 20th Febry, and signed by Your Excellency 
which was sent to me by the Board of War uncovered for the information 
of Congress.^ 

I had read this last mentioned Letter to Mr. Lovel before the meeting 
of Congress and remarked to him that from the Stile and tenor, it must 
have been intended for the president of Congress, this sentiment which 
scarcely required further aid, was confirmed beyond all doubt, by the 
preface of your Excellency's private Letter, " I intend to write to you 
as president of Congress." but unluckily this was not presented to me till 
the afternoon of the 26th. it was then the Colo., introduced by Genl. 
Gates, did me the honour to call at my little apartment. I can account in 
no way for the miscarriage of the Letter intended for Congress, but by 
concluding an error in the Superscriptory, and the omission within, of the 
customary direction, for it cannot be believed the Board of War would 
otherwise have made so unbecoming an appropriation; and their hurry 
of business apologizes for the want of that nice attention which was 
necessary to discover from the contents of the Letter that it was mani- 
festly disigned for Congress, from this mistake, if it be really one, it 
follows that I have no Commands on me from Congress directed to your 
Excellency, who will hear from the Board with whom Your Excellency 
apparently corresponded. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 26, 28, Mar. 2, 3, and nos. 130, 135, post. 
[i26]iS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1776-1778, p. 261. Addressed to 
Lafayette at Albany. 

2 Lafayette's letter to Laurens Feb. 19, written from Albany, is in S. C. Hist, 
and Geneal. Mag., VIL 189. See also his letters of Feb. 23, Mar. 11, 12 (two), ibid., 
VIIL 3-14; and his letters to Washington, Feb. 19, 23, in Washington's Writings (ed. 
Sparks), V. 531, 534; also Duane to Clinton, Albany, Feb. 19, ibid., p. 533. The letter to 
Washington Feb. 19 is also found (with variations) in Tower, Lafayette in the Revo- 
lution (p. 283), where also appears an extract of a letter of Feb. 23 to Gates (p. 286). 
Washington's reply, Mar. 10, is ibid., p. 289, and in Writings (ed. Ford), VL 410, (ed. 
Sparks), VI 264. In the Library of Congress, Morris Papers, is a mutilated letter 
from Lafaj'ette to Robert Morris Feb. 23. in which he speaks of his disappointment 
over finding nothing ready for the expedition, after being sent with so much noise. 
Lafayette's letter of Feb. 20, to which Laurens alludes, is not mentioned in the Journals, 
but presumably was among those presented by the board of war Feb. 26. Cf. ibid., 
Feb. 24, Mar. 2. 



March, ly/S 107 

Nevertheless, as it is neither out of the Line of the presidents Duty 
[nor in]consistant with his Rights as a Delegate, I shall do my self the 
honour of conveying a Copy of the Act of Congress of the 2d Inst, passed 
upon Resolving to suspend the intended Irruption ; ^ meaning from thence 
to prove that Congress maintain an high opinion of Your Excellency as a 
Soldier and a Gentleman and you may depend upon it Sir, the approbation 
contained in that Act, is genuine, not merely complimentary, admitting 
the phrasiology to be not quite unexceptionable, I should be criminally 
silent were I not to declare, the intentions of Congress respecting Your 
Excellency's honour and merits, are altogether so. I will in this case 
presume to answer for each Individual Member 

I shall add to the Act of Congress above mentioned one of the 24th 
Ulto. which by three last words added at my particular request, enjoins 
you to report the reason of your Conduct " to Congress." ^ Your Excel- 
lency may possibly think this anticipated by the Letters of the 20th Febry, 
and if the Board of War shall have transmitted Copies of these Resolves 
the present Inclosed, will appear to be superfluous. I have however con- 
fined my self within the sphere of my Duty, relying upon Your Excel- 
lency's indulgence to excuse me for making an address which is altogether 
private, the Vehicle of two public Acts.^ 

I know not what to say relative to Genl. Putnam's Command, it appears 
to me, that Gentlemen wish him away and at the same time they are loth 
to offend the good old Man. if it be from his unfitness their wishes arise, 
the sacrifice is very impolitic and unwarrantable.^ 

I remarked in a late Act by Genl. Gates he retained the Stile of Com- 
mander of the Troops in the Northern department. I know of no Resolves 
by which he has been divested of that Command, and I have heard it said 
lately, that there would be a necessity for his taking the Field again in 
the Spring. '^ 

Your Excellency having now a proper opening to correspond with 
Congress may if you shall judge it proper suggest a plan for employment 
of such Troops as are at present under your Command and such as may 
be collected. I feel the utmost confidence that Congress will pay becoming 
attention to everything your Excellency shall be pleased to offer. 

127. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO THE GOVERNOR OF NeW YoRK 

(George Clinton).^ 

Sir, Moor Hall, 4th March, 1778. 

I take the liberty of writing to you upon a subject of the utmost im- 
portance to our State. By following so much of St. Paul's advice as to 

3 See no. 120, ante, and no. 135, post. 

* In the Library of Congress edition of the Journals the resolve reads that 
Lafayette is to " report the reasons of his conduct to the Board ", but in the Secret 
Journals: Domestic Affairs (1821) Laurens's "three last words", and to Congress, are 
found. In the first of Lafayette's letters of Mar. 12 (see note 2, above) he says: 
" in one of the resolves of Congress who have been sent to me by gnl gates it is said 
that /'/ give accounts of my Conduct to the board of war, in this you are so good as 
to send me I am directed to give those accounts to Congress and the board." 

^ See nos. 135, 137, 151, post. 

^ Cf. nos. 100, 102, ante. 

'' Cf. nos. 134, 168, 176, post. 
[127]! Records of the Governor and Council of Vermont, III. 291. 



108 Continental Congress 

become all things to all men I find clearly from the very best authority 
that without nice management we shall certainly loose the State of 
Vermont. The Eastern States are determined that they shall not be op- 
pressed to use their phrase. The prejudices of the people are against us, 
so are their interests.^ .... 

128. William Duer to Robert Morris.^ 

My dear Friend 

.... I should imagine my dear Friend, you can be no Stranger to 
the present critical Situation of our Army, and the late Embarassment 

which the Ignorance and Faction of a thin C ss have thrown in the 

Way of forming Magazines for the Army. The Consequences will in my 
Opinion, occasion its Dissolution very Shortly unless both they, and the 
State of Penna. cease to interfere with the Military Departments. This 
Circumstance, the Necessity of attending to our Finances, in order to sup- 
ply the Exegencies of the next Campaign, and the means for bringing a 
force into the Field, and introducing in it, Discipline, and a Spirit of Enter- 
prise call for the immediate Attention of every Lover of his Country, and 
particular [l]y of you who (without Flattery which I abhor) possess 
Talents to serve it at this Juncture, and whose Connection, with a State 
which is likely to be made a sacrifice of, demand in a peculiar degree all 
your Exertions. Let me my dear Sir conjure you to attend Congress on 
the Return of the Committee from Camp. I am sensible private Conven- 
ience cannot operate upon your mind at this Crisis, provided you have a 
Prospect of being useful. Mr. Lee writes me from Congress that several 
members are daily Expected. Mr. Hancock will be there in a few days,^ 
and if my Presence can induce you, I will after I have secured my Baggage 
at Coryell's Ferry (for w'h I set out this day) return and stay one month. 
Perhaps my dear Friend, the Joint Exertions of some [of] us may save 
our Country, and revive the Expiring Reputation of Congress, at least 
it is our Duty to try it. 

I write in a great hurry, and in much anxiety of mind: which must 
plead my excuse for Incorrectness. Let me know by a letter to Reading 
whether you will attend Congress; if you do I will immediately proceed 
to Manheim on my Return from Coryell's ^ and go with you. Write to 
Colo. Jos Reid to attend I am sure that his and your Presence will give 
a Right Turn to the Votes of Pensilvania and Delawar without which the 
endeavors of the other States will be useless.* God bless you and your 
Family to whom I beg to be particularly remembered. 

Wm. Duer 

2 See nos. 232, 237, 381, 426-428, post. Morris was one of the committee sent to 
confer with Washington. See no. 62, note 2, ante. The committee was at this time 
residing at Moore Hall, near Valley Forge. 

[ 128] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 154 (extract) ; Reed, Life of Joseph 
Reed, I. 365 n. (extract). 

2 Hancock did not however attend until June 19. 

3 The copyist has written here " Congress ", but it seems quite clear that Duer 
is proposing to return from Coryell's Ferry by way of Manheim and go to Congress 
with Morris. See nos. 193 194, 254, post. 

* Cf. nos. 74, 109, ante, and no 133, post. 



March, 1//8 109 

Reading March 5th 1778 

This Letter will be delivered to you by Dr. Stringer of Albany an 
Acquaintance of mine whom I take the Liberty of recommending to your 
attention. 

W. D. 

129. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

[March 5-7, 1778.] 

5. Wrote to Cong. abt. Colo. Baylers procur'g Horses in Virginia.^ 

6. Genl. not present.^ 

7. Genl. not present. Arranged the New Hampshire Battalions, and con- 
ferred with the Jersey Colonels. 

130. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
John Burgoyne.^ 

6th March 1778. 
Sir 

By the hands of Lieutt. Wilford on the 26th Febry. I received the 
honor of Your Excellency's Letter of the nth of that Month, No i, and 
upon the 2d Inst, of another Letter from Your Excellency of the former 
date No. 2. these in due course I presented to Congress and I have received 
in charge to transmit to Your Excellency the three Acts undermentioned, 
which will be found within the present Cover. 

1. An Act of the 2d March confirming the Act of January 8th for 

suspending the embarkation of the Troops in the Convention of 
Saratoga. 

2. An Act of the 3d March for enabling Lieutt. Wilford to transmit 

certain papers to Genl. Howe. 

3. An Act of the same date for granting passports for Your Excellency 

with the Officers of Your Excellency's family and servants to 
embark for Great Britain and for other purposes therein Re- 
solved, 
to these several Acts Sir, I beg leave particularly to refer, as containing 
all that Congress have judged necessary for me to return to Your Excel- 
lency's Letters above recited." 

I have the honor to be with all proper consideration Sir 

Your Excellency's Obdt and most hum'e Servant 

[129]!. See no. 62, note i, ante. 

2 See no. 87, ante, and the Journals, Mar. 2, 10, 11. Washington's instructions to 
Colonel Baylor, dated Mar. 4, are in liyitings (ed. Ford), VI. 396. 

^ The committee received and answered a letter from Washington this day. 
See no. 134, post. For another letter from the committee to Washington, set down in 
the Calendar as of Mar. 6, but which was without date, and was not, in fact, actually 
sent, see no. 139, post. 

[130]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 208; Mass. Hist. Soc, 
Heath Papers, VHL 183 (duplicate). The address in the Letter-Book is: "His 
Excellency John Burgoyne Esquire, Lieutenant General in the Army of His Britanic 
Majesty, etc. etc. etc., at Cambridge, Massachuset Bay." 
2 Cf. no. 125, ante, no. 135, post. 



110 Continental Congress 

131. John Henry, jr., to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 

York Town March 6th. 1778. 
Sir. 

Col. Samuel Smith arrived here yesterday and acquainted me v^ith the 
difficulty he met v^^ith in the recruiting Service, for the v^^ant of the con- 
tinental Bounty. Upon his solicitation and the prospect of advancing the 
public Service, I have procured from Congress ten thousand Dollars to 
be transmitted to you, to be distributed in such proportion among the 
recruiting officers as you may judge most proper.^ Col Smith has under- 
taken the carriage of this money, which I hope you will receive in a few 
Days. It is the earnest request of Congress that the Battalions from each 
State, should be filled up as early this Spring as possible. Maryland I 
hope will not be backward. The draught of the Militia recommended by 
Congress I fear will meet with many obsticles in the Legislature.* Should 
that measure fail, I am at a loss to discover what expedient can be fallen 
upon. The Expedition into Canada is suspended. Genl. Burgoyne and 
two of his officers upon his earnest request to Congress is permitted to 
embark for England.* Enclosed you have a copy of the resolve upon which 
the ten thousand dollars mentioned above was granted, by which you will 
see, part of the money is to be applied towards paying the premium for 
taking up deserters. 

132. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott.^ 

York Town 6th March 1778 
My Dear L 

.... Congress Adjourn to Dine at One oClock and so Meet in the 
afternoon this Practice is much more agreable than to sit till 5 or 6 
oClock and I think it expedites Business.^ .... 

133. John Penn to Robert Morris.^ 

York Friday morning. [March 6, 1778.]^ 
Dear Sir 

Doctor Rickman ^ and myself never got to this place untill yesterday 
about two oclock. we crossed at the Falls, you may easily guess how 
disagreeable our situation was, when we reflected that we had left Man- 
heim and were breathing in a little cold Tavern, however fasting after 

[131]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. in; Arch, of Md., XVI. 528. 

- See the Journals, Mar. s, and no. 143, post. 

" See the Journals, Feb. 26, and no. 122, ante, no. 155, post. 
* See the Journals, Mar. 2, 3, and nos. 125, 130, ante. 
[132]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. II., no. 48. 

2 Cf. no. 198, post. There appears to have been a persistent conflict between 
the one-session and the two-session men, first one party then the other prevailing. See 
the Journals, Oct. i, Nov. 19, Dec. ib, 1777, Jan. 24, Mar. 24, Apr. 29, May 30, Aug. 12, 
27, Sept. 3 (pp. 870-876), Sept. 17, Oct. 20, Nov. 25, 1778. Cf. these Letters, II. 462 n., 
and no. 494, note 2, post. 

[133]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., Old Congress, VI. 52. 

- The letter is endorsed : " York Friday 6. March 1777. Jno. Penn Esqr.'[ 

3 Dr. William Rickman, director of the hospital at Alexandria, Va. (appointed 
May 18, 1776). See, further, the Journals, July 22, Aug. 9, Dec. 20, 1777, Mar. 7, 1778. 



March, 17/8 IH 

feasting- may be necessary, tho' we should have had enough of the former 
at this place. 

Mr. Francy's business was taken up last evening The Committee 
reported that all the Consignments should be made to Hortales and Co. 
and a Contract made with their House for large supplies in future, as I 
thought we were not very good merchants, I proposed that the affair 
should be postponed untill Monday, in order that you might be requested 
to attend that day, by the Commercial Committee, and that all who wished 
to have you would make it a point to agree to the postponing, it was 
accordingly agreed to unanimously. It was proposed after wards that by 
particular direction you should be sent for. this was refused as not par- 
liamentary, tho', almost every man would be glad to have you here. I hope 
my dear Sir you will excuse my being the means of giving you the trouble 
of coming to York as I really think it of great Importance to America to 
have a Gent'n of your abilities present when a Subject of such Magnitude 
is on the carpet. If you come get here on Sunday evening as Mr. Francy 
is uneasy at being detained * we will not keep you more than two 
days 

134. The Committee of Conference to George Washington.^ 

Sir 

Upon considering the Matter referred to the Committee by your Letter 
of this Morning We are of Opinion that a very able Officer should have 
the Command on Hudson's River. And if Either Putnam or Heath must 
be sent to Rhode Island we should prefer the former. A new Arrangement 
may be made by Congress before the opening of the Campaign especially 
if Genl. Gates should (as we suppose he will) incline to take the Field. 
The committee Sir sensible that you are best acquainted both with the 
Characters of Men and the Exegencies of the Service beg you will make 
such Disposition as on the whole shall appear most eligible.^ 
We are Sir 

Your most obedient and humble Servants 

Fra Dana 

by Order 
Moor Hall 6th March 1778. 

135. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

Sir York Town. 6th March 1778 

.... I know not how to account for the Idea of those who planned 
and announced the intended Expedition,^ it is probable if they are ever 

* See the Journals, Mar. 5 (action on report of the committee of commerce) ; 
also Feb. 20, 23, Mar. 12, 16, 17, 20, 23, Apr. 6, 7, 13, 16. Francy was agent of Roderique 
Hortales and Company (Beaumarchais). See nos. 74, 109, ante, and nos. 186, 281, 437, 
post. 

[134]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIL 116. 

2 Cf. no. 126, ante, and nos. 168, 176, post. Washington's letter to the committee 
Mar. 6 is found (in part) in Writings (ed. Ford), VL 388. 

[iSSl'^S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. i. 

2 Laurens is replying to Lafayette's letter of Feb. 23 (5". C. Hist, and Geneal. 
Mag., VHL 3). Concerning the expedition to Canada, see no. 46, note 5, ante. Cf. 
Wallace, Life of Laurens, pp. 272-273. 



112 Continental Congress 

called upon they will be at as great a loss in that respect as I am — a subject 
this, which I wish not to dwell upon. With regard to you Sir, it is clearly 
evident, that the part which Your Excellency has acted will be known 
throughout America and Spoken of with applause. I dare not predict 
the sentiments of Congress respecting a seperate Command, however, 
I am persuaded every Individual holds you equal to the trust. If you are 
pleased to propose an eligible plan I may say with confidence it will receive 
a respectful consideration and 'tis my private sentiment there will be little 
hesitation upon availing the public of Your Excellencys offers of service. 

I submit to you Sir, in such Case, the propriety of corresponding directly 
with Genl. Washington and procuring his opinion to be transmitted to 
Congress and also with Genl. Gates as an Officer and a patriot not as part 
of the Board of War. 

I am sensible of the distress the Northern department has been in, 
from a want of Money, of late there have been large remittances and 
such further sum will immediately follow as the Treasury Board assure 
me will afford complete relief, if we all followed your Excellency's 
example and attended business at all hours until it was finished our affairs 
would be in much better plight than they are. 

I dont know who promised Monsr. failly a Colonel's Commission. 
I know Congress refused him one, altho' he applied under the strongest 
recommendation from Genl. Gates. ^ I cannot, even with Mr. Brice's * aid, 
decypher the name coupled with that of Monsr. failly.^ 

If it shall be determined that your Excellency shall remain in the 
Northern department it will become necessary in a proper part of some 
one of your Letters to Congress to require Blank Commissions. 

When a proper opening invites, I shall with great pleasure intimate 
your Excellency's attention to the Interests of these States demonstrated 
in pledging your own in support of the public Credit, which I am per- 
suaded will be gratefully received and acknowledged 

I have ordered 6000 Dollars of my own funds to be packeted and 
delivered to Major Brice for which I have taken his Rect. to deliver the 
same to your Excellency. 

I shall put that Gentleman in the way to enquire the course of Exchange 
in Lancaster if he finds it at 400 per Ct. or upwards Bills for about the 
Value of One Hundred Louis d'or each set may be transmitted and Made 
payable to me I will endorse them to the purchasers, there ought to be 
at least five bills to a set. 

Major Brice will inform your Excellency how closely I am confined 
to this Table at all intervals from personal attendance in Congress and 
plead an excuse for all my errors and omissions. 

I am just closing dispatches for Lieut. Genl. Burgoyne who having 
found a pen capable of writing Congress properly, has obtained leave to 
embark himself and family for Great Britain.^ I will in a few days 

^ See the Journals, Feb. 5 (erased resolve), and no. 80, ante; also note S, below. 

* Maj. John Brice, at this time aide-de-camp to Lafayette. Laurens's Letter- 
Book shows that Major Brice was the bearer of this letter and also that of Mar. 4, ante. 

5 Tn his letter of Feb. 23 (see note 2, above) Lafayette says: " mr. de failly 
and mr. de luce have told me that they had been promised I schould give them colonel's 
commissions, but I have no blank ones." 

^ See the Journals, Mar. 2, 3, and nos. 125, 130, ante. 



March, i;j8 113 

transmit to your Excellency the particulars of this negotiation, at present 
I am obliged to conclude, which permit me to do by repeating that I am 
with the most sincere and respectful regard and attachment 

Sir Your Excv's obliged and obt. Servt. 
P. S. 

I have this moment a hint given me that the Board of War mean to 
recommend the recall of your Excellency and Genl. de Kalb to join Genl. 
Washington and that Genl. Conway will remain where he is.'^ do not 
Dear Marquis suffer this to discompose you. 

I shall expect — I was going to say — that Congress will weigh this 
point, but that Inst. Genl. Gates came in, I put the question to him he 
says it is intended to make it agreeable to your Excellency because there is 
no Command yonder worthy of you. 

136. Henry Laurens to Samuel Adams.^ 

York Town 7th March 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

You may remember the anxiety which I expressed upon hearing of the 
Portugueze Vessel being carried into Boston as prize, neither you nor 
I knew then who were Owners of the Captor : I am sure I did not. 

Congress two days ago received a Memorial on that affair from the 
Honble. Robt. Morris Esqr. which exhibits after much candid narration, 
a Prayer, " that Congress will cause a fair and public Sale to be made of 
the Vessel and her Cargo, that the charge and expence arising on the 
Sale be paid and the remainder or Net Proceed be invested 2^^ in Loan 
Office Certificates bearing Interest for i^^ the benefit of the true and 
Lawful proprietors of said Vessel and Cargo." 

The Ideas of the Alemorialist are, that from this very partial restitu- 
tion of original property, " the Original Owners will obtain Justice and 
reparation/' in which from the prejudice of my Education I have 
the misfortune to differ extremely: that |^^ "the Owners of the 
Phoenix will be relieved of all their difficulties ". this sentiment precisely 
accords with my own, but unfortunately I cannot from any consideration 
unite with any set of Men in an attempt to dupe Congress into a participa- 
tion of the Crimes or follies of those good Owners, then closes the pious 
peroration — " thus, the National Faith and Credit of these Infant States 
will remain Inviolate ". had this been intimated by any Man of less 
understanding and Virtue than the Memorialist I should have been 
prompted to pronounce it, " Matchless impudence and Ignorance ". now 
I suspend a sentence. 

This Phoenix Memorial, is however Committed to five and had pre- 
engaged strong Advocates. 

the Memorialist altogether pleads ignorance of the orders given to seize 
Portugueze Vessels and adds ' his renunciation of the Act sometime after 

■^ See nos. 137, 151, post. 
[136]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 
Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 6 (with small variations). 

2 This word was substituted for " pleads " in the letter sent, while the Letter- 
Book copy has " cites ". 



114 Continental Congress 

the Vessel arrived at Boston, these might have made a different impres- 
sion upon my mind, had it not been hardened by a retrospection to three 
or four antecedent circumstances and by the present definition of Private 
" Justice and Reparation " and of public " National Faith and Credit ". 
I now perceive these, calling aloud for a thorough Investigation of the 
Crime committed, and that it is necessary if the Laws are defective for 
punishing Pirates and the prompters of Pirates we ought by doing com- 
plete Justice to the Injured Original Owners, and by affixing a Public 
Stigma ^ upon the Offenders, display to the World that we entertain a 
just sense of, and that we are determined to keep Inviolate " the National 
Faith and Credit of these Infant States ". 

I have spoken these things freely Sir, in the confidence which you have 
heretofore been pleased to vest in me. this is a Public matter and will be 
followed with great consequences, it is, in the Power of the People and 
'tis their Duty by wise determinations to draw them to contribute to, I 
should say to establish the Honour of the American Union, without 
regard to private considerations. 

I am to request of you Sir if the Proceedings in Admiralty are not very 
prolix to obtain a Copy of and transmit them by the bearer hereof who is 
furnished with Money to pay the Office Fees — and I shall flatter myself 
with hopes of your sentiments in addition.* .... 

137. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

7th March 1778. 
Sir, 

.... I spoke again this Morning to Genl. Gates on the subject of 
recalling Your Excellency to Genl. Washington's Army and although we 
differed in opinion I really believe he means well, however when the 
recommendation came before Congress, I could not, consistantly with 
honour and Love to my Country, forbear intreating Congress to hear my 
sentiments. I marked out the good your Excellency was performing in 
the Northern department, and the effect which an Order of recall from 
the Board of War, might have, the House agreed to postpone the Con- 
sideration of that Report and nothing will be done until we hear from 
your Excellency. 

3 In the Letter-Book copy the expression is " proper Public Stigma ". 

* See the Journals, Mar. 6, May 11, and no. 267, post. Some members of Congress 
were already viewing askance the conduct of Morris as a member of the commercial 
committee, and this affair of the Portuguese vessel served to crystalize the criticism of 
him. The affair came to a head in January, 1779, when Morris issued a statement to 
the public explaining his conduct (Jan. 7, 1779, vol. IV. A brief account of the episode 
is found in Wallace, Life of Laurens, ch. XXII. 

The Portuguese vessel captured by the privateer Phoenix is referred to in the 
earlier proceedings of Congress as Our Lady of Mount Carmel and Saint Anthony. In 
the later proceedings varying attempts were made to give the name in the original 
Portuguese form. In Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183 (items 226A, 227, 228) are listed 
three letters to Robert Morris, or to Willing, Morris, and Co., from Joseph Cunningham, 
captain of the Phoenix, two of them, written from Boston Oct. 16 and Dec. 24, 1777, 
respectively, describing the capture of the Portuguese vessel. Adams's reply to Laurens's 
letter has not been found. 

[137]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept. 1778, p. 4. 



March, iiyS 115 

When Your Excellency writes to Congress you will certainly take no 
notice of the above, you may ask us how you are to be disposed of and 
so forth, in which Your Excellency needs no hint or information from 
me. permit me to intreat you Sir, if you speak of or refer to the Letter of 
the 20th Febry, avoid disclosing that kind of resentment which may 
bring on disagreeable altercation I dread the consequences of keeping up 
the flame of party by disputes among ourselves and so far as I feel 
my self affected or affronted I am willing to make a sacrifice to peace by 
passing quietly over the bagatelle, if there was any design in the fore- 
stalling thatXetter, Major Brice has said enough to inflict ample punish- 
ment upon the offender, the dread of being detected and brought to light 
will be no small degree of punishment." .... 

138. The Committee of Conference, Minutes.^ 

[March 8-12, 1778.] 
8. Sunday Conferred with the General the Major Generals and the 
Commissioners on the subject of the Cartel." 

Conferred with Colos. Levingston and Cortland ^ of New York and 
the Mass'ts Colonels upon arrangemts. 
p. General not present 

10. General not present 

11. At Head Ouartrs.'* Conferred upon the Cartel. 

12. Wrote to Major Chase about the Tents. ^ 

139. The Committee of Conference to George Washington.^ 
Sir [March 9 ? 1778.]^ 

The Committee at Moor Hall have employed such Tim.e as they could 
spare from many Interruptions this Morning in a Conference upon the 

~ See no. 135, ante, no. 151, post; also Lafayette to Laurens, Mar. 20, 5". C. Hist, 
and Geneal. Mag., VIIL 14. 
[138]^ See no. 62, note i, ante. 

2 See nos. 88, 118, ante, and nos. 139, 163, 188, 202, post. 

^ James Livingston and Philip Van Cortlandt. (Of ten letters from the latter 
to Washington prior to the end of 1783 five, 1778-1779, are signed "Philip Cortlandt" 
and five, 1781-1783, are signed "P. Cortlandt".) 

* The committee had resided during the greater part of the period of conference 
at Moore Hall, near A'^alley Forge. 

5 Presumably Thomas Chase, deputy quartermaster-general, stationed at Boston. 
[139]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 2i3y ff- 241-253 (draft, in the 
writing of Gouverneur Morris). It is endorsed: "Draft of Part of a Letter to 
Gen. Washington on the subject of exchange Superseded by a Conference." 

2 The Calendar of the Washington Papers gives the date of this draft as 
Mar. 6, but it is in fact undated. The last sheet on which the draft was written contains 
the beginning of a letter, with the date, " Camp near Valley Forge, March 6th, 1778 ", but 
it was evidently to some person other than Washington. (This beginning is : " Sir, 
Your Favours of ist Jan. and 5 Do. came safely to hand after taking a Circuit and laying 
a long Time at York Town.") This discarded fragment of a letter does, however, show 
that the letter to Washington could not have been written earlier than Mar. 6. The 
minutes of the committee (no. 138, ante) show that there was a conference with Wash- 
ington Mar. 8 on the subject of the cartel, that he was not present on the 9th and lOth. 
but that there was another conference with him on the subject Ivlar. 11. It is conjectured 
that the conference Mar. 8 was connected with the subject of Washington's letter to 
Congress Mar. 7-8 {Writings, ed. Ford, VI. 397, ed. Sparks, V. 253), and that the 
discussion of the matter by the committee in his absence followed on the 9th or lOth. 



116 Continental Congress 

very important Subject of the Cartel now about to be established. And 
altho they may not be (and probably are not) so well acquainted with 
some Facts as other Gentlemen, and having perhaps different Feelings 
upon the Subject may view the same object in a different Point of Light, 
yet they conceive that the Ideas of Citizens may not be quite useless to 
Gentlemen of the Army now about to determine on the dearest Rights of 
Citizens at least of unfortunate ones. Neither will it be improper that as 
Members of Congress they should endeavor to explain and to vindicate 
some Resolutions of Congress which must in the Course of this Business 
become Matter of Debate and which (in the Opinion of so^ie Gentlemen 
not improperly) have been already stigmatized as cruel and unjust.^ Your 
Excellency's Request superadded to these Considerations leads the Com- 
mittee to go into the Matter a little at large, a Measure which on so 
important a Transaction their Duty seems to require. 

Without entering into the Deduction of an historical Train of Facts 
we shall simply refer to those which apply to particular Propositions, but 
it appears to us absolutely necessary to investigate if possible the precise 
situation which the contracting Parties stand in as well absolutely as 
relatively to each other. For since no Fact can be clearer than this that 
Interest alone (and not Principles of Justice or Humanity) governs Men 
on such Occasions it becomes necessary to know our Interest and theirs, 
which can alone be collected from such Situations. 

And here because it frequently happens that Soldiers particularly young 
Soldiers are dazzled with Misconceived or ill applied Notions of Honor, 
it may be well to step a little on one Side and explain our Sentiments. 
Honor mutually pledged appears to the Committee to be the ostensible 
Security of Compacts prompted and complied with for mutual Ease 
Security or Advantage. The Current of History will shew us that this 
Security is for the most Part only ostensible and were History silent our 
own melancholy Experience in the present War after the first Cartel 
settled will evince the Truth of the Observation at least as far as the 
Business before us requires. But allowing that it were more than osten- 
sible, allow it to be real, we cannot conceive that it hath any Thing to do 
with adjusting the Terms of the Compact. It is in publick what Honesty 
is in private Transactions and tho Honesty obliges a Man to pay what he 
owes it hardly obliges a Man to run in Debt. 

The Enemy possessing Quebec Halifax Rhode Island New York Phila- 
delphia and Florida are distressed for Men to make a proper Defence at 
these several Places in the Begining of the ensuing Campaign, they being 
at present ignorant where the Storm which they suppose to be collecting 
will fall, and fully convinced that the Loss of any capital Post will do 
them more essential Injury than the Failure of an Expedition or a con- 
siderable Defeat. Besides this it is with Difficulty they can procure Sub- 
sistence for their present Force in America and their Supplies of Money 
begin to run low. They are therefore much affected by the Resolutions of 
Congress compelling them to send Provision in Specie or pay for it in 
hard Money at a par Exchange. 

3 The reference is doubtless to the resoUition (with its preamble) of Dec. 19, 
1777. See also that of Feb. 26, 1778. 



March, i/y8 . 117 

Having mentioned these Resolutions it is not amiss to attempt to clear 
them from the Imputation of Inequity. And first it must be observed that 
in every Compact between beligerent Powers to ascertain Money Matters 
Recourse must be had to a tertium inferveniens or middle Rate, neither 
Party being willing to trust the Honesty of the other seeing that if he did, 
that other by exercising the allowed Sovereignty of a State might raise or 
lower the current Coin so as to suit his own Convenience according to 
the Circumstances and Exigencies which might arise. A fortiori on the 
present Occasion, is such Precaution necessary to us the Value of whose 
Money is from the Nature of the Case more fluctuating than that of other 
Nations. Besides which the Enemy deny that it is Money and have not 
only the Will but in a great IMeasure the Power too of governing its 
Value and further have exerted themselves to depreciate it by A-Iethods 
totally unprecedented among honest Men. If then it were agreed that 
both Sides should pay for the Subsistence of Prisoners in the Money of 
the respective Countries, what would be the Consequence but that our 
Resources must be entirely exhausted in maintaining our Enemies and 
this by Reason of their Knavery and our Folly [ ?] Besides this it would 
be declaring upon the very Face of the Transaction that our Money is 
not worth a Quarter of what it is uttered for by Congress, which is the 
next Step to making it worth nothing at all. With a View to these In- 
conveniences Congress fix the Medium to be in Spanish Milled Dollars 
worth each one paper Dollar of the Currency of these States and 4/6 
Sterling. Nor does the Objection of Inequity lie so strongly as Gentle- 
men suppose even in their own favorite Point of View, for it is permitted 
to them to pay in Specie; or if they can do it cheaper and more con- 
veniently than in Gold they certainly will, but the Fact is their Provision 
costs them more than ours even on this inequitable Exchange as it is called 
and we shall have to pay for so much as is furnished to our Prisoners 
according to what it costs them and not as we might have bought it in the 
Country. Nor shall we be permitted to replace our Deficiency in Pro- 
visions unless they happen to want Subsistence. For this we find was the 
Case at first, and tho the Liberty of sending in Flour and Wheat as they 
grew short in these Articles was (on that Principle and for their advan- 
tage) extended to an Amount for purchasing other Necessaries. Yet 
even then they by Proclamation obliged us to sell our Wheat at their Price 
or in other Words to pay for their Commodities just what they pleased. 
And tho it may be said that this Proclamation applied chiefly or only to 
their own Territory, yet when it is known (and the Fact is) that the In- 
habitants of that Territory never did raise Wheat beyond their own 
Consumption the slight thin Pretence only exposes their Conduct. 

But to return, it is evident that the Interest of the Enemy now calls 
upon them loudly for an Exchange of Men and therefore it is by no 
Means a Matter of Surprize that Genl. Howe after having delayed it 
so long is from these Circumstances brought to urge an Exchange with 
such Rapidity. 

On the other Hand the Capture of Burgoyne and the Leisure allowed 
the united States to breathe from the late Exertions will enable them to 
bring no despicable Force into the Field earlier than the Enemy can be 



118 Continental Congress 

well supported by additional Numbers ; besides this, the Maintaining so 
large a Number of their Prisoners will bring in considerable Supplies of 
solid Coin, while the Liberty which a Principle of Retaliation now fully 
adopted compels them to allow our Prisoners will enable us to maintain 
them with comfort among the Enemy, whereas if exchanged they would 
scatter abroad thro the Country and make little or no Addition of Strength 
to our Army. At the same Time the Want we feel of good Officers and 
the Sufferings of our Sailors and Citizens call upon us to establish a 
Cartel. Our Interest therefore is to push the Exchange of Officers 
Mariners and Citizens. The Mariners indeed will not be exchanged on the 
ensuing Conference but must take their Chance upon the great and useful 
Retaliation which Genl. Howe with great Propriety condemns because 
it affects his Interest, which was greatly forwarded by rendering American 
Prisoners so miserable as to disincline them to the Service of their 
Country if not absolutely forced to abjure it. 

The Exchange of Officers will We believe be admitted by the Enemy 
tho from the Delays affected there and the parole System adopted there 
is very good Reason to suppose that they will expect great Sacrifices on 
our Part in the Exchange of Privates and also some Relaxation in the 
inequitable Demand of Subsistence. But the Exchange of Citizens they 
will if possible avoid because it is their Interest to render the Acceptance 
of civil Offices extreemly dangerous since without civil Officers there can 
be no civil Government and the Enemy have Discernment enough to 
discover that civil Governments will be a more effectual Bar to their Claim 
tlian any Army upon Earth and this for Reasons your Excellency is so 
fully possessed of that it is needless to run thro the Detail. 

Thence it follows that the Exchange of Citizens should be a sine qua non 
of the Treaty;^ it should be made the great Corner Stone, Unless the 
Enemy will (which they will not) agree to carry on the War upon those 
benevolent Principles which we set them a fair Example of by Releasing 
all such of their Citizens as fell into our Hands. The next Part of the 
Treaty should we conceive be the Exchange of Officers, and here as well 
as in the Exchange of Citizens we ought to insist that former Agreements 
be complied with on their Part before we take a single Step further in the 
Business, the great Security of public Faith being a regular and rigid 
Exaction of the Performance of every Promise on the Part of our 
Enemies while we have the Power of compelling Performance which will- 
be the Case so long as we prudently retain their Soldiers in our Hands. 

Another Resolution of Congress presents a very considerable Obstacle 
in the Way of this Exchange and that is a Resolution directing that the 
Subjects of the several States found in Arms shall be delivered to the 
States respectively.^ The Enemy will doubtless expect either a direct or 
at least an implicative Repeal of this Resolution, but as neither the one 
or the other can be in the Power of the Commissioners, would it not be 
proper either to obtain Confirmation of their Authority from Congress 

* Cf. no. 88, ante. That letter was written by Dana, and, though this letter 
is in the liand of Morris, parts of it suggest the voice of Dana. 
^ See the Journals, Dec. 30, 1777. 



March, i/j8 119 

or else to instruct the Commissioners to insert a general Clause to the 
following effect viz. " Provided always that Nothing herein contained 
shall be construed in any wise to affect any Acts of the British Parliament 
or Resolutions of the American Congress ". But if it shall be thought 
most adviseable to obtain from Congress a Confirmation of the absolute 
Power of the Commissioners, we then submit to your Excellency the 
Propriety of directing them to provide that the Troops raised by the 
Enemy in America shall be last exchanged and also a special Provisoe 
that nothing in the Articles contained shall be construed to prevent either 
Party from proceeding judicially against those who by the Event of this 
Contest shall appear to have been Rebels. The Reason of which Observa- 
tion is this, that so long as the Troops raised among us are entitled to the 
Privilege of equal Exchange the Enemy will be enabled to carry on the 
American War in a great Measure by the Strength of America ; besides 
this it is no small Inducement to interested Men to join them, that at 
the worst Great Britain will make it an Article to save the Property of 
her Adherents in America, and altho Prudence may as it probably will 
lead us to go a great Way in our Compliances to get Rid of a very bur- 
thensome War, yet certainly Prudence will now dictate to hold out a 
Beacon to the wavering in Terrorem. • 

Should a Cartel take Place then in set [t] ling the Terms, great Attention 
should be paid to the J^'aluation which both with Regard to civil and 
military Characters should be made on Republican Principles, that is the 
Officers should be estimated very low when compared with the Privates 
whether Citizens or Soldiers, and besides this they should be exchangeable 
for each other only, that is to say civil Officers for civil Officers military 
for military Citizen for Citizen and Soldier for Soldier. The Reasons 
of which considering the disproportionate Number of Officers and those 
too of high Rank among us are too evident to dwell upon. 

In adjusting Accounts we cannot but be of Opinion that the full Value 
of our Money should rigidly be insisted on and before the Ballance is 
struck it should be agreed how such Ballance is to be paid ; for which a 
Variety of Modes presents itself. If neither Gold or Paper will answer 
(for if they will not acknowledge the legality and Value of our Money 
they certainly should not be permitted to pay their Debts with it) then it 
may be proper for the Americans to pay in Wheat and the English in 
Cloth at limited Prices, which would be for the mutual Advantage of 
both Parties or to establish some other Mode alike in the Power of both 
to comply with. 

The Enemy will probably make a very considerable Demand of Prison- 
ers taken at Fort Washington, but before a Tittle of this is complied with, 
for the Sake of the Influence it may have on future Transactions the 
Question must be settled whether Prisoners on Parole are or are not at 
the Risque of those who grant the Parole and this must be made an Article 
of the Treaty; for if they are not, then when old Prescott dies Lee should 
be considered as released because upon calling for Prescott he could not 
come in and therefore the other would not be bound. But if they are, 
then we are not to account for one more of these Men than are now alive. 



120 Continental Congress 

However supposing the former to be the Rule estabhshed which we 
beleive ought to be the Case, then a manifest Distinction is to be taken 
between the common Accidents of Nature and other Circumstances. For 
clearly should the Enemy after dismissing Prisoners on Parole waylay 
them and put them to the Sword, we should not be held to redeem them. 
Again if their Death was rendered equally certain by previously adminis- 
tering Arsenick the Determination ought to be the same. And surely no 
good Distinction can be taken between Death brought on by a Detention 
of the Necessaries of Life and an Exhibition of the Principles of Death. 
If therefore it should appear that these unhappy Men were by hard Treat- 
ment so reduced that great Numbers necessarily died we ought not to be 
held to account for them and a very favorable Opportunity now offers 
to stickle for these unhappy People to the uttermost, and in order that 
the Enemy may find it to their Interest to treat Prisoners better in future 
they should not be suffered to take the least Advantage of their own 
Wrong. The Commissioners therefore should be directed to estimate the 
Number of these Prisoners very low and further to start an Objection 
whether even any of them are to be exchanged. Inasmuch as the Capitula- 
tion of Fort Washington was clearly broken and altho it may not be proper 
to insist on this Matter, yet it will' be of Use to raise it because in Treaty 
the Claim of an Adversary should be opposed on every just and honorable 
Ground, since by that Means it may be much lessened if not totally 
avoided, besides which the only Security for their future good Faith 
consists in making them pay for their former Iniquities. 

Another Claim they may perhaps set up is that of Restitution for the 
Men taken at the Cedars, but on this Occasion the Case of Fort William 
Henry last War is so fully in Point that they cannot say much on the 
Subject. 

On the whole Sir We have to intreat that the Commissioners will not 
suffer a Headlong Desire of releiving the Miseries of our unhappy fellow 
Countrymen or a blind Attachment to Principles which the Enemy dis- 
regard (they having in Fact nothing to do in the Making of Treaties) to 
lead them into a hasty Acquiescence in the Enemy's insidious Proposals 
for such their Proposals will and indeed ought to be if they would main- 
tain the Character of able Negotiators. But that on the other Hand they 
will industriously Consider that on a proper Management and Use of 
the present Opportunity the Rights and Interests of this Country do most 
materially depend. And we cannot but wish for many Reasons that they 
may be careful not to interfere with the Resolutions of Congress which 
may involve in it very disagreable Altercations. 

It is true that by insisting on these various Points the Treaty may be- 
come intricate and after all the whole Matter fall to the Ground. But if it 
should, who will suffer most by the Accident[?] This is a Question 
which should be maturely weighed because upon a proper answer to it 
must depend the Steps to be taken on our Part. And at any Rate should 
the Exchange be ever so desirable the best Way to bring it about will be 
by apparent Indifference whether it ever takes Place.® 

^ See, further, nos. 163, 188, note 5, 202, 233, 235, 300, post. 



March, lyyS 121 

140. James Lov'ell to Samuel Adams/ 

March loth 1778 
My dear Sir 

It was mortifying- to hear the Delegates from several states this day 
assert that they were instructed respecting the Confederation, while the 
two Cyphers from Massachusetts could produce nothing. Our State is 
expected to be found in the Fore-front upon such Occasions. I think the 
determination of the States upon this point must have a great effect upon 
the ensuing Campaign and I therefore wish to hear from our As- 
sembly." .... 

141. Eliphalet Dyer to Jeremiah Wadsworth.^ 

York Town March loth 1778 
Dear Sir 

a day or two after the President wrote you Inclosing a resolution of 
Congress requesting your speedy Attendance at this place ^ I wrote you 
to the same purpose by your last and one from Coll. Williams am 
Informed you had not recievd that from the President. Congress have 
long been sick of the late Commis'te ^ System, they find it sufficiently 
ineffectual they were determined to alter they have from Various 
quarters been advised to you to head that Department they thot it prudent 
to have you present to advise to a plan which you dare Venture yourself 
upon but by your delay they are oblidged to Indeavor to settle a plan in 
the best manner they can, but dare say when you come they will readily 
admit of such alterations as^you think Necessary, they are willing to 
make it worth any Gent'n accepting, they Wish to have the Army Sup- 
plied at any rate. I hope you will make no delay in coming forward the 
season is advancing. Our preparations ought to be seasonable for the 
ensuing Campaine. We ought to make an early Effort to dislodge the 
Enemy before any reinforcements may come from Great Britain tho 
Planet Struck at the fate of Burgoyne yet are determined to make one 
Vigorous Effort more which God Grant may End in the destruction of 
all their future Schemes against America, hope no one this year will 
Stand upon Terms but join heart and hand for his Country 



[140]^^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The Journals make no record of the fact that the Confederation was under 
consideration Mar. 10, or of fixing a future day for its consideration. See nos. y2i, 112, 
122, ante, and nos. 143, 149, 155, 161, 162, 170, 191, post. Adams's reply, Mar. 27, to this 
and others of Lovell's letters is in Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 16. Cf. his letter to 
Richard Henry Lee, Jan. 1 {ibid., IV. i), that to [James Lovell], Jan. 10 {ibid., p. 6), 
and the vote of the town of Boston, Jan. 21 {ibid., p. 11). 

[141]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Jeremiah Wadsworth Papers. Addressed, "To Coll Jerem'h 
Wadsworth att Hartford Connecticutt ". 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 9, Mar. 30, and passim (index, Wadsworth, Commissary- 
general of purchases) ; also nos. 84, 98, 123, ante, 142, 175, post. 

3 Commissariat. 



122 Continental Congress 

142. Eliphalet Dyer to William Williams.^ 

York Town March loth 1778 
Dear Sir 

.... We have regulated the Qr. Master Department appointed by 
recommendation of Genii. Washington and om- Com'te at head Quarters, 
Genii. Green, Ma jr. Cox and one Mr. Pettit of the Jerseys to head the 
Various branches of that Department ^ but I fear we have not persued 
the best plan for the purpose. We have been waiting for the Arrival of 
Coll. Wadsworth to make a new plan and regulation in the Commiss's 
Department to form it so as to be agreeable to him, but at present are 
disappointed, the principal and main business of Jones the express was 
to carry letters to him, tho he had some letters for Boston am surprised 
at his failure in delivering the letters, by which means are oblidged to 
proceed in our plan without his advice, but believe if Gain will .Tempt 
him we shall put it on as favorable a footing as he could desire beside he 
will have the appointment of all to act under him. I hope you will forward 
him here with all Speed, all the purchases will be on Commissions, as also 
his pay.^ .... 

[P. S.] . . . . be assured there is not the most distant thought of remov- 
ing Genii. Washington, nor ever an expression in Congress looking that 
way, is a Tory lye from the beginning.* 

143. John Henry, jr., to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

York Town March loth 1778. 
Dear Sir 

Upon the representation of Col. Samuel Smith who was here last week, 
I obtained from Congress ten thousand Dollars for the recruiting Service. 
I sent it by him to you, and I expect you have received it before this time.^ 
If that sum will not do, I beg you will be kind enough to acquaint me. 

I am informed the Committee of Congress at Camp have among other 
States, applied to the State of Maryland for the purchase of a number 
Horses for the purpose of forming a Body of light Cavalry.^ If you 
should approve of the plan or should you lay it before the Assembly, and 
it is adopted by them ; I trust some estimate of the expence will be made, 
that the money may be forwarded from this place. Should the recruiting 
Service require a greater number of Dollars I believe they may be had. 

I believe you need not entertain any fears of the expedition against 
Canada going forward. The advanced Season of the year, and the feeble 

[142]! Boston Pub. Lib., Statistical Room, Chamberlain Coll., II. 5. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 30, 31, Feb. 5, 7, 21, Mar. 2, and nos. 84, 123, ante. 

3 See no. 141, atite. 

* Williams had doubtless heard an echo of the Conway affair. Cf. a letter of 
Benjamin Harrison to Joseph Hewes Mar. 3, N. C. State Recs., XIII. 61. 
[143]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 64; Arch, of Aid., XVI. 532. 

2 See no. 131, ante. 

•■' See the committee's letter of Feb. 28, in Arch, of Md., XVI. 522 ; Pa. Arch., 
first ser., VI. 31C. 



March, ly/S 123 

preparations in that department has effectually put an end to it.* I most 
cordially join with you in opinion, that it is the interest as well as the 
true policy of this Country to collect their force to a single point by 
strengthening the hands of Genl. Washington. But this I fear will not 
be the case. It is the opinion of some, and they have weight with a certain 
class of men, that the whole force of the Enemy will be turned towards 
the East the next campaign, a military Gentleman in high office supports 
this opinion. Should it prevail in Congress I think it will injure the 
Middle States in a high degree, as well as the common Cause at large. 
The Virginia Frigate is ordered to make another attempt if she fails 
the measure you propose I expect will be adopted. ° 

Virginia will this afternoon offer to ratify the confederation. No other 
State is prepared. I shall take this opportunity of stating the objections 
to it, from Maryland, tho I have little hopes of this matter being soon 
determined. I fear it never will in our favour.*' .... 

144. Jonathan Bayard Smith to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town, March 10, 1778. 
Sir, 

On other leaf is copy of parts of a letter from Colo. Hartley to the 
board of war on the subject of recruiting his battalion, and the boards 
letter to Congress on the subject; ^ both which were referred to the dele- 
gates of this State. As not to comply with the proposition made, might 
appear an unnecessary obstruction to reinforceing the army on one hand, 
or on the other a compliance might involve consequences not expected, 
the delegates advised with the Committee from the state now here,^ and 
finally take the liberty of referring to your directions, as they did not 
conceive themselves authorized to interfere. 

The states are severally called upon to raise their old quota of troops. 
The number of this state regiments is diminished to 10.* The super- 
numerary men are to be transferred to the horse, artillery, and other 
unconnected corps. Of the 16 Regiments (so called) 9 only are to be kept 
up; and, I suppose, will be allotted to particular states, and filled up as 
above. Colo. Hartleys will probably belong to us as its natural connexion. 
To concur with his proposition will give him the men more immediately, 
and allowing him to employ his officers may expedite the recruiting ser- 
vice ; perhaps be the mean of procuring recruits, either from connection or 
attachment, which others would not pick up. He has expectations from 

■* See nos. 126, 135, 137, ante. 

^ The Virginia frigate was under command of Capt. James Nicholson. See 
Paullin, Out-Letters, I. 198, 206-209, 220, 221, 224, 244; also Arch, of Md., XVI. 498, 
508, 534, and no. 170, post. A letter from Captain Nicholson Apr. 2, read in Congress 
Apr. 10, announced the loss of the Virginia on Mar. 31. See also the Journals, Apr. 18. 

^ See no. 140, note 2, ante, and nos. 155, 170, 191, post. 
[144]! Fa. Arch., first ser., VI. 350. 

^ See Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 351, and the Journals, Mar. 9, 27, Apr. 13. 

^ See Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 359. 

* See the Journals, Feb. 26. 



124 Continental Congress 

the borders of Maryland ; filled his regiment formerly with quick success, 
and appears to be sanguine now. With respect to the money he appears to 
be prudent and cautious. But as we may perhaps not foresee all the effects, 
or the full connection with the state of Pennsylvania, we beg leave to 
solicit your earliest advice and direction, as no time ought to be lost. We 
beg leave only to add that the complement of each battalion is also to be 
reduced, and that though some states have discountenanced these uncon- 
nected regiments, yet some others have given them the benefit of their state 
bounties. 

145. Jonathan Bayard Smith to James Young.^ 

Sir, 

The frequent complaints made concerning the Waggon service induces 
me to trouble you with this letter. I shall mention two instances, and will 
be much obliged to you for a state of the case in general, and for your 
sentiments on the particular instances I now refer to. 

Your letter to Council was transmitted to the Delegates of this State, 
and we had occasion to communicate it to Congress. It was said in reply 
that the Superintendants had regularly turned over the whole transactions 
and given the proper orders for delivery to the Commissioners, and upon 
application from the Waggon Masters informed them that they had done 
so and referred to them. 

The other Instance is that upon application for Waggons to move 2 tons 
of Iron you had refused to, saying that no waggons were to go out of the 
State. 

As I imagine those things only need to be explained, I wish for in- 
formation, and shall be glad to receive it, or on any other occasion from 
you.^ 

York Town, nth March, 1778. 

146. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge.^ 

nth March 1778 
Dear Sir, 

.... The intended Irruption into Canada ended before it commenced, 
in this business the Marquis delafayette has acted with wisdom which has 
gained him much reputation, but he is seriously chagrined with the 
planners of that amusement, if I have the honour of any Influence it shall 
be, I may say it has been exercised to dissuade him from the resentment at 
this critical juncture. 

Your Excellency may recollect I regretted being almost alone in opposi- 
tion to that indigested romantic scheme. Your Sir, who know the World 
so well, will not be surprised when I add I can scarcely find a Man in Con- 
gress, now, who favoured it. except my own I do not remember three 

[ 145] 1 Fa. Arch., first sen, VI. 357. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 10, 20; also Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 218, 259, 276, 282, 
289, 298, 321, 330, 227, 338, 343, 348, 353, 366, 2,71, 2,77, and passim (index, Wagons, etc.) 
Cf. no. 117, ante, no. 159, post. 

[i46]iS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 10. 



March, lyyS 125 

dissenting voices. Now — well " I never liked that Canada Expedition " 



I have been strongly tempted to resign the Chair in order to gain an 
opportunity for offering my sentiments upon subjects, which, tho' of 
great moment, came within the narrow Circle of my understanding. I am 
apprehensive of being under a necessity of transmitting a proof of this 
in three of Colo. Kennon's Bills sanctified by Your Excellency's testi- 
monial which I fear will nevertheless, after certain illiberal remarks upon 
your Excellency's Certificate, be returned protested to Charles Town, had 
I been upon the floor I am persuaded this Avould not have happened, if the 
House is so unwise as to refuse payment tomorrow I shall think it my 
Duty to accompany them by a special detail of the causes.^ .... 

147. Eliphalet Dyer to the Governor of Connecticut.' 

York Town. 12th Mar. 1778. 
Sir. 

I had the Honor of yours by Torrey and since by Mr. Brown, with the 
Inclosures. On Colo. Champions Letter to Mr. Buchanan being read in 
Congress, it produced all that Solicitude and Concern the Subject re- 
quired ^ on the One Hand to recommend to the Assembly and State of 
Connecticut, who, they acknowledge, have ever distinguished themselves, 
not only in their ready Compliance with the Resolutions of Congress, but 
in their great Attention to every thing which tended to the Good of the 
Comon Cause and Interests of the United States, to revoke what they had 
so lately recommended them to adopt, would discover a Want of Considera- 
tion and too great a Fickleness in the Representative Body of the United 
States, and might much lessen the Influence of their future Resolutions. 
When they first recommended to the several States to appoint Com'tees 
to meet at N Haven, for the purpose of Regulating Prices ^ etc. they 
found themselves, at that Time, on the Brink of a Precipice — such a rapid 
Progress of the Increase of Prices on every Article necessary to raise as 
well as support the Army, the amazing Demands on the Treasury, arising 
from such an Increase, become beyond all possible Provision for Supplies, 
or would very soon be the Case, besides sink'g the States in such an im- 
mense Debt, from which they never could emerge. Congress being sensible 

2 Cf. nos. 135, 137, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 7, 14; cf. ibid., Oct. 28, 30, Nov. 28. See also nos. 156, 
287, post. 

[147]! Mass. Arch., CXCIX. no (copy); Library of Congress, Force Trans., Mass. 
Recs., Letters, 177S, p. no. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 9, 11, 13. 

3 The conference at New Haven on the regulation of prices was recommended 
in a report, adopted in part Nov. 23, 1777, presented by the committee of Congress to 
whom were referred (Aug. i8, 1777) the proceedings of a similar conference of 
committees of the New England states and New York. See, further, the Jounuils, 
Jan. 15, Feb. 16, Mar. 16, Apr. 8, May 7, Aug. 27, 1778; cf. ibid., Mar. 9, n, June 4, 
See also no. 123, ante, nos. 198, 205, 218, 234, 243, 321, post. For the proceedings in 
Congress on the earlier conference see the Journals, Aug. 18, Sept. 10, Oct. 27, Nov. 13, 
22, 23, 26, 27, 1777 ; also these Letters, vol. II., nos. 592, 723, 736, 753, 760. Concerning 
a still earlier conference of the New England states (Dec. 26, 1776— Jan. 2, 1777), see 
the Journals, Jan. 28, 31, Feb. 4, 5, 12-15, 1777, 



126 Continental Congress 

that this Rise did not wholly spring from the large Emissions of Bills or 
a Scarcity of Articles necessary for Consumption, but from a corrupt, 
avaricious, unnatural, infectious Disease, which was spread'g thro ever)' 
state, and which Nothing but extraordinary Remedies could check and 
Controul that this was truly the Case appeared from the Prices being as 
extravagant in the states south of this where the Bills were very scarce, 
as where there was the greatest Plenty therefore as the last Resort, with 
the other Remidies proposed, a Recommendation for a Regulating Act, 
in which the several States should unite, was what would effect some 
valuable Purpose, but at present we have received no Confirmation but 
from the State of Connecticut, the other States are generally much 
slower in their Motions, and more feeble in their Efforts, but I could have 
wished, from the critical Situation of our Affairs with Respect to Pro- 
visions, and the absolute Necessity of Supplies of Beef coming from the 
Eastward, that the Effect of the regulating Act, so far as respects stallfed 
Beef, had been suspended till about the middle of June. Congress have 
immediately referred back Colo. Champions Letter and their Resolution 
thereon to our Assembly, which is expressed in general Terms, as they 
would not appear to give any positive Directions which should interfere 
with the Rights of the Legislature of any particular State, but they really 
wish, hope and expect, that the Act, so far as it respects Stallfed Beef, 
be suspended for a Time, for Ruin will ensue, unless every Obstruction 
be removed to every possible Supply of Beef till Summer fed Cattle can 
be procured. 

I am etc. 

Eliphalet Dyer. 
Governor Trumbull. 

148. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, jr.^ 

York Town 12th Febry [March] 1778.^ 
Sir, 

I thank you for the justice you have done me in your favour of the 5th 
Febry which reached me no earlier than the 8th List, the abatement which 
my past direction of Addresses made to your proper stile, was not only 
inadvertent on my part, but the effect of misrepresentation from the 
Secretary of Congress from whom I had enquired in order to avoid error, 
or, giving Offence. 

Upon reading the Journal after the Rect. of Your Letter of * ^ 
your name and the erroneous Title, of course occurred. 
I judged this a proper juncture for correcting the mistake, for this pur- 
pose I intimated to the Secretary the claim which you had made in a 
Letter to me, and received a reply so very rugged, as had nearly carried me 

[148]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. II., no. 120; S. C. 
Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778. p. 18. 

2 In the Letter-Book the date is, correctly, " 12th March 1778". 

3 " * The Letter which inclosed one from Mr Appleton — this being at the Treas- 
ury Board I cannot quote the precise date." [Note by Laurens.] The letter was read in 
Congress Mar. 12, but no date is given. 



March, lyyS 127 

beyond the limits within which every Gentleman will confine himself in 
a Public Assembly. I treated the asperity of Mr. Secretary with silent 
contempt, and appealed by reading Your Letter to Congress, the Secre- 
tary turned to the Journals and produced Resolves from whence he had 
derived his Resolutions, other Gentlemen were at the trouble to prove 
from the same Journal of a subsequent date Vizt. on the 28th July 1775 
that you had been appointed Pay Master of the * * department. I was 
asked if I had seen Your Commission? That I was satisfied with your 
assurance of the fact and would not affront you, or any Gentleman, by 
such a demand, appeared to me the best reply to so giddy a question, the 
House happened to be extremely anxious to proceed upon business of the 
highest importance, and as most of the Members acquiesced in this 
opinion " that Colo. Trumbull should be properly addressed " and I beleive 
took it for granted the Journal would be altered, I judged it unnecessary 
to press the subject any further. I have delivered my sentiments in 
Public, and also to Colo. Dyer in private conversation, who promises me 
he will embrace a favorable opportunity for obtaining an amendment of 
the improper Entries. 

General Gates has assured me that he knows you are Commissioned 
Pay Master General, this happened not from my seeking confirmation, 
but accidentally in the course of conversation, and I can perceive no 
impropriety but directly the contrary, in Mr. President Hancock's addition 
to the Resolve, which was intended to designate Jonathan Trumbull 
Esqr. to be chief or principal Pay Master within a certain district — and 
from the Character I have received of that Gentleman, considered with 
the depreciated value of general in the Civil Line, I cannot be persuaded 
to beleive that sheer thirst of Title, prompted his present Claim. I flatter 
my self Sir, that enough is said to assure you, I am not chargeable either 
with a want of respect for you, or of attention to my duty, in anv of my 
former addresses ; and that I am with great Esteem and Regard Sir, 

Your obedient and humble Servant 

Henry Laurens 

Private. 
Jonathan Trumbull Junr. Esquire 
Pay Master General 

in the Northern department.^ 

* " * I have not the Journal before me and neither Colo. Dyer nor I can recollect 
precisely." [Note by Laurens.] 

5 In the Letter-Book the address is recorded as " Jonathan Trumbull Junr. 
Esqr. Paymaster General of the Forces in the New York department Lebanon ". In 
the Letter-Book, at the close of the letter, is found also the following memorandum : 
" N. B. 14th. Sent him a distinct Cover of a Copy of the Resolve of 28 July 1775." 
According to the Journals (July 28, 1775), Trumbull was elected " Pay master of the 
forces for the New York department". Thereafter the Journals usually mention him 
as "deputy pay master general in [or " for"] the Northern Department", although with 
an occasional variation. For instance, May 13, 1777, he is called " pay master general 
of the northern department ", and again Nov. 19. From the time of the episode mentioned 
in this letter the secretary almost uniformly records Trumbull as " pay master in the 
northern department", never "pay master general". Cf. no. 198, post. 

For a similar protest from Governor Trumbull, involving the question of the proper 
form of address, see nos. 53, 84, 85, ante, 291, post. 



128 Continental Congress 

149. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell)/ 

York, Pennsylvania March 12th 1778. 
D. Sir: 

.... The army is at present much in the same situation that it has 
been all the Winter, a Committee of Congress is at Camp in order to 
Enquire into and regulate the abuses and Insufficiencies therein. The 
Congress are much alarmed on account of the scarcity of Flesh provisions, 
and many splendid projects are contemplated but I fancy nothing will 
do unless the possessors of that Commodity can see prospects of gratify- 
ing their avarice. This vile principle if anything can, will mar our cause, 
for though America abounds with provisions we cannot get sufficient for 
a few Thousand men without expending Millions in the purchase of it. 
The Congress have yet resolved on nothing relative to our Militia,^ indeed 
I cannot find that they have any Idea of a plan of Operations or System 
of Warfare for the next Campaign, and are not able to determin whether 
they will want them or not. I am myself of Opinion that our army will 
neither take the field early enough or be of competent Strength when it 
is collected, and I fear we shall be able to undertake nothing against the 
Enemy, but must act still on the Defensive, and prolong the War. this 
is far from being agreeable to my Ideas of good policy, but without force 
sufficient for an Offensive War, it is all that can be done. Virginia is 
the only State who has yet wholly agreed to ratify the Confoederation. 
The 24th of this month is assigned for passing upon it again, by that 
time I suppose all of the States will be Instructed. Maryland, and Con- 
necticut have produced theirs. The former desires the western boundaries 
of the States claiming to the Mississippi or South Seas to be ascertained 
by Congress, and that all the Country west of the Frontiers not granted 
to Individuals should be common Stock. 

The latter desires that no standing army be kept up in time of peace by 
the United States, or Pensioners supported by them, except persons dis- 
abled in war, that the quota of the public Expence be in proportion to the 
Number of People in each State. I shall Endeavour to procure copies of 
the several Instructions, and transmit them to you, but I suppose the 
next assembl)^ will not take it up. They will deem it prudent to know the 
sense of every other State before they finally determin.^ I refer you to 
Mr. Penn for Intelligence 



[149]! N. C. Hist. Comm., Caswell Papers; N. C. State Recs., XIII. 378. 

- Harnett makes a similar statement in his letter of Mar. 20 (A''. C. State Recs., 
XIII. 385). See Caswell to Penn and Harnett Feb. 7, and to Burke Feb. 15 (ibid., pp. 
31, 42). Cf. no. 66, ante, and the Journals, May 29. 

3 See nos. 140, note 2, ante, 191, post. The Journals record Mar. 12 the reading 
of a letter of Mar. 4 from George Read to Thomas McKean and one of Mar. 9 from 
Caesar Rodney to McKean. Read's letter, largely pertaining to the Confederation, is in 
Read, Life of Read, p. 303. The principal part of Rodney's letter is found in Henkels, 
Catalogue, no. 1236, item 113. See no. 180, post. 



March, I'jjS 129 

150. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Manour Livingston 13th March 1778 
Sir 

.... The Plan of Congress, when I was last upon the Floor was by 
a sudden Irruption with 3 or 400 Volunteers, to attempt to burn the 
Enemy's shipping at St. John's and to ofifer a very considerable Bounty 
in case of success, the command to be given to General Starke who was 
supposed to be very popular in New Hampshire the western frontiers of 
the Massachusetts and the Grants and in every other respect qualified for 
the undertaking. The adventurous spirit of the Inhabitants in those parts, 
the danger to which they must be exposed while the British vessels com- 
mand the Lakes and the prospect of a Great Reward if they should succeed 
in the attempt, were thought sufficient considerations to justify the propo- 
sition. To me it was given in charge by Congress, to confer with General 
Starke and deliver him his instructions and explain their views. This 
occasioned my repairing to Albany as soon as I could give him notice to 
meet me. At first he seemed sanguine that the scheme would be ac- 
ceptable and vigourously supported by those over whom he had an 
immediate influence ; but on examination it was found that a Reward 
which depended only on a prosperous Issue was too slender a Motive 
for the undertaking.^ A proposal was therefore made to Congress to 
allow the Volunteers pay at all events, and the Bounty in case of success. 
But on General Gates' arrival at Congress the Plan was enlarged into 
its present Form, and the Command conferred on the Marquiss.' Imagin- 
ing it would be agreeable to you to have a full view of this transaction I 
have been thus circumstantial. I should have mentioned it to your Excel- 
lency when I had the pleasure of seeing you, the original Plan, but as 
it depended on secrecy I was enjoined to communicate it only to General 
Starke. Altho, we proposed to hold the Treaty with the Six Nations 
between the 15th and 20th of February it was not till the 27th that we 
had notice of their assembling. We repaired to John's town the 28th 
but they were so tedious in their movements that the business was not 
opened until Monday the 9th Instant. The number of Indians was some- 
thing above 700 consisting of Oneidas, Tuscarores, Onondagoes, a few 
Mohawks, and three or four Cayugaes but not a single Seneca attended. 
The latter had the Insolence even to effect their surprize that while our 
Tomahawks stuck in their heads, their wounds were bleeding and their 
eyes streaming with tears for the Loss of their friends at the German 
flatts, we should think of inviting them to a treaty ! .... 

As I was on my journey to John's Town when I was honoured with 
the Receipt of your dispatches, it was too late for your Excellency to 
execute your Trust respecting the appointment of an additional commis- 
sioner for Indian Affairs. Before I left Congress it was pressed upon me 

{i^oYMag. of Am. Hist., XIII. 177. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 3, 1777 (pp. 994, 999), and no. 26, ante. 

3 The proposal mentioned does not appear in the Journals. See no. 46, note 
5, ante. 



130 Continental Congress 

to accept the office. I declined it. and on my promise to assist the Com- 
missioner at the proposed Treaty if necessary the matter rested for that 
time. When I met the Commissioner at Albany the beginning of January 
to fix the Treaty it appeared that there was no prospect of General 
Wolcot's and no certainty of General Schuyler's attendance. We con- 
cluded therefore to recommend it to Congress to appoint additional com- 
missioners which occasioned the power committed to you.* The reason 
which induced me to decline the office of commissioner when my accep- 
tance was requested by Congress is this. The Jurisdiction of this State 
over the Country of the Six Nations is unquestionable as well as ancient. 
On it depends the legality of all our settlers in the Mohawk Country. 
Apprehension that the interference of Congress might one time or other 
cross the rights or the Interest of the State, and that as a Trustee for 
Congress I might be embarrassed and restrained in supporting our sepa- 
rate and exclusive Jurisdiction, I did not see my way clear to engage in it. 
as far as I can judge there is some weight in the objection. I am however 
not the less obliged to your Excellency for the Testimonial of your good 
opinion in offering me the appointment. When I pay my Respects I shall 
take the opportunity of conversing further upon it 

151. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

13th March 1778. 
Dear General, 

It is now late in the Evening I am just returned from Congress, have 
much business to prepare for a Messenger who is to make his excursion 
at the dawn of tomorrow and therefore only a Moment to intimate that 
Congress by a side wind this afternoons meeting were induced, but not 
without debate, to Resolve that General Washington be authorized to 
recall Marquis delafayette and Baron de Kalb to the Main Army. 

this may reach you before a Mandate from the General and will afford 
so much more time to make necessary arrangements for the retrograde 
journey." 

152. Jonathan Bayard Smith to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town March 16: 1778 
Sir 

Above you have copy of a resolution this day passed by Congress. The 
second resolution was moved but referred to a Committee who are directed 
to confer with Council thereon. The Committee are Mr. Clark Mr. James 
Smith and Mr. Henry. 

^ The printed text has " append additional commissioners ", but Duane no doubt 
wrote " appoint". See the Journals, Jan. 21 (pp. 73, 74), 31, Feb. 2, Mar. 28. Cf. a letter 
from Duane to Clinton, July 21, in Clinton Papers, III. 576- 

[151]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 17. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 13; cf. nos. 135, I37, ante, and 167, 168, post; also 
Lafayette to Washington, Mar. 25 (Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, IL 93), and to 
Laurens, Mar. 28 (.S". C. Hist, and Gcncal. Mag., VIIL 57). 
[152]! Princeton Univ. Lib.; Pa. Arch., first ser., VL 365. 



March, ly/S 131 

This affair appears to be of a delicate nature and may possibly tend to 
embarrass if not to injure. The view of Congress is I apprehend to be 
informed if possible of the intended precautions to be taken by the state 
preventive of any ill effects from liberating- Messrs. Penn and Chew ^ 

153. The Committee of Conference to the Governor of 

New York.^ 

In Committee of Congress 

Camp i6th March 1778. 
Sir 

We do ourselves the Honor to enclose you the Arrangement of a con- 
tinental Regiment upon the new Plan agreed to by the Committee accord- 
ing to which the old Battallions are to be modelled. It is at the same 
Time intended to dismiss from the Service such Officers as had better 
not be in it and should there be some worthy Men who cannot be employed 
consistently with our Plan to recommend them to Congress to make 
Provision for them. You will therefore be pleased to form the Regiments 
raised within your state (excepting such as are in this Camp) upon this 
Establishment with as much speed as the Nature of the Business will 
permit and transmit to this Committee a List of the Officers by you 
appointed and also such as are deserving and cannot be provided for. The 
Commissions will then be made out. The Method we followed was to 
obtain from the Field Officers of the Regiments who were to be confided 
in the Characters of the inferior Officers. Whatever Means shall appear 
to you best calculated for the Purpose your Good Sense will undoubtedly 
lead you to pursue. You will much oblige us Sir and contribute greatly 
to the public Service by taking the Trouble of this Business upon you 
We are respectfully 

Your Excellency's most obedient and humble servant 

Era Dana 
by Order 
Geo : Clinton Esqr. 

154. William Ellery to William Vernon.^ 

York Town M'h i6th 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

On the nth instant I received yours of the 5th and Mr. Jno. Adams's of 
the 6th of February 

I read that part of your letter, respecting the 74 at Portsmouth, and 
a Paragraph of one I reed., about the same time and upon the same 
Subject, from Mr. Whipple, to the marine committee, and it was agreed 
to stop the building of her for the present.^ These huge ships are too 

2 See the Journals, Mar. lo, i6, May 14, 15, and no. 157, post. See also Pa. 
Arch., first ser. VI. 61, 85, 367, 380, 389, 523. In regard to the imprisonment of Penn 
and Chew, see the Journals, July 31, Aug. 12-14, 28, 1777, and Pa. Arch., first ser., V. 
478, 512, 513. 

[153]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Continental Congress, no. 47. 
[154]^ R. I. Hist. Soc., Publications, vol. III., no. 4, p. 25. 
2 See Paullin, Out-Letters, I. 209, 218. 

13 



132 Continental Congress 

costly and unwieldy ; and it will require as many men to man one of them, 
as to man three or four frigates; besides we cannot with all the naval 
force we can collect be able to cope with the british navy. Our great Aim 
should be to destroy the trade of Britain ; for which purpose Frigates are 
infinitely better calculated than such large Ships. Mr. Whipple proposes 
to the marine comm[itt]ee to put the timber prepared for the 74 into a 
frigate to mount 30 i8-pounders on one deck, and this proposal I believe 
would be complied with if our finances were not at present very low and 
the demands of the great departments of war very high. I wish we may 
be able to finish, man, and get to sea, in the course of the next summer, 
the frigates that are now in hand ; but I very much doubt it. It gave the 
marine comm[itt]ee great Satisfaction to find that the Warren had 
got out 

The marine Committee lately ordered Capt. Barry of the Effingham to 
take the four Boats, belonging to the Frigates which are sunk in the 
Delaware, and proceed on a Cruise upon that River.^ 

.... You will have heard, before this reaches you, that the intended 
Irruption into Canada is laid aside. We are obstructing and fortifying 
Hudson's River, collecting men and provisions etc., etc., for the next 
campaign. The last will be the most difficult to accomplish. To have 
subdued both the British Armies in one Campaign was not more than 
I expected the last ; but it would have left us nothing to do the ensueing 
Campaign. 

With the Aid of Heaven we will crush the Serpent's head next Summer, 
and force our Enemies to be at peace with Us ! I have room only to add 
that I am 

Yrs 
Wm. Ellery. 

155. John Henry, jr., to the Speaker of the Maryland 
House of Delegates (Nicholas Thomas).'- 

York Town 17th Ma[r]ch 1778. 
Sir. 

I should have done myself the pleasure of writing to you by the last 
post, but as the Confederation was to be taken up on the Day he left this 
place, I deferred writing untill I could have it in my power to acquaint 
you what was said upon that Subject, but before Congress rose the post 
had left Town. 

Virginia ever desirous of taking the lead in this great Contest, was 
prepared and offered to ratify the Confederation. She stood single, 
and enjoyed a secret pride in having laid the corner stone of a confeder- 
ated World. Massachusetts Bay, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, 
Pensylvania, and South Carolina will confederate. The Delegates of some 
of these States have not yet received their Instructions, but are in daily 
expectation of them. New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Deleware, and 
Georgia could give Congress no satisfactory information of what had been 

3 See ibid., pp. 198, 200, 214, 217. 
[155]! Md. Hist. Soc, Portfolio, IV. (61). 



March, 1778 133 

done in their several states, as thev had received no authentic Intellisfence 
upon this subject. There can be no doubt but these States will confederate. 
The Instructions which the Delegates of Maryland received from the 
Genl. Assembly were stated upon this occasion to Congress. Several of 
the States being unrepresented, and few Members prepared to combat 
our objections, produced but a short Debate. The Matter now stands 
posponed till the twenty fifth of this month.^ As to the two first objec- 
tions, from the present Temper of the House I believe they will meet with 
very little opposition. But as to the last, which requires Congress to be 
invested with full power to ascertain and fix the western Limits of those 
states which claim to the Mississippi or South Sea all attempts will be 
vain and fruitless ; Equally unsuccessful will prove the Efforts made to 
obtain a right in common to that extensive Country which lies to the 
Westward of the frontiers of the United States, the property of which 
was not vested in Individuals at the commencement of the present war. 
Much has been already said in Congress upon this subject, and the opinions 
of those who will have the determination of it, has been long made up. 
The Argument may be renewed but the Decision will be the same The 
bare mentioning of this subject rouses Virginia, and conscious of her 
own importance, she views her vast Dominion with the surest expectations 
of holding it unimpaired. 

North Carolina has agreed only to the first second third eighth and 
1 2th, the second and third Sections of the fourth, and the last section of 
9th Articles which she has instructed her Delegates immediately to ratify. 
But the remaining Clauses and Articles, which, she believes, contains 
matters of the highest importance and involving what may materially 
affect the internal Interest and sovereign Independency of the state and 
which is not immediately necessary and essential to the success of the 
present war, ought not to be ratified till there is full time for mature and 
deliberate consideration. 

Connecticut has instructed her Delegates to obtain an alteration in the 
mode of supplying the common Treasury with money by changing it from 
the value of Landed property to the Number of Inhabitants ; if this cannot 
be done the Delegates are still empowered to ratify.^ 

Congress have with great earnestness, and with a Desire of impressing 
on the Minds of the several States, the necessity of filling up their Bat- 
talions recommended a Draft of the Militia, or other Measures that may 
be effectual. This I know will be a serious piece of Business in our state 
and dangerous to pursue. How it can be effected and at the same Time 
preserve the Temper of the people, I know not. It is possible the Legisla- 
ture may fall upon ways and means without adopting the odious plan of 
Drafting.* .... 



Congress is ex[t]remely thin, which you will discover by a resolve 
which has or will be soon sent you.^ 

- Burke mentions Mar. 12 (no. 149, ante) that the day fixed for consideration 
of the Confederation was Mar. 24, and the letter of Forbes of that day (no. 170, post) 
indicates that the subject had just been under discussion. See also nos. 162, igr, post. 

^ See the references under no. 140, note 2, ante. 

* Cf. nos. 122, 131, ante. 

^ See the Journals, Mar. 12. 



134: Continental Congress 

156. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson/ 

York Town, March i8th, 1778. 
Dear Sir: 

.... Burgoyne's Army is stopped, you will see the particulars in the 
enclosed newspapers ; I was not at liberty to Communicate this intelligence 
sooner 

Your Bills I fear will not be paid. I wish you had not been Concerned 
with them. I ever Cautioned you against having any connection with 
that man Kennon, but to no purpose ; but it was unpardonable to have no 
other Indorser than his Clerk. The business of Congress was taken up the 
whole day on Kennon's Bills on Saturday last, and from the Complexion 
of the House I am well satisfied they will not be paid. I shall bring it on 
again, and if they are not paid, I shall have them regularly protested, 
which is, I fear, all that can be done at present, and will send them on 
by Post, to give you an opportunity of endeavouring to procure payment 
from his Executor or Administrator." .... 

157. A Committee of Congress to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York, i8th March, 1778. 
Hon'd Sir, 

Your Excellencies' Letter in Council of the 7th Instant, relative to the 
Prisoners sent from the state of Pennsylvania to Virginia, was read in 
Congress, and a resolution thereupon entered into, directing the Board of 
War to deliver them to the Order of your state, which Resolution, we 
presume, has been transmitted in the usual channel. 

The latter part of the Letter which mentions the case of the Honble 
John Penn and Benja. Chew, Esqrs., occasions the subscribers to trouble 
your Excellency herewith, they having been appointed by Congress a 
Committee to Correspond with your state, and bring in a report to Con- 
gress on that subject. Those Gentlemen as Crown Officers, and hold- 
ing Commissions under the authority of the King of Great Britain 
prior to the declaration of Independence, and yet taking no active part 
(that we know of against us,) since that Period, renders their situation 
very peculiar, in the first point of view they seem, under their present 
restraint, Prisoners of the United States ; what is to be done with them 
consistent with Justice and the public safety, is a Question of much im- 
portance. If enlarged and permitted to go into Philadelphia what mischief 
may our Enemies doe under a Colour of their authority, even without their 
consent, if permitted to go at large in those parts of Pennsylvania in 
possession of the Whigs, as they are so intermixed with Tories, very mis- 
chieveous consequences may arise. If confined in Pennsylvania for refus- 
ing a Test, it may occasion discontent and caballing. 

[156]! iV. C. State Recs., XIII. 381. 

2 Cf. no. 146, ante. 
[157]! Fa. Arch., first sen, VI. 367. 



March, 1//8 135 

Congress have no objection (we are inclined to think) to their being 
returned under the authority of the state, provided it can be done v^ithout 
danger to the state of Pennsylva. in particular, or the United States in 
general. 

The Committee request such Information on the subject as your state 
may think proper to communicate, to enable them to form their opinion, 
and report to Congress for their determination.^ 

We have the Honour to be, with great respect, 
your Excelliencies most obedt servants, 

Abra. Clark, 

John Henry, Junr., 

Jas. Smith. 

158. Daniel Roberdeau to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town, March 19th, 1778. 
Sir, 

The enclosed resolution was this Evening proposed to Congress, and 
after some debate, committed to the Delegates of this State, we therefore 
request Instructions from The Hon'ble the Council on the head, with their 
result on the other matters referred to them by us as soon as possible. A 
resolution has passed Congress recommending to this State to call out five 
hundred Militia, which will be forwarded to you by the President to 
which please to be referred.^ I am in behalf of my Colleagues very 
respectfully, Sir, 

yr most obt huml Servt, 

Daniel Roeerdeau. 

159. Jonathan Bayard Smith to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Thomas Wharton, jr.).^ 

York Town, March 19th, 1778. 
Sir, 

Upon an application from the settlers at Wioming or as they call it, 
" The Town of Westmoreland," Congress agreed to establish one Com- 
pany of troops there for its immediate defence for one year. Congress has 
expressed this in the same terms in which a similar resolution passed two 
years ago, and which I believe was adopted on the consent of the Delegates 
from Connecticut and this State; at the same time establishments were 
formed for the defence of the other frontiers by establishing other corps 

2 See no. 152, ante. The Pennsylvania council's reply to this letter is in Pa. Arch., 
first sen, VI. 389. Extracts of a letter from Chew to Robert Morris dated Mar. 31, 1778, 
relative to his imprisonment, are in Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 375. Morris's 
reply, dated Apr. 6, is listed in the same catalogue, item 44. 

[158]! Pa. State Lib., P. P. XLVI. 45; Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 374. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 19. (p. 270). The "remainder of the report" referred 
to the delegates of Pennsylvania was the paragraph immediately preceding " Ordered ", 
etc. The council's reply, dated Mar. 21, is in Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 380; cf. ibid., 
VI. 370. 

[159]^ Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 371. 



136 Continental Congress 

both with regard to Pensylv. and Virginia. The house is prepared for 
the same measures now on appHcation (I beheve) for that purpose. But 
the affair I imagined had been left to the Commissioners now at Pitts- 
burgh at least as far as it respects the Vicinity of that place.^ 

In a letter received from Genl. Washington yesterday he speaks of the 
Enemys representation concerning the trea1;ment of the flag bearers, and 
seems to labour under considerable difficulties on that head. An order 
passed Congress some time ago for obtaining from the Honble Council 
a state of that transaction as far as Council or persons under their 
authority were concerned. I wish it were done.^ 

The committee ordered to report on the memorial of the assembly and 
Council have not yet had an opportunity of laying before Congress their 
report. I have seen what they propose. Among other matters, they recom- 
mend that the price fixed by the State be adhered to, and that the waggon 
hire be settled agreeable to the act of our State.^ 

i6o. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Egbert Benson.^ 

20th March 1778.- 
Sir, 

Your Letter of the 31st Decemr. which I had the honour of receiving 
the 27th Jany, was immediately presented to Congress, the Members 
then present, expressed generally their regret that you had declined acting 
in the Commission for the intended " Enquiry " at Providence and 
ordered the Letter to be filed by the Secretary.^ 

From the method in which I found Congress habituated and against 
which I have sometimes remonstrated, it is not the presidents province to 
acknowledge the Receipt of Letters without the authority of a Resolve or 
special order, nor indeed, can he in many Instances even recite the date 
but by the aid of a good memory, hence I flatter myself Sir, you will 
be persuaded to believe, the seeming neglect of your former address is 
not imputable to me, at the same time tis my duty to declare — the opinion 
of Congress, from the sentiments delivered by Individuals, appeared to be 
that an appointment in your stead would have arrived posterior to the 
period first assigned for that Enquiry, and that the four other Gentlemen 
named in the Commission would all have given their attendance to the 
business. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 13, 14 (report of the board of war), 16, 17; cf. ibid., 
June 23. For the earlier action referred to see the Journals, Aug. 23, 1776. 

•''The letter of Washington, dated Mar. 14, is in Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 422. 
Concerning the incident of the flag, see Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 217, 268, 380. 

■'See the Journals, Mar. 10, 20; cf. nos. 117, 145, ante. 
[i6o]i Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 236. 

- The Letter-Book shows that this letter was sent by the hand of " David 
Barkley". See no. 16, ante, and no. 161, post. 

3 The commission of which Benson was elected a member was that to inquire 
into the failure of the Rhode Island expedition. See the Journals, Dec. 11, 1777, and 
Jan. 27, Mar. 20, 1778; also no. 120, note 3, ante. Benson was at this time attorney 
general of the state of New York. In 1784-1785 and again in 1787-1788 he was a member 
of Congress. A sketch of him is in Appleton, Cyclo. of Am. Biog. 



March, ij'jS 137 

this Morning the Honble Mr. Lewis put into my hands and I presented 
to Congress your Letter of the 7th Inst, directed to the Delegates from 
New York the House made no order, but the unanimous Voice indicated 
an earnest desire that you will if your afifairs can possibly admit of your 
absence from home join the other Commissioners, if they shall have 
judged it necessary to adjourn to a further day from the intended meeting 
on the 4 Monday in the present Month and give me leave from the best 
assurance to add Sir that in such Case your services will be highly 
acceptable. 

161. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

[March 20 ? 1778.]' 
Dear Sir — 

Mr. Dana is likely to be at Camp a Fortnight longer. I will make no 
Comments upon this. I have mentioned something like it as often to you 
as if you was the procuring cause of a regulation which has not yet 
proved beneficial to our state, for which end it was doubtless calculated. 
I must insist upon it that more than are necessary for a vote ought always 
to be attending, as a necessary provision against accident.^ .... 

New York has sent her Confirmation of the Confoederation in a most 
elegant and formal manner engrossed and fortified with the Great Seal 
of the State to be lodged among the Papers of the Continent the most 
precious.* Our State is little attentive to such things and yet they are far 
from improper.^ 

162. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

York Town 20 March 1778 
Dear Sir 

.... Our committee are not yet arrived from camp, but are daily 
expected, it is expected they will on their arrival open a new field for 
Congress.^ 

I intend to set off on my return home some time towards the Middle 
of April. I shall then have been ten months from my family, and as our 
Assembly pay their Delegates so very Liberally, I have neither expectation 
or wish to return again, as I am convinced there will be many Candidates 

[i6i]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 This letter is undated, but the contents indicate a date approximating Mar. 20. 
For instance, the New York ratification of the Confederation was probably brought 
to York Town Mar. 19, by David Barclay, and presented to Congress Mar. 20. See nos. 
16, 160, ante, and nos. 162, 170, post. 

' See no. 44, ante, and nos. 164, 174, 203, post. 

* Cf. no. 72, ante, and note 2, above. See also no. 155, ante. 

^ The ratification of the Confederation by Massachusetts (Mar. 10) had not yet 
been received, but Harnett says, Mar. 20 (no. 162, post), that the Massachusetts delegates 
had private information of it. See no. 203, note 7, post. 

[162]! From the collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York; N. C. State 
Recs., XIII. 385. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 26, and no. 193, post. 



138 Continental Congress 

for the Honorable imployment; I am not one, tho' I shall think it my 
Duty to serve my Country to the best of my poor abilities, either with or 
without pay. 

I suppose the Gen. Assembly will be adjourned before my return. I am 
sorry they had not Continued their Present Delegates until they were 
relieved by Others. This might have prevented our State from being 
unrepresented in Congress for two or three months at least, which must 
be the case as matters now stand. 

Virginia has empowered her Delegates to ratify the Confederation. 
The Members from Massachusets have also private Letters informing 
them that their State has also done it ; I do not hear of any other States 
doing it as yet. Connecticut wish the Quota to be fixed by the number 
of people in each State ; every Other Objection of theirs has little weight. 

Every member of Congress seems to wish for a Confederacy except 
my good friend Burke who laughs at it as a Chymerical Project, but does 
not strike me in that point of view. I think that unless the States con- 
federate a door will be left open for continental Confusion and blood-shed 
and that very soon after we are at peace with Europe. I heartily wish I 
may be mistaken.^ 

I have the honor to be with the greatest respect 

your Excellencys most obedt and very hu' servt 

Corn. Harnett. 

P. S. Upon enquiry I find the Delegates from the several States have 
power to ratify the Confederation, but are to endeavor to get some 
Alterations made if possible. Mr. Penn will give Your Excellency further 
information on this subject. The Gen. Assembly of N. York have agreed 
unanimously and have by Commission empowered their Delegates. As I 
have been informed some aspersions have been thrown out to the Pre- 
judice of Mr. Penn, I must in justice to that Gentleman's Character assure 
your Excellency that his Conduct as a Delegate and a Gentleman has 
been worthy and disinterested. 

163. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
George Washington.^ 

2 1 St March 1778. 
Sir, 

My last to Your Excellency was under the 15th by Sharp in which I 
had acknowledged the receipt of Your Excellency's favours of the 7tli 
8th and 12th and which I now repeat because I have heard nothing since, 
of that Man who in common course should have been at Camp on the i6th. 
within three days past I have had the honour of presenting to Congress 
Your Excellency's several dispatches of the I4tli i6th and 17th. those of 
the 7th 8th and 12th are still in the hands of a Committee from whom 
may be expected a special Report respecting the many opprobrious terms 
and epithets scattered throughout the Papers from Sir Willm. Howe, 

3 See no. 140, note 2, ante. Some remarks of Burke on the Confederation will 
be found in vol. II., no. 740. See also no. 191, post. 

[163]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 237. 



March, I7y8 139 

applied to the good people of these United States and to their Representa- 
tives in Congress, which were heard by the House with great Indignation, 
from expressions of sentiment by Members on all sides, it appears to be 
the general opinion, that such papers should have been marked with the 
contempt of an immediate return.^ 

164. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

[March 23, 1778.]^ 
2^d. I missdated my inclosed Scrawl. Brother Dana is this day in 
Congress but he will immediately return to Camp. He is bent to be at 
Home in May ; ^ he has been very industrious in serv^ing the public, but 
it seems his own countrymen are totally laying open his Farm to destruc- 
tion ; I must also intreat for other reasons than his or Mr. Geary's relief 
that you and your Brethren w^ould come forward. I think another Dele- 
gate, at least, should be chosen as Mr. J. A. is taken from the Corps which 
was to relieve the those [.szc] who have stood a sad winters Campaign in 
York Town 

165. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry ).^ 

York Town, Pennsylvania 23. March .78 
Nothing of moment having occurred since Col. Lee's last letter, we have 
only to communicate the earnest desire of congress that our new levies 
of troops may be sent forward to camp with the utmost expedition. The 
necessity of pushing this business with vigour arises from the present 
weakness of our army, and the great probability of the enemy's taking 
the field early with augmented force, and over running the country, or 
attempting something decisive against our army before it is reinforced.^ 
The next grand object is to secure all the provision that can be engaged 

2 Washington's letters of Mar. 7 (with a continuation Mar. 8) and 12 were read 
in Congress Mar. 16. They are in Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 397, 414, (ed. Sparks), V, 
253. 269. See also Washington's letters to Howe Mar. 9, 12 {Writings, ed. Ford, VI. 
406, 415, 416, ed. Sparks, V. 263, 272), and Howe to Washington Mar. 10, 15 {ibid., V. 
538, 539)- See, further, the Journals, Mar. 17, 19, 30. The action Mar. 30 (the appoint- 
ment of a committee to prepare instructions for the commissioners appointed by Wash- 
ington to negotiate a cartel for the exchange of prisoners) brought forth a letter from 
Washington Apr. 4, read in Congress Apr. 7. Concerning the action of Congress upon this 
letter see no. 188, post. Cf. nos. 88, 118, 139, ante. 
[164] IN. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The sheet from which this extract is taken bears only the date " 23d ", and 
is found filed with Lovell's letter of Apr. 19 (no. 205, post) ; but the statement relative 
to Dana does not comport with such a date in April. It is, however, in accord with the 
date Mar. 22,, for Dana appears to have returned to Congress that day (the Journals 
record his presence Mar. 24), and Gerry mentions, Mar. 28 (no. 174, post), that he was 
to return to the camp. Upon the whole the contents appear to be supplemental to the 
letter placed at Mar. 20 (no. 161, ante), though that letter, which is undated, may not be 
the " scrawl " which Lovell refers to as misdated. 

3 Dana himself wrote to the president of the council (Jeremiah Powell) Mar. 29 
that he intended to leave Congress at the end of April (Mass. Arch., CXCIX. 67). He 
did not, however, leave until the middle of August. 

[165J1 Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 152. 

2 The earnest desire of Congress here alluded to is expressed in the resolves of 

Mar. 19. Concerning those resolves. General Gates wrote to Governor Johnson of 

Maryland Mar. 28 : "I do myself the honor to inclose you the resolves of Congress of 



140 Continental Congress 



&' 



for the troops, as many disappointments and difficulties have intervened to 
lessen the prospect of the abundant supplies that were expected. 

Colonel Harrison's regiment of artillery is much wanted at camp, and 
congress wishes them to march immediately 

i66. Henry Laurens to Baron de Kalb.^ 

24th March, 1778. 
Dear General du Kalh. 

.... I have no less than three Letters of Major Du Bois,- not yet 
presented to Congress I beg that Gentleman will be assured the delay 
is not imputable to me. I shall embrace an inviting opportunity to repre- 
sent his Case and then he may depend upon receiving immediately the 
necessary information. 

167. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

24th March 1778 
Sir, 

Your Letters of the nth and 12th of this Month have been laid before 
Congress, they have considered the apprehensions you express, that you 
and General Kalb are to leave the command of the Troops in that part 
of the continent where you now are, to General Conway, and your request, 
of permission to go to France, founded thereon, they wish you to be as- 
sured, that they have a very high sense of your merit and attachment to 
America, they judge it of advantage to the public service that you and 
General Kalb be present with the grand Army, but when they came to 
this determination, had not yet resolved on a disposition for General 
Conway, and had no intention to make any injurious to your honour, they 

the 19th instant respecting the troops destined to reinforce the grand army. Unfortu- 
nately after they were passed, they lay several days before they were handed to this 
board : but they demand the most immediate attention and execution. What gave rise 
to the first, was, an apprehension that the recruits might be detained in their respective 
states 'till they had been innoculated. This the present posture of our affairs absolutely 
forbids. The campaign will soon open ; and with all the diligence practicable, it is to be 
feared the reinforcements will not arrive in time to enable the commander in chief to 
take measures the most necessary and advantageous, before the enemy get reinforced. 
General Washington has received intelligence that they are embarking troops at New 
York and Rhode Island; destined (it is said) for Philadelphia; and he is to the last 
degree anxious to have the reinforcements speedily join him; in the first place that he 
may be prepared for defence ; in the second to take advantage of any favourable circum- 
stance which may happen to injure the enemy. 

" The recommendation to provide cartridge boxes and tin cannisters for cartridges is 
given, because of the almost total want of them in the public stores, and the impossibility 
of making a number in any degree equal to the demands of the army, in the public 
manufactories, where the workmen are few. and it is impossible to encrease them : agree- 
able to the direction of Congress, the board give the following description of the tin 
cannisters." {Arch, of Md., XVI. 557.) 

[166] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 25. 
2 See no. 173, post, and the Journals, Apr. i. 

[167]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 239. 



March, I'jjS 141 

expect this declaration, and the disposition since made for General Con- 
way, will make it unnecessary to grant the permission you request. 

By order of Congress.' 



1 68. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.'^ 

24th March, 1778 
Sir, 

.... Whatever had been the design, or if it might have been, as your 
Excellency charges, intended " deception " of the Board of War I dare 
again aver, that Congress were not in the project for leaving Genl. 
Conway in a seperate Command in consequence of recalling your Excel- 
lency and Baron de Kalb from Albany 

Congress have ordered a Letter to be written to your Excellency which 
I shall sign by direction and transmit herewith, together with a Resolve 
of yesterday, Ordering Genl. Conway to Peeks Kill under the Command 
of Major Genl. McDougall. there had been more than a few opinions for 
ordering him to York Town. 

I trust your Excellency will do Congress the Justice to believe, they had 
never entertained the most remote intention to give you offence. I add 
and repeat with great pleasure that your Excellency is held by each In- 
dividual in the highest Esteem and the House very much relies upon the 
greatness of your Mind for security against groundless exceptions to any 
part of their conduct respecting yourself, these indeed are sentiments not 
dictated by Congress, but I know they are warrented. however your 
Excellency may retort, that my declaration in this case will require a little 
skill to reconcile it with the total Silence on the Subject of the piracy 
committed upon the packet of 20th Febry. even this most extraordinary 
conduct cannot be fairly urged as an exception to the professed Esteem 
and Regard for Marquis delafayette, although it may be inconsistant 
with that Veneration which the Representatives of the 13 United States 
should ever preserve for their own Character if they expect to escape 
Contempt through out the Universe. I should have been happy if your 
Excellency had passed that affair over for reasons which I had assigned 
but since it has been talked of and since the parties accused are acquainted 
with the circumstance, I am made very unhappy by a conduct which will 
endanger us to be exposed to future and greater Insults." 

It is impossible to do anything for the Officers mentioned by Colo. 
Armand until the arrangement at Camp is completed and tis probable 
your Excellency will meet the Committee there. I shall there transmit a 

2 This letter was drafted by a committee of Congress. See the Journals, Mar. 19, 
21. See also nos. 126, 135, 137, 151, ante. Cf. the private letter of Laurens of the same 
date, no. 168, post. In regard to Conway, see the Journals, Mar. 23. 
[i68]i S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept, 1778, p. 22. 

-See especially Lafayette's letters to Laurens, Feb. 23, Mar. 11, 12, S. C. Hist, 
and Geneal. Mag., VIIL 3-14; cf. the public letter to Lafayette Mar. 24, ante, and nos. 
126, 135, 137, 151, ante. 



142 Continental Congress 

Duplicate of Mr. Duplessis Commission and of the Resolve upon which 
it is founded.^ 

It appears to be more and more the wish and purpose of Gentlemen 
here to return General Gates to his late Command in the Northern 
department, and there was lately the appearance of a pretty little attempt 
to render that Command Independent of all Orders but those of Con- 
gress.* this will account to you at once for the silence on that head ; how 
Major General McDougal may approve of being superseded after he shall 
have gone through the drudgery of Mechanical operations in and about 
the River is a matter of uncertainty." .... 

169. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Governor of New York (George Clinton).^ 

24th March 1778 

.... Mr. Morris being still on Duty in a Committee at Genl. Wash- 
ingtons Camp, the State of New York remains unrepresented I need not 
intimate to your Excellency that our Union is suffering in its most essen- 
tial interests from a want of full and competent Representation — every 
state must have felt the 111 Effects of our general delinquency I hope we 
shall awaken by degrees and in time to ward off a lash which may other- 
wise prove intolerable. 

170. James Forbes to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

r^ <-,. York Town March 24th 1778. 

Dear Sir " 

.... Mr. Chase is just arrived, but seems to be determined to make 

but a short stay, on Account of the very bad accommodations this place 

affords. 

3 Concerning Armand see the Journals, Jan. 2, 15, Feb. 3. A letter from Wash- 
ington to Robert Morris Feb. 13, in reply to one from Morris Jan. 19, which has but 
recently come to light, relates specifically to the case of Armand. It may be seen 
in Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1364, item 521A. See, further, no. 288, post. For the resolve 
relative to Duplessis see the Journals, Jan. 19. The Laurens Letter-Book shows that 
Armand was the bearer of this letter, as well as of the two directly preceding. 

■* Cf. nos. 126, 134, ante, and no. 176, post. This was especially in consequence of 
the Conway affair. One particular outcome of that affair at this time was the resignation 
(Mar. 25) of James Wilkinson as secretary to the board of war. The resignation was 
accepted by Congress Mar. 31, and the letter was ordered to be returned to Wilkinson 
" as improper to remain on the files of Congress ". The letter is accordingly not among 
the Papers of the Continental Congress, but the text may be found in Pa. Mag. of Hist, 
and Biog., XIL 55. That which Congress found improper for its files is probably the 
following sentence: "I could not consistently do Business with Major General Gates, 
after the Uncandid, Artful, Ungenerous and Unjust Practices he has employed to 
Dishonor me." 

Wilkinson's resignation appears to have been by no means unexpected. As early as 
Feb. 21 James Wilson had written to General Gates, " From several Circumstances, 
which I have lately heard, there is much Reason to believe that a new Secretary will 
soon be appointed to the Board of War ", and warmly recommends Capt. Robert Smith, 
" son of your Friend, the late Delegate in Congress ", for that position. (Library of 
Congress, Portfolio 104.) 

5 See no. 134, ante; also nos. 185, 204, post. 
[169]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 240; Clinton Papers, III. 77 
[170]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 63; Arch of Md., XVL 549. 



March, 1718 143 

Your Lettr to Genl. Gates on the Subject of an Embargoe and the 
Virga. Frig-ate was committed and a report ready but it has not yet been 
taken up in Congress I apprehend an Embargoe on provisions will take 
place, but am affraid a general one will not be agreed to ^ when any thing 
material occurs shall do my self the honour of writing you and am very 
respect'ly Sir 

Your most Obedt Servt 

James Forbes 

NB. Virga. and N. York only, have agreed on form to the ratification 
of the Confederation most of the other States have proposed amend- 
ments, but the Members say they are instructed to ratefy, if the amend- 
ments cant be obtained, noe time fixt for taking up this matter in 
Congress.' 



171. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO William Heath. ^ 

York Town 25th March 1778 
Sir, 

.... Yesterday I presented to Congress your favors of the loth and 
1 2th together with the Papers referred to it affords me pleasure to 
repeat that your correspondence with the British General at Cambridge 
from every sentiment expressed by Individuals continues to receive appro- 
bation, if my own was worth your acceptance it should with great warmth 
be added." .... 

Congress are not at all inclined to indulge Lt. Colo. Sutherland,' indeed 
he could scarcely have expected it from his cautious and indirect appli- 
cation, as an old acquaintance I feel for that Gentleman's distresses. 
Would to God, there had been, or that there was even now, any sympathy 
on the other side 



2 The letter of Johnson to the board of war was that of Feb. 27, read in 
Congress Mar. 5. Concerning the Virginia frigate, see no. 143, ante. In regard to the 
embargo, see the Journals, June 4, 8, 10. 

3 See nos. 140, note 2, 143, 149, 155, ante, 191, post. 

[i7i]iMass. Hist. Soc, Heath Papers, IX. 38; Library of Congress, President's 
Letter-Book, I. 241. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 24. Cf. no. 106, ante. Heath's letter to Laurens Mar. 10 
is in Mass. Hist. Soc. Collections, seventh ser., IV. 218. 

3 Lieut.-Col. Nicholas Sutherland of the 47th Regiment (British). See the 
Journals, Mar. 24. Laurens's acquaintance with him doubtless antedated the Revolution, 
as Sutherland had served in America (in other regiments) prior to 1774 (Ford, British 
Officers in America). Mar. 4 he made application to General Heath for permission to 
return to England on account of his health (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. I., f. 153). 
The application was accompanied by a statement of his physician, John Weir (Feb. 26, 
ibid., f. 149). Apr. 11 Sutherland made application to Congress direct {ibid., f. 161), 
accompanied by a further statement from his physician (same date, ibid., f. 157), but 
Congress does not appear to have taken any action upon it. In May there were 
negotiations for his exchange for Col. S. B. Webb (Hist MSS. Com. Report on 
American MSS. in the Royal Institution of Great Britain, I. 248). 



144 Continental Congress 

172. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Clymer.^ 

27 March 1778. 
Sir 

I duly received and presented to Congress the Letter you honoured me 
with under date the 7th Inst, together with several papers referred to. 

Congress appeared to be impressed by a sense of your Zeal, and atten- 
tion to the duties and importance of the Commission in which you are 
engaged ^ but laid no Commands on me by Act or Resolve, therefore I 
have at present only to add my own good wishes and assurances that I am 

With great regard and Esteem 
P. S. 

The French Letter which came inclosed in yours contains nothing of 
moment that written in Spanish remains a dead Letter if Colo. Morgan 
will be so obliging as to acknowledge the Receipt and at the same time 
intimate that we have no person capable of translating Spanish it may 
induce the Governor of Orleans to address hereafter in French.^ 

[172]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 243. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 21. Clymer was one of three commissioners sent to 
Fort Pitt, the other two being Sampson Matthews and Samuel McDowell. For the 
purpose of the commission and the appointments thereto, see the Journals, Nov. 20, 
Dec. II, IS, 1777, Jan. i, 10, Feb. 23, 1778. Cf. these Letters, vol. IL, no. 746. The 
commission's report exonerating Col. George Morgan, dated Mar. 27, is in the Journals 
under Apr. 7 (see no. 190, post). The original is in Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., 
Stamp Act Congress, f. 76. A letter from John Nevill to the commissioners relative 
to the accusation against Morgan is ibid., Generals of the Revolution, IL 124. Morgan's 
letter, transmitted by Clymer (Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. 
XV., f. 317), is of particular interest for its bearing upon the Willing episode (see no. 
109, ante). It is dated at Fort Pitt, Mar. 2: 

" As an Opportunity offers for York Town, I take the Liberty to trouble you with the 
two inclosed Letters from the Governor of New Orleans and the Commandant at the 
Illinois in Answer to my Letter of the 22d. of last April which you have perused. My 
Intention in writing to the Governor was to relate to him the happy Situation of our 
Affairs, to learn his Disposition and to obtain his Permission for our sending from 
hence to New Orleans for Ammunition and Cloathing as proposed to Congress in my 
Letter of the same date — And at the same time to sound his Inclination respecting 
our carrying an Expedition down the Missisippi to take Possession of West Florida, 
and its Capital Pensacola, which I am of Opinion is worthy the Attention of Congress 
As the Governors Letter is in Spanish, and there is no Person here who understands 
that Language, I presume you will think it necessary to send it to Congress to obtain 
a Translation of it, if possible, before you leave this Place, from which you will be 
enabled to write an Answer should you think proper." 

s The letter from the governor of New Orleans (Bernardo de Galvez) has not 
been found. That from Francisco Cruzat ("Francis Crurati"), lieutenant governor of 
Illinois, stationed at St. Louis, besides transmitting tlie letter of Governor Galvez, is 
a polite expression of interest in the American cause (Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. V., f. 119). What is of especial interest, in view of what 
Laurens says about the want of anyone at York Town capable of translating Spanish, 
is the statement of Cruzat that the difficulty of finding a trustworthy person capable 
of translating English has delayed for some time the expression of his joy over the 
happy success of the Americans, and his suggestion that, if in future Colonel Morgan 
would send his communications in French or Spanish, he would receive a more speedy 
answer. Cruzat's letter bears an endorsement : " Recvd and Examined this 17 Jany 1778 
J. Willing ", and also an endorsement by George Morgan that the letter was received 
by him Feb. 24, 1778, by express. 



March, lyjS 145 

173. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

27th March 1778 
I was honoured this Morning Dear and much Respected Marquis by 
the receipt of your favor of the 20th.- .... 

Your Excellency's Letter to Congress is Reported and Committed 
to a Select Committee, our business of this nature proceedes slowly 
therefore I will not detain the Messenger but return him tomorrow Morn- 
ing with this. Such determinations as Congress may make in consequence 
of the expected Report from Committee will in all probability meet you at 
Valley forge. I presume you will commence your retrograde journey soon 
after the return of the present bearer.^ .... 

8th April. Not withstanding what is said above I have detained this 
Messenger 13 days, from day to day hoping the next would produce 
Commands from Congress, but the Committee to whom your Letter was 
referred have not yet Reported.* Excuse us good Sir. We are indeed 
deeply engaged in very important and complicated business, but in order 
to remove anxiety which this long delay must have occasioned I will not 
keep this back an hour longer. I think you will soon be at Valley forge, 
where Baron Stiiben is making great improvements and giving much 
satisfaction to every Body, will you Sir be so obliging as to inform Major 
DuBois that I have duly presented his addresses to Congress that these are 
referred to the B. of W.^ and that the moment I am furnished with subject 
I will do my self the honor of writing to him. 

174. Elbridge Gerry to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

York in Pennsylvania 28th March 1778 
Sir 

.... The State of Massachusetts since January last, has been unrepre- 
sented in Congress, in Consequence of a Resolution appointing Mr. Dana 
on a Committee for reforming the Army : he has lately returned from 
Camp for the Advice of Congress on a Subject of Importance, and having 
obtained it, is again to meet the Committee." 

[173]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 27. 

2 Lafayette's letter of Mar. 20 is in 6". C. Hist, mid Geneal. Mag., VIIL 14. • • 

3 Lafayette says in his letter of Mar. 20 : " as I am assured the express is a 
man to be depended upon I trust him with my dispatches, be so good as to send him or 
one other back very fast, for I am much tired of seeing tliose english here about — they 
are doing nothing but mischief and I wish they would be soon out." The Letter-Book 
records that the messenger who bore this letter was Fonda. 

* See the Journals, Mar. 27. Apparently no report was ever made by the 
committee. 

s Board of war. The address of DeBois is probably the letter of Mar. 11, read 
in Congress Apr. i. No report on the letter appears to have been made. Cf. no. 166, 
ante; also the Journals, Apr. 29, May 13, 19. 
[174]! Mass. Arch., CCXVIIL 235. 

2 Chiefly, it would appear, upon the question of half-pay. See the Journals, 
Mar. 26-28, 31, Apr. i, 2, 16, 17, 21, 25-27, May 8, 9, 12, 15. Cf. nos. 65, 161, 164, ante, 
182, 185, 191, 193, 201, 202, note 4, 203, 206, 211, 222, 231, 242, 247, 255, 258, 267, 
282, 287, 288, 292, 293, 302, post. 



146 Continental Congress 

many States require but one, others two, and Massachusetts alone three 
Members present to have a Vote ; and should the same Rate continue with 
Respect to the latter, It may hereafter be found necessary to have at least 
four Members present, for preventing the Inconveniences wch necessarily 
result from the Want of Voice in Congress.^ 

175. Abraham Clark to Jeremiah Wadsworth/ 

March 29. [17] 78 
Mr. Wadsworth is desired to peruse the enclosed regulations, and 
Signifie his pleasure whether he is willing to Accept the Appointment of 
Com'ry gen'al, and whether he find any defect in the System of Conse- 
quence Sufficient to require a reconsideration, the information may be 
given to Mr Dyer or his Hum. Servt.^ Abra Clark 

176. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

29th March 1778. 
My Dear Son, 

.... It grieved me the other day, as it has done upon many similar 
occasions, to be made the Instrument of transmitting positive orders to 
the Commanding Officer of a detachment from Genl. Washingtons Army 
without passing through the Medium of the General I spoke of it and 
intreated to pursue a regular course, the answer was by a Gentleman who 
entertains high notions of the Sublimity of his own judgement — What 
Sir, have not Congress a right to give what Orders they please to their 
Officers? is it possible I can err in being of a contrary opinion with 
necessary references to that respect which is due to a Commander in 
Chief and to the well ordering and safety of the Army. Consider I entreat 
you and answer me.^ I refer in this Instance to a late Order to General 
Smallwood a Copy of which you will find inclosed and my inquiry is for 
information.^ If I am right in my present Idea — I have been so, in num- 
berless past Instances — and I will speak to the Members out of Congress 
and put them upon their guard against improper Acts which I am per- 
suaded have not been pursued from any design to affront the General. 

Some Men hold power and ommiscience to be synomymous, I do 
not 

2 Cf. no. 28, ante, and no. 203, post. 
[ 175] 1 Collection of George C. Thomas, Philadelphia, Signers. 

2 This letter is addressed to " Jeremiah Wadsworth Esqr. in York Town ", and 
is endorsed, " Letter from Mr A Clark 29 March reed same day 1778 ". Mar. 29 was 
Sunday. On Monday morning, Mar. 30, the Journals record that Mr. Wadsworth had 
arrived in town, and a committee, of which Clark and Dyer were members, was 
appointed to confer with him. Probably therefore the date of this letter should be 
Mar. 30. Clark was, however, also a member, although Dyer was not, of the committee 
on the reform of the commissariat system, appointed Jan. 14. The regulations submitted 
to Wadsworth were doubtless those of Mar. 13. See nos. 62, 84, 123, 141, 142, ante, and 
nos. 196, 205, 234, post; also the Journals, Apr. 2, 3, 8, 9, 14, 16. 
[176]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter- Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 28. 

2 Cf. nos. 126, 134, 168, ante. John Laurens's reply, Apr. 5, is in A'hny Corre- 
spondence, p. 153. 

3 See the Journals. Mar. 23, 26, Apr. 10, 13, 15, 20, 23, and nos. 207, 208, 210, 217, 
220, 230, post. 



March, lyyS 147 

iyy. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington/ 

30th March 1778 
Sir. 

I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency yesterday by Gen. 
duportail.^ 

At reading the Journal this INIorning Congress reconsidered the Act of 
the 28th for authorizing Count Pulaski to raise a seperate Corps and 
expunged the words " Prisoners and " which stood in the last sentence 
and your Excellency will receive within the present Inclosure a Copy of 
the Act as now amended.^ .... 

178. Francis Lightfoot Lee to George Weedon.^ 

York Town March 31, 1778 
Dear Sir, 

I am sorry to inform you that the report of the board of Genl. ofhcers 
was sent by the Com'tee, to Congress, and is agreed to. I laid the whole 
matter before them ; but they were of opinion, that the surest way of not 
injuring the feelings of military Gentlemen was to conform to the ideas 
of the Gentlemen of the Army, this, I assure you, was the principle which 
directed their Determination and not any preference given the other 
gentleman.^ .... 

You will do an essential service by hastening on the men. it is the 
opinion of the board of War, not to wait for inocculation, as there is 
little danger of infection while in the field. 

[177]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 247. 

2 Laurens's letter of Mar. 29 was principally to transmit the acts of IMar. 19 
and 28 (see note 3, below). 

3 The resolve appears in the Journals (Mar. 28) only in the amended form, 
and the Journals of Mar. 30 contain no record of the amendment. Washington had 
written to Congress Mar. 12 asking that, if not too late, the mention of prisoners of 
war in the preamble to the resolutions of Feb. 26 {Journals, p. 203) be eliminated, 
particularly on the ground that this preamble recited as a fact, namely, that prisoners 
of war had been enlisted in the army of the United States, what had never within his 
knowledge taken place {Writings, ed. Ford, VL 414, ed. Sparks, V. 269). Meanwhile 
Washington's letter of Mar. 7, touching other aspects of the resolves of Feb. 26, was 
under consideration (see no. 163, ante). This part of the letter of Mar. 12 was referred 
to the board of war (Mar. 16), and a letter of Mar. 14 {Writings, ed. Ford, VL 422, ed. 
Sparks, V. 276), relating to the proposed corps of Count Pulaski, which involved the 
question of the enlistment of prisoners, was also referred to the board (Mar. 18). The 
board appears to have made a report Mar. 19, but action was not taken by Congress until 
Mar. 28 (see also the Journals, Mar. 30). Washington's request respecting the preamble 
of the resolves of Feb. 26 had probably come too late, but why, in plain view of this 
request, the words " prisoners and " were inserted nevertheless in the resolution of 
Mar. 28 (as first adopted), and then stricken out two days later, is not clear. See nos. 301, 
311, 324, 325, 548, post. 

[178]! Haver ford College, Roberts Coll., 722; Brotherhead, Book of the Signers, 
p. 267. The letter was addressed to Weedon at Fredericksburg, Va. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 19, and nos. 70, 95, 99, note 2, 104, ante. In the arrange- 
ment adopted Woodford had been placed first in rank among the four, and Weedon 
last. Weedon accordingly resigned, Apr. 13. In August he endeavored to have- his 
case reconsidered {Journals, Aug. 18), but succeeded only in obtaining permission 
to retire, retaining his rank. Cf. no. 49S, post. The whole question was stirred again 
in Congress (on a memorial from Muhlenberg) Dec. 29. 1779, but without effect. 
Weedon was called into service again June 16, 1780. See Joseph Jones to Washington, 
May 23, 1780, in the next volume of these Letters. 

14 



148 ' Continental Congress 



&' 



179. Cornelius Harnett to Jethro Sumner/ 

York Town ist April 1778. 
Dear Sir: 

.... Mr. Penn and myself while he was here moved Congress several 
times to have the Brigadiers recommended by our General Assembly 
immediately commissioned ; but as there are several other Colonels, in 
other Brigades, who are also to be appointed, Congress have postponed 
the matter until the Gents are fixed upon, in order that they may rank 
agreeable to the dates of their Commissions as Colonels. 

This measure must very soon take place, and hope to have it in my 
power to congratulate you and Col. Clark on your appointment.' 
Mr. Burke says he will not Stir in it.^ .... 

180. Thomas McKean to George Read.^ 

Yorktown, April 3d, 1778. 
Sir, 

When I attended the General Assembly of this State, in December last, 
they obtained a promise that I would give a little assistance in drafting 
some bills, at their adjournment in March, at which time I accordingly, 
in pursuance of a letter from the Speaker, went to Lancaster, and, having 
stayed there ten days, returned to York on the 19th. During the interval 
your favor of the 4th of March, by Lieutenant Frazier, arrived at York, 
and by the advice of the express, was opened by the President, and read 
in Congress. It was well there was nothing private in it, and I must 
confess you gave me more agreeable prospects of our little State, and 
more sincere pleasure, than anything relating to it had done for three 
years past. I congratulate you on the Whig election in Sussex. With 
such a General Assembly as the present, what could I have done, or rather, 
what could I not have done? Sure I am you will make a proper use of 
this most fortunate occurrence, in which there appears visibly the hand 
of Providence, which can alone save this deluded State. Though the 
resolve for completing the quota of troops by drafting in the several 
States passed against my consent, yet as Virginia, Maryland, Pennsyl- 
vania, the four New England States, etc. have agreed to it, I should have 
been glad even if the General Assembly had proceeded no further in 
this business ; this would have showed a respect for the recommendation 
of Congress, encouraged the recruiting service by making it the interest 
of every individual in the State, and prevented an opinion that I had 

[l^gYN. C. State Recs., XIII. 392. 

2 See no. 7, ante. The recommendation of Sumner and Clark for election as 
brigadier-generals was in a resolution of the general assemblj', Dec. 15, 1/77, (see ^V. C. 
St. Recs., XII. 208, 386, 389), laid before Congress Feb. 10. They obtained their pro- 
motions Dec. 29, 1778. See, further, Burke to Caswell, Jan. 10, 1779, in vol. IV. of these 
Letters. 

3 The explanation is probably to be found in the protest (Aug. 14, 1777) of 
the North Carolina field officers against Burke's espousal of the appointment of 
Brig.-Gen. Edward Hand to command the North Carolina troops. See A^. C. State Recs., 
XI. 750. 

[iSo]^ Life of Read, p. 307. 



April, 1778 149 

wrote to the General Assembly against the measure, which I never did, 
nor, indeed, did I ever hint the matter to any person whatever. 

As to the proviso in the second section of article ninth of the Confeder- 
ation, quoted by you, to wit, " provided that no State shall be deprived of 
territory for the benefit of the United States," my opinion is that it 
must be referred to the subject-matter of the preceding paragraph, and 
may, by a fair construction, mean that in a contest between two States 
respecting boundaries, the territory taken from the one shall be added 
to the other, and not adjudged for the benefit of the United States; and 
yet, I confess, I have apprehensions that it may hereafter be insisted to 
mean what you seem to fear. Some gentlemen with whom I have con- 
versed on this affair say, if the intention of Congress was that Virginia, 
etc. should be deemed at present to extend to the South Sea, yet no injury 
could arise from thence to any of the United States, for that Delaware, 
for instance, has a right to apply for one or more townships for their 
troops, to be laid out equally with Virginia in that State, without paying 
any purchase-money, or any other expense, more than that of surveying, 
which Virginians themselves must pay ; and that if that State increases 
its inhabitants it will have more to pay towards the support of the govern- 
ment of the United States, and in the same proportion lessen the burden 
of the other States ; but if Virginia, etc. grow too large, the people them- 
selves will insist upon a new State or States to be erected, even if Congress 
should be passive, and no good reason can be assig-ned for refusing such a 
requisition whenever it may be proper to grant it. The Stockbridge 
Indians in New Hampshire and Connecticut, the Oneidas in New York, 
etc., were, I suppose, the objects of the fourth section of the same article. 
The third section of the ninth article seems to have been calculated for 
the disputed lands of purchasers under Maryland and Delaware, and 
Maryland and Pennsylvania; but upon the whole, it may not be an im- 
proper method of adjusting such controversies. If Delaware had been 
represented in Congress at the time the finishing was given to the Con- 
federation it would, I am persuaded, have been a public benefit as well as 
a particular one to that State; but matters are too far gone, I fear, to 
procure any alterations, so many States have already empowered their 
delegates to ratify it ; however, I will exert every nerve to accomplish any 
measure which shall be recommended by my constituents, who may think 
it advisable to direct their deputies to endeavor to procure any explanation 
of certain doubtful expressions in different articles, if they should not 
think it proper to do more. 

Nothing has been effected with regard to President McKinley; but 
as the cartel for the general exchange is now debating and settling between 
three commissioners on the part of General Washington and the like 
number on the part of General Howe, in Germantown, where they met on 
the last day of March, I hope in a few weeks something favorable for 
him may be done." 

If you can procure any clothing for the Delaware battalion it may 
be useful, but I am confident there is sufificient for the whole army already 

- See nos. 90, 149, note 3, ante, and no. 462, post. Read's letter of Mar. 4 is in 
Life of Read, p. 303. 



150 Continental Congress 

purchased by Congress for above a year, and yet I am told the most of 
the troops are naked. Peculation, neglect of duty, avarice, and insolence 
inmost departments abound, but, with the favor of God, I shall contribute 
my part to drag forth and punish the culprits, though some of them are 
high in rank, and characters I did not suspect. 

You vv^ill also receive a little pamphlet of the Earl of Abington, which 
is worth your perusal.^ General Rodney is not yet arrived, nor could I 
procure a lodging for him in town when he comes ; indeed, when I return 
I shall be at an equal loss for myself. This is discouraging, but we must 
not expect much comfort during this great and glorious struggle. It is 
reported Howe is recalled, and is to be succeeded by Lord Townshend. 
This will be an active and, I fear, a bloody campaign. 

I find you give up the command-in-chief to General Rodney, so that 
perhaps it may suit you to come to Congress. 

i8i. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
George Washington.^ 

York Town 4th April 1778. 
Sir, 

Since my last, of the 30th ultimo, per Barry, I had the honor of receiv- 
ing and presenting to Congress your Excellency's favor of the 29th of that 
month, which, having been taken under consideration, the inclosed act 
was this day resolved, for empowering your Excellency, when you shall 
judge it necessary, to call on the States of Maryland, Pennsylvania, and 
New Jersey, for five thousand militia-men, armed and accoutred." 
P. S. 

Evening 9 oClock. M. de Francis ^ this moment delivered me Your 
Excellency's favour of the ist Inst, which shall be presented to Congress 
on Monday. Meantime permit me Sir to intimate that I had backed the 
Report of Your Excellency's Letter of the 27th of Febry with an infor- 
mation to Congress that, one Gentleman of the late Committee on the 
Ticonderoga Inquiry had retired, and that it was impracticable for me to 
give that attention which was due to an affair of such importance. A new 
Comm'ee was immediately appointed, these Gentlemen some 8 or 10 
days ago offered a Report; when Mr. Duer interposed arguments which 
induced the House to Postpone the Consideration, for two days. I have 
taken the liberty to name that Gentleman because his declared motives for 
delay were coupled with assurances of particular considerations respecting 
Gen Schuyler, this very Morning I called on Mr. Duer and reminded him 
of his engagements, urging the painful situation in which his friend and 
the other Gen Officers remained, he replied " I will soon bring on that 
business." your Excellency's present letter will prove a further incitement. 

3 See no. 107, ante, and nos. 330, 335, post. 
[i8i]i Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIL 74; ibid., President's 
Letter-Book, L 250; Letters to Washington, II. 96. 

2 Washington's letter of Mar. 29 was received Apr. i and referred to the board 
of war. The board's report (Apr. 3) was referred to a committee of Pennsylvania, 
New Jersey, and Maryland delegates (Journals, p. 305), and the committee reported 
Apr. 4. 

3 Francy. See index to the Journals. 



April, 1778 151 

I have very long- felt, for the Gentlemen who are subjects of the Enquiry 
and although it was with extreme reluctance I obeyed the order of 
Congress, to be of the original Committee, after having urged such 
reasons for exemption as appeared to me very forcible, yet I cannot charge 
myself with delinquency at any stage in the course of our proceedings. 
To account for the uncouth and entangled state of this Enquiry would 
not be half so difficult as it might be impertinent to the proper line of my 
correspondence, from this consideration I shall only add, that I trust your 
Excellency's present application will have that weight which is justly due.'* 

182. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(Nicholas Cooke) .^ 

^^y. York-Town April 5th 1778. 

.... Important questions are on the carpet, whether an establishment 
at half pay for life or term of years shall be allowed to military commis- 
sioned officers who shall continue in service to the end of the war? Whether 
any provision shall be made for the widows of those Officers who have 
fallen or shall fall in battle, and whether some allowance shall be made 
to such soldiers as enlist during the war and shall continue in the service 
to the end of the war ? The first is the great question. A Question of such 
magnitude, in my opinion, that I am one of those who think it ought to be 
referred to the consideration of the States. At present it is postponed at 
large. When it shall be resumed it will be moved that it should be so 
referred ; but whether the motion will meet with success or not is uncertain. 
I could wish to be instructed by my constituents how to give my voice 
especially on the capital question, and will beg leave to expect it. If I 
should be called upon, before I receive the Instructions I wish, and shall 
expect, to give my vote, I shall do it as shall appear to me to be right, and 
if I should not jump ^ in Judgment with my constituents, I hope I shall not 
be censured.^ .... 

* Washington's letter of Apr. i (read in Congress Apr. 6) pertains to the 
charges against General St. Clair. His letter of Feb. 27 was read in Congress Mar. 5. 
See also the Journals, Mar. 6. The committee on the Ticonderoga inquiry was appointed 
Aug. 28, 1777. It consisted of Henr>' Laurens, Richard Henry Lee, and John Adams. 
Dec. 26 three members were added to the committee, namely, Francis Dana, John 
Witherspoon, and William Ellery. Jan. 20. 1778, James Lovell was substituted for Dana. 
Jan. 27 James Smith was added to the committee. Feb. 5 the committee was ordered 
to transmit to General Washington the evidence collected. Mar. 6 Washington's letter 
of Feb. 27, relating to the inquiry, was referred to a committee consisting of Ellery, 
James Smith, Dyer, and Lovell (see also the Journals, Mar. 10). This is doubtless the 
new committee to which Laurens refers. All except Dyer were previously members of 
the Ticonderoga committee. No member of the original committee now remained upon 
it. John Adams had been sent as commissioner to the court of France, Richard Henry 
Lee had been absent since December preceding (he resumed his seat May i), and 
Laurens, as explained in this letter to Washington, was excused from serving further 
on the committee. The Journals make no record of the presentation by the committee 
of a report " some 8 or 10 days ago ". Cf. vol. H., no. 781, and nos. 189, 191, 232, 243, 
308, post. 

[i82]iR. L Arch., Letters to the Governors, p. 59; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 168. 

2 The printed text has here "agree", but the manuscript reads "jump". Cf. 
vol. II., no. 592. 

3 For the course of the half-pay proposition, consult the index to the Journals 
(Half-pay), and see no. 174, note 2, ante. 



152 Continental Congress 

183. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
President of the Board of War (Horatio Gates)/ 

6th April 1778 
Sir, 

Within the present Inclosure you will receive a paper containing Infor- 
mation against Mr. Swanwic a young Gentleman at present in the service 
of the Honble Robert Morris Esquire to which for particulars I beg leave 
to refer. 

By order of Congress I shall transmit one Copy of the Paper to 
Mr. Morris and request him to make an immediate and full enquiry into 
the conduct of the young Man respecting the charges alleged against him. 
Congress desire the Board of War will pursue such measures as shall 
appear proper and necessary for discovering facts, if there has been a 
criminal or unjustifiable correspondence between the said Mr. Swanwic 
and any person under protection of the Enemy, the Board may judge it 
necessary to dispatch proper persons to inspect without alarm the papers 
of the Mother of the Culprit, the Name of the Informant is known but 
reserved for the present at her particular desire." 

184. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Robert Morris.^ 

6th April 1778. 
Sir, 

In obedience to an order of Congress passed this Morning I transmit 
a paper within the present inclosure containing an information against 
Mr. Swanswick, a young Gentleman in your service, to which for par- 
ticulars I beg leave to refer you. 

Congress request and confide in you, to make immediately the most 
diligent and effectual enquiry into the conduct of Mr. Swanswick respect- 
ing his correspondence with Philadelphia and other charges intimated in 
the paper referred to. the Name of the person who gave the Inforaiation 
is known but at present reserved by her particular desire.^ 

[183]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 252. 

- This letter was addressed to Gates at Lancaster. The order of Congress here 
referred to is not recorded in the Journals. See, however, no. 184, post, and the Journals, 
Apr. 15. While John Swanwick had allied himself with the American cause, his father, 
Richard Swanwick, had remained a Loyalist. A letter from the latter to Robert Morris, 
Apr. I, is in the Library of Congress, Morris Papers. Some letters of John Swanwick, 

Mar. 12 July 9, 17/8, and other Swanwick materials were among the Morris Papers 

listed in Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, items 435, 437. 

[184]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 252; Henkels, Catalogue, 
no. 1 183, item 191. 

2 See no. 183, ante. Morris replied Apr. 7 (see the Journals, Apr. 8) that 
while he was surprised at the accusation and believed the information transmitted by 
Laurens to be founded on suspicion, he would nevertheless discharge Swanwick at once. 
He added that Swanwick was useful for his knowledge of French and German, but that 
the insinuation that he made false translations was groundless, for Morris himself 
knew enough French to detect impositions (Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 137. Appendix, f. 225). In a letter to Laurens Apr. 13 Morris declares that, after 
an examination of Swanwick and the letters from his father, he is convinced of Swan- 
wick's perfect innocence (ibid., f. 229). 



April, i/;8 153 

185. Henry Laurens to James Duane,^ 

York Town 7th April, 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

I have been in possession of your favour of the i6th March about 
8 days, after you are informed that Congress have in the mean time been 
sitting every day from 9 A M to the same hour at night and some times 
an hour longer you will not wonder that I have not so fully executed 
every one of your commands as otherwise I should have done, but be 
assured Sir none of them shall lie unnoticed." .... 

Our Accounts from Great Britain are as you will read in the inclosed 
Paper — from the City below, no appearance of excursive steps until rein- 
forcements shall be received. Deserters assert possitively that Gen. Howe's 
Baggage is embarked and that he will follow it immediately upon the 
arrival of Lor^l Townsend who is expected daily, to assume the Com- 
mand — admitting the embarkation, a change of Command is implied. 

An Exchange of Prisoners was intended and Commissioners had met 
at German Town the 31st March, last Evening I received dispatches 
from our General, from whence I infer, the business is interrupted by a 
late Act of Congress which I transmitted the very day on which the 
Commissioners had convened. The Letter has not yet been presented to 
Congress, but has undergone severe strictures from a knot of our friends 
who called here late at night and conned it over. I will give no opinion 
at present, yet I have the vanity to think if you were in York we should 
not differ, had you been present, certain ambiguities, I do not say contra- 
dictions, would not have taken place in our Acts — but this is under 
ground, I will wait the event of that debate which in three or four hours 
I shall hear in the multitude of Counsellors. Gen. Lee in the mean time 
has reached Valley Forge on his Parol only — an actual Exchange it is 
said would have taken place but for the circumstance just now alluded 
to.^ 

Intelligence from Fort Pitt, very dark — the Officer McKee who had 
been at large on Parol, gone ofif to Detroit and carried with him an Inter- 
preter and four other Men, the Savages engaged in daily butcheries on 
the guardless Country people, our Commissioners had at length assem- 
bled, they write sensibly and seem resolved to proceed with vigour. 
Colo. Morgan had passed a strict enquiry and was acquitted with honor 
and the Court have subjoined to the acquittal an handsome recommen- 
dation.^^ since the flight of McfKee the minds of the People have been 
again agitated by suspicions of Gen. Hand who has renewed his intreaties 
for a successor in order that he may come within. 

Baron Stiiben has condescended to Act the Drill Master as well as the 
Inspector in Camp, he has hit the taste of the Officers, gives universal 

[185]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, IV. 387; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter- 
Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 33 ; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Papers, HL 
151 (copy). 

2 Duane's letter of Mar. 16 was read in Congress Mar. 28 and referred to the 
board of war. 

' See no. 163, ante, and no. 188, post. 

3^ See the Journals, Apr. 7 ; cf. nos. 172, ante, 190, post. 



154 Continental Congress 

satisfaction and I am assured has made an amazing improvement in dis- 
cipline, a Young correspondent ^^ of mine who is a very honest Man and 
not very ignorant and who had always regretted the deficiency of dis- 
cipline, tells me if I were present 1 should be enchanted by the change 
suddenly made in the grand Camp. 

I am confident if the States are in earnest and will send in reinforce- 
ments in time to partake the benefit of the Current reform we shall not 
be driven much further from the Ocean, the present newly adopted en- 
campment, Gen. duportail assures me, is tenable against the Enemy's 
utmost efforts by their present powers. 

We are menaced and not slightly, with the loss of all our good Officers 
unless a Peace establishment is made, this has appeared to me unjust, 
unseasonable ^^ and a compliance under threats, dangerous, and the reason- 
ings in favor of the measure. " a total loss of virtue in the Army ", the 
worst adapted in the whole circle of ratiocination for converting me. In 
the first place I cannot believe it. if I could, I would say, every Man to 
his Tent, tis a matter of indifference to me whether the Tyrants name be 
George or Dick — not an argument adduced in favor of the measure but 
will apply generally to every person zealousl}'- engaged in the present 
dispute and to thousands more forcibly than to our Officers in general, 
the Remedy proposed is also inadequate to the relief, upon th^ grounds 
on which the Claim is set up. half Pay to commence seven Years hence 
will not add a Shirt nor a bottle of Wine to a complainant General Officer 
in the mean time. I will not be further troublesome at this Instant. I may 
hereafter submit my sentiments at large to your better judgement with 
permission, the object is stupendous; view it in either light, the danger 
of losing " ALL " " ALL " your " good " Officers, or that of getting '" no 
more " Men, and " losing those you have "' — one of these Evils may be 
remedied — but from my own feelings I trust, who have already lost a 
great Estate and am in a fair way to part with the present small remainder, 
there are many Thousands whose hearts are warm with the reasonings 
which induced the original Compact' and who have not bowed the Knee 
to Luxury nor to Mammon. 

'tis time to turn to your Letter, from whence I have thus digressed, 
from casting my eye on your Complaint of the dearth of News — you will 
forgive all that is said too much. I have not time to retrospect, nor genius 
nor inclination for refining phrases into no meaning, besides, I dare trust 
you Sir with my first thoughts, those upon the half pay establishment are 
rooted in my mind — hitherto the strongest arguments in favour of the 
measure have been the necessity, and for avoiding the consecutive 
threatned evils. The Justice and propriety of the Act would have 
made some impression upon such a heart as mine, but " portents and 
prodigies are lost on me ". the project we are clearly informed originated 
in a sphere above Regimental Command ; it was a work extremely 
practicable to roll it down Hill, the application comes in not directly, but 

3" John Laurens. 

^^ Laurens clearly wrote unseasonable. See pp. 1/7, 183. 



April, I//8 155 

through a medium and Clothed with terror — but whither am I again 
wandering.* 

P. M. 3 oCIo. Just returned from the Chair, and while the morsel is 
removing from the Cabouse to the Table, before I take up your Letter let 
me add a word. If you delight in contracting an enormous debt to a 
Crafty powerful foreign State, your absence from this Mornings services 
has lost you much pleasure.^ I have executed your several Commands. 
And while I think of it let me add, your Public Letter was in due time 
presented to Congress and referred to the Board of War from whence 
I have learned nothing concerning it — unless the Board have included the 
subject of yours, in their Report on Gen. Schuylers Letter, not yet con- 
sidered by the House.*' 

The arrival of Majr Gen. AIcDougall at Fish Kill has anticipated an 
answer to your enquiry, who is to command in the Highlands? but, 
whatever might have been General Washington's intention when he 
ordered that Gentleman to repair to that Post, 'tis probable this Command 
will be but temporar}-. it has been said and repeated that Gen. Gates must 
soon take the Field and in your quarter — and although this is mere out 
of door talk I would wish you to understand it, as said to a Member of 
Congress.'^ Under the same stipulation if you and I were tete a tete, I 
might attempt to account for the amazing neglect of North River, I might 
add at least twenty other neglects, and possibly as many Acts which ought 
to have been neglected — make an aggregate of these and transfer the 
whole to the debit of the general Account of the thirteen United free and 
Independent^ States of America. What Representation had ye for up- 
ward of three precious jNIonths, when those things were done which 
ought not to have been done, and those left undone which ought to to have 
been done? Why — 9 States — 9 or 11 Members when we could collect 
them — seldom 15 — 17 made a ver\^ full House — you well know Sir, the 
unavoidable drudgery of Committees requires more hands — I am not 
competent to Lecture upon heads — nor need I attempt description to a 
Gentleman so well acquainted with the sagacity of the Stock which he 
left upon hand — be this as it may, I do aver and will maintain, the United- 
States and not their few Pack Horses are blameable. the United States 
have acted, and 'tis far from impossible may be whipped, like Children. 
Often have I lamented the neglected state of North River as well as of 
many other essential works — whatever may be the event, I shall feel some 
consolation from a reflection, which it would be unbecoming to boast of. 
I still trust we are not quite too late ; tis true danger appears that Lion 
which I have beheld for three Years past Couchant, always well apprized 
of his unexerted powers, is now roused, his Eyes flash and he growls; if 
he has strength to Roar and expand, we shall retrospect with pain. — be 
it so ; let us not be stricken by fear, let us be animated and Wise — there is 

* On the question of half-pay see no. 174, note 2, ante. 
5 See no. 186, post. 
^ See no. 189, post. 

^ See nos. 134, 168, ante, and no. 204, post. 

" These words are written in large, bold letters, which is Laurens's more usual 
method of indicating emphasis. 



156 Continental Congress 

Wisdom in America, let it be collected — strength and success will be the 
Issue — but no time is to be lost — I do not hold it impossible, we shall hear 
of some attempts to accommodation as a prelude to the ensuing Campaign, 
admit the belief of a change in the Command at Philadelphia and the 
suggestion will not appear extravagant — but we need not distress our 
minds by apprehensions that the very first article will be a confirmation of 
American Independency — and who can dry eyed contemplate submission. 

Your hint respecting a Committee for North River and that department, 
is valuable, but in our meagre state respecting numbers and qualities, can 
we spare a respectable detachment? when could we have spared such a 
one? why. My Dear Sir, may we not appoint Men of abilities including 
diligence, of the vicinage to act as Commissioners and to receive com- 
pensation from the Public for devoting their whole time and attention to 
the Public service? This consideration if we pursue it will lead us into a 
large field from whence we shall not be able to return before night, there- 
fore let us go back. 

The Marquis has indeed as you observe been in an awkward situation. 
I have sometimes felt pain on his account, but most from an inspective 
view of consiquences which might follow a vindictive assertion of his 
honour. I trust however that his greatness of mind and his attachment to 
our Cause, will dictate the propriety of seeming a little blind and a little 
unfeeling upon a late determination.^ 

I entertain an high opinion of that Noble personage. As a General and 
a Commanding Ofiicer I am persuaded he would have given great satis- 
faction in the Northern department. When I reflect upon the alacrity with 
which he obeyed the order of Congress to penetrate Canada, his Zeal for 
the public Interest and upon the propriety of his whole conduct during 
that short lived Command, and at the same time take into view certain 
concomitants to the Act of remanding him to Valley forge, I admire his 
magnanimity and grieve for the mistakes of some of our good friends. 

If you said anything in your public Letter relative to your friend 
Genl. Schuyler, as I think you did 'tis not at present in my power to reply 
particularly I surrendered the Letter the Morning it came to hand to the 
Board of War where it now Sleeps. ^° we have indulged the New Board in 
an exceeding bad practice, making Reports and detaining the subject 
referred — you perceive in an Instant how many inconveniences this pro- 
duces, one which I feel is, an inability in many Cases to answer Letters 
with perspicuity and dispatch 

1^^ I am Speaking to a Member. I write to the general Officially 

God protect you and yours, free from the assaults of our Enemies, you 
being safe, your neighbors will be so, I include you all in my prayers and 
I beg you will believe I always hold you in a very respectable light and 
am with great Regard. 

^ The suspension of the expedition into Canada. See the Journals, Mar. 2, 13, 
and nos. 135, 137, 151, 167, 168, ante. 

10 In a letter to Robert Morris, dated Mar. 19, extensive e.xtracts of which are 
found in Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 153, Duane pleads in particular for speedy 
attention to Schuyler's case. 



April, i/y8 157 

1 86. Henry Laurens, Note on Proposed Plan of Settlement with 

RODERIQUE HORTALES AND CoMPANY/ 

[April 7? 1778.] 

N. B. This was the plan proposed by Mr. M to settle what has 

been done.^ I do not make any observations upon it, because you com- 
prehend much better than I can do the whole meaning of it. upon remark 

of some other gentlemen of the Commercial Committee, Mr. M has 

altered that first plan of Settlement, and has blended what has been done 
and what is to be done, So that what is done should be almost the rule of 
what is to do, and I am certainly very far from agreeing to it. 

187. A Committee of Congress to Benjamin Rush.^ 
Sir, 

Your letters of the 25th of February to General Washington, and of the 
9th of March, to ]\Ir. Roberdeau, of which we presume you have draughts, 
having been laid before Congress, produced an Order, of which, the in- 
closed is an authenticated copy." 

We wish to proceed in this business, so as to obtain the most perfect 
information of the mal-practices, if there are any of the Director General ; ^ 
and to this end, we desire that you will be pleased to ascertain with pre- 
cision, and transmit to us, the charges, and upon oath the evidence you 
have, or can procure, against him; also, the names of the witnesses, and 
places of their residence. 

If there are any difficulties in the way of your collecting the evidence 
upon this important subject, you will be pleased to point them out; with, 
if in your power to do so, the means of removing them. 
We are, Sir, Your most humble Ser'ts 

Wm. Hy. Drayton 
Saml. Huntington 
York Town April 7, 1778. W. H. D. for Mr. Banister. 

188. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 

to George Washington.^ 

York Town 8th April 1778 
Sir, 

I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency the 4th by Jones, since 
which I have presented to Congress Your Excellency's favors of the 
ist 3d and 4th. Upon reading the first I took occasion to intimate to 

[i86]iS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XXVII. ("Congressional, 1779"). 

- This first plan of Robert Morris cannot now be found. Concerning the second 
plan, see no. 281, note 2, post. Cf. nos. 109, 133, ante. 

[187] 1 Library Company of Philadelphia, Ridgway Branch, Rush MSS., XLIII. 47. 

- See the Journals, Apr. 3. Washington's letter of Mar. 21 is in Writings (ed. 
Ford), VI. 437. 

3 Dr. William Shippen, director general of hospitals. Concerning an earlier 
stage in the controversy between Dr. Rush and Dr. Shippen, see nos. 59, 69, 83, ante. 
The Journals do not record a report from this committee. A letter from Rush to the 
committee was however read in Congress June 4. 

[ 188] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCII. y6; ibid., President's 
Letter-Book, I. 253; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), II. 98. 



158 Continental Congress 

Mr. Diier the distressed situation of his friend General Schuyler as de- 
scribed by the General himself in a late Letter of the 15th March and this 
morning suggested again to the House the demands of all the General 
Officers subjects of the suspended enquiry. I shall repeat the same to 
Morrow and having just now obtained the concurrence of Gentlemen in 
private conversation that Congress are guardians of the Honor of their 
Officers I flatter myself there will be no further delay of this business.^ 

Your Excellency will receive under the present Inclosure an act of 
Congress of the 7th for promoting Captain Lee to the Rank of Major of 
Horse and to the Command of a separate Corps. I perceive it is not 
expressed in the act but I am warranted to assure your Excellency it is 
the particular desire of Congress that suitable declarations of that Gentle- 
man's merit should be expressed either within the intended Commission 
or by annexing to it the abovementioned act a certified Copy of which 
Major Lee will receive by the present dispatch.^ 

Consideration of Colonel Lee and Major Swasey's applications is post- 
poned a few days for particular reasons.^ 

I shall direct the Secretary of Congress to collect the dates of the late 
resignations of Colonels in the Virginia line and transmit an account to 
your Excellency when obtained. 

Your Excellency's last Letter of the 4th is at present the subject of a 
special Committee, 'tis probable a Report will be offered to Morrow 
morning.^ 

2 See nos. 181, 185, ante, and nos. 189, 232, 243, 308, post; also the Journals, 
Apr. 6, 7, 29. 

3 Washington's letter of Apr. 3 relative to the promotion of Capt. Henry (" Light 
Horse Harry") Lee is in Writings (ed. Sparks), V. 303. See also John Laurens to his 
father Mar. 28, in Army Correspondence, p. 149. 

^ These were Col. William Raymond Lee and Maj. Joseph Svvasey, of one of 
the Massachusetts continental regiments. Their resignations, dated Jan. 24 and Mar. 17, 
respectively, were accepted by Congress June 24. A letter from Washington to General 
Heath Apr. 8, concerning these resignations, is in the Library of Congress, Washington 
Papers. 

^ Following the Letter-Book copy is this note in Laurens's hand : " I detained the 
Bearer to this hour 3 oClock the 9th hoping to have transmitted an answer to Your 
Excellency's Letter of the 4th." Washington's letter of Apr. 4, read in Congress Apr. 7, 
is in Writings (ed. Ford), VL 459, (ed. Sparks), V. 306. For some reference to its 
antecedents, see no. 163, note 2, ante. The reply of Congress as prepared by a committee 
is in the Journals, Apr. 10, with erased passages showing tlie several amendments. 
(The index figure " 2 " on p. 330 is, however, misplaced. The note applies to the clause 
in square brackets.) The letter as finally adopted Apr. 13, and sent to Washington over 
the signature of the president with the date Apr. 14, is in the Library of Congress, 
Letters to Washington, XCH. 45, and is printed in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
n. 103, also in an appendix to Washington's Writings (ed. Sparks), V. 539. The letter- 
book copy (President's Letter-Book, I. 258) has this annotation by Laurens: "Copy 
of a letter, produced by amendments in Congress on a draft prepared by a committee 
in answer to Gen. Washington's letter of the 4th April — the draught presented the 9th 
debated at divers meetings and Resolved the 13 April i p. 9 oClock P. M." Washington 
replied to this letter Apr. 18 {Writings, ed. Ford, VI. 472, ed. Sparks, V. 2>i6), and 
transmitted the report (dated Apr. 4) of the com.missioners (William Grayson, R. H. 
Harrison, Alexander Hamilton, and Elias Boudinot) appointed to negotiate an exchange 
of prisoners (see the Journals, Apr. 20). The instructions to the commissioners Mar. 28, 
and Washington's letter to Howe relative thereto Mar. 29, are in Writings (ed. Ford), 
VL 442. See especially Boudinot's Reminiscences, no. 202, note 6, post ; also Hamilton 
to Clinton, Mar. 12, Writings of Washington (ed. Sparks), V. 306 n. Cf. nos. 191, 192, 
202, 233, 235, 300, post. 



April, I//8 159 

Previous to the receipt of Your Excellency's advices Congress had 
determined to make a purchase of divers articles set forth in Capt. Cottin- 
eau's schedule of his cargo and for this purpose a gentleman will proceed 
to morrow on his journey to Cape Lookout by whom Your Excellency's 
Letters Avill go Forward,® 

189. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Philip Schuyler/ 

8th April 1778. 
Sir 

On the 28th Ulto. I had the honor of receiving and presenting to Con- 
gress your favor of the 15th which was immediately referred to the Board 
of War from whence a Report came up the 3d Inst, but this has not yet 
although frequently offered, been taken under consideration, consequently 
I have received no Commands. I have on this and a similar Case detained 
the bearer hereof from day to day hoping upon each the next would have 
produced the desired effect at length, persuaded it will save some expence 
to the public and even afford you Sir, some satisfaction I have submitted 
to the importunities of Mr. Green ^ by consenting to his return, but I 
cannot let him go without adding a word on the subject which must, most 
nearly, affect your mind. 

Some time in February the Committee appointed to Enquire into the 
Causes of the loss of Tyconderoga etc. presented such Evidence as had 
been collected to Congress and by order, transmitted the whole to Genl. 
Washington, and then the Comm'ee were discharged.^ the General in a 
Letter of the 27th Febry intimated a necessity for stating Charges, a New 
Comm'ee was thereupon appointed, who soon after offered a Report which 
was about to be determined upon the 28th Ulto. when the Honble Mr. Duer 
interposed arguments which induced the House to postpone the intended 
consideration for two days * I take the liberty to name that Gentleman 
because his declared motives for delay were coupled with assurances of 
particular considerations respecting Genl. Schuyler and because there can 
be no ground for doubting the goodness of his intentions, on the 4th Inst. 
I called on Mr. Duer reminded him of his engagement and urged the 
painful situation in which his friend was suspended, yesterday I directed 
the secretary to repeat the call Genl. Washington has again written upon 
the subject. I was in hopes this would have proved an incitement, but 
all remains still dormant. I hope to give no offence, but I will this very 
Morning remind Congress of the business again. ^ 

8 Concerning Captain Cottineau's cargo, see the Journals, Mar. 31, Apr. 10 (p. 
333), May 22; cf. ibid., June 13. See also N. C. State Recs., XIII. 119, 126; cf. ibid., 
pp. 85, 93, iir, 120. 

[189]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 255; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens 
Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 39. 

2 The bearer of Schuyler's letter. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 5. 

* See the Journals, Mar. 5, 6, 10, 28. Cf. nos. 181, 188, ante. Washington's letter 
of Feb. 27 is in Writings (ed. Sparks), V. 243. 

^ Cf. no. 188, ante. The Tournals do not indicate that the Ticonderoga matter was 
brought up either Apr. 8 or 9. See the Journals, Apr. 29, June 12, 20, and nos. 232, 243, 
308, post. 



160 Continental Congress 



&' 



Be assured Sir, I have long Sympathized with Gentlemen who are 
Subjects of that Enquiry, abstracted from all Ideas of Censure or applause, 
and although it was with extreme reluctance I obeyed the order of Con- 
gress to be of the Original Committee after having offered such reasons 
for exemption as appeared to me to be forcible, yet I cannot charge myself 
with delinquency at any stage in the course of our proceedings, to account 
for the uncouth entangled state of this enquiry would not be half so diffi- 
cult as it might be improper in the line of official correspondence, there- 
fore I shall only add that my endeavors shall be continued for putting 
it in motion. 

190. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Morgan.^ 

Dear Sir, 9th April 1778 

The day before yesterday I had the honor of presenting to Congress 
your favour of the 7th Inst, which was referred to a Select Committee 
and remains unreported, consequently I have received no Commands on 
that subject, nevertheless I cannot suffer Mr. McLeland ^ to return with- 
out intimating that the Enquiry into your conduct by the Commissioners 
at Fort Pitt is approved of by Congress, that the House have ordered 
it to be entered upon the Journal and to be published to the World, a 
circumstance which with the utmost pleasure I communicate by the 
earliest opportunity.^ .... 

191. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

York Pensylvania April 9th, 1778 
No State has yet absolutely instructed its Delegates to ratify the Con- 
federation except Virginia and New York, and none except those and 
Connecticut Maryland and our State have transmitted any instructions 
at all.- The Congress have at present no leisure for entering upon it 

[igo]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 256. 

2 janies McClelland. appears to have brought the despatches from Fort Pitt, and 
(as indicated in the Letter-i>ook) was the bearer of this letter. Cf. the Journals, Apr. 9. 

3 Laurens of course made a slip of the pen when he gave the date of Morgan's 
letter as " 7th Inst." It was read in Congress Apr. 7, but according to the Journals it 
was dated Mar. 31. The certificate of the commissioners to Fort Pitt relative to Morgan's 
conduct, which bears the date Mar. 27, is made a part of the record Apr. 7, but there is 
no order to publish it. A copy of the certificate had probably already been sent by 
Morgan to President Wharton of Pennsylvania (see Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 386; also 
no. 172, ante). The committee to whom were referred the commissioners' letter of 
Mar. 31, which related to the general situation in the west, and that of Morgan made 
a report May 2, but there is no mention of Morgan in that Report. A copy of the 
letter, as well as of the consequent resolves, was transmitted by Laurens to Washington. 
Concerning the initiation of the inquiry with regard to Morgan, see the Journals, 
Oct. 22, Nov. 20, 1777, and these Letters, vol. II.. nos. 705-707. 

[igi]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXVI. 478 (extract). 

- See nos. 149, 162, and the references in no. 140, note 2, ante. The instructions 
from South Carolina relative to the Confederation must, however, have been received 
by the delegates prior to this time, for John Rutledge wrote to Henry Laurens Feb. 16 ; 
" By the inclosed papers you will perceive that several amendments are proposed by the 



April, 1778 161 

being much engag-ed in what relates to the Army. A Committee which 
has been a long time at Camp, has proposed some alterations in our 
Military System, tho I think they have not reformed any of its capital 
abuses which are want of discipline in the men and want of industry in 
the Officers, they have proposed to reduce the number of battallions from 
1 16 to 88 and the number of Officers in each battallion from 40 to 29.^ 

Two subjects very much engage our attention at present, and we all 
wish on one of them to be particularly informed of the sentiments of our 
constituents. These subjects are, a general exchange of prisoners, and 
an establishment for the Officers of the army after the War. The former 
meets with many difficulties from the opposite views and interests of the 
contending powers, and also from the secret wishes of some Officers in 
the Army. This last is conjecture, but many of us are convinced of the 
reality of its foundation. The enemy want their men and Officers, but 
are very unwilling to let us avail ourselves of the experience and abilities 
of General Lee, we want the General and have determined that his release- 
ment shall take place, or no exchange at all be permitted. We insist that 
the enemy shall pay for the provisions we give their troops, when 
prisoners, in hard money, or replace them in Quantity and Quality. They 
are unwilling to agree to this, we are desirous that all traitors should be 
delivered over to the Civil Magistrate to be punished agreeable to the 
Laws of the States to which they respectively belonged. The Enemy are 
unwilling to admit this distinction, but desire all to be considered as 
prisoners of War. finally Sir we are many of us persuaded that some 
Officers in the Army wish not for the release of General Lee because his 
enterprising disposition, and Marital genius will be a strong contrast to 
their want of both, and we find by undoubted testimony, that it is a 
prevailing opinion in the Army that no regard ought to be paid to the 
Penal Laws of the States in settling the exchange of Prisoners but that 
all ought to be deemed prisoners of War. A letter from General Wash- 
ington relative to this affair is now before Congress wherein he recom- 
mends that the Laws be suffered to sleep is his expression, and that a rule 
of practice be adopted directly contrary to them; but this proposal met 
with very great and almost general opposition and indignation in Con- 
gress. It appears to most of us that giving up a matter of this kind is 
betraying our independence and in effect giving a licence to the enemy to 
recruit in our country. If w^e suffer our citizens who adhere to our 
enemies, and actually take arms against us to be considered as prisoners 
of war, and subject to no municipal laws, I see not where our independence 
remains, and we cannot conceive that even Congress can dispense with 

Assembly and Legislative Council to the articles sent from Congress ; that our delegates 
are empowered to ratify a confederation, but that they are instructed to use their utmost 
endeavours to get the alterations proposed by this state adopted. ... I asked the 
Assembly's leave for your return, and they have given it, when a representation shall 
arrive in Congress. You are, however, reelected; your colleagues are Messrs. W. H. 
Drayton, Thomas Heyward, John Mathews, and Richard Hutson. . . . Drayton says 
he will set off next Monday, so that he will be with you very soon after you receive this." 
{Correspondence of Henry Laurens, p. 93.) Drayton took his seat in Congress Mar. 30. 
See, further, no 243, note 4, post. 

3 See the Journals, May 18-20, 26, 27, 29, June 4. See also no. 193, post. 



102 Continental Congress 

such Laws much less a Cabinet Council of Military Officers. These are 
the sentiments, I believe of a great majority in Congress as well as mine, 
and I venture to say the matter will be peremptorily insisted on.* 

The other matter, that is, the establishment for Officers has cost us 
much time and debate, but the favourers of it have not yet ventured a 
Question on it, the proposal is from the Committee who were at Camp, 
strongly supported by the Commander in Chief. It is to make a provision 
of half pay for life after the end of the War for all Officers who shall 
continue in service until that period, and tq extend this provision to the 
Widows of Officers who may be Slain, also to make such half pa)'- trans- 
ferable under the Controul of Congress and to subject the Officers to be 
again called by Congress into the service occasionally.^ In support of this 
it was alledged that at present the Officers having no permanent interest 
in their Commissions, it is not possible to reduce them to discipline, 
because whenever the necessary strictness and severity is observed they 
threaten to resign a Commission which affords them no prospects but 
of pain, danger fatigue, and ruin to their private fortunes. That it is 
unjust to sacrifise the time and property of the men whose lives are every 
day exposed for us without any prospect of compensation, while so many 
who are protected by their valor and exertions are emassing princely 
fortunes, that unless something of this kind is done we cannot long expect 
to have an Army, because the Officers being unable even to subsist on their 
pay have already expended much of their private property and would be 
entirely ruined were they to continue; in a word Sir that without it we 
can have no discipline, and almost no army. On the other hand it is 
alledged that the Officers in the Army are and ought to be actuated by 
the principles of patriotism and public spirit, and ought to disdain motives 
of private interest, that enough will always be found to command our 
Troops who will deem the service of their Country and gratitude a very 
ample compensation. That making such an establishment will involve the 
idea of a standing Army in time of peace to be at the disposal of Congress 
and that the rights of the States of appointing the regimental Officers 
will be reduced to nothing, that its effect will be to keep a great number 
of People idle Pensioners on the public who ought to be restored to useful 
industry, that it will be burthening the country with an expence for Officers 
at the same time that the Soldiery must be supplied from the Militia. That 
since it cannot certainly produce an army exclusive of the Militia no good 
can be derived from it for which we ought to hazard such inconveniences. 
But the most formidable argument is that the Congress being instituted 
only for the purposes of War have no power without particular instruc- 
tions, to make any peace establishment. For my own part Sir, I cannot help 
admitting the force of the arguments for this measure so far as they prove 
the necessity of holding up the prospect of some adequate Compensation 
for the Officers and Soldiers likewise, but I do not approve of the mode 

* See nos. i8i, i88, 189, ante, and nos. 232, 243, 308. post. 

5 The committee offered some resolutions relative to half-pay Mar. 26, immedi- 
ately upon their return. On May 18 they presented their plan for regulating the army. 
Concerning the half-pay establishment, see no. 174, note 2, ante. 



April, 1778 163 

proposed. The arguments drawn from Patriotism and public spirit may- 
be fine and specious, but I choose to trust to some principles of more 
certain, lasting and powerful influence for the defence of our country. 
There will be room enough for their full operation after every thing else 
in our power is done. The fear of a standing Army arising from this 
establishment, has no great weight with me This War will make too 
many of our people Soldiers to leave us any thing to apprehend from a 
standing Army in one generation. The few in each State whom the 
fatigues and consequent infirmities of a long and painful War will induce 
to indulge an indolent ease are not in my opinion an object of any conse- 
quence, the argument of want of power is no more conclusive against 
this than against borrowing money which must be paid and its interest 
in the mean time kept up by revenues which must continue long beyond 
the War, but it is not conclusive against either if the necessity for raising 
and keeping together an army be admitted. The argument with respect 
to the power of the States, in appointing the regimental Ofiicers cannot 
be denied, but I hope after the present war we shall not have occasion to 
exercise that Power again in the age of any man now living. In short Sir 
I could get over all the objections if the number of Battallions were so 
reduced that no State should be obliged to keep up more than they can 
man exclusive of draughts from the Militia but so long as it tends only to 
keep Ofiicers in pay w^ithout regular troops under them, so long as our 
States are required to keep up a number so much beyond their proportion 
and ability, I cannot agree to it. It will not have the effect of producing 
a good Army which may prevent the necessity of calling on the Militia, 
and so long as a country must employ its Militia, the expence and injury 
arising from it is sufficient burthen without an established list of Pen- 
sioners. I shall use my endeavour to have the number of Battallions from 
our State reduced because I am convinced they cannot be filled by recruit- 
ing and to fill them with draughted Militia is much too heavy and unequal 
a burthen for us. And if the establishment can be so moddled as to make 
provision only for Officers who shall have regular Troops to command 
I shall consent to it if it shall be determined during my stay. 

192. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

My Dear Son 9th April 1778 

.... I am greatly distressed by circumstances now in agitation re- 
specting your friend. I think I once said " I hope he will never afford 
him or them his own consent to hurt him." ^ . . . , 

193. Francis Lewis to Pierre Van Cortlandt.^ 
Dear Sir, Mar. [April] 10. '78. 

.... About two months ago Congress sent a Committee of their 
body to camp, in order to consult with the General upon a mode for 

[192]! S. C Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar .-Sept., 1778, p. 41; Hist. Soc. 
of Pa., Dreer Coll. 

- The allusion is to Washington. See no. 188, note 5, ante, and the Journals, 
Apr. ID. For the quotation, see no. 22, ante ; cf. nos. 27, 52, ante. 

[193]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XH. 40. 

15 



164 Continental Congress 

regulating the Army.' Mr. Danna, one of that Committee is returned 
with a report for the new arrangement of the Army, in which it is pro- 
posed to reduce the present estabHshment to 88 BattaHons, each to consist 
of one Colonel, one Lieut. Colonel, one Major, six captains, one Captain 
Lieut., eight Lieuts., nine Ensigns, the Staff to be appointed out of the line. 
The Qr. M'rs General for the grand Army are already appointed, vizt. 
Major Genl. Greene, with a Col. Cox and Mr. Pettit (both of this State) 
as assistant Qr. Mas'rs General. There has been great complaints of 
neglect and peculation in this department, into which a strict inquiry will 
be made. 

The Report proposes half-pay to all commissioned Officers on the new 
establishment, who shall remain in the service at the end of the War. 
Congress has already employed a week, de diem in diem, debating warmly 
upon this point, and nothing yet determined ; the half-pay scheme meets 
with great opposition, the House divided in a Committee of the Whole, 
the question not yet put, but will I believe tomorrow; if carried in the 
affirmative (which is still with me a doubt), it will be for a limited term 
of years, and not for life.^ .... 

I forgot to inform you that it has been also moved in a committee of 
the whole, that a bounty should be given to the soldiers at the end of the 
war, of fifty dollars each and a suit of clothes, over and above the bounty 
of land formerly voted.* .... 

Congress is anxious to know if the forts on Hudson River are carrying 
on with vigor, as they have the security of that River very much at heart ; 
such has been the large demands for money, that the Treasury was nearly 
exhausted, but hope it is now in such a train, as to be soon and amply 
replenished 

My worthy Colleague, Colo. Duer, returned to Congress last week, so 
that now our State is represented.^ Mr. G. Morris is still at camp. We 
expect he will join us in a fortnight 

194. William Duer to Robert Morris.^ 

My Dear Sir 

.... It is said that my Friend Gouverneur Morris is at your Chateau. 
for the sake of our Country, my dear Morris, entreat him to push on and 
come with him yourself. From a want of Representation in the State of 
New York, and several other Embarrassments we cannot bring as many 
members absolutely essential to our Safety, without you, especially the 
Establishment for the Army.- I am desired by all your Friends in Con- 

2 See no. 62, note 2, ante. With regard to the new arrangement of the army, 
see no. 191, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 26, 27, 31, Apr. i, 2. The subject was resumed in the 
committee of the whole Apr. 16 and debated almost daily until May 15, when the 
question was determined in two resolutions. Cf. no. 174. note 2, ante. 

* This motion is not found in the Journals. See, however, the amendment offered 
Apr. 16, and the second of the two resolutions adopted May 15. 

° Duer was in Congress Mar. 27. Cf. no. 194, post. 
[194]! Copied from the original, then in possession of i\Ir. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 155 (extract). 

2 See nos. 174, 182, 185, 191, 193, ante. 



April, ijjS 165 

gress to press you on this matter ; and I flatter myself we shall not plead in 
Vain. If G. Morris should be at Lancaster, pray write to him in the most 
pressing Terms, to come forward." .... 

My dear Friend do not fail to accompany Mr Morris; ten or twelve 
days of your Joint attendance will do more good than six months of your 
Presence one month hence.^ 

York Town 12th April. 
Honble Robert ]\lorris 

195. Engagement of Members to Meet Punctually, etc.^ 

We the subscribers members of Congress pledge our honor to each 
other that we will meet punctually at the hour of adjournment, that on 
any subject in debate (except in committee of the whole house) we will 
not speak more than Ten ^ minutes, seldom more than once, never more 
than twice, and that we will unite in supporting order and preserving 
decency and politeness in debate 
April 12. 1778. 

Francis Lightfoot Lee Va. 

struck out because violated by.] 

several of the contracting ^Samuel Chase ^ Md. 

parties J 

Wm. Duer N Yk. 

J Banister 

Wm. Hy. Drayton 

Jas. Smith 

William Ellery 

James Forbes Md. 

James Lovell 

Fra. Dana 

Edward Langworthy 

Sam'el Huntington 

John Henry Md. 

Nathl. Scudder 

Corn^ Harnett 

E Gerry 
[Endorsed, in the writing of Charles Thomson :] 

" Engagement of the members to meet punctually at the hour of adjourn- 
ment, to support order and preserve decency and politeness." ^ 

3 See no. 128, ante. 
[195]! Library of Congress, Miscellaneous, Portfolio No. 104 (in the writing of 
Charles Thomson). 

2 The word " fifteen " was erased and " Ten " substituted above the line by a hand 
other than Thomson's, probably that of Francis Lightfoot Lee. 

3 The name of Samuel Chase has been crossed out with a grill-work of lines, 
and the reasons therefor, written in the margin against his name, are in Chase's 
own hand. 

•* It is to be observed that this pledge followed immediately the incident in which 
Thomas Burke figured conspicuously. See no. 196, note 5, post. 



166 Coyitincntal Congress 

[A further endorsement, probably in the writing of Francis Lightfoot 

Lee, reads :! 

" Signed in the handwriting of the Members April 12th. 1778." 

196. James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull/ 

13th Apr: 1778 
Dear Sir 

Your favor of the 2d gave me vast satisfaction as it goes near to insure 
to me the restoration of your Health and Limbs. I think you had best 
detennine to lay aside all thought of coming to this Place.^ The Employ- 
ment you were invited to would be inevitable Destruction after the Shock 
you have had. You will ever hereafter require Exercise and good Accom- 
modations where your own or your Physician's Will could decide in points 
of Regimen. Here you can command no course of Diet. I am not Galen 
enough to say whether the Lime water which tears your Countrymen's 
Bowels out would not serve you. It has driven several Delegates home 
to their native springs. I have not been affected with it disagreably in that 
respect which I hinted as to Mr. Wolcot and Mr. Huntington : and I do 
not think I ought to charge the Cramp in my Breast to any thing but 
Quilldriving perpetually.^ 

Mr, Wadsworth will conduct the Commissary's Department.^ and I 
think your Constitution requires that you should assist him. I will not 
enlarge on that point as you discover a Disposition in your letter both well 
suited to yr present State of Health and your Character as a true Patriot. 

If the army is not immediately filled up to the full compliment called for, 
what we have yet felt is a trifle to what we may expect. I say the same 
in Regard to Congress. The Sickness or Will of one man ^ out of those 
now here destroys its existence. I will tell you hereafter why this ought 
not to be, if you stand in need of being told. 

My respectful and affectionate Compliments to your Father's and y'r 
own family 

JL 

197. Henry Laurens to George Washington.^ 

York Town 14th April 1778 
Sir 

Since my last of the 8th by Ross I have had the honor of presenting 
Your Excellency's dispatch of the loth to Congress, this together with 

[196]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Joseph Trumbull Papers. 

2 Cf. no. 53, ante. 

^ The disagreeable conditions in York had brought on a proposition Apr. 9 to 
discuss the question of removal. Cf. nos. 53, 78, ante, and nos. 369, 371, pos't. The 
removal was not, however, voted until June 24 and took place June 27. The meagre 
attendance had, nearly a month earlier, induced Congress to call for fuller delegations. 
See the Journals, Mar. 12, and no. 155, ante. 

•* See the Journals, Apr. 9; cf. ibid., Mar. 30, Apr. 2, 3. See also no. 175, 
note 2, ante. 

^ The allusion is no doubt to Thomas Burke. See the Journals, Apr. 10, 11, 24, 
25, 28, and nos. 220, 225, 226, 233, 235, 236, post. 

[197] '^ Library of Congress, Washington Papers (placed at April 14, 1779). 



April, 1778 167 

the several Extracts of Letters which accompanyied it, are referred to a 
Committee and remain subjects for consideration.^ 

Under Cover with this Your Excellency will receive a Letter of the 
present date signed by special order to which I beg leave to refer.^ 

198. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott.^ 

York Town, 14th April, 1778 
My Dear 

.... I shall Write to Mr. Adams that either he or some other Gentle- 
man appointed to attend would relieve me as early in June as can be done. 
my half year's Service counting to next Novr. will fully expire bv that 
Time, and I shall not have a single Wish to prolong the Period. And if 
my Health shall continue in any tolerable Degree till that Time it is the 
utmost that I can hope for. The Service in attending Congress is more 
arduous than I had before known it. We sit sometimes till between 10 
and 1 1 oClock at night, but in those Cases We have an adjournment at 
noon At present I am not so well as to attend Congress. Yester- 
day I did not attend nor shall do so to Day.^ .... 

the affairs in the northern Department are intirely unsettled. It is I 
think most probable that the Peekskill and Albany or northern Department 
will be united. If so Mr. Trumbull will hold them both unless Mr. Palfrey 
P M Genl. should Resign, if so which I think is rath[e]r improbable, 
Mr. Trumbull who has been for a long Time uneasy at not being at the 

Head may suceed him Mr Trumbull ^ who has Wrote some 

pretty offensive Letters to Congress because he has not been treated with 
more particular Marks of Respect one would imagine did not much care 
about holding the office. But as it yeilds him a Salary of 125 Dollars per 
month without his personally attending to it scarcly any at all, I presume 
he will condescend to hold it, tho' I am very sure that such sincure pay 
must be too much by farr below the Merits of any one of that Family. 
Their claims on the Head of Merit I beleive have rendered them a little 
ridiculous. But this to you only. I am as still as a Mouse and I hope you 
will not doubt my Prudence. While I am here I shall mark the Events and 
if any Thing happens I shall give my opinion upon it farther 

As to the Regulating Act, the Achan * not only of all good Policy but 
of common Sense, Congress will I suppose in a few Days Recommend 
that it be suspended ^ at least I hope they will. No Regard is paid to any 
Act of this Kind in this State No such Act to the Southward of it Exists 

- See no. 201, post. 

3 Something of the history of this letter is given under no. 188, note 5, ayiie. 
[198]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. II., no. 51. 

2 Cf. nos. 132, 196, ante. 

^Jonathan Trumbull, jr. See no. 148, ante. 

* " The troubler of Israel ". See the Book of Joshua, ch. VII., and I Chroni- 
cles, 2 : 7. 

' See no. 147, ante. The recommendation to the states to suspend the regulation 
of prices was not, however, made until June 4. See the Journals, Apr. 8, May 7, June 4, 
and nos. 205, 218, 234, 243, 321, post. 



168 Continental Congress 

nor never will. If Connecticut maintains a Reg-ulation of this kind, they 
will be the only State in the Union that will do so 

199. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to William Bingham.^ 
^•^. York, April 16, 1778. 

.... It is probable that a commercial board — not members of Con- 
gress — will be very soon established ; so that the whole time of the conduc- 
tors may be spent in exertions for the public benefit in that branch of 
continental business. - 

The want of intelligence from our commissioners at Paris makes it 
improper for us to draw largely on them at present ; therefore you must 
content yourself with the economical bounds of the power which is given 
to you by the within resolve of Congress of this day. Be assured, that all 
possible attempts will be made for your relief by remittances of our 
produce 

Our correspondent at The Hague is very regular, but his intelligence is 
never in season to form the ground of any of our proceedings.^ .... 

200. Jonathan Bayard Smith to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Thomas Wharton, jr.)^ 

^■j, York Town, April 16 1778. 

.... Your Excellency will excuse my hinting the necessity of for- 
warding the accounts of the prisoners taken from the enemy. By a reso- 
lution of Congress of February last those accounts were to be recorded 
before 15 April, or the State omitting were to suffer any losses consequent 
on the event.^ 

I believe orders will issue to suspend any further purchases of flour. 
Large quantities are procured we are told in Maryland. If so a return of 
the proceedings of our Commissioners and their accounts will be called 
for.=^ 

201. John Banister to George Washington.^ 
o^^ York i6th April, 1778 

.... It was with the most painful Sensibility that I perused your 
last letter on the Subject of the present State of the Army,- and am equally 

[199] 1 Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 553- 

- One item in the general plan to put the executive business of Congress into 
hands other than members of Congress which was not carried out. See no. 109, ante, 
and nos. 274, 471, 505, 602, 603, post. Cf. vol. II., nos. 2'/2>, 298. The letters of Bingham 
acknowledged in the paragraph omitted at the beginning of the letter are in the Library 
of Congress, Ac. 2233. 

3 This letter is signed, " James Lovell, For the Committee of Foreign Affairs ". 
[20o]i Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 732; Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 420. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 26 ; cf. ibid.. Mar. 16. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 17. 

[20i]i Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIII. 35; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), II. 107. 

2 Banister's reference is no doubt to Washington s letter to Congress Apr. 10, 
read in Congress Apr. 13. The letter is in Washington's Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 
461, (ed. Sparks), V. 311- 



April, 1778 169 

concerned in reflecting that I do not see effectual Measures taken to ward 
off the impending- Blow. 

As to the Establishment. I am under no doubt of its being adopted, and 
put upon a ground of Stability.^ It's not having taken effect as yet has 
been owing to a thin Representation. Virginia the Leader in this great 
Business, for want of the constituent Number to form a Representation, 
remains a Cypher, without Suffrage, at this Momentous Period. Did I not 
fear to intrude upon your Hours of essential business I should sometimes 
write to you for my own information on military Subjects ; here being the 
greatest Ignorance in every Occurrence of that kind mixt with an inactivity 
that permits affairs of the greatest magnitude to lie dormant and give place 
to local Trifles. I have said with freedom in few words what has often 
occurred since I have been here. I wish I had the Capability to apply an 
instant Remedy for nothing procrastinated will do. However the military 
establishment will come out soon. God knows what other Regulations 
may take place. Virginia's drafted Men will come on soon, and I believe 
may amount to 1700 instead of 2000 voted, as it is highly probable more 
men desert of those compelled into Service, than if they had entered volun- 
tarily. Colo : Harrison's artillery Regimt. are on their march. Would 
volunteers, provided they can be had, be of Service to your operations? 
Certain it is they will not come out in such Numbers as some have con- 
jectured, but I believe a considerable Body, perhaps two Battalions may 
be induced to venture their persons in this time of danger.^ .... 

202. Henry Laurens to James Duane.^ 

York Town 17th April 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

We are now in the Wane of April, you know what is undone done and 
doing for securing the important Passes of Hudson's, on the possession 
of which our connexion with the Eastern States so intimately depends. 
Congress have ordered Gen. Gates to repair immediately to Fish Kill and 
there to Command the Troops at that Post and the whole Northern depart- 
ment, and have empowered him to call out Militia from N H. M B. C. and 
N Y. as well as from Rhode Island if the Enemy should evacuate that 
State.- 

Here, we are still encamped at Valley forge, reinforcements arrive very 
gradually. General Lee's opinion is the Enemy may March when they 
please to Lancaster. I am strongly inclined to add " and be cut off ". That 
gentleman is at present on Parol ; Congress had restricted the Commander 
in Chief to an article, as a Preliminary upon which the progress toward 

3 See the Journals, May 18-20, 26, 27, 29, June 4. Concerning the question of 
half-pay, see no. 174, note 2, ante. 

* Washington's reply to this letter, Apr. 21, is in Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 477, 
(ed. Sparks), V. 321. It appears to have been a suggestion in this letter to Banister 
that led Congress to adopt the resolve of Apr. 23 relative to pardoning Tories. Cf. 
nos. 205, 224, post. 

[202] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, IV. 413; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter- 
Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 44; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., American Papers, III. 
179 (copy). 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 15; also nos. 168, 185, ante, and no. 204, post. 



170 Continental Congress 

establishment of a general Cartel should depend, that Majr. Gen Lee 
should be exchanged for Majr. Gen Prescot, but at the General's special 
request this article is varied and now appears an Instruction. Gen. Lee is 
exceedingly anxious to be exchanged, intimates that Gen. Howe had as- 
sured him he should be, and was equally apprehensive of ill effects follow- 
ing a dogmatic preliminary. Gen. Howe, he was persuaded, would instantly 
withdraw his Commissioners. I am ignorant of the present state of the 
business of Exchange, the Commissioners had met at Newton, but there 
has happened some untoward explanations between the Commander in 
Chief and York Town and I have had no return to a late Letter signed 
by Order.^ 

Gen. Lee assures me the British Officers of his acquaintance generally 
wish for accommodation and that not a few of them approve of our oppo- 
sition, my pleasure was heightened by another assurance that our sus- 
pension of the Convention of Saratoga is censured by none and applauded 
by many, excepting the Prolixity of our reasonings upon that occasion. 
He exploded the Idea of a Change in the Command at Philadelphia. 

We are now busily engaged on the Report for an half pay establishment, 
long and wann debates for many a day had led us to the threshold of the 
Report from the Committee of the Whole, we had Entered fairly the 
Door, by reading the whole for information, the first Clause for debate, 
and had received an amendment which was read by the Chair and the 
question half put, when we were turned out by a New Motion — debates 
arose upon the point of order, referring to that Motion, an agreement 
entered upon the journal, which I shall enclose for your information, was 
also called for and insisted upon in aid of the general reasonings for order, 
against receiving the new motion, after long and fervorous arguments the 
Question was put. You Gentlemen who admit this Motion to be in order 
will signifie it by saying Aye etc.* — how say you Sir? I entreat your 
answer, that you may fully understand this circumstance I should not 
omit, that the proceedings of the House in debating the Confederation and 
other Questions were cited as precedents, and replied to, by referring to 
the special agreement in the present Case and likewise by alledging that 
the variations which were quoted had been made by " general Consent ". 
I speak again to a Member of Congress — I have stated the Case with 

brevity and candor 

20th April 

Gen Howe has as far as his own and the Power of his Emissaries have 
extended sent abroad a spurious draught of a Bill insinuated to be Parlia- 

3 The letter to Washington recorded in the Journals under Apr. lo, but approved 
Apr. 14, and so dated. Washington's reply, Apr. 18, was read in Congress Apr. 20. See 
no. 188, note, S, ante; also note 6, below. 

•* See the Journals, Mar. 26, 28, 31, Apr. i, 2, 16, 17, 21, 25-27, May 8, 9, 12, 
13, 15. Cf. no. 174, note 2, ante. The "new motion" referred to was made Apr. 17 
(see the Journals, p. 362). The enclosure to which Laurens refers is found in the 
N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, IV. 417. It is a copy (substantially correct) of the 
agreement recorded in the Journals Apr. i (morning session, last two paragraphs, p. 300), 
to which Laurens appends the following comment: "If the New Motion was out of 
order a reference to the above agreement will make the violence of out voting appear 
to have been more violent. *^This to a Member of Congress." Cf. nos. 203, 206, 211, 
222, 231, 242, 247, 25s, 258, 267, 282, 287, post ; also the Journals, p. 393. note 3. 



April, 1778 171 

mentary, importing an intended proposition for reconciling differences and 
quieting disturbances in the Colonies. Governor Clinton shall be furnished 
with a Copy, which you will of course see — probably you will have seen 
one sooner, your Morris and our Drayton have it in hand I make no 
doubt but that we shall return it decently tarred and feathered. ° 

The Commissioners at New Town for establishing a Cartel for Ex- 
change of Prisoners have done as did Balaam and Balak 24 Numb. 25 V. 
Those on our part have gained great Credit, their conduct and proceedings 
were spirited, perspicuous, honorable to themselves and their Constituents 
and must do our Cause service in the Eye of the Enemy. General Howe's 
dictates to his Agents and their servility are all shabby, and will expose 
them all to ridicule and contempt — by the byeS^^ remember to whom I 
speak, a certain Club of which you are a Member have very fortunately 
got out of a scrape, you shall see the whole, except the latter stroke, in 
Print very speedily. I whispered to a friend, this may be passed to the 
credit of Providence." 

^ See Washington's letter of Apr. 18, and the Journals, Apr. 20-23 ; also Wash- 
ington's letters of Apr. 20, 23, 25, 27 (read in Congress Apr. 23, 25, 26, and 29, respec- 
tively), and a private letter to Laurens, Apr. 30. The letters are in Writings (ed. Ford), 
VI. 472, 474, 492, 497, 500, 508, (ed. Sparks), V. 316, 319, 336, 340, 344. Cf. nos. 207, 209, 
213-216, 219-221, 223, 225, 227, 230, 271, 273, post. 

In his letter to Governor Clinton Apr. 20 {Clinton Papers, III. 197) Laurens ex- 
presses more emphatically his belief in the spurious character of the bills : " I differ 
with Gentlemen who suppose the performance originated under authority in England ; 

it appears to me to be destitute of the most essential marks I believe it to be of 

Philadelphia manufacture probably under hints from the other side of the Water and 
sent abroad like a Sibvl'e Letter" See also Laurens's letter to Clinton Apr. 26 {ibid., 
p. 218). 

Lord North's speech on his conciliatory motion (Feb. 19), the draft of the bill declar- 
ing the intentions of Parliament regarding taxation of the colonies (Feb. 19), the 
draft of the bill to appoint peace commissioners (Feb 19), and the conciliatory propositions 
(Feb. 20), together with the resolutions of Congress Apr. 22, were printed in the 
Pennsylvania Gazette, Apr. 24. A copy is in the Washington Papers. 

^ See note 3, above, and nos. 207, 208, 233, post. The " club " was, of course, Con- 
gress. See no. 206, post. This paragraph was doubtless written Apr. 21, as the reso- 
lutions respecting the cartel and the order that they be published were adopted on 
that day. 

Elias Boudinot, at this time commissary-general of prisoners and one of the com- 
missioners appointed by Washington to negotiate the cartel, has left in his Reminiscences 
an interesting account of these negotiations, incidentally casting light upon the proceed- 
ings of Congress, of which he presently became a member. The following passage from 
these Reminiscences is particularly pertinent at this point: 

" In the winter of 1778 while laying at the Valley Forge both Armies called loudly 
for the Exchange of Prisoners. Propositions were accordingly made by the british 
to which Congress agreed, by giving full powers to appoint Commissioners to meet a 
like number on the part of the british for the purpose. The General accordingly 
appointed Coll Hamilton, Coll Harrison, Coll Grayson, and myself — Genl Howe appointed 
Coll. OHarah, Coll Stevens and Capt. Fitz Patrick and we were to meet at German 
Town. Previous to the Meeting, as it was a matter quite new to us, we proposed a 
Meeting of General Officers with Genl Washington, that we might discuss the business 
before them and know their opinions. About this Time Congress sent a Committee of 
their Body into the Army to reform it. Genl Washington called this Committee to the 
Meeting. Genl Washington sat as Chairman. We discussed the Matter over. The 
Committee of Congress soon discovered their Sentiments, agt an Exchange, and urged 

it as the Opinion of Congress That the settling this Cartel should be merely ostensible 

for the purpose of satisfying the Army and throwing the blame on the british, but true 
policy required us to avoid an Exchange of Prisoners just at the opening of the Cam- 
paign. We absolutely refused to undertake the Business on these principles — if we 
went, we were determined to make the best Cartel we could for the liberation of our 



172 Continental Congress 

Adieu Good Sir, I wis[h] you all happiness and re [main] with great 
Respect 

Your obedient and mo[st] humble Servant 

Henry Laurens 
The Honorable James Duane Esquire. 

203. James Lovell to Samuel Adams. ^ 

Apr: 1 8th, 1778. 
My Dear Sir 

Your favors of Feb: 29 and Mar. 31st came to hand this afternoon.^ 
Col. Campbel ^ is actually gone into Philadelphia, and I suppose my old 

Prisoners That we would n'ot be made Instruments in so dishonorable a measure. 

Genl Washington also resented it, and said his Troops looked up to him as their 
protector, and that he would not suffer an opportunity to be lost of liberating every 
Soldier who was then in Captivity let the Consequence be what it might. The Committee 
were much disgusted and soon left the Army, (where they gave much dissatisfaction) 
and returned to Congress. Before the meeting of the Commissioners, General Wash- 
ington reed a resolution of Congress couched in the most insulting Terms, setting forth 
that he had appointed Commissioners to settle the Cartel, whom he knew held principles 
adversary to the true interests of America, etc., etc. On this I applied to the General 
and desired to be excused from the Service. He refused, ordered us to the Duty, and told 
us to make the best treaty in our power, and He would ratify it, and take the Risque 
upon himself. In the month of June after this I went as a delagate to Congress, and 
the first thing I did was to search the secret Minutes for this Resolution of Congress, 
determined to have them expunged from the Minutes. Not being able to find it, I applied 
to President Lawrence, to know where I might find it. He laughed and said that 
Congress was so ashamed of the Measure that was run upon them by the Committee 
from the Army, that in two or three days after, they had expunged the whole from 
their minutes." (From the original Journal, in the John Carter Brown Library. The 
text is also found in Elias Boiidinot: Journal or Historical Recollections of Avierican 
Events during the Revolutionary War, ed. Frederick Bourquin, p. 43 ; and in Boudinot, 
Life of Elias Boudinot, I. 75.) 

If there actually was a resolution of the character described by Boudinot, it has 
indeed disappeared completely from the Joiirnals. The language used by Boudinot does, 
however, closely parallel that of a passage in the letter of Apr. 14 to Washington 
(see no. 188, ante) : "The Duplicity of General Howe, and authentic Information that 
the Gentlemen appointed by you to negotiate the Cartel, held Opinions repugnantto 
the Sense of Congress, constrained them in a Matter of such high Moment as forming 
a General Cartel, to express their Sentiments in an Explicit Manner." The explicit 
expression here referred to is the resolution of Mar. 30. It may therefore have been this 
resolution and its results, ending with the quieting resolution of Apr. 21, that gave 
form and substance to Boudinot's recollections. For some earlier phases of the subject. 
see nos. 88, 139, ante. 

Boudinot's resignation as commissary-general of prisoners bears the date Apr. 17 
(see the Journals, Apr. 20). Col. Francis Johnston was chosen (May 11) to succeed 
him, but declined (see the Journals, May 20, 21, 23), and Maj. John Beatty was then 
elected (May 28). Boudinot did not however quit the office until the end of June (see 
his correspondence in Life, I. 1 13-138). He took his seat in Congress July 6 (ibid., 
P- 152). 

[203]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

~ Letters of these dates are not found in Adams's JVritings, but there are 
references in Lovell's letter which are evidently to Adams's letter of Mar. 27, found 
in Writings, IV. 16. The letter actually sent to Lovell was doubtless written from 
this draft but given the later date. 

3 Lieut.-Col. Archibald Campbell. See Adams's letter of Mar. 27, mentioned 
above, and his letter to Campbell, Jan. 9, ibid., p. 9 ; also the Journals, Jan. 13, 16, Mar. 2, 
30, Apr. 10. The question of the exchange of Colonel Campbell was a part of the 
subject-matter of Washington's letters of Mar. 12 and Apr. 4 (see nos. 71, 163, 188, 
ante). For earlier aspects of the case, see these Letters, vol. II. (inde.x). 



April, 1778 173 

fellow sufferer * is before this time among his friends. There has been a 
variety of mismanagem't in the affair that may tend to your amusement at 
some future leisure moment. Howe most evidently had rather have to do 
with any body rather than Congress ; there being this difference, that he 
cannot induce us to believe him any thing better than a deceitful rogue, 
while some others confide altogether in his honor and often put themselves 
into situations to have their " feelings hurt " by our decisive Resolves, 
which are therefore wished to " sleep ".^ I may venture to tell you, at so 
great a distance as Boston is from this place, that Genl. Heath has acquitted 
himself greatly to his own honor as an executive officer upon the Resolves 
of Congress. Surely there is no odious comparison in what I assert 

We are now come to the Season when certain birds of passage return 
who seldom appear in our flock during winter. I will not enlarge upon the 
advantages of the regulation of this year for our vote in Congress." 
Esqr. C ^ the patron of yeas and nays will give you after oppor- 
tunity of examining that matter 4 and 4 and i divided lost a question 
against the voice of D and myself, Brother G being very ill — ^ a question 
of the highest importance, so that you may expect soon an half pay system 
upon which the existence of yr army this campaign is said, " religiously " 
at one time, and " devoutly " at another, to depend. It is said to be 
Oeconomy, Justice and Necessity. The latter really is not altogether fictiti- 
ous, the second does not exist, and the first is quite problematical. Dis- 
tinction ought however to be made between an half-pay establishment and 
a military establishment, the latter being a curse, the former a nuisance. 
Can less than 9 states appropriate more in the manner hinted above? Can 
it be called a continge[nt] expence of this war? I am clearly of opinion, 
not.^ I wish all the old Geese were here, as Mr. Childs called our worthy 
selectmen on a certain time. Genl. Gates is to go immediately to the north 
river having the command of the posts there and the superintendance of 
the whole northern department. I tell you he is to assist at a council of 
War, in his way, to determine upon the plan of operations for the 
campaign. ^^ 

The public letter and instructions came to hand with your favors, and 
will be duely respected. ^^ 

* Ethan Allen, for whom Lieut.-Col. Campbell was on the point of being ex- 
changed. The exchange was effected May 6, and a few days afterward Allen visited 
Washington's headquarters (Washington to Congress, May 12, IVritings, ed. Sparks, 
V. 361). Allen and Lovell had been fellow-prisoners at Halifax, Nova Scotia. 

'• The allusion is to Washington's protest against the resolves of Feb. 26 
and those of Mar. 30 respecting the cartel, and particularly to a statement in Washington's 
letter of Apr. 4, in which he says, referring to the late resolves of Congress, " It gives 
me pain to observe they appear to contain several implications by which my sensibility 
is not a little wounded ". See nos. 163, 188, atite. Cf. no. 205, post. 

^ The rule of the state requiring three members to cast the state's vote. The 
resolution (Dec. 12, 1777) is in the Journals, Jan. 7, 1778. Cf. nos. 28, 174, ante. 

' The reference is doubtless to Samuel Chase. Cf. vol. II., nos. 387, 400, 585, 766. 

^ This probably refers to the vote of Apr. 17, although as recorded in the 
Journals the vote was 5 ayes, 4 noes, I divided, and Massachusetts without voice for 
lack of full representation. " D " and " G " are Dana and Gerry. 

^ Concerning the half-pay measure, see no. 202, note 4, ante. 
1° See the Journals, Apr. 15, 18, 20, and no. 204, post. 

^1 The public letter was the instructions of the general assembly to their delegates 
in Congress respecting the Confederation, which Adams had transmitted (see his letter 
of Mar. 27, mentioned in note 2, above). This was presumably the letter of Mar. 10 
found in the Journals under June 27. 



174 Continental Congress 

204. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO GeORGE WASHINGTON.^ 

York Town i8th April 1778 
Dear Sir 

I expected before this to have written to you " Provision is made for 
the American Officers " but that Thief of Time Procrastination hath 
Kept it ofif from Time to Time. The Question is now an Order of the 
Day and as such takes Place of every other Business When it will be 
determined I know not but this I know that it shall be finished one Way 
or the other before any Thing- else Let what will happen. I am confident 
it will go right if something very extraordinary does not happen In the 
Interim Nothing is done. I feel as severely on this Occasion as you can 

do but it is impossible to make Men of Business out of All will 

yet go well. We have determined to send Gates to Hudson's River where 
he is to command very largely. . But he is to receive Instructions which 
shall be proper. You are directed to call a Council of Major Generals in 
which the Chief Engineer is officially to be a Member and to which by a 
subsequent Resolution Genls. Gates and Mifflin were ordered to repair. 
As these Gentlemen ought not to receive Orders immediately from Con- 
gress they are as you will see permitted to leave the Board of War upon 
your Order This Amendment was for that Reason acquiesced in nem con.~ 
Colo. Harrison ^ will I believe be again appointed a Member of the Board 
of War. This I mention by the bye I add my Wish that your Business 
and his Inclinations may be so ordered as to accept of it. For this I have 
many Reasons. Every Man of Business knows that Words are of great 
Weight and we receive Reports from the Board of War every Day. I need 
say no more except that it is not always possible to weigh Sentences with 
that Accuracy in a public Assembly which is practicable in the Closet. It 
is astonishing that Congress who certainly are not without sufficient 
Apprehension should at so critical a Moment as the present be so supine 
but this is human Nature and we must bear it. I have a Remedy in Con- 
templation but that as to present Exigencies will be after Meat Mustard. 
If you were an unconcerned Spectator it would divert you to see that 
altho a Majority of our House have been agreed in a certain Point ever 
since Mr. Dana arrived here yet Nothing is done.* A propos of your 
Council of War. Should you determine on any Thing which considering 
the Course of human Affairs is I confess rather improbable Let Congress 
know Nothing about it. A Secret should never be trusted to many Bosoms. 
I will forfeit any Thing except Reputation That it will not be zvell kept 
even by those necessarily confided in. I know your many Avocations and 

[204]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIIL 38; Sparks, Life of 
Gouvcrneur Morris, L 164. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 15, 18, 20. The letter to Gates was prepared by 
Gouverneur Morris. Cf. nos. 168, 185, 202, 203, ante. See also no. 206, post. 

3 R. H. Harrison. See the Journals, Nov. 7, 21, 27, 1777, Oct. 29, 31, Nov. 19, 1778. 
* The allusion is presumably to the half-pay measure. See nos. 202, ante, 206, 

post. 



April, lyyS 175 

Therefore I insist that you do not answer any Letter from me. Should 
you have Reason to zvrite a Letter it is another Affair.^ 
Remember me to Mrs. Washington, 

I am respectfully Sir 

your humble Servant 
Sunday Evening.^ Gouvr. Morris 

205. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

Apr. 19th: Sunday M'g [1778.] 

.... I am sorr}' to find the regulating law passed, you will be desired 
to suspend the execution till Congress know what the southern states will 
do. We owe this to the eastern states who have sacrificed their Judgements 
to our Recommendations when others have not. I think such laws may not 
be without some good effect, so suspended.^ 

We have got Col : Wadsworth at the Head of the commisariate un- 
fettered strictly so.^ Had the same steps as now been taken with Trumbull 
a year ago amazing Sums would have been saved and Howe have been 
reduced to the greatest Extremity last fall if we may depend upon the 
causes assigned for past inactivity. Let us look forward with hope. 

. . . .* I hope we shall go on very briskly with the Journals as 
Mr. Dunlap has put up a press here. He is a very active man. I think the 
States have been very patient [so] far; There will be a dreadful mixt 
medly of Resolves and Treasury minutiae. I find the supervisal of the 
press a poor interlude to the business in Congress. It is too much like 
leaving zuork to saw wood, but by no means so salutary. 

I cannot refrain from telling you a little Camp Doctrine in the face of 
our Resolves vizt. that citizens of Philada. and any others w[ho] take up 
arms with the Enemy in their progre[ss] thro the Continent, are Change- 
able as prisoner [s] of war. I hope no State will give up its treas[on] acts 
even to Congress much less to one of its officers.^ 

206. Henry Laurens to William Livingston. '^ 
Dear Sir, I9th April 1778. 

.... I'll tell the Governor a Cock and a Bull story about an important 
subsisting debate in our Club,^ amuse him with my friend Chief Justice 

5 Washington's reply, Apr. 25, is in Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 495, (ed. Sparks), 

V. 338. 

® Sunday was the 19th. The letter should therefore probably have borne that date. 
[205] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 See no. 147, note 3, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 9 ; also 175, note 2, ante. 

* Lovell gives at this point a conspectus of attendance in Congress, which 
corresponds to the numbers indicated in the yeas and nays at the time. He adds : 
"Col. R. H. L. is on his way but stopped by a dying brother. Col. F[Francis Lightfoot 
Lee] is going hom[e] Ld. Lt. of a County." 

' The allusion is to the resolve of Dec. 30, 1777. its reinforcement Mar. 30, 
and to Washington's attitude manifested in his letter of Apr. 4. See nos. 188, 191, 203, 
ante ; also the Jourjuils, Apr. 23. 

[206] IS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept, 1778, p. 47; Sedgwick, 
William Livingston, p. 270. 

2 Laurens and occasionally other members of Congress spoke to one another 
of Congress as " our club ". Cf. no. 202, ante. 



176 Continental Congress 

Drayton's Speech upon Articles of confederation which as a special favor 
I have obtained for the purpose, add Copies of a very honorable corre- 
spondence lately held with the fallen Hero of River Bouquet,^ endeavor 
to draw His Excellency into a decision of Questions upon parliamentary 
Order and then conclude by repeating what is as true as any thing ever 
said by any Chief Justice Hero or Parliament. 

Sir, We have within a Month past, improved many whole days and 
Some tedious Nights by hammering upon a plan for an half pay establish- 
ment for officers who shall continue in the Anny to the end of the present 
War — a most momentous engagement — in which all our labour has not 
yet matured one single Clause nor even determined the great leading 
questions to be, or not to be. the Combatants have agreed to meet to 
morrow vis a vis and by the point of Reason and by somethings proxies 
for Reason put an end to the Contest.* I'll be hanged they do. 

had I heard of the Loss of half my Estate, the amount would not have 
involved my mind in such fixed concern as I feel from the introducing of 
this untoward project, a Refusal to gratify the demand of the Officers 
will, as we are menaced, be followed by resignations from all those who 
are valuable, an acquiescence without an adequate provision or doceur for 
officers of the Militia as well as for all the Soldiery will be attended by a 
Loss of Men and prove a Bar to future energy in those Classes — We shall 
have no Army. 

If we provide pensions for one part of the people from the labour of the 
other part who have been equally engaged in the struggle against the 
common Enemy and who to say the least have suffered equal losses, the 
enormous debt which will thereby be entailed on posterity will be the least 
evil, constitution will be tanted, and the Basis of Independency will 
tremble. 

Advocates for the Measure say, ["]the present pay of Officers is not 
sufficient to support them in Character, their Estates are exposed to waste 
and loss from their personal absence, they might by various ways and 
means from which they are now cut off, improve their fortunes as their 
friends and acquaintance are daily doing, you must not confide in that 
virtue which you talk of as the Cement of the original compact, there 
is none or very little of such principle remaining upon your decision 

3 That is, General Burgoyiie. The reference to him as the " fallen Hero of 
River Bouquet " is evidently an allusion to the proclamation issued from his " Camp 
at the River Bouquett " (Boquet, near Crovi'n Point), June 23, 1777, the bombastic 
style of which has given it a degree of fame. The proclamation is found in W. L. Stone, 
Burgoyne Ballads, p. 285. Doubtless also Laurens had in mind Livingston's parody of 
the proclamation, vi^hich may be found in the same volume (p. 7), and also in Moore, 
Songs and Ballads of the American Revolution (1856), p. 167. Moore states that it is 
attributed to Francis Hopkinson ; but Stone remarks, " Governor Livingston of Nevi' 
Jersey (and not Francis Hopkinson, as some have supposed), by turning it into 
Hudibrastic verse, made the proclamation an object both of general derision and of 
diversion ". He further states that it was first published in the New York Journal, 
Sept. 8, 1777. See also E. B. De Fonblanque, Life of Burgoyne, p. 256. In Moore, 
Songs and Ballads (p. 175), may also be found a satirical proposal for Burgoyne's 
exchange, which is attributed to Livingston. 

* On Friday, Apr. 17, further consideration of the subject was postponed "till 
tomorrow " ; it was not however resumed until Tuesday, Apr. 21. 



April, 1778 177 

of this great question depends the existance of your Army, and of 
your Cause, if you say No, All, All, your good Officers will leave you ". 

this is the substance and amount of pro. Con starts " the demand is 

unjust unconstitutional, unseasonable, a compliance under menace, dan- 
gerous, the reasoning from loss of virtue and insufficiency of the present 
pay not convincing. 

Unjust because inconsistant with the original Compact. Officers were 
not compelled but eagerly solicited Commissions, knowing the terms of 
service loss of Estate neglect of family, sacrifice of domestic happiness, 
exorbitancy of prices of every species of goods for the necessities or com- 
forts of Life, applicable to every Citizen in the Union and to thousands 
who are not Officers with greater force and propriety.^ 

unjust because without Superior merit, Officers demand a seperate 
maintenance from the honest earnings of their fellow Citizens, many of 
whom will have been impoverished by the effects of the War and rendered 
scarcely able to pay their quota of the unavoidable burthen of equal Taxes, 
unjust in the extreme, to compel thousands of poor industrious Inhabitants 
by contributions to pamper the Luxury of their fellow Citizens many of 
whom will step out of the Army in the repossession of large acquired or 
inherited Estate, of some who have accumulated immense fortunes by 
purloin and peculation under the Mask of patriotism. ["] 

St^^tis held possible by those naughty Cons to produce more than one 
case in point. 

["] Compliance with a demand unjust as it is extraordinary with a 
penalty affixed and delayed till the people are reduced to the awful alter- 
native of losing the Army and their Liberties would be dangerous, because 
it would be establishing a precedent to the Soldiery, because it would be to 
Tax the people without their own Consent, because the people would have 
no security against future arbitrary demands, because the attempt is to 
deprive the Representatives of free Agency and to reduce that Body to a 
State of subserviency, because it would lay the foundation of a Standing 
Army, of an Aristocracy, the demand militates against Articles of Con- 
federation, because it would have a tendency to waste the Army by dis- 
couraging the Militia and Yoemanry in general to take the field, abate the 
fervor of the warmest friends and invigorate the hopes and endeavors of 
every Class of our Enemies " etc. etc. etc. 

the assertions of loss of virtue is not admitted, as a fact because the 
plan originated in a sphere above Regimental Command from whence it 
was easy to Roll down the glaring temptation. 

Insufficiency of the present pay cannot be admitted because the Remedy 
proposed is not adequate to relief, half Pay to commence at a distant 
period will not supply present wants. " Succeed in the first attempt and 
by the same means we will compel Congress to augment pay." 

If Officers withdraw and the loss of the Army and Liberty are to be 
consecutive events, by what " various ways and means " may Officers 
improve their fortunes, where will be those lucrative employments which 

5 See the fragment of notes under Apr. 21, no. 211, post, where nearly the same 
language is used. 



178 Continental Congress 

it is pretended they now envy, but Officers may retire when they please — 
so may senators and what then ? 

A whole quire of paper would be too narrow to range in, upon this 
topic, it is fortunate for you Sir that Genl. Gates an English Newspaper 
and two or three members of Congress steped in and knocked out of my 
head more than would have filled another sheet, if I can beg that News- 
paper which contains some good things it shall accompany the other papers, 
let me conclude this head by observing, the Cons move to postpone the 
consideration of the plan until the several States shall be fully informed 
and consulted ® here a strenuous advocate let out the Cat — no I am 
afraid the people will not consent. What ! dare we bind the people in any 
Case without or against their Consent, 'tis very near akin to binding them 
in all Cases. I must confess the affair for an affair of such magnitude has 
been poorly conducted by the managers. 

a Report of the whole, called for in a certain Assembly being the order 
of the day, read once for information, the first paragraph read for debate 
an amendment offered and received a question on the amendment half put, 
a new proposition was started irrelative to the paragraph and amendment, 
contrary to general consent and having a tendency to set aside both. 
Question, is it in order to receive and put to Vote the proposition? 

A question was moved upon the order; Question, is the latter motion 
or the first subject for a previous Question.^ 

From what has been said your Excellency will collect enough to deter- 
mine on the article of confusion that mass of paper lying there which I 
lug every day to and fro would give a more explicit answer to this point 
than, as I think, becomes me 

Congress have directed Genl. Washington to convene a Council of 
Major Generals including the two Gentlemen of the Board of War and 
the General Officer of the Corps of Engineers in order " to form such a 
plan for the general operations of the Campaign as the Commander in 
Chief shall deem consistant with the general welfare of these States." 
Genl. Gates from the Council will proceed to Fish Kill and take upon him 
the command of all the Northern department.^ .... 

207. Samuel Chase to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

j^^ar Sir ^ °^^ Town, 20 April, 1778. 

General Howe has sent out of Philadelphia a Cart loaded with Hand- 
Bills, expressing to be A Draught of a Bill to declare the Intentions of 
Parliament, concerning the Exercise of the Right of imposing Taxes, 
within the Colonies.^ .... 

6 See the Journals, Apr. 16. 

^ See the Journals, Apr. 17 (p. 362); cf. ibid., Apr. i (pp. 300-301). See also 
no. 202, ante, and no. 244, post. 

8 See the Journals, Apr. 18, 20; cf. no. 204, ante. 
[207]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 62; Arch. ofMd., XXI. 43. 

2 Chase wrote to Governor Johnson at midnight, Apr. 21, giving a sort of 
summary of Lord North's speech, and then remarked: " Two Things are in my opinion 
essentially necessary — a respectable Army — a full Congress — every nerve sho'd be 

exerted to fill our Ranks I wish Mr. Stone wo'd come up. I wish Paca wo'd quit 

his Judges Seat, and that our Assembly wo'd appoint him. I did intend Home, but I 



April, lyyS 179 

two opinions prevail here. Some that this insidious scheme originated 
in Philadelphia, others the far greater Number believe it came from the 
Ministry, the manifest Intention is to amuse us with a Prospect of Peace 
and to relax our Preperations. I hope my Countrymen will have too much 
good sense to be deceived. I think it would be adviseable immediately to 
publish this Attempt, but I hope it will be attended with some Remarks 
to expose its Design, and remove the baneful Effects it may have on the 
credulous and weak among the People. Mr Paca has Leisure, it ought 
not to be attempted to be suppressed. 

Captain Nicholson informs, that a Number of Recruits are enlisted for 
the Enemy in Worcester and Som't ^ Counties, 90 came to the fleet, when 
he was on board, it is reported the disaffected in Queen Anns County have 
rose, and Congress were yesterday acquainted with an Insurrection in 
Sussex County, the Malignants are assembling in Arms at Jordans 
Island. You will be applied to by Congress to order 300 of your Militia, 
with two field Pieces, and 28 Artillerists, to march there.* .... 

The proposed Cartel is broke off, our Commrs. had full Powers, and 
their Act would have bound the public faith. Howes Commrs. had not full 
Powers, and could only engage his private Faith, and that too only during 
his Command. The Exchange on Parole will continue.^ 

No other Part of my last was to have been private, but Govr. Lee's name. 
I am inclined to think Baltimore fort remains in the same defenceless 
State as I mentioned to the assembly a year ago. there is a great Mistake 
in my Letter about the Quantity of Continental Amis. I meant to say Con- 
gress had fifteen thousand Arms, and above two hundred field pieces. I 
suppose I folded the Letter before it was dry, and that Circumstance 
added to the Naughts I will seise the first favourable Opportunity to 
apply to Congress for some Mony,*' but our Demands to pay and buy pro- 
visions are very pressing. 

208. John Henry, jr., to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

York Town Apl 20th 1778 
Dear Sir. 

I have procured the inclosed paper with some difficulty. When you have 
read it, if the Assembly should be setting, I wish you would send it to 
the Speaker. Different opinions prevail here with regard to the Authen- 
ticity of it. For my own part I have no doubt, from what I have lately 
seen in the English papers, but these two Bills before this time, are 

believe I shall stay and see it out. The Hour to try the Firmness and prudence of 
Man is near at Hand. I am really diffident of myself, I shall endeavor to act my Part 
well. My Soul has been chagrined at certain Conduct, but I love my Country, and 
shall with pleasure retire after Peace is established " {Arch, of Md., XXI. 50) . See 
no. 202, note 5, ante. 

3 Somerset. 

* Cf. no. 176, ante, and nos. 208, 210, 217, 220, 230, post. 

° See no. 202, notes 3 and 6, ante. 

^ See the Journals, Apr. 24. 
[2o8]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 80; Arch, of Md., XXI. 45. 
16 



180 Continental Congress 

enacted into Laws. I dread the impressions it will make upon the minds 
of many of our people. If it should, and I have no doubt of it, make its 
appearance in the form of a Law, it will prove more dangerous to our 
cause than ten thousand of their best Troops. It will in a Day or two be 
under the consideration of Congress." 

The Cartell for the General Exchange of prisoners is at an End. Upon 
our commissioners examining the powers of the Commissioners on the 
part of Genl Howe, they discovered he meant the treaty to be of a personal 
nature, founded on the mutual Confidence and Honor of the contracting 
Generals, and had no Intention of binding the nation, or of extending the 
Cartel beyond the limits and Duration of his own Command. They de- 
clared themselves ready to treat with us on this footing, with their present 
powers which they deemed adequate to the purposes of their meeting. 
Upon this point the treaty broke ofif. I lament the Situation of our 
prisoners, and must approve of the Conduct of our Commissioners. A 
Cartel upon so narrow a foundation as the personal Honor of Genl Howe 
would be of little use to us and of short duration ; liable at any time to be 
set aside by a subsequent Commander or by the British King without a 
breach of Honor. This conduct will teach Us a lesson respecting Genl 
Burgoyne and his Army.^ 

I make no doubt you have heard of the insurrection in the Delaware 
State. By a Letter from a Mr Patterson w^e are informed that a con- 
siderable number of the disaffected have assembled at a place near the 
head of Chester River. They are exerting themselves to add to their num- 
ber and those who will not join them, they deprive of their Arms and 
Amunition It is said here they have British officers among them and 
expect to be reenforced from Philadelphia. This Matter is viewed here 
as very serious by some." .... 

209. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry ).^ 

York 21st April, 1778. 
Sir 

General Howe. having industriously circulated the Draught of a Bill, 
said to be the Ground of an Act of Parliament intended to be passed, with 
a view no doubt of diverting the People of america from their grand object 
of Preparation and defense, and General Washington having transmitted 
a few Copies of it to Congress expressly to put it in their Power to guard 

2 The two bills were Lord North's conciliatory measures. See no. 202, note 5, 
ante. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 20, 21. Cf. nos. 202, 207, ante, and no. 233, post. 

* Congress was informed of the insurrection through a letter of General Small- 
wood, Apr. 17, read in Congress Apr. 20, the Patterson letter being an enclosure. See 
the Jourtmls, Apr. 23, and nos. 207, ante, 210, 217, 220, 230, post. Cf. the Journals, 
Mar. 26, Apr. 10, 13, 15. Smallwood's letter was in part concerning the release of 
White and Gordon (see no. 230, post). Some letters pertaining to the release are in the 
same volume of Papers Cont. Cong. (no. 161, ff. 55, 151, I57> I59) with the Smallwood 
letter (f. 179). The Patterson letter is not found there. 
[209P Va. State Lib.. Executive Papers. 



April, lyyS 181 

against the baneful Effects with which this political Stroke of G. Britain, 
if not counteracted, may be attended, we think it indispensably necessary 
to give you thus early the Substance of this intelligence and the Draught 

of the Bill ' 

Respecting this proposal and Scheme of the Enemy whether it be 
genuine from Parliament, or a Production of General Howe's we have 
only to observe that it may mislead the ignorant and alienate the Minds 
of the wavering unless it is made public and with its Publications such 
Strictures are made upon the probable Effects of it as may contribute to 
place the Subject in its true Light before the People. We are with the 
highest Respect Your Excellency's most obed. Servant 

Francis Lightfoot Lee 
John Banister 
T. Adams 

2IO. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to the Governor of 
Maryland (Thomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 
Dear Sir, York 21 April 1778. 

By a letter from Gen. Smallwood of the 17th instant from Wilmington, 
we are informed of an insurrection of the Tories, at a place called Jordan's 
Island, 10 miles from Dover. Smallwood apprehends this insurrection may 
become very serious unless speedily suppressed : his letter is referred 
to a committee of wh I am one : We shall report that you be requested to 
call out 300 of the militia from the adjacent counties of Maryland and put 
them under a spirited and active officer who will receive his instructions 
from a committee of Congress. I beg your attention to this business. 
Smallwood writes that we have considerable stores at Charles Town, 
which he fears may be taken or destroyed by these insurgents.' 

.... If our People would but exert themselves this campaign we 
might secure our liberties forever. Gen. Washington is weak ; reinforce- 
ments come in slow : try, for God sake and the sake of human Nature, to 

rouse our countrymen from their lethargy The Congress do worse 

than ever : We murder time, and chat it away in idle impertinent talk : 
However, I hope the urgency of affairs will teach even that Body a little 
discretion.^ 

211. Henry Laurens, Notes on Measure for Half-Pay.^ 

after the Yeas and Nays, Tuesday 21st April 

Copy Journal. 
Motion was made to strike out " an establishment " and insert, " It is 
expedient a Provision " Resolved in the affirmative. 

2 The titles and extensive quotations from the bills are here omitted. Cf. no. 208, 
ante. 

[2io]i Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 48; Arch, of Md., XXI. 49; Scharf, Hist, of Md.. 
II. 343; Rowland, Life and Corr. of Charles Carroll of Carrollton, I. 238. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 20, 23 ; also nos. 207, 208, ante, and nos. 217, 220, 230, post. 
^Cf. nos. 533, 534, 56i, post. 
[2ii]i S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Congressional, 1778, 1779, nos. 25-26, and ibid., 
"Miscellaneous Essays and Projects" (see note 3, below). 



182 Continental Congress 

then the Resolves on Friday 17th [were?] Read as follows — 

["]That It is expedient a Provision, (instead of 'that an establish- 
ment.') or half Pay be made for the Military officers commissioned by 
Congress who now or here after may be in the Service of these States and 
shall continue there in during the War and who shall not be annexed to any 
Corps of established Troops or hold any office of Profit under the United 
States or any of them and that Such (establishment) Provision take place 
after the conclusion of the present War." 

this Motion, which in itself had undergone a Question upon Order 
being thus taken under Consideration and in part amended, a Motion was 
made for dividing the Question which caused some debate but the manner 
in which the division was desired declared in writing as follows — 

" the House was Moved that the Queston be divided and that the sense 
of the House be taken, whether any provision shall be made for Officers 
etc." 

The President rose and said his Duty Constrained him to speak to the 
House, " that this motion contained no division of the Question in debate 
but was a complete new motion which he could not put without express 
Command." 

Mr. Huntington and other members objected in like manner, debates 
and some disorder ensued, the President admonished the House against 
disorder and intemperate reflections. 

A majority of probably two to one insisted upon having the Question 
put as it had been reduced to writing, the President replied he could not 
apply the words so reduced to writing to any part of the motion and give 
it the appearance of a division, except by taking up some and suppressing 
or skipping over other words in the motion, the Member who had reduced 
the said division or new motion to writing, expressed great surprise and 
added it is the easiest thing in the World, the President requested his 
assistance, and delivered the motion to that Member Mr. Chase who read 
it as it is reduced to writing and averred it to be a division of the Question. 

the President resumed the papers and again requested the Order of the 
House. Some of those Members who had complained of the division and 
were against admitting the motion to be a division, acclaimed they were 
borne down and all said, anyhow, anyhow, we see the Gentlemen will have 
it in their own way. put the Question 

the President then read the Motion again and put the Question 

" You Gentleman who agree that a provision shall be made for the 
Military Officers Commissioned by Congress etc. (3^^ the words of half 
pay suppressed and the word Military introduced, by order) when you are 
called upon will signify it by saying Aye, Contra, when called upon will 
say No. the Yeas and Nays were called and appear on the Journal. In- 
stantly after calling the Members, 

Mr. Chase presented the following motion read by himself and by the 
President 

" The Question moved and put that such provision for the Officers be 
one half of their present Pay." ^ 

2 See the Journals, p. 392 n., where Chase's motion is placed conjecturally under 
Apr. 25. Cf. ibid., p. 393, notes. 



April, I//8 183 

But the House adjourned without debate or putting the Question. 

It is asserted by Gentlemen that Officers and some of high Rank in the 
Army have declared ("I have heard one and of high Rank too ") that 
they were not for Peace. 

they desired War for a support, as they had no fortunes to live upon. 

Ou. is it necessary to make further provision for Men who declare that 
what they already enjoy is a desirable subsistance, or for Men who at the 
expence of the Blood and Treasure of their Country wish to enjoy their 
present subsistance. 

Ou. Is there no danger that Men of this disposition will, when once 
an half Pay establishment is fixed do everything, and submit to any terms 
for Compassing Peace even submitting to accept another half Pay for this 
purpose from the Enemy, thus Gentlemen in their reasonings upon dif- 
ferent subjects in which the Officers of this Army are introduced, destroy 
their own argument used in support of a peace establishment. 

It is unjust,^ 

the Motives and considerations not applicable the demand unseasonable 
and a compliance dangerous. 

the Remedy proposed grievous to the People and inadequate to [relief.] * 

Unjust, 

because it is inconsistant with the original compact. Officers were not 
compelled but eagerly solicited Commissions knowing the terms of service. 

because every argument, of loss of Estate neglect of family, forfiture 
of domestic happiness, the exorbitancy of prices for every specie of goods 
for the necessary support or Comfort of Life is applicable to thousands of 
our fellow Citizens with greater force and in some degree to every In- 
habitant of the United States engaged in the Compact with this great 
difference in favor of Officers that they are provided with Rations or daily 
food with Servants with Horses at the public expence and with Qothing 
from [remainder missing] ^ 

212. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO William Aylett.^ 

22d April 1778. 
Sir, 

.... The Committee have not yet reported on the information given 
by you respecting the disposal of Salt by Messrs. Hughes and Smith, but 
as your attention to the public Interest in general and particularly in that 
Instance is highly applauded and as the reputations of those Gentlemen 
are also in question, I persuade myself the Committee will not suffer the 

3 The fragment of the notes beginning at this point is on a sheet of paper found 
among the "Miscellaneous Essays and Projects". The observations, in almost the 
same language, are found in Laurens's letter to William Livingston, Apr. 19, no. 206, ante. 

* The note is incomplete. In the letter to Livingston (see note 3, above) Laurens 
says, "the Remedy proposed is not adequate to relief". 

5 On the subject of half-pay, see a letter of John Laurens to his father Apr. 11, 
in Army Correspondence, p. 155. References to comments on the subject by members 
of Congress are given under no. 174, note 2, ante. 

[2i2]i Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 268. 



184 Continental Congress 

subject to sleep under their hands, and that a full investigation of facts 
will soon be made for the satisfaction of all parties." .... 

213. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to the Governor 
OF Maryland (Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Dear Sir 23d April 1778. 

By this opportunity you will receive Draughts of two bills and Ld. 
North's speech ushering them into the house of Commons : I have little 
doubt myself but that these Bills have long since been cloathed with all the 
formalities of law. If Lord North's speech is genuine, (and I think we 
have no reason to suspect it to be otherwise) we may fairly conclude 
that the Administration begin to see the impracticability of reducing these 
States, or of retaining them, when reduced, in such a state of subordination 

as to be useful to G. B In a word, if we guard agt. their insidious 

offers on the one hand, and can resist their warlike efforts on the other, 
during the ensuing campaign, I have not the least doubt but that they 
will acknowledge our Independency next winter, or Spring, particularly if 
no alliance between these States or any other European power be con- 
cluded on in the interim." 

.... The Congress has passed some observations on the two 
draughted Bills, to counteract their obvious design, or at least the possible 
bad effects they might produce in the minds of the People, if published 
without such strictures. These observations will be printed to day; they 
will be immediately distributed throughout the United States : I fear they 
are not so perfect as they ought to be, but the hurry of business, and the 
want of time must, and will, no doubt, sufficiently apologize with an im- 
partial Public for all their imperfections.^ 

214. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the Governor 
OF Virginia (Patrick Henry). ^ 

^^y York Town 24th April 1778 

My last was under the 31st March by Lieutt. Thomson since which I 
have received none of Your Excellency's favors. 

2 Apr. 13 two letters of Aylett were read, one of Mar. 28, the other of Apr. 3, 
enclosing one from Governor Henry of Apr. i. The committee to whom these letters 
were referred reported on the Henry letter Apr. 14. Probably Laurens is here referring 
to Aylett's letter of Mar. 28, which is missing from the Continental Congress Papers. 
Cf. the Journals, May 11 (Aylett's letter of May i, relative to Hewes and Company). 
The firm of Hewes and Smith consisted of Joseph Hewes, sometime delegate from 
North Carolina, and Robert Smith. Aylett was deputy commissary-general of purchases, 
and this letter was addressed to him at Williamsburg. 

[213]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, IV. 109, VI. i (copy) ; Arch, of Md., XXI. 55. 

2 In a letter of Apr. 27, Carroll wrote to Governor Johnson : " Gen. Amherst, 
General Murray, alnd Adxniral Keppel are the Commissioners coming out under the 
Act of Parlia't for offering terms of peace and reconciliation .... but no terms, short 
of Independence, are in my opinion admissible without the utmost danger and disad- 
vantage to these States;" {Arch, of Md., XXI. 59). Governor Johnson's letter (Apr. 23) 
to which Carroll is replying is ibid., p. 54. Cf. no. 230, post. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 22, and no. 202, note 5, ante, and nos. 213-216, 253, post. 
[214]! Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 

Philadelphia; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 270. 



April, 1778 185 

You will pardon me, Sir, for intimating that from a want of proper 
acknowledgements, Congress are kept uninformed of the safety of the 
several Acts transmitted to Virginia, timely notice of the receipt of such 
letters as Your Excellency may receive from me will be a means of detect- 
ing miscarriage if any shall happen and enable me in case of need to supply 
deficiencies in the Course of my duty. 

Your Excellency will receive in company with this an Act of Congress 
of the 23rd for detecting disaffection and defeating conspiracies and 
Insurrections in the State of Delaware and part of Maryland." 

Also twelve copies of a speech said to be Lord North's in the British 
House of Commons, draughts of Bills referred to by His Lordship and an 
Act of Congress of the 22nd Inst, printing the supposed Speech and 
Draughts to which they have to refer.* 

215. John Henry, jr., to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

York Town Ap'l 24th, 1778 
Sir 

.... You will receive by an Express which left this place to Day 
Lord North Speech, the two Bills which occasioned it and the Strictures 
of Congress upon them. They were drawn up in haste, but I trust they 
will be sufficient to shew the wickedness of the Ministry.^ 



24th April 



216. Henry Laurens to John Penn.^ 

Dear Sir, 

.... Inclosed with this you will receive three Copies of an Act of 
Congress of the 22d Inst, founded on the appearance of preceeding Acts 
said to be Lord Norths speech and draughts of Bills referred to. Suppos- 
ing these to be Sibyl's Letters,- our Act I trust will do no harm. The 
States will learn the temper of their Delegates and I hope be animated to 
the utmost exertions for reinforcing the Army, the general opinion is in 
favor of the genuineness of the Speech etc 

217. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO William Smallwood.^ 

24th April. [1778.] 
Sir 

Your favor of the 17th with the papers referred to I had the Honor of 
receiving and presenting in due course to Congress, a special Committee 

2 Cf. nos. 210, ante, 217, post. 
" Cf. no. 213, ante, 215, 216, post. 
[215]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 79; Arch of Md., XXI. 58. 

2 See nos. 213, 214, ante, 216, 219, 221, 253, post. 
[216] i S. C. Hist. Soc. Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 56. 

2 That is, the bills were something of an enigma and capable of at least a 
two-fold interpretation. The doubt as to their real character and purpose is shown by 
the action taken by Congress Apr. 22. Cf. nos. 202, note 5, 213, 215, ante, 220, 221, post. 
[217]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 273. 



186 Continental Congress 

of Mr. Duer Mr. Chase and Mr. Carrol are appointed by Congress in 
order to confer with the Governments of Maryland Virginia and if need- 
ful Delaware on proper measures for suppressing the threatned Evils inti- 
mated in your late dispatches, from these Gentlemen you will receive the 
necessary information I have only at present to Inclose an Act of Con- 
gress of the 23d Inst, reviving late powers vested in Genl. Washington and 
extending the term to the loth August next.^ 

218. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott.^ 

York Town, 25th April, 1778. 
My Dear 

.... P. S. It is in Contemplation to sink 20,000,000 Dollars in a 
Loan and pay the annual Interest in Bills on France — This measure may 
be adopted — and if so I think that it will by calling in and burning so large 
a Quantity give Credit to the whole, and perhaps particularly raise the first 
Emissions which are proposed to be sunk in that manner — As the Payment 
of the Interest in Bills will whi]e the Interest shall continue have the 
same efifect to the Lender as tho the Principal was in Specie. This may 
therefore induce such People as have the first Emissions not to part with 
them, or rather induce such as Wish to be Lenders to procure such Bills — 
As every one well knows that a Certificate whenever it may be necessary 
to turn it into Money may easily be done.^ .... 

219. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

York Town, April 25th, 1778 
Sir 

Mr. Collins - arrived here last Saturday with emaciated horses after 
having passed through a very deep and difficult road. Your Letter to the 
President of Congress and the state accounts are referred to the treasury 
board who will soon report thereon to Congress. We should urge this 
matter on ; but it would be impossible for Mr Collins to proceed with his 
horses without being recruited, and the longer he stays here the more 
money he will probably receive. 

I could wish that the Assembly in their Letters had mentioned what 
part of the ballance it would have suited them to receive, in Loan-Office 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 20, 23. Laurens falls into a slight error in naming the 
members of the special committee. They were Carroll, Duer, and Banister. Duer, Chase, 
and Carroll were the committee to whom Smallwood's letter was referred Apr. 20. See 
also nos. 207, 208, 210, ante, and nos. 220, 230, post. This letter was addressed to 
General Smallwood at Wilmington. 

[2i8]iConn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. II., no. 52. 

2 See the Jour>uils, Apr. 8. Cf. nos. 234, 243, post. 
[219]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governor, 1778, p. 72; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 169. 

2 John Collins had been appointed by the assembly to wait upon Congress with 
the state's accounts against the continent, and empowered to adjust and liquidate them. 
See R. I. State Rccs., VIII. 378, and Governor Cooke to Ellery Apr. 3, in Staples, R. 1. 
in Cant. Cong., p. 167. Cf. no. 251, post. Collins was chosen in Alay a delegate to Congress' 
and took his seat June 20. 



April, 1778 187 

certificates. However I shall do what I think will be agreeable to my 
constituents. 

The confederation is not yet taken up ; if it should be before I return 
I will pay a religious regard to your instructions.^ .... 

Mr. Collins informs me that the Delegates which will be chosen at the 
ensuing election will not set out until some time in June. I should be loth 
to leave congress, the state unrepresented, but my health, and the unhappy 
situation of my family require that I should be at home as soon as possible, 
wherefore let me intreat you to send forward two of the delegates at least 
immediately after the choice. 

This will be accompanied by a late Speech of Lord North, the Draught 
of two bills, and the remarks of Congress on the latter. The design of 
this ministerial manoeuvre is obvious. 

We have nothing new. 
[p. S.] Since I wrote the foregoing I have seen a printed hand bill of the 
two Drafts contained in the news papers with a certificate of Govr. Genl. 
Tryon. A copy of said certificate I now inclose.* 

220. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

York April 25th. 1778 
D'r Sir 

Mr. Harnett will inform you of every thing which I can write about at 
present. I shall therefore refer you to him, and spare you the trouble of 
reading. The inclosed paper will shew you the present temper of our 
Enemies, and the disposition of Congress.^ I will make on it no other 
comment than to observe that nothing is necessary to insure our Success 
but vigorous Efforts. This opinion which I have so often declared, is 
every day more and more Justified, and I hope will be finally Sanctified by 
the happy Event of our struggles. 

I hope before this the Assembly have made a new choice of Delegates, 
and have supplied my place with a more able Citizen. I shall set off on the 
fourth of May, and leave what public papers are in my Hands directed for 
the Succeeding Delegates. Altho I shall remain here until that day, yet 
I do not find myself entirely clear on the propriety of Voting in Congress 
after the 28th Instant. I am told by Mr. Harnett that on that day in 

3 The resolves of the assembly and the instructions to the delegates respecting 
the Confederation are in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., pp. 133-135, and R. I. State Recs., 
VIII, 364-367. See no. 292, post. 

4 See no. 202, note 5, ante. In a letter of this day to William Vernon, member of 
the navy board of the Eastern department. Ellery says : " Inclosed is the last York paper 
which contains weighty manoeuvres. It ought to be immediately reprinted in Providence. 
You will therefore deliver it to the Printer so soon as you shall have read it." Papers of 
William Vernon and the Navy Board (R. I. Hist. Soc, Publications, VIII., no. 4), p. 41. 

[220]^ Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Heiikels of 
Philadelphia; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXVI. 483; A^. C. State Recs., 
XIII. 102. 

2 Presumably a copy of the Pennsylvania Gazette, Apr. 24, containing Lord 
North's conciliatory propositions, etc., and the resolutions of Congress Apr. 22. See 
no. 202, note 5, ante. Cf. no. 221, post. 



188 Continental Congress 

last year the Election of Delegates was made, and on the preceeding day in 
this year must in that case the term of my Service end. The Commission 
under your hand being dated the 20th [4th] of May, and having in some 
former Letters promised to remain here until then to Execute any Com- 
mand of the State, I will keep my promise, tho I assure you Sir every hour 
is, and will be a very heavy one to me until I can return to the Station of a 
Private Citizen, Secure under the Protection of the Laws and constitution 
of my Country.^ every day Sir convinces me more, and more, that such a 
Station is the only happy one, and nothing but my deference to the opinion 
of my Country, and my wishes to serve the Cause of freedom should ever 
have drawn me from it or will withcJd me now from it. Happy is it for 
those Countries who are at a distance from the War. they are Secured 
from the Depradations of the Enemy, and their civil rights from most vio- 
lent Infractions. The Rights of private Citizens and even of our Sovereign 
Communities are at present so little regarded in Congress that any humor 
will determine a Majority to Violate both, and it is hardly safe to oppose 
it. every argument against the unlimitted power of Congress to judge of 
Necessity, and under that Idea to Interpose with Military force is heard 
with great Reluctance, hardly with patience and the Internal police, and 
Sovereignty of States are Treated as chimerical phantoms. One instance 
I will give you. General Smallwood was ordered by Congress to apprehend 
two men in the Delav^^are State, under a Suggestion that they were Inimi- 
cal, and that the State was unable to exercise any act of Government, the 
Assembly was then sitting, he did apprehend them. They applied for a 
habeas Corpus, the chief Justice granted it, the Officer refused to obey and 
applied to Congress for advice. The Congress approved the Officers con- 
duct and was with difficulty prevented from ordering him in Express 
Terms to proceed in direct opposition to the habeas corpus, and they for- 
bore this only under an Idea that, approbation of his former conduct would 
determine him to proceed.^ I need not tell you I opposed these things, you 
know my pertinaceous attachment to Civil Rights, and my immoveable 
determination to oppose every thing that may give Color to an arbitrary 
exercise of power under an idea of Right. I shall probably give you 
another Instance before long wherein our State and myself are concerned. 
I have upon a late occasion Insisted so far on the Sovereignty of the State, 
and my being amenable to no other Jurisdiction, that I have given ver)' 
great offence to Congress, an accident involved me in the dispute, and so 
far as it regarded me personally I should have waived all opposition but 
I delivered occasionally in Debate my political opinions of the power of 
Congress and the Sovereign and Exclusive authority of the States over 

5 See the Journals, Apr. 28, and no. 226, post ; also note S, below. 

■* See the Journals, Mar. 23, 26, Apr. 10, 13, 15, 20, 23, May 21, and nos. 176, 207, 
208, 210, 217, ante, 230, post. 

Some of the more conspicuous instances of conflict between state and continental 
authorities are the case of Colonel Carrington (Virginia ; see the Journals, Aug. 19. 
'^777, May 23, 1778), the Pennsylvania case (Journals, Mar. 20, 1778), the case of 
General Stark (New Hampshire; Journals, Aug. 19, 1777), the Delaware case referred 
to by Burke (Jotirnals, Apr. 15), and the case of Count Pulaski (Pennsylvania; Journals, 
Oct. 2). See also no. 315, post. 



April, i/y8 189 

their Delegates, these opinions were not relished and I was required to 
make some appoligy, I very frequently appoligized for the Terms and 
manner in which they were conveyed, tho I could not perceive any thing 
offensive in them, but I persisted in the opinions and declared I could not 
give them up without an outrage to my honor in telling a falshood, and 
what I deemed a Treason to the State I represented in giving up her 
Sovereignty. Nothing however would do but retracting the Opinions, and 
it was in vain to require this of a man who would die in Support of them.° 
I shall trouble you no more at present on the Subject, but at some future 
time will give it to you with all its circumstances. My Country will I 
suppose one day Judge of it, but I shall not desire it during the present 
struggle. I should be very sorry that any thing would interrupt the public 
harmony which is so necessary to our Success, a time of peace and Tran- 
quility will better suit the Investigation of Civil Rights and relations. 
I wish you Sir all Imaginable Happiness 

and am with the greatest Sincerity 
Your most obedient Servt. 
Thos. Burke.*^ 

221. John Mathews to Thomas Bee.^ 

York Town April 26th 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

I Arrived here the 21st Inst, after a most disagreeable Journey indeed. 

I inclose you a paper (which if you have not seen) will amuse you, and 
I imagine some parts, will not a little surprise you.^ Compare the speech 
of the Minister with the last speech from the Throne. Lee is exchanged. 
Tryon was impudent enough, a few days agoe to write to Washington 
inclosing several of the Acts, desired him to disperce them thro' his camp.^ 
When the Acts were posted up in Philadelphia the officers tore them down 

•^ See the Journals, Apr. 10, 11, 24, 25, 28, and nos. 225, 226, 233, 235, 236, post. 
Cf. nos. 195, note 4, 196, note 5, ante. A copy of the " Evidence and Examination of 
Witnesses relative to Mr. Burke April 24, 1778 " (printed in the Library of Congress 
edition of the Journals, vol. X., pp. 386-389) is in the S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, 
Congressional, 1777-1778, no. i. Appended to this copy is the following statement by 
Charles Thomson : 

" Those parts marked in the margin thus [ are entered on the Journal. The rest is a 
Copy of the Evidence taken and what passed subsequent which were minuted, at the 
time, but not entered on the Journal " 

[Signed] Chas. Thomson, Secy 

^ " The letter from Mr. Burke, he desired me to mention to you was only for 
your own private information. I hope before he left Congress the whole was erased from 
the Journal." Cornelius Harnett to Governor Caswell, May 25, 1778, A''. C. State Recs., 
XHL 136. 

[221 ]i Charleston Lib. Soc, Miscellaneous Letters, p. 97, Addressed, " The Honorable 
Thomas Bee Esqr., in Charles Town, South Carolina". 

- See no. 220, note 2, ante. 

^ Tryon's letter to Washington Apr. 17 is in Washington's Writings (ed. Ford), 
VL 492 n. It was enclosed in Washington's letter to Congress Apr. 23 {ibid., VL 492, 
ed. Sparks, V. 336), read in Congress Apr. 25. Washington replied to Tryon Apr. 26, 
assuring him that the bills should have an " unrestrained circulation ", and requesting, 
in turn, that Tryon be instrumental in communicating " to the persons who are the 
objects of its operation" the resolve of Congress of Apr. 23 {ibid., V. 343). See also 
Washington to Governor Livingston Apr. 26 {ibid., V. 341). Cf. no. 223, post. 



190 Continental Congress 

in a most riotous manner, swearing they were all cheated, for they were 
promised the Rebels should be conquered, and their Estates divided 
amongst them. The Physic begins to work you see. all we have farther to 
do, is, to give them one good dose more this campaign, and the business 
is done. The speech and the Acts, the exchange of Lee, (which did not 
happen 'till after these acts came out, he had been out on Parole some time 
before) the sollicitude to disperce these acts amongst our people, all serve 
to show, those Dam'd Villains are heartily sick of the business. However 
Congress takes it up in a different point of View, as all meant to throw 

dust in our eyes, and are preparing for a Vigorous Campaign 

You will observe the report of the Committee * speaks doubtfully of 
the validity of the two Acts but that was before we received them from 
Tryon, which are certifyed by him, to have actually pass'd. The report 
fully shows you the Ideas of Congress on this important subject. As this 
is a matter of as great and momentous concern as any that can come up 
before Congress, (except that of real treaty,) I would therefore wish my 
conduct on every such occasion to be known to my Country, and leave 
to their Judgement whether I am right or wrong. I do therefore declare 
the whole report met with my most hearty concurrance 

222. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.^ 

York Town 27 April 1778 
Sir, 

I had the honour of writing to your Excellency the 24th inst. by 
McKlosky. 

Yesterday about K p. 5 oClo. P M. Your Excellency's favor of the 
25th was brought to me in Congress and was immediately presented.^ The 
person who had been the bearer of it was anxious to obtain a receipt for 
the Letter to express the time of delivery and he complained of unnecessary 
detention half the day at the Susquehanna Ferry. This intimation will 
answer his purpose. 

I am directed by Congress to request Your Excellency will immediately 
require all Officers Civil as well as Military in the Army, who are at 
present delinquent, to comply with the terms of an Act of Congress of 
the 3d Febry last by taking the Oath of allegiance and abjuration and that 
Your Excellency will be pleased to cause the necessary Certificates as 
speedily as possible to be returned and if occasion shall be given which is 
supposed to be scarcely possible the Name or Names of such persons as 
shall refuse.^ 

* See the Journals, Apr. 22. Cf. no. 202, note 5, ante, and nos. 225, 230, 253, post. 
[222] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIL 108; ibid., President's 
Letter-Book, L 279; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), IL no. 

2 Washington's letter of Apr. 25, relating to the British peace commission, is in 
Writings (ed. Ford), VL 497, (ed. Sparks), V. 340. 

3 This order is not found in the Journals. See Washington's reply, May i, in 
Writings (ed. Ford), VIL i, (ed. Sparks), V. 352. 



April, 1778 191 

The Bearer hereof will dehver three Packets containing about 600. 
blanks which will hasten the business of Administring Oaths, more shall 
be sent by the next Messenger.* 

In considering the article of Provision to be made for Officers who shall 
continue in the Army to the end of the War Congress had proceeded so far 
last Night as Resolving that one half the present Pay be continued during 
Life without exceptions of Country, to all such Officers as shall also take 
the Oath of Allegiance and actually reside within the United States. This 
Resolution and the whole plan for Military establishment is subject to 
further discussion respecting the propriety of transmitting it to the several 
States for concurrence.^ 

223, Henry Laurens to George Washington.^ 

York Town 27th April 1778. 
Sir, 

The News Papers which I received from Your Excellency in company 
with the honour of Your Excellency's Letter of the i8th afiford me some- 
times amusement in intervals from the necessary duties of my present 
station, and I am particularly indebted to Your Excellency for the notice 
which is included in the kindness of this favour. 

Your Excellency is too well acquainted with the Integrity of your own 
heart and too well assured of the good opinion of your Country Men- to 
admit any anxious impressions from the forgeries of an Enemy. I am 
disposed to vote for every exertion in our power in order to defeat their 
designs against us, except following such of their examples as will when 
related in history greatly abate from that Character of Generosity which 
England and upon good grounds once boasted. 

The late attempt by publishing forged Resolves of Congress within a 
Garrison'd Town immediately under the Eye of a Commander in Chief 
appears to me to be mean and scandalous, and must be considered in the 
same light by every good Englishman, Military, or in public or private 
Life.= 

* See Bibliographical Notes, Journals, XII. 1281. 

^Cf. nos. 202, 206, 211, ante, and nos. 231, 242, 247, 255, 282, 287, post. See the 
Journals, Apr. 25-27. 

[223]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIIL 48; S. C. Hist. Soc, 
Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept, 1778, p. 58; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
II. III. 

2 In his letter of Apr. 18 Washington had enclosed a draft of what turned out 
to be Lord North's Conciliatory Bills, which he was inclined to regard as forgeries. 
In a letter of Apr. 20, however, he indicated that their authenticity was scarcely to be 
questioned; and in one of Apr. 23 he transmitted the letter of Governor Tryon, which he 
had received the day before, certifying to their genuineness. In the letter of the 23d he 
also enclosed a copy of the Evening Post, no. 475, containing what purported to be 
resolves of Congress of Feb. 20, declaring that all troops then in the army or 
afterwards enlisted should be deemed to have enlisted for the duration of the war, and 
that all who might leave under pretence that their terms of service had expired should 
be apprehended and punished as deserters. These forged resolves are also found in the 
New York Gazette of Mar. 9. Washington's letters are in Writings (ed. Sparks), V. 
2'^^, 319, 336. See also his letter to John Banister Apr. 21 {ibid., p. 321), and that to 
Governor Livingston Apr. 22 {ibid., p. 331). The letters are also in Writings (ed. 
Ford), VI. 472, 474, 477, 492. See no. 209, ante, also Lovell to Bingham, Apr. 26, in 
Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 559 ("Triplicate" in the Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., Misc., Portfolio 104). 



192 Continental Congress 



&' 



We are now verging towards a most important Crisis when all the 
Wisdom of these States will be required. Permit me Sir, to lay before you 
my private Sentiments : If the time shall come for appointing a Deputation 
for treating with British Commissioners on terms for establishing Peace 
I hold it necessary that able Men be called forth for that purpose from any 
place within the Union without confining our election within any one 
State or Body.^ I intreat Your Excellency's pardon for this freedom 
and that you will believe me to be with the most sincere Esteem and 
Attachment 

Sir Your obliged and Most obedient Servant, 

Henry Laurens 

224. Henry Laurens to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston)/ 

Dear Sir ^^th April [1778.] 

You will have heard long before this can have the honor of kissing 
your hands, that Commissioners are daily expected from Whitehall to 
offer, or to treat on, temis for peace, you will also have heard the Names 
of the illustrious Characters marked on the other side for the Momentous 
work, and the Contents of an Interesting Letter dated House of Com- 
mons 5th Febry. Governor Johnson to Robert Morris Esquire ^ speaking 
in too plain language the Governor's opinion in favour of a dependent 
connexion, which I suppose to be the sentiment of every Man in Britain, 
and if Administration despair of beating they will make use of our friends 
to chouse us, but this is not the end of my troubling Your Excellency 
in such haste as I am at present obliged to write. 

We are verging Sir towards an important Crisis, it may become neces- 
sary to appoint Citizens for meeting and conferring with yonder Com- 
missioners, all the Wisdom of America will be required, shall we confine 
our selves in the election of persons on our part to a particular State or 
Circle, or shall we call proper Men from any or every part or place in the 
Union ?^ 

permit me Sir under this Cover to transmit Copies of an Act of Con- 
gress of the 23d Inst, for granting pardons and Recommending to the 
States to enact proper Laws or Issue proclamations for that purpose.* 

225. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Governor of North Carolina (Richard Caswell).^ 

Sir^ 27th April 1778 

I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency the 24th by Messenger 
Stuart. Yesterday by the hands of the Honble. Mr. Harnet under a blank 

3 Cf. no. 221, ante, and nos. 224, 242, 255, post. Washington's reply to this letter, 
Apr. 30, is in Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 508, (ed. Sparks), V. 350. 

[224]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 59; ibid., vol. of 
copies, p. 298. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 27, p. 398, note 2. 

3 Cf. no. 223, ante, 242, 255, post. 

* See the Bibliographical Notes in the Journals (ed. Ford), XIL 1282; also no. 201, 
note 4, ante. 

[.225]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 282. 



April, 1778 193 

Cover I conveyed Copies of an Act of Congress of the 23d for granting 
pardons and recommending to the several States to enact Laws or issue 
Proclamations adapted to obtain the great end in view. As this may 
possibly reach Your Excellency before Colonel Harnet's arrival at New 
Bern I judge it necessary to forward another Copy of that Act under its 
Cover. 

No part Sir, of the various transactions of business in my Office nor 
all the hard labour of the last Six IMonths has occasioned me so much pain 
as I feel at this Instant from the Duty of transmitting a paper which 
Your Excellency will find inclosed, containing minutes of Congress re- 
specting the Honble. Mr. Burke one of the Delegates from North Carolina, 
from the loth to the 25th April, which Your Excellency is requested to 
lay. in due time, before the Assembly of that State. The Honble. Gentle- 
man who is most nearly concerned in this Novel untoward circumstance 
intends to return to Carolina in a very few days. The course of my Duty 
constrains me to the present transmission, but I am persuaded it is not the 
desire of Congress to take advantage of Mr. Burke nor to hurt his Char- 
acter by impressions made in his absence on the minds of his fellow 
Citizens, or without affording a reasonable time for his appearance at the 
tribunal of his Country, where only the Honble. Gentleman holds himself 
amenable.^ 
P. S. 

As Govr. Tryon has been sending Lord North's draughts of Bills to 
the several Governors and General Officers in this Quarter 'tis not to be 
doubted Your Excellency has been or will be insulted in the same way by 
some other Tool of the British Ministry. 

226. Thomas Burke to the President of Congress.^ 

York April 28th 1778 
Sir 

The Instrument authenticating my last Election as a Delegate from 
North Carolina is dated May the 4th 1777. both my Colleagues have in- 
formed me that they believed the Election was made on the 28th of April 
preceding, the Constitution of the State requires the Election of Delegates 
to be annual, and it is a fundamental principle that the Constitution is a 
fixed rule of Conduct for all the powers of the State, which cannot be 
dispensed with, or Deviated from, unless the Collective Body of the People 
give special authority for that purpose All these circumstances induce 
me to believe that my power of representing the State is at an End. The 
Instrument referr'd to is on the Journals of Congress and they can deter- 
min whether my attendance can be longer commanded. I request you Sir 
to lay the matter before them for their Opinion that my absenting myself 
may not be deemed a Contempt or breach of Order. I should have Sub- 
mitted my difficulty at a more early day in my place, but that I was unwill- 

~ See nos. 220, ante, 226, 233, 235, 236, post. 
[226] 1 Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, pt. II., p. 473; N. C. State 
Recs., XIII. 105. 



194 Continental Congress 

ing to Interrupt the attention of Congress which was employed on objects 
far more Important.^ The same cause kept me silent on another matter 
which I shall now beg leave to mention in this which I suppose is the only- 
way remaining, for I hope my Country has yielded to my earnest request, 
and excused me from the Delegation. 

I feel myself under a Sense of very respectful Obligation to you and 
most of the Gentlemen of Congress for the Solicitude which appeared for 
me on a late occasion, and am persuaded that nothing but my being so 
unhappy in my Expressions as not clearly to convey my Ideas could have 
occasioned a mistake which is on your Journals. I am there represented 
as attempting to Justify withdrawing from Congress without permission, 
in an Instance which interrupted very important business. Such Justifi- 
cation is Sir what I never did attempt, nor do I think that or any other 
breach of Order justifiable, my attempt was intended only to excuse my 
departure under particular circumstances, by alleging that the same thing 
had been usually done by other Members without reprehension and that 
the time and occasion were not improper for using a Liberty which had 
been denied to no other member. I am also represented as sending an 
Indecent Message to the House which I protest was never my Intention, 
the matter respecting the Member from New York, I never conceived 
myself called upon to answer, but it is not of Consequence enough to 
trouble you with. I do not mean now Sir to withdraw this matter from 
the Jurisdiction of my Constituents, it is in the train I wish it to be. To 
them I hope I can shew that the House entirely mistook my meaning, and 
when it can be done without injury to the Common Cause, I shall Solicit 
their attention to the Subject, but not before if I can avoid it. My sole 
purpose at present is to prevent Gentlemen whom I greatly esteem and 
respect from retaining Impressions of me which I am unconscious of de- 
serving. This I hope to Effect by declaring that I hold no Citizen in any 
rank or station Justifiable in doing any act, on any pretence, which may 
tend to the public prejudice, or in forbearing to do any act which is 
requisite for public Service That I hold no man Justifiable for using 
Language or Manners not sufficiently respectful to the Assembly or Society 
of which he is a Member. That attendance in Congress at all times when 
required by the President either in or out of the House is in my opinion 
what every member is absolutely bound to, and the House itself is Judge 
of the respect with which the whole or any of the members is to be treated 
in debate and I only meant to Insist on the right each freeman must 
Necessarily have of Judging for himself on the reasonableness or un- 
reasonableness of every Exercise of Power, and on the peculiar Right 
of the States to apply any punishments which should go beyond censures. 
These I advanced occasionally in debate, as general political Opinions not 
in Justification of any thing that had happened but in answer to some 
things thrown out by other Gentlemen which seemed to me to hold up 
Opinions very different from them for the adoption of the House I hope 
they are not dangerous and that persisting in them is not disrespectful to 
the honorable Members. If the Language and manner in which I deliv- 

2 See no. 220, ante. 



April, 1778 195 

ered my Sentiments was not sufficiently respectful in the Opinion of the 
House, I beg they will attribute it to Inadvertance or Imperfection of 
Temper, not to design. I beg they will believe that no man is more unwill- 
ing to give offence, no man more sincerely laments it when it happens 
through warmth or earnestness of natural disposition.^ 
I have the honor to be 

with great respect and Esteem 

Sir your very obedient Servant 

Thos Burke 
Hon'ble Henry Laurens Esqr. 
President of Congress. 



227. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

York Town 28th April 1778. 
My Dear Son, 

.... I am glad our Act of the 22d pleases you.^ It appears to me to 
be sufficiently energetic for the present purpose, the last paragraph one 
excepted will point out to the illustrious Commissioners from White Hall, 
from whence to take their departure, and save much time which might 
otherwise have been spent in Ceremonious preliminary, my sentiment is, 
that this little Clause of 7 Lines nullifies many Pages of their Instructions, 
it certainly contains a complete answer to the Laborious performances of 
Lord North and the Labours of the blood thirsty Tryon. the Tit for Tat, 
which your General lately gave to the Quondam Governor must exceed- 
ingly mortify a Man of his arrogance.^ 

some of our people here have been exceedingly desirous of throwing 
abroad in addition to the Resolutions an intimation of the willingness of 
Americans to treat with G Britain upon terms not inconsistent with the 
Independence of these States or with Treaties with foreign Powers. I 
am averse, we have made an excellent move on the Table, rest until we see 
or learn the motions on the other side, the whole World must know we 
are disposed to treat of Peace and to conclude one upon honorable terms, 
to Publish therefore is unnecessary, it would be a dangerous Act, en- 
courage our Enemies and alarm our friends.'* .... 



3 See the Journals, Apr. lo, ii, 24, 25, 28; also nos. 220, 225, ante, and nos. 233, 
235, 236, post. 

[227]! Long Island Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers. 

2 Laurens is replying to a letter of John Laurens dated Apr. 27, in Army 
Correspofidence, p. 162. See also John Laurens's letters of Apr. i, 18, 20, ihid., pp. 151, 
159, 161. 

2 The reference is to Washington's letter to Tryon Apr. 26. See no. 221, 
note 3, ante. 

■* The " Proposal for Treaty with Great Britain ", no. 239, post, is the evident 
crystalization of this sentiment, although it may not as yet have been brought forward 
in form. See also nos. 242, 245, 253, post. John Laurens replied May i (Army Corre- 
spondence, p. 166), "I am entirely of your opinion on the subject of the proposed 
addition to the resolutions". Cf. his letter of May 4 {ibid., p. 167); also a passage 
in his letter of Apr. 27 {ibid., p. 163). 

17 



196 Continental Congress 

228. Henry Laurens to Louis Fleury/ 

28th April [1778.] 
Sir, 

I find my self indebted for 3^our several favors of the loth 14th and 25th 
Febry and this day I have been further honoured by the receipt of yours 
25th Inst." 

Congress will not attend to applications relative to Rank in the Anny 
until an arrangement which is still under consideration shall be completed. 

I have however conversed with friends on the particular subjects of 
your Letters and learned their sentiments. 

It is admitted, that through the importunate and incessant pressing of 
different french Gentlemen for grade there may be instances of Commis- 
sions granted to some which seem to others, injurious to themselves 
respecting relative Rank, but on the other hand it is insisted, as an un- 
doubted fact, the Commissions in almost every case granted to foreigners 
are comparatively disgraceful to the American Officers, and that there is 
no just ground for complaint by the former, that in order to avoid such 
mistakes for the future, as through a hurry of business, a business alto- 
gether new in this quarter of the World, have heretofore happened, it is 
necessary to wait until Congress shall be possessed of a Complete list of 
the Army and to grant no more Commissions except in very extraordinary 
Cases. Your case is not allowed to be one, unless it shall be said you have 
received extraordinary promotion in acknowledgement of extraordinary 
services and that an extraordinary degree of attention has been paid to you 
as a Foreign Ally, extraordinary in comparison with the ordinary course 
of proceeding towards many very meritorious Sons of America. 

these I say are private Sentiments drawn from friends among my Co- 
adjutors in Congress, a direct application to the House after I have been 
so well informed of the minds of Members would not only produce no good 
effect but in my opinion would be offensive.^ nevertheless if you judge it 
proper to risque and will direct a Memorial immediately to Congress it 
will become my Duty to present it and you may rely upon the fidelity as 
you may upon the friendship of 

Sir your most obedt. Servt. 

P. S. I have within a few days past seen repulses given to written requests 
made by Genl. Gates for Commissions to officers of whose merits he spoke 
very warmly in Two Instances — upon the principles above mentioned. 

You remark that you have made a journey of 6000 Miles — that length 
will reach much further than the remotest part of France — but my Dear 
Sir, reflect a moment how many thousands are wishing to travel all that 
distance for moderate promotion and the assurance of an Assylum. 

[228]iS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 66. 

~ Cf. no. 80, ante. A communication addressed to President Laurens, Feb. 25, 
signed by iDOth Fleury and Duplessis, is in Correspondence of Henry Laurens (Moore, 
Materials for History. L), p. 95. A letter (mutilated) from Fleury to Laurens Apr. 24 
is in the Library of Congress, Laurens Papers. Concerning Duplessis, see nos. 22, 46, 
60, ante. 

3 Cf. no. 264, post. 



April, I//8 197 

229. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to Henry Lee.^ 

28th April [1778.] 
Sir 

I had yesterday the honor of presenting your Letter of the 24th to 
Congress, and this Evening by order of the House I issued a Warrant on 
the Treasury for 50.000. Dollars for the use of your Corps of Horse 
pay[a]ble to Lieut: Rudulph to whom the warrant is delivered, some 
difficulties arose in Congress respecting the propriety of seizing Horses 
within the State of Maryland which occasioned a Report from the Board 
of War on that head to be laid aside for future consideration, in the mean 
time I have referred Mr. Rudulph to a Gentleman one of the Delegates 
from that State who had promised to point out places to him where he 
may purchase good Horses at about £125. per Horse, and avoid the 
violence and danger of seizing private property. Mr. Rudulph will un- 
doubtedly communicate such information as he may receive.^ 

230. Thomas McKean to the President of Delaware.^ 

Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the i8th instant came safe to hand. If the General As- 
sembly continue to sit a few weeks and I can be informed of that intention, 
and that it would be agreeable to them, I shall do myself the honor to wait 
upon them upon notice, being anxious to render any and every service in 
my power to that virtuous Body. The affair of the hundred men I have 
not yet had opportunity to move, but am told three hundred are ordered 
to be raised on the Eastern shore for the purpose you mention, which it is 
thought will be sufficient." I congratulate you on the success of Lieutt. 
Colo. Pope, and should be glad to know whether any prisoners were 
taken and what has been done with them. The Congress sometime ago 
passed an Act for the apprehending Charles Gordon and Thomas White 
Esquires and such others as were notoriously disaffected and active agt. 
their country in the Delaware State. This took its rise from a motion of 
the Delegates of Mar>dand, founded on an Information given to, and an 
intercepted letter of Thomas White's laid before the Governor and Coun- 
cil of Maryland, and some kind of claim they had to the persons named, 
they being lately subjects of that State, living upon their borders and 
carrying on an iniquitous conspiracy within that State. The intention 
was to have them imprisoned in Maryland, and to prevent any revenge on 
the part of these men or their adherents agt the Executive Power of the 
Delaware State, and also to prevent their being rescued out of our Goals 

[229]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 283. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 27, 28. Cf. Pa. Arch., first ser., VL 427, 429, 440, 444, 454. 
The letter at p. 440, signed " Thos. Lee", was evidently from Maj. Henry Lee. John 
Rudolph (of Maryland) was a lieutenant of Lee's battalion of light dragoons. See the 
Journals, Apr. 7, and no. 188, ante. 

[230]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. Addressed, "His Excellency Caesar Rodney Esquire, President of the 
State of Delaware ", with the notation, " On Public Service ". 
- See the Journals, Apr. 23. Cf. note 3, below. 



198 Continental Congress 

by the Enemy or the Tories, or their being hberated by habeas corpus, as 
the General Assembly had not suspended the habeas corpus Act. I have 
heard that they have since been taken, and discharged by ha. cor. and 
that Gordon has again joined the Enemy. Tho' it was perfectly right to 
enlarge them on this committment, yet the charge made agt them by Con- 
gress would have been sufficient ground for my brother Chief Justice to 
have bound them to the[ir] Good Behaviour. 

I should have mentioned this affair to you or Mr, Read before, but that 
it was ordered to be kept secret, lest the execution of it should be frustrated. 
I was called upon to name some of the most dangerous men in the State 
to be added to the others, but I refused, alledging the people there were 
now becoming good Whigs, and I hoped there would be no occasion.^ 

Now for most important intelligence. You will receive ten papers here- 
with, published by Congress, which will give you part of it, and which 
I must beg you will distribute among the Members of the General Assem- 
bly. The Bills have been passed into laws, and Lord Amherst, Admiral 
Keppel and General Murray are the Commissioners. This whole affair 
will (I know) surprize you, but it has been owing to preliminaries for a 
treaty with Congress from France being intercepted, tho' the duplicates 
have not yet been received here. I have not a fear of an Acknowledgm't of 
our Independance, and an honorable peace, if British Honors, Offices and 
Gold do not tempt and corrupt your Members of Congress and the 
Generals and principal Officers of the Army.* Do Sir, as I have not time 
to write to any body else, press the General Assembly to send two more 
Delegates here, and inform them that you know with certainty I am 
determined never to give up the Independance of the United States, after 
so much expence of blood and treasure, whilst I have a breath to draw ; 
that I shall neither be allured nor intimidated into it ; and that, if this reso- 
lution should not meet with their fullest approbation, they would be 
pleased to remove me immediately. 

God grant us virtue and fortitude in this hour of trial. I have worked 
double tides (as the Sailors say) all the last week, being every day in 
Court, and also in Congress, which latter sat on the Fast Day and also 
yesterday. Our Officers will be allowed half pay for life, under sundry 
limitations and restrictions ; the thing not finished but near it. The Bell 
tolls for Congress. Adieu. I am, dear Sir, 

Your most obedient humble Servant 

York Town, April 28th 1778. '^^o^- ^ " ^^^^ 

Governor Rodney. 

231. Henry Laurens to Jacob Christopher Zahn.^ 
Dear Sir, 28th April 1778 

.... We have been long battleing in Congress on a half pay establish- 
ment to take place after the present War for our Officers which I hold to 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 26, Apr. 10, 13, 15, 20, 23, May 21. Cf. nos. 176, 207, 
208, 210, 217, 220, antr. 

•* Nos. 203, note 5, 213, note 2, ante; also Letters of Richard Henry Lee, I. 394. 
[231]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 61. Addressed to 
him at Saiite, South CaroHna. 



April, 17 y8 199 

be inconsistant with our original Compact, unjust in a comparative view 
with the Militia and with the Soldiery in general unconstitutional and 
dangerous, upon these several branches I have endeavored to reason 
against the measure and may by and by shew you my sentiments, if the 
Question is carried it will be by a bare Majority of one State.^ .... 

232. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO JOHN JaY.^ 

YoRKTOWN, 28th April, 1778. 
Dear Jay: 

.... We have ordered troops from the highlands, but we will send 
thither a general, who shall be empowered to call forth the swarms of the 
eastern hive."^ Men were necessary at the Valley Forge. I have a good 
knack at guessing. I guess the enemy won't attempt Hudson River. 

I do think of Vermont : ^ and unless I mistake, matters shall be managed 
to effect, without bellowing in the forum, which I believe hath been a 
little too much the case. But why should I blame impetuous vivacity — hath 
it never led me into an error? 

Putnam will soon be tried.* The affair of Schuyler and St. Clair 
laboured under awkward circumstances. Their friends and their enemies 
appear to me to have been equally blind. I enclose extracts from the 
minutes made the other night to possess myself of the real state of facts. 
There are some other entries from time to time. It was erroneous to order 
a committee simply to collect facts; they should have been directed to 
state charges. This morning, my colleague being absent, I got a committee 
appointed for the latter purpose: Sherman, Dana (Massachusetts), and 
Drayton (South Carolina).^ This was unanimous, and yet I would have 
undertaken to argue for it in a style which would absolutely have ruined 
the measure. You know it would have been easy to say, justice to those 
injured gentlemen, instead of justice to an injured country requires, etc. 

Great Britain seriously means to treat. Our affairs are most critical, 
though not dangerously so. If the minister from France were present as 
well as him from England, I am a blind politician if the thirteen States 
(with their extended territory), would not be in peaceable possession of 
their independence three months from this day. As it is, expect a long 
war. I believe it will not require such astonishing efforts after this cam- 

2 Cf. no. 222, note 5, ante. 

Zahn's middle name as entered in the letter-book may be either " Christ'." or 
" Christ V Jacob Christopher Zahn is mentioned in A. S. Salley, jr.'s History of Orange- 
burgh County, pp. 275-276, as a representative from St. Matthew's Parish, Orangeburgh 
District, in the South Carolina assembly in 1779. In 1775 he was a member of the 
provincial congress (ibid., p. 258). 

[232]! Correspondence of Jay (ed. Johnston), I, 177. 

2 General Gates had been ordered to Fishkill Apr. 15, to take command of the 
Northern department. 

3 See nos. 127, ante, 237, 381, 426, post. 

* Washington sent the report of the court of inquiry to Congress July 28. See 
the Journals, June 20, Aug. 4, 17. 

^ According to the Journals the committee was appointed Apr. 29. The date at 
the head of this letter may therefore be an error. The committee " to collect the evidence 
and the facts relative to the evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence" was 
appointed Aug. 28, 1777. See no. 181, note 4, ante, and nos. 243, 308, post. 



200 Continental Congress 

paign to keep the enemy at bay. Probably a treaty is signed with the house 
of Bourbon ere this ; if so, a spark hath fallen upon the train which is to 
fire the world. Ye gods! what havoc doth ambition make among your 
works 

233. Thomas Burke to the North Carolina Assembly.* 

[April 29, 1778.] 
I beg leave to submit to the Assembly the following State of Facts and 
the proofs relating to them, also of my Motives and Sentiments which 
gave occasion to the transmissions from Congress.^ 

General Washington had written complaining of some Embarrassments 
in forming a Cartel occasioned by several Resolutions of Congress which 
he deemed inconsistent and requesting something to be done to remove 
them. 

A Committee was appointed to draught an answer. A draught was 
reported and it was the subject of Debate on the loth of april it was in 
many parts in my opinion exceptionable and I together with some other 
Members opposed those parts. The members of the Committee were very 
strenuous in their Endeavours to carry it through. The Exceptionable 
Parts seemed calculated to wound the General's Sensibility, and I could 
perceive no Necessity for it. After the Day until ten O'clock at Night had 
been Spent in debate on One paragraph which was at length amended, an 
adjournment was moved for, and the Committee Strenuously pressed to 
go through the remainder of the Letter that night tho at so late an Hour. 
I who had sustained a principle part in the Debate was totally unable to 
continue any longer by reason of the violence of a fit of an Intermitting 
fever under which I labored. 

I admit that I withdrew etc. My reasons were the following ^ 
The subject under Debate was a Draught of a Letter to General Wash- 
ington reported by a Committee, in answer to one relative to the Exchange 
of Prisoners in which he complained of being wounded in his feelings and 
embarrassed by Some Resolutions of Congress which appeared to him 
inconsistent. 

The Draught seemed exceptionable in many parts which tended to give 
pain to the General without answering any good purpose, and they were 
opposed by some other members and myself, the whole day until 10 at 
night was taken up with Debate on One paragraph which was at length 
amended. At that late hour the members of the Committee pressed very 
strongly to proceed and finish the letter before adjournment.* They 

[233]! N. C. Hist. Comm. Rough draft undated and unsigned, but in the writing of 
Thomas Burke. 

2 See nos. 220, 225, 226, ante, 235, 236, post. This statement was probably written 
for presentation to the North CaroHna assembly at the time when that body took Burke's 
affair with Congress into consideration, but it may appropriately be placed here, along- 
side of the other principal documents relating to the affair. Governor Caswell submitted 
the matter to the assembly Aug. 12, and the report upon it by a committee, of which 
William Hooper was chairman, was brought in Aug. 14. (See A''. C. State Recs., XII. 
769, 792, 825, 843. The report is also found ibid., XIII. 208.) See also no. 531, post. 

3 Burke has here rewritten his statement of the proceedings of Apr. 10. 

•* Following the word "adjournment" the words "that night" are erased. 
The word " strongly " was substituted for " strenuously ". 



April, i/y8 201 

seemed very strenuous for carrying through the draught as reported. I 
was of opinion that it ought to undergo many amendments which from 
that day's debate I perceived could not be Effected without ^ very Strenu- 
ous Opposition. I deemed it therefore very improper to proceed when our 
faculties were exhausted, besides this General reason I had one peculiar 
to myself. I had been obliged to take a principle part in the Debate altho 
during the whole afternoon I labored under a severe fit of an Intermitting 
fever, and at the time when the Question for adjournment was debated 
was so oppressed with the head ach attending it as to be ^ unable to give 
due attention to any Subject. [I found that my Endeavours were neces- 
sary for procuring the amendments to the report and could not reconcile 
it to my Duty or to my Sense of Justice, honor, or Utility to let it pass 
without using every Endeavour in my power to have it amended in the 
exceptionable parts.] ^ 

I have penetrated the personal character of General Washington, in 
my Judgement he is a good officer and most excellent Citizen, moved only 
by the most amiable and disinterested Patriotism, he perseveres in en- 
countering extreme difficulties dangers and fatigues under which he seems 
sensible of no uneasiness but from the Misfortunes of his Country and of 
no pleasure but from her success, his few Defects are only the Excess 
of his amiable Qualities, and tho I am not of opinion that any Individual 
is absolutely Essential to the success of our Cause, yet I am persuaded his 
loss would be very severely felt, and would not be easily supplied, with 
this Idea of him, I could not but deem it very impolitic to hazard giving 
him disgust when no good cause required it. Nor could I avoid deeming 
it unjust, and ungenerous to give unnecessary oft'ence and Insult to so 
worthy a man who had so well deserved of his Country, had a Majority 
of Congress been for it, I would nevertheless have used my most strenu- 
ous endeavours against it, for neither as the Citizen or Magistrate will I 
ever forgoe the Sentiments of the Independent Republican, but as I had 
great reason to believe that very few in Congress would agree to such a 
Measure if rightly understood and even the few would err Rather through 
excess of misplaced Zeal than ill disposition, there were still Stronger 
reasons for my wishing to prevent its passing when it could not receive 
due examination, and when I was totally incapable of performing my 
Duty, the Debate of the preceding day had Convinced me that even my 
Endeavours w^ere not altogether unnecessary, the Sequel of the Business 
sufficiently Evinced that I Judged not amiss, the Report underwent long 
and Strenuous debates and was finally amended nearly agreeable to my 
Idea. Tis true that departing without leave is in strictness a breach of 
order, but it had been usually done, without reprehension, and I only used 
the same liberty which every other member had frequently done and in 
some recent Instances by two members of the Committee on Occasions far 
from being so proper or excusable as that under Consideration.^ 

•"' The words " Much debate and " are here erased. 

'^ The word " totaJly " before " unable " is erased. 

^ The passage in square brackets is marked " Dele " in the margin. The idea 
is expressed more cautiously farther on. 

*• In the letter to Governor Caswell (no. 235, post), Burke gives a more complete 
and finished account of the affair. 



202 Continental Congress 

234. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor 
OF Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

York Town 29th April 1778 
Sir 

We are honor'd with your Excellency's favour of the 3d Inst, by Brown 
Note the Contents, with regard to the Regulating Act the State of 
Pennsylvania have Suspended it and the other States to the Southward 
of this have done nothing on the Subject, not so much as appointed Com- 
mittees to meet and take the matter under Consideration as we can learn, 
a Committee of Congress, appointed to take into Consideration the doings 
of the Committee at New Haven, have made their Report that the pro- 
ceedings of the Committee at N. Haven be Sent to all the Southern States, 
and recommended to their Serious Consideration and that the Northern 
States Suspend the Act, in the mean time until they have further advise 
on the Subject from Congress — but no Resolution of Congress, is as yet 
passed on their Report — but we Expect it will soon be brought upon the 
Carpet." Congress have in Contemplation a plan for making a large re- 
duction of the Circulating quantity of Bills, as the most natural, and 
easy method of Supporting their Credit, hope this plan may soon be per- 
fected.^ 

It appears to us from the best Sentiments we are able to Collect, that 
the Southern States never will adopt the regulating Act. 

The marine board Seemd Sensible of Capt. Harding's Merit and on 
your Excellencies recommendation would have made his appointment 
accordingly had it been feasible — but their [sic] had been a predetermina- 
tion that Capt. Hinman Should take the Command of that Frigate if he 
arrives in Season ; * indeed their are a number of Capts. in the Continental 
Navy which they think may not be pass'd over, as several of them have 
now no Vessels and Consequently are out of Employ tho' on Wages, we 
wish to be favoured with an Acct of Mr. Bushnell['s] ^ Expences; as we 
are fully of opinion, that his genious ought to be encouraged and Re- 
warded at a Continental Expence, and shall take the Earliest Opportunity 
to urge it. 

The States of Virginia and N York have fully Acceded to the Articles 
of Confederation South Carolina, Pensylvania, Rhode Island, and 
Massachusets have Instructed their Delegates to move for some altera- 
tions with power to rattify, Some what Similar to Connecticut. Some 
of the States have not yet furnished their Delegates with their proceedings 

[234]! Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. i68 (copy). 

2 The matter was brought up May 7. See also the Journals, Apr. 8, and no. 198, 
atite. 

3 Cf. no. 218, ante, and no. 243, post. 

* Seth Harding was chosen captain of the Confederacy Sept. 25, 1778. Elisha 
Hinman was captain of the Alfred (see the Journals, Oct. 10, 1776), having previously 
been in command of the Cabot. 

^ David Bushnell, whose experiments with the submarine American Turtle had 
been carried on by the aid of the Connecticut state government. See vol. H., p. 20 n. ; 
also Conn. Col. Rccs., XV. 233-236, Conn. State Recs., I. 212, 580. Cf. Paullin, Navy 
of Am. Kev., p. 363. 



April, 1778 203 

upon the Subject. Col Wadsworth is appointed Com'y Genl. on his plan,* 
we hope his Activity and abilities will remove the Embarressments, which 
have been too sensibly felt ever Since Commissary Trumbull left that 
Dept. Genl. Gates is Ordered to take the Command of the posts on 
Hudsons River and the Northern Department. 

It is said that Feb'y Packet, from England, is arriv'd at Philadelphia, 
but no Intelligence Transpires. 
We are with much Esteem 

your Excellencies most Obedient Humble Servants 

Sam'el Huntington 
Oliver Wolcott 

235. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

York April 29th 1778. 
Ur Sir: 

You will receive from the President of Congress some Extracts from 
the Journals relative to me which will appear very odd to you if unin- 
formed of several attending circumstances.^ The history of the matter 
is as follows : A letter was received from General Washington relative 
to some resolutions of Congress which stood in the way of an Exchange 
of Prisoners ; the House in general determined not to recede from the 
resolutions he complained of, which I believe I mentioned to you in a 
former letter.^ A Committee was appointed to draught a letter in answer. 
The draught was reported, and it appeared to several of us exceptionable 
in many parts, particularly in some Eulogisms on the whole Tenor of 
the resolutions of Congress relative to the Exchange of prisoners which 
we thought neither consistent with Truth or Modesty, and also in several 
charges against the General of suffering the Dignity and Honor of the 
United States to be Injured, charges which were I am persuaded void of 
all foundation. The whole indeed appeared to several Gentlemen as well 
as to me to indicate in the framers a disposition not friendly to the 
General, nor such as so good, so Important, so public spirited and Dis- 
interested a Character deserves. One Paragraph had taken up the whole 
afternoon in debate. The members of the Committee had let themselves 
very largely into many foreign matters, declaimed very vehemently but 
to no other purpose than confirming us in our former opinions, and 
fatiguing every faculty. At length the exceptionable parts of the Para- 
graph were expunged and it received a very different dress. The members 
of the Committee strenuously urged that we should proceed and finish the 
letter that night, tho' it was then after ten o'clock. The principal oppo- 
sition they met with through the day was from General Reid, of Pennsyl- 
vania, Mr. Drayton, of South Carolina and myself. I labored under a 

8 Cj. nos. 17s, note 2, 196, 205, ante. 
[235]' A". C. State Recs., XIII. 403- 

2 See nos. 220, 225, 226, 233, ante, and no. 236, post. 

3 See no. 220, ante. Cf. nos. 188, note 5, 202, ante. 



204 Continental Congress 

very Distressing fit of an intermitting fever, which heightened by the 
part I was obHged to take in the Debate, and the noise of loud, incessant 
Declamation, occasioned so violent pain in my head that I was totally 
unable to attend any longer. Mr. Harnett had been several days confined 
and there were only Nine States represented. In vain was all this and 
much more which was equally forcible, urged against Sitting any longer. 
The Question for adjournment was put, and before it came to me I was 
very apprehensive it would pass in the Negative and I determined to with- 
draw if no other way was left, to prevent our proceeding so improperly 
on business of such Importance. Those who know the Opinions that had 
long prevailed relative to a party against a certain great officer, will not 
deem this resolution an absurd one, tho' perhaps it was not the most 
prudent that could .have been formed on the Occasion. The event took 
place nearly as stated in the Journal and I withdrew ; the Messenger 
attended me soon after with a message which from his manner of De- 
livering it and from my knowing there could be no Congress without me 
I did not conceive to have come from the President, but from Mr. Duer, 
of New York, with whom I was on Temis of particular intimacy, and 
who I imagined, presuming on that Intimacy, had sent for me in order 
to his facilitating his carrying through the Letter, which seemed to be a 
favourite object with him. I returned an answer which I intended for 
him and in which I was not choice of expressions. Next morning* the 
matter was opened by a member from Massachusetts, in a very illiberal 
manner, but with general observations, and general Inferences of Danger 
and Inconvenience if such practice was to be permitted. I rose immedi- 
ately, observed that the application was doubtless intended for the Event 
of the preceding Evening, (I did not at this time know that my answer 
had been reported) and therefore said nothing relative to it to the par- 
ticular Event. I said little more than I was indisposed, and my faculties 
had been so much fatigued by the whole day's attention that I found 
myself unable to discharge my duty, and I conceived very few other 
members were. To the general Observations and Inferences I answered 
that an unreasonable exercise of any Power was Tyrrany, and that to 
keep a member at such unreasonable Hours and under such circumstances 
was in my opinion Tyrannical, and that I would not submit to it but by 
force on my person ; that I considered every freeman as having a right 
to judge for himself when the Exercise of any Power was unreasonable, 
and if I erred in my judgment the power of punishing lay with the State 
I represented. If Congress should determine to what hour the members 
should attend in the afternoon as it had in the forenoon I would punctu- 
ally attend, but while it was undetermined I must use my own judgment, 
at the risk of Incurring whatever Penalties my Country should adjudge. 
The members of the Committee who had framed the letter, now united, 
and labored strenuously to make a Mountain of this Mole-hill, talked 
vehemently of the insolence of appealing to the States, declared their 
disposition to proceed to Commitment or to Expulsion and lamented that 

^ That is, Apr. ii. The member from Massachusetts was probably Francis 
Dana. 



April, lyjS 205 

the circumstances of Congress made my presence Necessary and prevented 
them from moving to such purposes. They talked very much of the 
Contempt in calHng any act of a Majority of Congress a Tyrany. I now 
perceived that I was on ground which it became my Duty to maintain with 
consequences to myself never so fatal. I addressed the President and 
declared I would sit patiently until every Gentleman in the House who 
chose to speak should exhaust the whole of his eloquence. I would only 
request them that if they chose to use any abusive language (for much 
had been used) they would reserve it for some other place, and when 
every one should have done I would reply. I accordingly sat very patient 
for Hours, and at length when every one who chose it had entirely done 
I delivered the following Sentiments : That my opinion of the power of 
Congress over its members had been often given in that Assembly and 
was well known to be that no member could refuse his attendance or 
even his Vote when called on, that the States furnish quotas of Council as 
well as Troops, that either would be furnished in vain if the Individuals 
assigned could refuse to perform the requisite Duty, that my name stood 
to this opinion on the Journals, but the Individual must of necessity Judge 
whether the particular Instance in which his performance is required be 
reasonable or not. If he judges wrong or disobeys without just reason 
he incurs the penalties provided for misbehavior in office, but the power 
of judging and punishing Delegates was never Committed to Congress 
by any Express act of the State I represented, that the opinion that each 
freeman had a right to judge of the reasonableness or unreasonableness 
of any act of power, and even to resist it if unreasonable at the risk only 
of the Judgment of his Country, I held to be the grand Principle of Whig- 
gism and the best Security for public Liberty, a principle which I would 
never forego but with my Life, that the other opinion relative to the 
jurisdiction of the State over its delegates seemed to me to Involve the 
Sovereignty of the State and its Security in a representation since it 
would be impossible for its representatives to assert and maintain its rights 
with firmness and freedom if subject to arbitrary Imprisonments, and 
punishments by Congress and that I would never retract it but by the Ex- 
press order of the State, who alone had power to give it up. That I would 
not justify the particular breach of order under Consideration, but hoped it 
might be excused because it was not unusual nor under its particular 
circumstances even improper. That as I discovered great favour in all 
the members except a few towards me on this occasion I was exceedingly 
sorry my Conduct or Language had given offense ; that nothing was 
further from my intentions, that the words I used were the only names 
I knew for the things I wanted to express, that I held it an unworthy 
Business for a republican and a representative of a free and sovereign 
People to be looking out for courtly Expressions. That had the matter 
been opened with any regard to Liberality, a few words which I would 
have said would have Satisfied the House, and put an end to it, but as 
the matter was managed it became Inconsistent with my Duty and my 
honor to make any Concession without expressly insisting on my opinions. 
That with this reservation I would make any apology the House should 



206 Continental Cons^ress 



&' 



require, but without it I could make none which would not involve a 
breach of Trust to my Country, and no punishment could be devised which 
I would not meet sooner than be guilty of such an offence. The members 
of the Committee still persisted nothing would do but an Explicit acknowl- 
edgement of what they pleased to call my Error. I rejoined only that I 
knew no power who could make a man change his opinion before he was 
Convinced of his Error, that I was not and therefore would not acknowl- 
edge it. They proceeded now to enter on the Journals such a state of facts 
as they pleased. I desired only that they would enter a fair and full state- 
ment, that such as they offered were far from being so. After some time 
it was said by the Gentlemen that I should have an opportunity of answer- 
ing and could set forth any that were omitted. In my answer I acquiesced, 
and so did the House. They then proceeded to take down some of my 
Expressions in debate. I required them to take down all that would speak 
my full Sense, and not detached Expressions ; that I would give it to them 
as fully as they could wish, being firmly resolved not to retract one Iota of 
it. But I was answered, as before, that I could supply the deficiencies in 
my answer, and I acquiesced. The Entries were made and the president 
announced them in form. I thanked him for his politeness of manner, 
told him I hoped I could satisfy the House that no disrespect was Intended 
to them, but that I avowed my opinions as I delivered them in debate ; that 
I persisted in them, and insisted on entire freedom of Debate. I was re- 
quired to return an answer to the next adjournment, which was to be in 
the afternoon, and I desired no longer time; but afterwards the House 
changed it to Monday, which was the next day of Business.^ 

Thos. Burke. 

236. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Thomas Burke.^ 

York Town 30th April 1778. 
Sir: 

Within this inclosure you will receive the draught of a letter which you 
pent last night for my perusal.^ 

If I were called upon to give evidence in the case, I should deliver my 
sentiment without bias or partiality. I might vary in some particulars 
from your account, nevertheless upon a fair comparison, I think your 
narrative would not appear to be uncandid, especially if any consideration 
should be had to its coming from the party most nearly affected. 

I have the honor to be with great regard Sir, your obedient and most 
humble Servant. 

Henry Laurens 

s The Journals, Apr. ii, record (pp. 336, 337) that Burke was to make his 
answer on the following Monday (Apr. 13). This statement of Burke's, taken in con- 
nection with the record in the Journals, would indicate that Burke's written response, 
which is placed in the Jourtials (ed. Ford) under Apr. 11, properly belongs under Apr. 13. 
[236]! AT. C. State Recs., XIII. 108; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, 
I. 286. 

2 This was doubtless the draft of Burke's letter to Governor Caswell Apr. 29, 
no. 235, ante. 



April, 1778 207 

237. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton)/ 

York Town 30th x\pril 1778 
Sir 

By Major Genl. Gates we take the Opportunity of inform'g your 
Excellency that we hope in a few Days to transmit you some Resolutions ^ 
of Importance to the State we represent at which Time we shall write 
fully upon the Subject. At present we have to request that you will afford 
Genl. Gates such Assistance in his important and extensive Command as 
may be in your Power. 

We have the Honor to be with great Respect 

Your Excellency's most obedient 
and humble Servants 

GouvR. Morris 
Wm. Duer 



238. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.'- 

York Town 30th April 1778. 
Sir, 

I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency the day before yesterday 
by Sharp.- 

This bearer ^ is dispatched by special order of Congress to return with 
the bundle of Papers, sent to Head Quarters some time ago by the Com- 
mittee appointed to collect Evidence etc. on the loss of Tyconderoga and 
Mount Independence, which Your Excellency will be pleased to deliver 
to him. 



239. Proposal for Treaty with Great Britain.^ 

[April 30(?), 1778.] 
Resolved — That notwithstanding the Unmerited Injurious and Cruel 
Treatment the United States of America have received from the hands 
of Great Britain, they are ever willing and desirous to put an end to the 
Calamities of war ; and not averse from entering into a Treaty for peace 
and Commerce between the two Countries for the mutual Interest and 
Benefit of both, upon Terms not Inconsistant with the Freedom, Sover- 
eignty and Independence of these States, or with any Treaties that are 

[237]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 2623. 

2 The reference is probably to the resolutions concerning Vermont offered by 
the committee on Clinton's letter of Apr. 7. See nos. 426-428, post. Cf. nos. 127, 232, 
ante, and nos. 381, 469, post. 

[238] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid., President's Letter-Book, L287. 
- The messenger was Joseph Sharpe. 

3 Laurens's letter of May 3 (no. 249, post) shows that the bearer was messenger 
Richard Ross. The Journals do not record the special order ; but a committee was ap- 
pointed Apr. 29 to examine the evidence. Washington transmitted the papers May i. 

[239]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XV. 



208 Continental Congress 

or shall be made with any other Sovereign power, before such Treaty be 

formed." 

[Endorsed :] 

Proposal for Treaty with Gr. Britain. 

240. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to the 
Commissioners at Paris.^ 

York Town Apr. 30, 1778 
Gentlemen 

By the Gazettes which accompany this letter you will see that the 
Enemy are entering upon a plan which must shortly perplex us much, 
unless we receive dispatches from you to enlighten us as to your Situation 
and Transactions of which we have had no information since the latter 
end of May. As we have heard of the loss of Capt. Johnston and Capt. 
Wickes and know that John Folgier was robbed, we cannot charge our 
present want of letters to negligence in you ; but we think you should not 
rest satisfied without sending triplicates of your Dispatches. - 

The commercial Committee will transmit to you the contract which 
they have entered into with the agent of the House of Roderique, Hortales 
and Co., The heads of wch contract happening to be at hand are inclosed.^ 

We have read a letter written by a Friend (Govr. Johnston) dated 
House of Commons Feb. 13th. in which we are told that *' you had con- 
cluded a Treaty wth. France and Spain which was on the Water towards 
us." Imagine how solicitous we are to know the truth of this before we 
receive any proposals from Britain in consequence of the scheme in 
Ld. Norths speech and the two Draughts of Bills now sent to you. 

The state of our foreign connections is a subject now before Congress; 
and, dubious as we are about your transactions some resolutions will 

- This proposed resolution is doubtless the offering to which Laurens refers 
in his letter to John Laurens, Apr. 28 (no. 227, ante), and it is probable that it is to this 
resolution also that Laurens alludes in his letter to Lowndes, May i (no. 242, post). 
Moreover, it seems evident that Laurens s remarks in the letter to Lowndes refer to 
the motion made in the afternoon of Apr. 30, considered the ne.xt morning and post- 
poned ; for, although he speaks of the resolve as " lying a few da3's ", it may well have 
been under discussion for a time before being formally offered. On the back of the 
document are the words, "2d. May Mr. "; but this is presumed to be the begin- 
ning of an incompleted note, and not an endorsement of the date of the motion. After 
the postponement, May i, as recorded in the Journals (Laurens remarks in his letter 
of that date to Lowndes that it was "postponed generally"), it is not probable that 
the subject was brought up again May 2. At all events, after the arrival of the French 
treaties the motion would scarcely have taken that form. The notation referred to may 
have been made subsequently with the intention of setting down the author of the 
motion, with recollection hesitant both as to the author and the date. The endorsement on 
Drayton's motion (no. 245, post) suggests that the author may have been Samuel 
Huntington. 

[240]! Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, IX. 99 ("No. 6, Copy"); ibid., IX. 99a 
("Triplicate") ; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 567. 

2 The Reprisal, Capt. Lambert Wickes, was lost in a storm off Newfoundland. 
The Lexington, Capt. Henry Johnston, was captured by the British off L^shant (Paullin, 
Navy of Am. Rev., pp. 287-291). The news of the loss of the Lc.vi)igton came to Con- 
gress about Mar. i, in a letter of William Bingham. See Lovell to Bingham, Mar. 2 
(Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Con:, H. 513). Concerning the Folger affair, see the Journals, 
Jan. 12, Feb. 23, May 8, 28; also nos. 24, note 3, 36, ante, 280, post. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 7, and no. 186, aftte, nos. 279, 281, 437, post. 



May, I//8 209 

probably be formed to be transmitted to -you by a special conveyance 
shortly, when a general account of our Affairs will also be sent.* We have 
little uneasiness about the Strength of our enemy. Our currency must 
be supported in due credit ; after which we may bid defiance to Britain and 
all her German hirelings. We wish every Advice and Assistance from you 
for the support of such Credit. 

I am, with great Regard Gentlemen 

Your humble Servant 

James Lovell, 
For the Committee of Foreign Affairs. 
Honorable Commissioners in France 

241. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Francis Bailey.^ 

30th April [1778.] 
I writ to you the day before yesterday by Messenger Sharp. 
Under Cover with this you will receive an Act of Congress for inviting 
Officers and Soldiers in the service of the King of Great Britain not sub- 
jects of the said King, to settle within these States. 

this Act you are desired to translate and print in the German Tongue 
one Thousand Copies, let the translation be pure and the work done with 
the utmost expedition not delayed a single moment, inform me if you 
please when the Copies will be out of the press and I will immediately 
give the necessary directions for sending them to the places intended, let 
me strictly enjoin you not to suffer a single Copy to get abroad, but 
return the M. S. and all the impressions as you shall be directed.^ .... 

242. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

I St May 1778. 
Sir, 

.... Congress have been closely engaged on one branch of a proposed 
arrangement of the Army, which has been long pending, the first article 

* See the Journals, Apr. 21, 30, May i, 28, June i, 2. Cf. no. 244, post. 

[241]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 287. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 29, and nos. 242, 248, post. Francis Bailey was a 
printer at Lancaster, occasionally employed by Congress. See Evans, Am. Bibl., V. 453. 
In a subsequent letter to him the same day Laurens wrote : 

" After I had written to you this Morning it was discovered there had been a small 
error in Copying the Declaration to Foreign Officers etca. If this shall reach you in time 
please to make the necessary alterations directed in the paper here inclosed, dispatch 
alone will render the present effort successful or otherwise. I shall therefore be every 
hour in expectation of hearing the impressions are made. You may send 500 Copies 
immediately to York dry and hold in readiness the other 500, to be delivered to a Messen- 
ger who will call for them in his way to Camp" (President's Letter-Book, L 288). 
May 4 Laurens wrote to Bailey: "Yesterday I received your favor of the ist with the 

German Copies of addresses etca. by Ross Your specimen of Paper pleases 

much more than the price, this is beyond any I have yet heard of I must endeavor to be 
more frugal in the distribution of public Money" {ibid., p. 293). 

[242]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 68. 



210 Continental Congress 

on the tapis is, an half pay establishment for Officers who shall continue 
in the Army to the end of the War [which] having met much opposition, 
has engrosed, with very little exception, our time for a Month past, this 
subject is at present suspended, for reasons which if I judge truly, are not 
assigned, the supporters of the measure perceive danger of losing the 
question should it be put at this time when there are only ten States on the 
floor and therefore wait to avail themselves of the voices of two or three 
which are daily expected,^ but this grand business is succeeded by another 
said to be equally momentous and to which every other consideration must 
give place, the State of our affairs at foreign Courts, the reading Letters 
as a preliminary Step employed completely the six hours session of 
yesterday."'' I have however introduced my Colleague Mr. Chf. Justice 
Drayton into the Committee of Indian affairs and will enjoin him to 
collect the Committee and press for a consideration of the Resolves of 
Assembly alluded to above ^ thence a Report will follow and be properly 
inducted to Congress, and I have no doubt in my own mind of obtaining 
all that our State expects relative to the expence of supporting an Indian 
Trade, unless our late acquisitioin of Land from the Cherokee people 
should be faintly urged in bar. I know some Gentlemen view that circum- 
stance with a jealous eye. be this as it may, I think a demand so well 
grounded and which may be well supported by applicable precedents with 
which our Journals abound can suffer but slightly from opposition.® 

Two days ago Congress completed a Declaratory Invitation to foreign 
Officers and Soldiers in the service of the King of Great Britain to quit 
such service and settle in these States, a Copy of which I will endeavor to 
lay before your Excellency. I like the scheme in general, my objection 
was to the last Clause ^ Maryland, Rhode Island and New Jersey peremp- 
torily refuse to bear any part of expense which may [arise] from the 
purchase or laying out the intended Grants of Land. New York and 
Virginia meaning the Delegates from these States, promised on behalf of 
their constituents to supply large quantities and it was intimated that the 
Carolinas and Georgia might well make up the deficiency, whatever were 
my sentiments respecting the policy of the measure, I felt a repugnance 
to binding my Country by any engagements, exceeding the powers vested 
in me and which she might for this and other obvious reasons refuse to 
confirm, hence I shall be found upon Record, No.^ 

All the States had for many Months been exceedingly remiss in Repre- 
sentation in Congress, fear I believe had operated upon many minds, 
partly of the excessive expence attending very bad fare in this Town and 
partly of a sudden surprize by the Enemy, and certainly had Sir William 
Howe been a Man of enterprize he might have possessed himself of 

2 Cf. no. 222, ante, nos. 244, 247, 255, 282, 287, post. 

^ Cf. no. 239, ante, no. 244, post. 

^ The passage alluded to is omitted. See note 5, below. Drayton was one of 
three members added to the committee on Indian affairs Apr. 29. 

^ See the Journals, May 14, 26, 29. Cf. no. 287, post. 

6 Laurens has appended here the following note : " originally an Agreement and 
although amended and made a Recommendatory Clause it is understood those States 
are to be exempted from all expence." 

■^ See the Journals, Apr. 15, 25, 29. 



May, lyyS 211 

Congress, this delinquency has cost the Union MilHons of Dollars, the 
days lengthen the weather mends, the Army is receiving reinforcements 
and Delegates drop in, we have lately been joined by some very able men 
and shew upon the floor about 23. New Hampshire Delaware and No. 
Carolina empty. New Jersey and Rhode Island one Delegate, the im- 
portant Crisis to which we are now verging may possibly rouse the defici- 
ent States.^ .... 

In addition to the Act of Congress of the 22d April Congress had been 
moved to confirm a Resolve, Copy of which will also be Inclosed, upon 
its first appearance it was a favorite and I felt some anxiety lest it should 
succeed, but after lying a few days and a full discussion this Morning it 
was postponed generally.® .... 

Major Genl. Conway lately for the second time taunted Congress by an 
application for leave to resign his Commission, and in notes so extremely 
rough as secured a Majority of 8 States of 9 in his favor." I say taunted, 
because I have since received a Letter from his Aid de Camp who knew 
the contents of the General's and probably the intents of it also, assuring 
me it was not the General's meaning to resign and praying my Interest 
to obtain a Repeal of the Resolution, he certainly w^as not in earnest in 
his first attempt, but I believe the door is now shut, his conduct respecting 
General Washington is criminal and unpardonable, severely censured by 
all the foreign Officers 

We shall probably soon be called upon to meet by a proper Deputation 
the Commissioners expected from White Hall, for this momentous inter- 
view, my private Sentiment is, that the Wisdom of the Union should be 
selected, that we should go beyond the bounds of Congress and of any 
particular State in our choice of Character it is probably too late to ask 
advice or Instruction, and if I do not misunderstand we shall find our 
Men in York Town, your Excellency shall receive early intelligence of 
determinations on this Subject.^^ .... 

s Recent accessions were: Joseph Reed of Pennsylvania (Apr. 6), Richard 
Hutson of South Carolina (Apr. 13), Charles Carroll of Carrollton of Maryland (Apr. 
15), Thomas Adams of Virginia (Apr. 16), George Plater of Maryland (Apr. 18), 
John Mathews of South Carolina (Apr. 22), Roger Sherman of Connecticut (Apr. 25), 
and Richard Henry Lee of Virginia (May i). Philip Livingston of New York attended 
May 5, Thomas McKean of Delaware was in attendance May 11, and John Witherspoon 
of New Jersey May i6. Josiah Bartlett of New Hampshire and Samuel Adams of 
Massachusetts attended May 21, Jonathan Elmer of New Jersey May 26, John Went- 
worth of New Hampshire May 30, Thomas Heyward of South Carolina June 6, 
Henry Marchant of Rhode Island June 8, John Hancock of Massachusetts June 19, 
John Collins of Rhode Island June 20, Samuel Holten of Massachusetts June 22, and 
Titus Hosmer of Connecticut June 22,. From Apr. 26 (c/. the Journals, Apr. 28) until 
July 16, when John Penn attended, North Carolina had no delegate in attendance. 
Meanwhile there were losses as well as considerable variations in the attendance of 
some of the delegations. Cf. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee, May lo, in Letters 
(ed. Ballagh), I. 408. 

» The proposed resolve referred to is probably that found under Apr. 30 (no. 
239, ante). It is less probable that the allusion is to the motion of William Henry 
Drayton May i (no. 245, post). Cf. no. 227, ante. 

10 Conway's resignation, dated Apr. 22, was accepted Apr. 28. He was notified of 
the acceptance in a letter from Laurens May 7, addressed to him at Albany (President's 
Letter-Book, I. 299), and transmitted May 8, through General McDougall at Fish Kill 
{ibid.). The other instance was in his letter of Apr. 6, read in Congress Apr. 23. Cf. 
nos. 299, 317, 319, 320, post. 

^^ Cf. nos. 221, 223, 224, ante, and no. 255, post. 



212 Continental Congress 



i>' 



243. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

York Town May ist 1778 
Sir 

I arrived here the 24th of last month. I dont know of any thing very 
material that has passed in Congress Since Col Dyer left it. Several im- 
portant Matters are depending unfinished respecting the regulation and 
provision for the army, and for fixing the Credit of the Currency, there 
is a report of a Committee for Sinking 20 Million dollars of the first 
Emissions of the Continental Bills by a Loan, to recommend to the serious 
consideration of the Southern States the Report of the N Haven conven- 
tion for stating prices, and to such of the States as have not sunk their out- 
standing Bills immediately, to do it and refrain from further Emis- 
sions." .... A Committee is appointed to make preperation for the 
trial of the Genl. Officers who Commanded in the northern Department 
when the Fortresses of Ty. and Independence were abandoned, in behalf 
of the Committee I request your Excellency to transmit to me any depo- 
sitions or other Information which you are possessed of that may be of 
use in that enquiry.^ The drawing of the Lottery of the united States 
Commences to Day the numbers and prizes are in the wheels. 

P. S. The Articles of Confederation have not been yet taken up. No 
Returns are made from New Hampshire, N Jersey or Georgia ; New York 
Assembly has Agreed to them without any alteration. North Carolina 
Agreed to only a small part and advised to defer the rest till the Conclusion 
of the war, tis said they will reconsider the matter and probably agree 
to the whole * — New Hampshire, Deleware and North Carolina have no 
Delegates in Congress at present — all the states except N Hampshire were 
Represented last week Col. McKean is a Delegate for Deleware, he is 
now on the Circuit as Chief Justice for Pensylvania.^ 

244. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO GeORGE WASHINGTON.^ 

York Town ist May 1778. 
D'r General. 

Knox is to attend the Council." Conway hath resigned and his Resig- 
nation is accepted.^ The Affairs of the Army are necessarily delayed by 
the foreign Affairs which have broken in upon us.'* As to the Half Pay 

[243]^ Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 244 (marked "a True Copy"). 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 8. Cf. nos. 218, 234, a}ite. 

3 See nos. 181, 188, 189, 232, ante. 

* See no. 191, ante. May 9 objections and amendments to the Confederation 
were called for, to be laid on the table on or before May 13, and Saturday, i\Iay 16, was 
set for taking the Confederation into consideration. This was not, however, done until 
June 20. See the Journals, May 9, June 19, 20, 22, 23, 25, 26, 27, July 9, 10; see also 
nos. 292. 293, 306, 336, 339, 367, post. 

5 Cf. no. 242, ante, no. 244, post. 
[244] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIIL 63. 

2 Knox was the commander of the artillery. See the resolution of Apr. 27. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 28, and no. 242, ante. 

■* See the Journals, Apr. 21, 30, May i. Cf. no. 239, ante, and no. 242, post. 



May, 1778 213 

matters stand thus the Questions have been carried but by an Entry on 
the Minutes there is an Agreem't that a final Question shall be put 
whether it be finally determined in Congress or sent to the several States/ 
When a Motion is made for this Purpose the Yeas will be Massa'ts 
Rhode Island, Connec : Jersey, and South Carolina the Nays will be 
N York Maryland Virginia and Georgia. Pensilvania is in a mighty 
flimsy Situation on that Subject having indeed a mighty flimsy Repre- 
sentation. I wish Boudinot were here. Delaw-are is absent who is with 
us as is N Carolina also absent. New Hampshire is absent who is against 
us.*' This is to go by Gates. I am respectfully yours 

GouvR. Morris. 
I pay my Respects to Mrs. Washington. 

245. William Henry Drayton, Motion.^ 

[May I, 1778.] 
Resolved 

That the Commissioners of Congress at the Courts of France and Spain 
be instructed to inform those Courts respectively, that Congress are 
assured the King and Parliament of Great Britain intend very shortly to 
open a treaty with these United States to procure a reconciliation with 
that Kingdom, that Congress believe great Britain will consent to the 
Independence of America, only in consequence of the most absolute com- 
pulsion — that Great Britain is inclined to sacrifice much of her claim 
to bind these States in all cases whatsoever — that as it is the true Interest 
of America to be an Independent power, she will be inclined to relinquish 
her Independency, only from the most absolute necessity to do so — that 
the strength and resources of the two countries are considerably diminished 
by the War — that these States wish to be assisted with loans of money 
sufficient to enable them to support the credit of their paper money — and 
that an annual supply of money to the amount of Millions Livre 

and an immediate declaration of War by France and Spain against Great 
Britain would enable these United States to continue the War and with 
the blessing of God to establish their Independence. In addition to these 
representations, the said Commissioners shall demand a categorical answer 
of France and Spain to this point. 

W^hether or not they will grant to these United States an annual loan 
upon Interest of millions of Livres during the continuance of the 

War, and make an immediate Declaration of War against Great Britain.^ 

[Endorsed :] 
Mr. Draytons Mo. ist May — for Mr. Huntington's. 

•' Cf. no. 242, ante. 

^ Cf. nos. 242, note 8, 243, ante. 
[245]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Promiscuous Letters, 1778-1780, vol. XV. 
(last item). 

- This motion of Drayton was doubtless made when the subject of foreign 
affairs was under discussion May i, and the endorsement indicates that it was offered as 
a substitute for a motion of Samuel Huntington. The Journals record only that a motion 
was made, discussed, and postponed (Apr. 30, May i), but it is probable that the 
proposal found under no. 239, ante, is the original motion and this a substitute, since the 
former is more in keeping with the proposal characterized by Laurens in his letter of 
Apr. 28 (no. 227, ante), and in that of May i (no. 242, ante). 



214 Continental Congress 

246. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott.^ 

My Dear. ^^^^ Town, 2 May 1778 

.... I expect that Mr. Adams will be here by the latter End of this 

Month, as soon as he comes I shall Return 

A false forged Resolution of Congress has lately been published both 
in Philadelphia and N York, setting forth an order to Genl. Washington to 
retain in his Army till the end of the War all Soldiers however inlisted 
or brot into Service, and this forged Resolution they take much Pains to 
spread in the Country.^ .... 

247. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais.^ 

My Dear friend, 3d May, 1778. 

.... One grand subject had employed Congress in a Committee of 
the whole and in the House near a Month, an establishment of half pay for 
Officers who should continue in the Army to the end of the War. I had 
in the Committee strongly opposed the measure before Mr. D's ^ arrival, 
if I have time you will receive within the present inclosure the grounds 
of my objections and nearly in the words I delivered them, that Gentleman 
on the same side in Congress has offered his sentiments with much energy 
and perspicuity, there was used a good deal of, what in my judgement is, 
foul play and you will allow there was some violence when I tell you the 
declaration of a Majority Man — " If the majority, said he, would be 
guided by me, we would take up the matter and carry it through at all 
events." when the question was put, if I remember right that Majority was 
7 to 4 or 6 to 5. a Member or two dropped off and the business has since 
been Stagnant, auxiliaries are waited for. the Minority proposed to 
digest a plan and transmit it to the States for Instructions, it was no 
convincing argument, that, " perhaps, or I should say, probably the people 
will not agree to it ", convincing I mean, of the rectitude of the intended 
Act, for how dare we establish a pension List, or attempt any measure 
repugnant to the good Will of the people, my reasonings were grounded 
upon the unconstitutionality, and the danger, and the inadequateness of 
the remedy to the necessity complained of but you will hear more of it 
by and by.^ .... 

248. The President of Congress to George Washington.^ 

^^y York Town, 3d May 1778. 

My last trouble to Your Excellency was dated the 30th ulto. by Ross. 
The present will cover an Act of that date for ascertaining the Rank and 
pay annexed to Brevet Commissions, whether this is, or is not intended 
to have a retrospective effect, I think is not clearly expressed by the Letter, 
and as I apprehend such operation may in many Instances give Umbrage, 

[246] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. II., no. 54. 

2 See no. 223, ante. 
[247] ^S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.— Sept., 1778, p. 77. 

2 William Henry Drayton. 

3 See nos. 202, 206, 211, 222, 231, 242, ante, 255, 282, 287, post. 

[248] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCII. 114; ibid., President's 
Letter-Book, I. 291; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), II. 115. 



May, lyyS 215 

I shall embrace the proper opportunity of obtaining an explanation of the 
act or information to my own understanding.^ 

I despatch this Messenger principally to inform Your Excellency of an 
event the knowledge of which may nevertheless very probably have reached 
Camp before this can arrive there, as our Messenger from France 
Mr. Simeon Deane had spoken everywhere on his journey to York of the 
Treaties between the Court of Versailles and the United States of America 
which were executed on the 6th Febry 1778. These were read in Congress 
late last Evening and will probably be ratified and published in the course 
of the present Week, except a Secret Article which it is also probable is 
very well known abroad.^ Be this as it may I view the Treaties of Alliance 
and Commerce, although not Free from exception, as circumstances of 
advantage to these united States and which afford a bottom for vast 
improvements.^ I beg leave therefore to congratulate with Your Excel- 
lency and with every Friend to the great American Cause. I shall move 
Congress tomorrow to order duplicates of the Treaties to be immediately 
transmitted to Your Excellency in the mean time this ^ of a letter from 
Doctor Franklin and Mr. Deane which will be inclosed will communicate 
the great outlines. 

249. Henry Laurens to George Washington.^ 

^. York Town 3d May 1778. 

Soon after I had dispatched my Letter of this Morning ^ by McKlosky, 
the Secretary sent in the Inclosed Act of Congress dated 2d List, for 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 30, Cf. ibid., Nov. 24. 

3 The news had in fact reached headquarters May i. Washington wrote to 
President Laurens that day : " General McDougall and Mr. Deane were so obliging as 
to transmit' to me the outlines of the good tidings. As soon as Congress may think it 
expedient, I shall be happy to have an opportunity of announcing to the army, with the 
usual ceremony, such parts of the intelligence as may be proper, and sanctioned by 
authority. I have mentioned the matter to such officers as I have seen ; and I believe 
no event was ever received with a more heart-felt joy" (Writings, ed. Ford, VII. i, 
ed. Sparks, V. 352). See also Washington's letter of May 4 (ibid., p. 355). 

On the same day Lafayette wrote to Laurens : " houra, my good friend, now the 

affair is over, and a very good treaty will assure our noble independence I hope 

a grand, noisy feu de joy will be ordered, it will give high spirits to our soldiers, it will 
run through the whole continent, it schall reach the ears of our good friends in Phila- 
delphia. I wish'd Mss Commissioners may arrive from england that very same day, 
where we schall let them know that we have discovered theyr jesuistical meanings, 
and the Candor of theyr propositions" (S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VIII. 124). 
See also John Laurens's letters of May i and 4 (Army Correspondence, pp. 165, 167), 
and no. 265, note 2, post. 

A special meeting of Congress was called on the evening of Saturday, May 2, for 
the purpose of receiving the treaties and other despatches. The treaties are recorded 
in the Journals under May 4. 

* Cf. no. 250, post. 

* The word " duplicate " (i. e., a copy) is to be understood from the preceding 
sentence. The letter of Franklin and Deane was probably that of Feb. 8, found in 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 490. Cf. a letter of J. B. Smith, May 3, in Pa. Arch., 
first ser., VI. 466, which includes an extract of the letter of Dec. 18, 1777, from the 
commissioners in Paris (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 452). A letter of Franklin, Deane, 
and Lee, dated Feb. 16 (ibid., p. 495), accompanied the treaties. With regard to the 
failure of Congress to apprise Washington of the purport of the secret articles of the 
treaty of alliance, see no. 265, post. 

[249]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCII. 25. 
2 No. 248, ante. 



216 Continental Congress 

raising two Regiments for the protection of the Western Frontiers and 
for authorizing your Excellency to appoint a proper Officer to the Com- 
mand of Fort Pitt — a Copy of the Letter mentioned in the Act will also 
be inclosed. 

I likewise transmit about lOO Copies of an abstract account of intelli- 
gence lately received from France which I have by the aid of Mr. Chief 
Justice Drayton had printed to day from an opinion that such an account 
will be acceptable in the Army, and not unuseful in the City.^ 

I have requested Major Brice who is so obliging as to take the charge 
of these to receive from Mr. Bailey printer at Lancaster 500 Copies of 
the Address to foreign Officers and Soldiers printed in the German 
Tongue which he has promised to deliver to Your Excellency.^ 

250. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 

(Patrick Henry). ^ 

York, 3d May, 1778. 
Sir, 

Having beared that a Messenger from France was on his way to Con- 
gress with important dispatches, we detained the Express who otherwise 
would have set out yesterday that we might furnish your Excellency with 
the intelligence he brought. It is with singular pleasure we infonn you 
Sir that this Messenger has brought to Congress authenticated copies 
of a Treaty of Commerce, and a Treaty of Amity and Alliance signed at 
Paris on the 6th of february last between France and these United 
States, and we understand there is abundant reason to suppose that the 
whole Bourbon family will immediately accede thereto. The Treaty of 
Commerce is exactly conformable to our own proposals, and it is upon the 
most generous and equal principles. The Treaty of Alliance etc. is pro- 
fessedly for security of the Sovereignty and absolute Independence of 
these States both in Government and Trade, and it agrees that if G. B. 
declares war against France on this account, or causes a war, or attempts 
to hinder her Commerce, that we shall make common cause, and join our 
Arms and Counsels against the common enemy. Each Country guarantees 
to the other the possessions that they do or may possess at the end of 
the war. Having beared these Treaties read but once in Congress, we 
cannot be more particular now. In general we find that his most Christian 
Majesty has been governed by principles of Magnanimity and true 

3 No copy of this handbill is known to be extant, but cf. Evans, Am. Bibl., V. 
414 (no. 16111). Cf. nos. 255, 257, 261, post. See also nos. 259, 262, post. 

* See no. 241, ante. Cornelius Harnett wrote to Governor Caswell from " Poplar 
Grove near Wilmington " May 25 : " Mr. Craike met a person on the road yesterday 
with a hand Bill printed by order of Congress, giving an account of a Treaty, betwixt 
France and the United States. Congress had not received the slightest intimation of 
this transaction when I left it, indeed our intelligence from Europe had been stopped 
for several rnonths past, several of our Packet Boats having been taken by the enemy's 
cruisers, which almost cover the ocean. I left Congress in high spirits expecting the 
Continental Army to be very soon reinforced, and able to keep the Enemy within their 
bounds" (A^. C. State Rccs., XIII. 136). 

[250]! Va. State Lib., Executive Communications; Letters of Richard Henry Lee 
(ed. Ballagh), I. 396; Henry, Life of Patrick Henry, III. 158. 



May, 1778 217 

generosity, taking no advantage of our circumstances, but acting as if 
we were in the plenitude of power and in the greatest security. We are 
shortly to receive considerable Stores from France that come under Con- 
voy of a fleet of Men of War. The King of Prussia has actually refused 
to permit the Hessian and Hannau Troops that England had engaged for 
America to pass thro his Territories. We congratulate you Sir and our 
country on this great and important event, but we beg leave further to 
observe that it is in our opinion of infinite consequence that the Army 
should be quickly and powerfully reenforced. Because, if Britain should 
meanly permit the trade of France to proceed without interruption, and 
push her whole force against us this Campaign, it might be attended with 
very pernicious consequences. But with a strong Army, we shall, under 
God, be perfectly secure, and it will probably compel G. B. to a speedy 
recognition of our Independence, and thus secure the peace of Europe, 
with the peace, happiness, and glory of America.' 

We have the honor to be, with much esteem, Sir your Excelliencies most 
obedient and very humble servants 

Richard Henry Lee 
P. S. 

It is very prudently wished by our Commissioners that those of the 
French nation in our States may be treated with kindness and cordiality. 

Francis Lightfoot Lee 
John Banister 
Thomas Adams ' 

251. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(Nicholas Cooke). ^ 

York Town, May 3d 1778. 
Sir, 

I take this earliest opportunity to inform your Excellency that a 
Messenger arrived here yesterday P. M. from France, with dispatches 
containing among other Things a copy of the Treaties of alliance and of 

2 See also Richard Henry Lee to Jefferson, May 3, 5 {Letters, I. 394, 395), to 
Washington May 6 {ibid., I. 398), and J. B. Smith to the Pennsylvania Council May 3 
{Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 466). James Lovell wrote to the Massachusetts Council 
May 3 : " After being almost a compleat year without a packet from our Commissioners 
in France, we had yesterday the pleasure of receiving a most important one, extracts 

of which I do myself the honor of enclosing to your discretion P. S. 4th May. 

.... The treaties are ratified in whole" (Mass. Arch., CXCIX. 141; Library of 
Congress, Force Trans., Mass. Recs., Letters, 1778, p. 141). Cf. nos. 248, 249, ante, and 
nos. 251, 252, 255, 257, 259, 261, 265, post. 

3 The following direction and memorandum, written by Governor Henry at the 
foot of the letter, show that he sent the original to the printer for publication in a 
hand-bill : 

" P. S. The postscript not to be printed 

" P. H. 
" N. B. A pen was drawn across the postscript that the printer might not publish in 
his hand Bill which was deemed improper. 

" P. Henry ". 
[251]! /fMf. Mag., XVHL 49; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 170. 



218 Continental Congress 

amity and Commerce entered into between the Court of France and our 
Commissioners; which will without doubt be ratified by Congress.^ . . . . 
Mr. Collins will set off in a day or two. He will take with him One 
hundred and fifty thousand Dollars, and a Warrant on our Loan office 
for the same sum. I am afraid you will be disappointed; but this was 
not obtained without difficulty. Unless Comm'rs should be appointed to 
settle our accounts before you make another demand, and they are ad- 
justed; or you should send your auditor with the vouchers for every 
article, and direct him to tarry until the accounts shall be liquidated, I am 
afraid any application would be fruitless.^ Permit me to desire that two 
of the Delegates, if they should not have come on before this reaches you, 
may be sent forward immediately ; for my health, and the situation of my 
family oblige me to quit York Town. 

252. Samuel Chase to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

YoRKTOWN Sunday Morning 

May 3d 1778 
My Dear Sir 

On yesterday afternoon arrived here from France, Mr. Simeon ^ Deane 
(Brother to the Commissioner,) with Dispatches to Congress from our 
Commissioners to the 28. February.^ .... 

I do most cordially and sincerely congratulate you on this most impor- 
tant Intelligence America has now taken her rank among the Nations 
and has it in her power to secure her Liberty and Lidependence. let us be 
grateful to our God for this singular unmerited mark of his favour and 
protection and continue to exert every means in our power to support the 
war. this can only be effectually done by speedy and liberal loans of money 
to the Continent and a respectable Army. Congress some time past recom- 
mended that subscriptions should be opened in each County.* 

253. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO JOHN Jay.^ 

York Town. 3rd May 1778 
Dear Jay 

I shall plague you with very few words. I congratulate you on our 
alliance with France.^ For particulars I refer you to our friend Robert.^ 

2 Cf. nos. 248, note 3, 250, note 2, ante, 257, post. EUery proceeds to summarize 
the treaties and the foreign news. 

3 See the Journals, May i, 2. 

[252]^ Arch, of Md., XXI. 64 (from a copy, presumably taken from the Royal 
Gazette) ; Royal Gazette, May 23, 1778. 
" The text has " Simeca ". 

3 Chase here summarizes the treaties. Cf. John Henry to Governor Johnson 
May 5 (dated " Apl. Sth "), Arch, of Md., XXI. 9; also nos. 248, note 3, 250, 251, ante. 

4 See the Journals, Dec. 3, 1777. Cf. no. 269, post. 
[253]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. III., p. 20. 

- See nos. 248, 249, 252, ante. 

3 Robert R. Livingston. An extract of a letter from Morris to Livingston 
Mav 3 concerning the treaties is in N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, 
II. 125. 



May, 1778 219 

I enclose you a Newspaper containing a report I drew up on North's bills, 
which were sent us by the Genl : I have marked in the margin two clauses 
inserted by the house. You may find perhaps some difficulty to discover 
how they shew the wickedness or insincerity of the Enemy. The following 
clause (the reason of which you will see) was struck out "Your Com- 
mittee etc. that in the present conjuncture of affairs, when the unalienable 
rights of human nature may probably become the subject of negociation, 
the wisdom of America, should be as far as possible collected, and therefore 
that the States be called upon to send a full and adequate representation 
to Congress upon the present Special Occasion " . 

Sundry smaller alterations were made, as is the case in Matrimony, for 
better, for worse.* We have recommended an act of grace with exceptions.^ 
How to make these exceptions will be a nice card, if Gentlemen have 
particular friends in the legislature. A word to the wise — I do not chuse 
to be explicit, but I shall set some sums to our numerical correspondent 
when I have time etc. Love to Sally. Adieu 

Gouv Morris 

254. Robert Morris to William Bingham.^ 

Manheim in Pensylvania May 5th 1778 
.... I am happy to tell you that Congress have granted an order for 
your drawing on the Commissioners at Paris for 100,000 Livres. I have 
often urged the necessity of your being reimbursed, but not attending 
Congress for some months past I could not do therein all I wished 
to do.=^ .... 

I must before long return to my Duty in Congress again, altho' I have 
not half finished the business that caused me to retire.^ .... 

255. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.^ 

York Town 5 May 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

In a public Letter which I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency 
the 3d Inst, by Major Brice, I sent a number of hand Bills calculated for 
giving satisfactory information to the Public who were anxious to learn the 

* See the Journals, Apr. 22. The committee, of which Morris was chairman, 
was appointed Apr. 20, on Washington's letter of Apr 18. A report on that part of the 
letter which pertained to the cartel was made Apr. 21. The original of the report on 
Lord North's measures has not been found among the Papers of the Continental Con- 
gress, therefore it cannot be determined just what changes were made by the house. 
Cf. nos. 213, 215, 221, 227, 245, ante. 

^ The reference is to the resolve of Apr. 23 relative to pardons. 
[254P Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 16. 

3 See nos. 74, 109, 128, 133, 194, ante, 267, 348, 508, post. 

[255] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIIL 90; S. C. Hist. Soc, 
Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 93; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), IL 
117; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IL 570. 



220 Continental Congress 

recent intelligence from France." One article of this has been questioned, 
respecting the King of Prussia's promise — the only part of the perfor- 
mance that can be called mine.^ I believe my authority is good. Mr. Izard 
under the i6th Febry informs me, "the King of Prussia has given the 
most explicit and unequivocal assurance that he will be the second power in 
Europe to acknowledge the Independence of America ".* tis true our 
Commissioners in their public advices are not so express nor are they in 
my opinion so full and clear in some other respects, as they might have 
been 

Last Night I had the honor of receiving Your Excellency's favor of 
the last of April and am happy in finding a confirmation of my sentiments, 
respecting persons proper for treating with the expected deputation from 
our Adversary. I fear the determination, where only this point can be 
determined, will be contrary. Be it so, thank God we have here some Men 
of abilities and Integrity. I hope we shall make a judicious choice.^ 

The Act of Congress of the 226. April will blot out Pages of the British 
Instructions, the Commissioners from that side will perceive a necessity 
for taking a new departure from the Tower of Independence and what 
happened in France on the 6th of Febry will oblige them to shape a new 
course 

The long and as I humbly think, unnecessary, delay of the Army 
arrangement is very afflicting.*' I know it must give extreme pain to Your 
Excellency. It is improper for me to touch upon the Causes, especially 
when it is so well known that Congress have been engaged in very much 
important business, the Plan introduced for that part of it which is 
intended to establish an half pay for Officers during Life, I have been 

2 See no. 249, ante. 

" This is no doubt the something " false " to which Wolcott alludes in his letter 
of May 9 (no. 261, post). Cf. no. 257, post. 

* Izard's letter to Laurens Feb. 16 is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 497. His 
statement was no doubt made from knowledge of two letters to Arthur Lee from Baron 
Schulenberg, Prussian secretary. In a letter of Dec. 18, 1777," Schulenberg says: "I 
can assure you, sir, that his majesty will not be the last power to acknowledge your 
independency; but you must feel yourself that it is not natural that he should be the 
first, and that France, whose commercial and political interests are more immediately 
connected with yours, should set the example" {■ibid., p. 456). In a letter of Jan. 16, 
1778, he makes a more definite committal : " The king .... will not hesitate to acknowl- 
edge your independence whenever France, which is more interested in the event of this 
contest, shall set the example" (ibid., p. 472). An extract of the first letter was trans- 
mitted by Lee to the committee of foreign affairs Jan. 5 (ibid., p. 465), and the whole 
of the second was embodied in a letter to the committee Feb. 10 (ibid., p. 491) ; but Lee's 
letters and their enclosures had not yet, apparently, been received by Congress, hence 
the inclination of Congress to question the correctness of Izard's statement. (Cf. no. 
274, post.) By Mar. 19 Arthur Lee had become "Apprehensive that the war, which 
is likely to break out in Germany, will prevent the King of Prussia from declaring so 
soon, and so decidedly, as he promised " (Wharton, II. 516) ; and by May 21 John Adams 
was writing to Samuel Adams, " The King of Prussia is yet upon the reserve concerning 
America, or rather forgetting his promise, has determined not to acknowledge our 
independence at present" (ibid., p. 591). See, further, William Lee's letter of Sept. 28, 
1779 (ibid.. III. 346). For a view of the whole subject, see an article by P. L. Haworth, 
"Frederick the Great and the Revolution", in Am. Hist. Rev., IX. 460. 

^ Cf. nos. 223, 224, 242, ante. Washington's (private) letter to Laurens Apr. 30 
is in JVritings (ed. Ford), VI. 508, (ed. Sparks), V. 350. 

'■• Cf. nos. 222, 242, 247, ante, and nos. 266, 267, 282, 287, post. Washington's 
reply to this letter. May 29, is in M^ritings (ed. Ford), VII. 33, (ed. Sparks) V. 383. 



May, 1778 221 

uniformly averse from, and in a Committee of Congress delivered my 
objections, these appear to me at this moment of more weight because 
they have not been removed by the reasonings which have been offered 
against them and I may without vanity think myself not obstinate. I am 
open to conviction and always without murmuring submit to a Majority. 

I view the scheme as Altogether unjust and unconstitutional in its 
nature and full of dangerous consequences, 'tis an unhappy dilemma to 
wdiich we seem to be reduced — provide for your Officers in tenus dictated 
to you or lose all the valuable Soldiers among them — establish a Pension 
for Officers make them a seperate Body to be provided for by the honest 
Yeomanry and others of their Fellow Citizens many thousands of whom 
have equal claims upon every ground of Loss of Estate health etc. etc. and 
[or ?] lose your Army and your Cause, that such provision will be 
against the grain of the People has been unwarily testified by its Advo- 
cates whom I have heard converse upon the subject, indeed they have fur- 
nished strong ground for opposition against an immediate compliance 
with the demand. 

If we cannot make Justice one of the Pillars, necessity may be submitted 
to at present, but Republicans will at a proper time withdraw a Grant 
which shall appear to have been extorted 

I have ever detested and never practiced Parliamentary Jockeyings for 
procrastinating an unpalatable business, which as a silent auditor and 
spectator I have within some time past known to be alternately adopted. 

I most sincerely wish this of the Army bad been wisely attended to. 
the high Esteem I, from gratitude, bear for Your Excellency whose 
sufferings from a contrary conduct I know must have been great, as well 
as my love of dispatch makes me wish it, and I lament that in some degree 
we are likely to be more indebted to the Policy and deep projects of other 
Men for our deliverance than to our own Wisdom and fortitude 

256. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Baron Steuben/ 

5 th May 1778 
My dear Sir, 

.... Congress have Resolved to appoint you, and you are accordingly 
appointed Inspector General of the Main Army with the Rank and Pay 
of Major General, the former to commence the day of your arrival here.^ 

When the Secretary enables me, by sending in the Azt Certified, I will 
transmit the necessary Commission 

God bless you. I am with an affection which by every Act I endeavor 
to prove your faithful friend. 

[256]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.— Sept., 1778, p. 91. Addressed to 
him at Valley Forge, "by Mr. Drayton". 

2 See the Journals, Alay 5. To a copy of the resolve, transmitted to Washington 
May 6, Laurens appended the following note : " I think the Pay is to commence from 
the Baron's arrival in America, some of the Gentlemen are of the same opinion, which 
shall be enquired into and adjusted if the minute above is erroneous" (Library of 
Congress, Washington Papers). The resolve reads, "from the time he joined the army 
and entered into the service of the United States ". 



222 Continental Con stress 



&' 



257. William Ellery to William Vernon.^ 

York Town 6th May 1778 
D'r Sir 

The marine Com'ee of wh'ch I am a member last Even'g in conformity 
to a resolution of Congress, met and determined to send Six Vessils to 
carry important despatches to France, the said Vessils to be under the 
directions of the Com'ee of Foreign affairs. As the Letters for your 
Navy board is not yet written ^ and Capt. Collins ^ is about to set out 
immediatly, I take this oppty. to request you upon receipt hereof forthwith 
to send off an express to Bedford to Capt. Rathburn ^ of the sloop Provi- 
dence, w'ch is one of the Vessils Pitched upon for this business, if he 
shou'd not have sail'd, directing him not to proceed to Sea untill he shall 
have reed. Orders from the Com'ee of foreign affairs w'ch will soon be 
transmitted to him, and he is most implicitly to obey. I most heartily 
congratulate you on the Treaties of Alliance Amity and Commerce w'ch 
were executed the 6th day of Febry. last at Paris, and unanimously 
ratified by Congress the 4th Inst't. I have only time to say that those 
Treaties are magnanimous and founded in our Independency, equality 
and reciprocity. Inclosed is a hand bill published imprudently and without 
the knowledge of Congress, but wh'ch contains some truths.^ 

a respectable Army in the Field this Campaign and the War will be 
our own 

Yours in haste 

W - E - 

P S dont let the occation of the sloop Provid[enc]e being detained be 
known to any one, no not even to the Capt. of her himself, you will let 
the Navy board in Boston know that you have stopped the Sloop 
Provid[cnc]e otherwise upon the receipt of the Letter of the Commi'ee 
mr. Warren may send off an express to Bedford." 

258. Henry Laurens to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

6th May [1778.] 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress have Ratified the Treaty or Treaties and a Committee 
have prepared some what for public information by authority in which 
many, probably all, of the articles relative to Commerce and for regulating 
Marine conduct will be included.^ 

[257]! R. I. Hist. Soc, Publications, vol. VIII., no. 4, p. 45. 

2 The letter to the navy board bears, however, the date May 5 (PauUin, Out- 
Letters, I. 234). See no. 297, note 3, post. The instruction with regard to the Providence 
was repeated in a letter of May 9 (ibid., p. 240). Cf. the letter of June 19 (ibid., p. 260). 

^ John Collins. See nos. 219, 251, ante. 

* John Peck Rathburne. 

^ See no. 255, ante, and no. 261, post. 

« See a letter from William Storey, clerk of the navy board at Boston, to Vernon 
Apr. 29, R. I. Hist. Soc, Publications, vol. VIII., no. 4, p. 44. 

[258]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 99. 

2 See nos. 259, 260, post. 



May, 1778 223 

I think my Self happy in being- entirely of opinion with your Excellence 
respecting Independence and the half pay scheme this last business lags 
exceedingly I believe we wait for auxiliaries. I have no objections 
against liberal acknowledgements of the Services of Officers and Soldiers, 
any thing that will not strike at our Constitution, but if we can't make 
Justice one of the Pillars necessity will prove a temporary support, we 
may submit to it at present. Republicans will at a proper time withdraw a 
Grant which shall appear to have been extorted, this and the natural 
consequences, I dread. ^ .... 



259. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Governor of Maryland (Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

York Town 8 May 1778. 
Sir, 

My last was the 5th Inst, by Post, this will be accompanied by an Act 
of Congress of the 6th Inst, contained in a Pennsylvania Gazette, for 
making known to the Public such parts of the Treaty of Paris of the 
6th Febry. as Congress have judged necessary to be published and for 
government of conduct in particular Cases, several Copies are inclosed in 
the Packet.' 

The Ratification of the Treaties of Commerce, Alliance and Secret shall 
be transmitted when the Secretary enables me by sending in Certified 
Copies, at present every Clerk in the Office is busily employed and some 
articles unavoidably delayed.^ 

3 Cf. nos. 206, 211, 222, 242, 247, 255, ante, 282, 287, post. 
[259]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 133; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, I. 307. 

2 Similar paragraphs are found in letters to the other states, although in other 
respects the letters are not identical. Cf. Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 485 ; A''. C. State Recs., 
XIII. 125. Copies from the originals to Pennsylvania and New Hampshire are in pos- 
session of the Carnegie Institution. That to Massachusetts is in Mass. Arch., CXCIX. 
149. The committee (Richard Henry Lee, Dana, and Drayton) appointed May 4 to 
prepare the form of ratification of the French treaties was further instructed. May 5, 
to prepare " a proper publication on the present occasion ". The committee brought 
in a draft May 6, but this was recommitted, and Gouverneur Morris was added to the 
committee. In the afternoon of the same day the committee brought in another draft, 
which is recorded as having been agreed to. What appears in the Journals consists of 
one paragraph from the pen of Francis Dana and some further paragraphs based on 
notes of Gouverneur Morris (see the editorial note. Journals, XL 468). This committee 
is to be distinguished from that which prepared the address to the people. See no. 262, 
post. 

Rev. George Neisser, a Moravian minister of York, recorded in his Diary under May 5 
the news of the French alliance and added : " A supplement of Hall and Sellers Gazette 
of last Saturday appeared yesterday. It gave an account of the important news from 
France and also the principal articles of the alliance." Under May 6 he recorded : " In 
the evening the entire town, now the capital of the United States, showed its joy at the 
alliance made with Louis XVI. of France by illuminations " (Pa. Maq. of Hist, and Biog., 
XVL435). 

2 A similar statement is found in the letter to North Carolina. In the letter to 
Pennsylvania Laurens says : " On Tuesday I shall have the honor of transmitting an 
Address to the people now in press." See nos. 261, 262, post. 



224 Continental Congress 

260. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO James Mease,^ 

8th May 1778 
Sir 

I presented this Morning your favor of yesterday received by the hand 
of the bearer of this Mr. Thos. Smith " to Congress together with the 
several papers which came inclosed. 

Congress Issued their former Resolution prohibiting the payment of 
Mr. Demere's draughts, because it did not appear that he had accounted 
either to your self or to the Treasury for Thirty Thousand or some such 
number of Dollars advanced him for the service of the Clothier General's 
department, at Philadelphia last summer, upon the same ground the Bills 
in Mr. Smith's possession are now refused that reception which they 
would have met if he had transmitted his Accounts — if he has expended 
the Sum for public Service the difficulty of transmitting an Account could 
not have been great and the omission of so necessary a part of his duty 
exposes him to all the inconveniencies which may follow. 

One of the Delegates from Georgia intimated to the House that it was 
not necessary for Mr. Demere to expend even the Amount of the first 
grant because the Georgia Troops had been provided with Clothing by 
other means, be this as it may, I am persuaded Sir, you will approve the 
Conduct of Congress in refusing to pay the draughts of a Gentleman who 
has rendered no Account.^ 

A Sum of about 54 Thousand Dollars was granted two or three days 
ago for discharging Bills drawn by Messrs. Otis and Andrews and if [I] 
do not misunderstand Congress it is the intention to discharge the Balance 
of their demand whenever a regular stated account shall appear.* 

261. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs, Wolcott.^ 

York Town, 9th May, 1778 
My Dear, 

I wrote to you the 4th instant a few Hours after I had sent away my 
Letters Mr. Simeon Dean arrived here, who bro't Congress Two Treatys 
the one commercial the other Defensive which our Commissioners had 

[260]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 301. Addressed to him at 
Lancaster. 

- Thomas Smith was commissioner of the continental loan office of Pennsylvania. 

3 Raymond Demere was deputy clothier-general in Georgia. Aug 29, 1777, 
Congress advanced to James Mease $20,000, to be remitted to Georgia for clothing 
continental troops. Dec. 26 some drafts of Demere's were referred to the board of 
treasury. No report from the treasury board touching the matter has been found 
earlier than Apr. 6; there is, however, in the Journals, Feb. 13, an extensive report of the 
committee (appointed Jan. 15) on the state of Georgia (see particularly the erased 
entry, p. 162). Apr. 6 Congress ordered Commissary Mease to pay no drafts of his 
agent in Georgia or remit him any money until further orders. Mease's letter of May 7, 
(Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. XV., f. 329), to which Laurens is replying, enclosed a 
letter from Demere to him, Mar. 20 {ibid., f. 323), advising him of sundry drafts. 
These drafts Mease had, in accordance with the resolve of Apr. 6, refused to pay. See, 
further, the Journals, May 8, Aug. 10, 20, 27, 29, 31. 

4 See the Journals, May 5. Cf. no. 270, post. 

[261]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. IL, no. 55. 



May, 1778 225 

entered into with the Court of France, which Treatys have been much 
approved of and are Ratified by Congress. They are founded upon the 
broad Basis of Mutual Interest and Security, and Nothing in them which 
indicates any Design of obtaining any Advantage over us. But seem 
adapted to secure a lasting Friendship which it is certainly the highest 
Interest of France to Cultivate. I enclose to you a Hand bill published 
here prematurely and not by any order of Congress, and which contains 
something in it false but which as it is published here and abroad you may 
as well conjecture what is true and what false as others, and shall leave it 
to your Ingenuity to make the Discovery.^ Congress have not tbo't proper 
to say more at present upon these Treatys than what is contained in a 
Paper now in the Press and which I hope I shall be able to enclose to 
you." .... 

I expect that Mr. Adams * will soon releive me, and when he does 
so I shall Return 



262. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
President of New Hampshire (Meshech Weare).^ 

York Town nth May 1778. 
Sir, 

By the common Post this Morning I directed a Packet to Your Honor 
which contained 10 Copies of an Address by Congress to the Inhabitants 
of the United States of America and 2 or 3 Copies of a Proclamation for- 
bidding Malpractices of Captains Commanders, and other Officers and 
Seamen belonging to American Armed Vessels both dated 9th Inst.^ 

Within the present Inclosure will be found ten more Copies of the 
former and 3 of the latter Act. 

2 Concerning the way in which this handbill was put forth, see nos. 249, 255, 257, 
ante. The something " false " was probably the statement concerning the promise of the 
King of Prussia, the accuracy of which Laurens says had been questioned. 

^ See no. 259, ante, and no. 262, post. 

* Andrew Adams took his seat in Congress July 9. 
[262]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 315. 

2 The proclamation concerning privateers is in the Journals, May 9. The address 
to the people is in the Journals under May 8, though the broadside distributed bore the 
date May 9, as indicated in this and other letters of President Laurens. See Evans, Am. 
Bibl, V. 413 (nos. 16097-16104). Cf. the Bibliographical Notes, in the Journals, XIL 
1284, where it is further mentioned that the address was prepared by Gouverneur Morris. 
The committee to prepare the address (Richard Henry Lee, Samuel Chase, and 
Gouverneur Morris) was appointed in the afternoon of May 6, after the second draft of 
the "proper publication" had been reported and accepted (see no. 259, ante), the 
principal part of which also appears to have been written by Morris. 

In the Diary of Rev. George Neisser (see no. 259, note 2, ante), under May 20 is this 
record: "Henry Miller translated into German the "Address of Congress to the States 
of America ", in order that it might be read to the various congregations, as ordered by 
Congress." Under May 24 he records : " At the close of the morning service, I read the 
German translation of the Address of Congress " (Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XVL 
436). No copy of this German translation is known to exist. For a biographical 
account of Miller see Charles F. Dapp, The Evolution of an American Patriot: John 
Henry Miller (Lancaster, 1924; Pennsylvania-German Soc, Proceedings, vol. XXXIL). 
See also the Journals, Sept. 9, 1778. 



226 Continental Congress 

Your Honor is requested to make known the contents of these Papers to 
the good People in the State of New Hamshire.^ 

14th. I add P S. to the Pennsylvania Gazette containing Interesting 
Intelligence.* 

263. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Baron Steuben/ 

York Town nth May 1778. 
Sir, 

.... I have a Letter from Capt. Duponceau of the 7th on his Com- 
mission which tis impossible for me to answer at this Instant.^ I think 
he has all that was asked, the Rank and pay of Captain,^ and I am per- 
suaded that a further application at this juncture would be attended with 
no success, but this being only my private opinion I would not mean to 
pass it upon him as a Rule, if he is disposed to make an application to 
Congress I shall faithfully present a proper Memorial. Your patronage in 
that case will certainly have weight, but I do not venture to encourage 
it.-^ .... 

264. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Pierre Etienne Duponceau.^ 

nth May 1778. 
Sir, 

I am sorry to learn by your favor of the 7th Inst, that circumstances 
have occured which have disturbed your accustomed tranquility.^ 

The Brevet which you have, is to the best of my knowledge exactly 
such an one as Baron Sttiben applied for. I am sure it is such as I was 

3 Letters of similar purport, though varying somewhat in form and substance, 
as also in the numbers of copies of the address and proclamation transmitted, were 
sent to each of the states (President's Letter-Book, L 308-317). See, for instance, Pa. 
Arch, first ser., VL 488, Clinton Papers, III. 303, and N. C. State Recs., XIIL 125. 
Annexed to the letter-book copy of the letter to North Carolina (Letter-Book, L 313) 
is a list of those persons in New England and New York to whom such letters were 
addressed, which includes, besides the respective heads of the states, " General Schuyler, 
Gen. McDougall, James Duane Esqr., Henry Marchant Esqr., Major Gen. Heath, 
General Folsom, Thos. Frost Esqr Durham ". The last name is doubtless an error for 
George Frost, delegate from New Hampshire, who was absent, as was also Nathaniel 
Folsom. With the list is this note: "Under blank Covers by the Eastern Post 11 May 
1778— sent to each of the Governors and Presidents 10 ' Addresses to the Inhabitants by 
Congress ' to the other Gentlemen 6 each and 2 Proclamations to each Govr. and 
President." 

^ A similar postscript was added to most of the letters for the eastern states. 

The " Interesting Intelligence " was that contained in the Philadelphia paper of May 9 

which Washington transmitted to Laurens May 12. See Laurens's reply, May 15 (no. 

278, note 6, post) ; also the Bibliographical Notes, Journals, XII. 1285. Cf. no. 287, post. 

[263]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Steuben Papers, I. ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XV. 70. 

2 Laurens did, however, reply to Duponceau the same day (no. 264, post). 

3 See the Journals, Feb. iS. 
* Cf. no. 303, post. 

[264]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 311. The letter is addressed 
to Captain Duponceau at Valley Forge, " by Colo. Gimad ". 

2 This letter of Duponceau does not appear to be among the Papers of the 
Continental Congress. 



May, 1778 227 

ordered to grant,^ and you widely mistake, if you beleive the disposal of 
Commissions rests with me. The Resolves of Congress are my Orders — 
from these I never swerve, be my own inclinations as they may. 

Your Brevet intitles you to Rank and pay of Captain, neither one nor 
the other are depreciated by such assistance as you may give to 
General Stiiben. 

Command was not asked for, if it had been, your experience of our 
Army has shewn you, it could not have been granted. 

Major Des Epinier's Commission has been more than once retorted, 
the importunity of some Gentlemen and their friends at particular times, 
when Congress were not at leisure for minute enquiries, may have led the 
House unwarily into error, this perhaps may be produced as an Instance, 
'tis impossible to escape without adhering strictly to Rules from which 
Congress indulgently to their friends from France have sometimes devi- 
ated — but when Monsr. Des Epiniers shews his Commission and talks of 
his advantages every circumstance relative to his obtaining that Com- 
mission should be disclosed.* 

'tis impracticable for me Sir, to be more minute, my Duty to the public 
will not afford time. I shall only observe further, on two parts of your 
Letter. 

You say, " I certainly mistook the Baron when he applied for a Commis- 
sion for you " and you tell me what his " meaning " was — the interpreta- 
tion of the Barons meaning was his expression and I am persuaded you 
will be tender in an attempt to prove he did not mean what he said. 

But Sir, as an individual, what is all this to me? As President of 
Congress I repeat, I act faithfully to the orders of Congress. I have no 
will of my own. 

I have heard no complaint from Baron Stiiben that his " meaning " had 
been mistaken or perverted and I believe there is no ground for complaint.'^ 

" You will freely subscribe to my Decision." I decide then with your 
permission, that you cultivate the acquaintance you have made among 
strangers into friendships, and remain tranquil in your present sphere 
until you can fairly and advantageously enlarge it ® — this is advice I 
would give to my son, whether you adopt it or otherwise, you will do me 
but justice to believe, it is well intended, and that I wish to be Sir 

your most obedient humble Servt. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 18, and no. 263, ante ; also the Journals, Apr. 3, 16. 1779. 

* See the Journals, Feb. 2; cf. ibid., Aug. 21, Nov. 7, 14, 1777, Dec. 4, 1778, 
June 22, Sept. 24, 1779. 

5 Cf. no. 256, ante, and no. 303, post. 

" In Henkels, Catalogue, no. loii, item 608, is an extract of a letter from Laurens 
to Duponceau, Apr. 4, 1778, which may appropriately be quoted here : " Your senti- 
ments Sir, respecting the contest in which we poor Americans are engaged are truly 
liberal, they are noble. If I were not perfectly assured of their consistancy with the 
eternal Laws of truth and justice, I would abandon the Cause and persuade you to follow 
the example before I subscribed to this letter — that conscious as I am of the righteous- 
ness of our Claims, it is with pleasure I hear your determination to persevere in the 
line of Duty which was the object of your free choice." Despite the date given to 
this letter, it seems quite probable that it is in response to a communication from Dupon- 
ceau of a date subsequent to May 11. 

Duponceau presently adopted the Anglicized form of his name (Peter Stephen), and 
at the close of the war settled in Philadelphia. Some account of him is in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipt. Corr., I. 415; a briefer sketch is in Appleton, Cyclo. Am. Biog. 

19 



228 Continental Congress 

265. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

nth May 1778 
My dear Son, 

.... I am not ignorant of the Conduct you complain of respecting 
your General, in the recent instance I have suffered not a little Chagrin.^ 
I think I did not much err in my opinion delivered in Congress that 
General Washington should be made acquainted with all the Treaties 
even the Secret Articles ; these might have been intrusted to a Commander 
in Chief of all the Forces of the United States of America, to a friend, a 
virtuous patriotic Citizen with equal propriety and safety as they have to 
the Member who lay snoring fuddled on one of the Benches while those 
papers were reading, the conveyance to and from Camp would not have 
been attended with more risque than the Journies and Voyage between 
Paris and York but the Treaties could not be spared they were to be im- 
mediately Ratified and transmitted for Exchange, admitted, but in the 
mean time appoint a Committee or direct your President to write a Letter 
of congratulation and transmit an Abstract of the Articles intimating that 
the whole shall be sent for his information at a proper time. Extract, 
from Letters written by the Commissioners at Paris such parts as will 
shew the complexion of affairs in Europe. Some what like this in my 
opinion ought to have been done, and why it was not? is not to be 
answered by me, except that I am persuaded the omission was not the 
effect of design in a majority who love and Esteem that valuable Man 

The foreign Letters are always in possession of a Committee of foreign 
Correspondence, and for some time heretofore have not as I have reason to 
believe always made proper public appearance, this is unpleasant ground 
to walk on, I must retire from it. much former history should be recited, 
the State of parties introduced and other circumstances extremely dis- 
agreeable to me, in order to gjve you a tolerable understanding of matters 
alluded to. 

[265]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 104. Addressed to 
him at Valley Forge, " by Colo. Gimad ". 

2 Laurens is replying in particular to a passage in a letter from John Laurens 
of May 7 (Army Correspotidence, p. 168). Having given an account of the celebration 
by the army of the alliance between France and the United States (see no. 248, note 3, 
ante ; also Washington's Writings, ed. Sparks, V. 355 n., vi^here, among other things, is 
found the plan of celebration as set forth in the orderly book. May 6), John Laurens 
continues : " The General received such proofs of the love and attachment of his 
officers as must have given him the most exquisite feelings." Then, prompted no doubt 
by the failure of Congress to communicate to Washington the secret articles of the 
treaty of alliance, he adds: "But amid all this inundation of joy, there is a conduct 
observed towards him by certain great men which, as it is humiliating, must abate his 

happiness I think, then, the Commander in Chief of this army is not sufficiently 

informed of all that is known by Congress of European affairs. Is it not a galling 
circumstance, for him to collect the most important intelligence piece-meal, and as they 
choose to give it, from gentlemen who come from York? Apart the chagrin which he 
must necessarily feel at such an appearance of slight, it should be considered that in 
order to settle his plan of operations for the ensuing campaign, he should take into 
view the present state of European affairs, and Congress should not leave him in 
the dark. 

H ever there Avas a man in the world whose moderation and patriotism fitted him for 
the command of a republican army, he is, and he merits an unrestrained confidence." 



May, 1778 229 

I hope we shall recollect and still though late Act with becomingness 
towards your friend, his good sense and moderation will lead him to 
make a true judgement of Causes. If he were disposed to complain he 
could be at no loss for subjects of a much older date than the one before us. 

With respect to Monsr. Lanuville I shall have no peace till he is disposed 
of. he asks for a yes or no but poor Gentleman, he has discovered a mortal 
aversion to the latter. Congress are not disposed to gratify his demand 
immediately and I have intimated as much to him and recommended his 
attending Genl. Gates in a state of probation pointing to the example of 
the Inspector General what will be his resolve I cannot tell but if I 
judge rightly he will not immediately succeed in his expectations, or 
rather demands.^ .... 

266. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

nth May 1778. 
Sir, 

.... Monsr. Lanuville is so well recommended from all quarters and 
so warmly recommends himself as to Insure him every thing that Congress 
can with propriety Resolve in his favor not withstanding all this, if I 
can judge from appearances, that Gentleman will not obtain the Rank he 
aspires to, until he has given some actual proof of his abilities as a Military 
genius, his papers are in the hands of Gentlemen who seem heartily dis- 
posed to serve him. the issues will be known in a few days.^ 

I have not had a proper opportunity for introducing into Congress the 
business of Chevalier defayolls, but in private chat with a Gentleman most 
versant in foreign applications, I learn, the Chevalier had some time ago 
adjusted his demands and received Money for conducting him to France, 
hence I conclude Congress will readily recommend him to a passage in the 
Warren or any other Ship of War bound to France in the Service of the 
States.^ .... 

3 See the letter of John Laurens referred to above; also the Journals, May 5, 13, 
14, July 28, 29, Oct. 14. Cf. nos. 2^, 58, ante, and nos. 266, 284, 285, 443, 445, 477, post. 
Concerning the confusion of the two Laneuvilles in the index to the Journals, see no. 32, 
note 2, ante. Each of them is mentioned in the Journals of May 13, but in the record at 
p. 492 " Noirmont de " has been erroneously bracketed into the text. 
[266]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 108. 

2 See no. 265, note 3, ante. 

2 Sept. 14, 1777, Congress made grants of money to Baron de Kalb and certain of 
those Frenchmen who accompanied him, and to some of them additional sums " to defray 
.... the expences of their coming from France and returning thither ". Of the latter 
number was the Chevalier de Fayolles, to whom was granted the sums of 480 dollars 
and 300 dollars, respectively. See vol. IL of these Letters, no. 632, note 2; also Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 219, 220. In a letter of May 5 {S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VIII. 
126), to which Laurens is replying, Lafayette wrote: "the Chevalier de fayolles who 
came with me from france, whose services were not accepted, was prevented by his 
health to return home as soon as he had wish'd — he writes me to know if he Could be 
employed in the Same rank wich he has the commission in france Lt. Colonel ; if not, as 
he runs the disagreable risk of being taken in his return he schould take as very par- 
ticular favor to obtain some protection for being received in the continental friggate 
La varrena [the Warren] now in Boston." See no. 361, post. 



230 Continental Congress 

P. S Congress determined this Morning to proceed on the 

arrangement of the Army, the Members are exceedingly anxious to 
finish that business.* .... 

267. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO ROBERT MORRIS.^ 

Monday Evening [May 11, 1778.] ^ 
Dear Duer 

Livingston is so ill he can't attend Congress. Monsr. La Neuville 
is kept in dilatory attendance. ^ The half Pay cannot be postponed (for 
now we are the Postponers) beyond To Morrow Morning. Tell Morris 
his Portugueze Affair is settled much against the wishes of his Eastern 
Friends. ^ I could not get the Papers till last Night and this Morning 
I did the needful whereupon the delay was not chargeable on his 
and your 

Friend 

GouvR. Morris. 

The above is a Copy of a Letter written two Hours ago delivered to 
Duer who unfortunately arrived in Town without you very contrary to 
my Expectations. James Smith assures him that his worthy Colleague 
Jonathan B Smith hath absolutely declared off upon the Half Pay Business. 
Clingan is of the true Eastern Stamp and Clay. I need say no more when 
you know that Massachusetts is against us except that Hall is daily ex- 
pected from Georgia and some of the Un true Blues from New Hampshire. 
Think one Moment and come here the next. My respectful remembrances 
wait on Mrs Morris. I send somewhat for your Evenings Amusement 

Adieu 

Yours sincerely 

GouvR. Morris 
[P. S. by Duer.] 

The Question for referring the half pay Establis't to the States cannot 
be deferr'd longer than to Morrow. Pensilvania being at present against 
us it will be carried to refer it to the States, w'h will defeat the Measure. 

4 The plan for regulating the army was taken up May 18. There is no mention 
of the subject in the Journals May 11. See no. 235, post. 

[267]! Library of Congress, Morris Papers; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 192 
(extracts). 

- The letter bears an endorsement in Robert Morris's writing : " Monday Even- 
ing Feby nth 1778 Gouver. Morris"; but if the endorsement was written at the time 
the letter was received, which is doubtful, the date given is a slip of the pen. Feb. 11 
fell on Wednesday and is otherwise out of accord with the internal evidence, while 
May II appears to accord with all the facts (the affair of the Portuguese vessel, the 
arrival of Duer, the half-pay establishment, etc.). 

2 See no. 265, ante. 

* See no. 136, ante, and the Journals, May 6, 11. In accordance with the resolve 
of May II the committee of foreign affairs wrote to the board of war at Boston, May 14, 
asking for an authentic copy of the proceedings of the court of admiralty in the case 
(Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. I., f. 213). For further proceedings concerning the 
Portuguese vessel (usually called Our Lady of Mount Carmcl and Saint Anthony), see 
the Journals, June 19, 25, 1778, Jan. 13, 16, 19, 26, Feb. 2, 9, June 19, 26, July 2, 5, 16, 
21, 22, Sept. 4, 1779. 



May, ijjS 231 

When I have mentioned this I am sure I need not add any thing more to 
induce you to be here bv Eleven o'Clock to Morrow.^ 

W. DUER. 

[Addressed :] 
The honble Robert Morris Esqr. Manheim ® 

268. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee.^ 

York in Pennsylva. 12 May 1778. 
My dear Brother 

.... It is not necessary nov^ to say much about [Deane].^ His 
[recall], which I now rejoice at, will prevent all future [machinations] 
from him, at least in [Europe], and himself, as well as all others, shall 
be well attended to here. 

Our friend Mr. Adams who [succeeds Deane] is a wise and worthy 
Whig, who will not [form cabals] for any private or sinister purpose. 
I advise you to [cultivate] his [friendship]. Congress has now resolved 
the same for the support of their Commissioners at Madrid, Vienna, 
Berlin and Tuscany as for those at Paris, and they are authorized to draw 
bills of exchange on the Commissioner or Commissioners that may be at 
Paris for the money they want to defray their expences.^ This makes each 
[independent] and will, for a time at least, render it unnecessary to send 
particular remittances to those places in the way of Commodities. You 
may be assured that Congress are ready and willing to send powerful 
remittances to Europe in the way of commodities, but the attempt now 
would be only supplying the enemy, whose Cruisers are so numerous on 

5 See nos. 222, 231, 242, 247, 255, 258, ante, 282, 287, post. Cf. no. 174, note 2, ante. 

6 Above the address, in the writing of Gouverneur Morris, is the injunction, 
" Let the Bearer of this Letter pass to and from Mlanheim — York Town " ; below, " Free 
Gouvr. Morris ". 

[268] 1 Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers; Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Trans., IIL; Southern 
Literary Messenger, XXIX. 431; Letters (ed. Ballagh), L 403. 

2 The words in square brackets in this letter are in cipher in the original. In 
many others of the letters of Richard Henry Lee to his brothers during 1778 and 1779, 
as also in their letters to him, are found words and passages in cipher, which appear 
to have remained for the most part undeciphered by others than the recipients of the 
letters. The key to the cipher is evidently an edition of Entick's New Spelling Dictionary, 
the cipher number merely indicating the page, the column, and the number of the word 
in the column. As used by the Lees, the page was indicated by an arabic numeral, the 
column by a small a or b, and the place of the word in the column by a roman numeral. 
For instance, the cipher for "Deane" is 115 b XXXVIII, which means: page 115, 
second column, 38th word. No copy of the edition actually used by the Lees has been 
found, but by means of a later edition, although with different paging, etc., a decipherment 
of the letters found in these volumes has been effected which, barring some doubtful 
words, is believed to be correct. In printed collections of the Lee letters the ciphers have 
often been omitted (as, for instance, in the Letters of Richard Henry Lee, New York, 
191 1, 1914). In the Life of Arthtir Lee the "b" is erroneously printed "6". For a 
brief account of this and other ciphers used by members of Congress, see this editor's 
note on "Ciphers of the Revolutionary Period", in Am. Hist. Rev., XXII. 329. In a 
letter of Oct. 4 {Life of Arthur Lee, 11. 114), which is probably one of the letters to 
which this is a reply, Arthur Lee uses a few such ciphers, and in a postscript of Nov. 25 
mentions that he had previously sent a book " by which we may communicate oui 
thoughts without danger from mischievous curiosity ", and was now sending another. 
See no. 295, post. 

3 See the Journals, May 7. 



232 Continental Congress 

our Coast and in our Bays, that almost every Vessel is taken. When a 
war with France and Spain shall take place, the numerous Ships of 
England will find some other employment than bending their whole, force 
against us. Then it will be in our power to make the remittances we wish 
to make. Congress has not yet taken up the consideration of appointing 
another Commissioner, when they do, I think there can be no objection 
to the Gentleman you recommend or that he should be appointed to 
Spain.* Gen. Burgoyne has leave to return to England upon parole, but 
his Army is detained until' the Court of London shall notify to Congress 
their ratification of the Convention of Saratoga. The detention of this 
Army was founded partly on the reasons you assign, and for other 
powerful ones which Burgoyne himself furnished us with. In the inclosures 
which our public letter contains you will see the reasons more at large.^ I 
am very happy to be able to observe to you, that the unalterable attachment 
of Congress to Independence is clearly evidenced by their resolutions 
upon Ld. North's insidious bills of pacification some days before they had 
any notice of the Treaty with France.^ I think you may make a good 
use of this with those who may doubt our firmness. We have now no 
danger but what may arise from our [funds]. Necessity has made our 
[paper emission] very large, and may render it indispensable that a solid 
support sh'd be derived from [specie]. Therefore [loans] from [Europe] 
are necessary, and the desires of Congress on this head demand great 
attention.^ .... 

269. Richard Henry Lee to John Adams.^ 
My Dear Sir. York, in Pennsylv'a 13th May 1778 

Our public letter ^ does not leave me much to add, but friendship will 
not suffer me to let this opportunity to pass, without expressing my wishes 

4 In the beginning of this letter Richard Henry Lee acknowledges letters from 
Arthur Lee bearing the dates Oct. 24, Dec. 6, 8, 19 ; but, while letters of these dates are 
not found in the Life of Arthur Lee, other letters give the requisite clue to this allusion. 
In a letter of Oct. 4 {ibid., IL 114) he says: "My idea therefore of adapting characters 
and places is this : Dr. F. to Vienna, as the first, most respectable, and quiet ; Mr. Deane 
to Holland; and the Alderman to Berlin, as the commercial department; Mr. Izard where 
he is ; Mr. Jenings at Madrid, his reserve and circumspection being excellently adapted 
to that court. I mean Edmund Jenings, whom you know, whose real abilities to serve 
may be relied on. France remains the centre of political activity, and here therefore I 
should choose to be employed." Cf. a letter of the same date to Samuel Adams {ibid., 
p. Ill), and others to Richard Henry Lee, Jan. 5, 9, 1778 {ibid., pp. 126, 127). See also 
Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., I. 499, 525 et. seq. 

5 The reference is probably to the letter of Jan. 21 (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., 
II. 474). See no. 20, note 2, ante. 

8 See the Journals, Apr. 22, and no. 271, note 2, post. 

"^ Cf. no. 269, post. In a letter to Jefferson May 11 Lee mentions enclosing a 
pamphlet which is supposed to be by Franklin and was first published in Holland. "We 
have translated it here, and .... it will be published next week in the Gazette of this 
place. The reasons are good and may be well used in these States to support public 
credit" {Letters, I. 401). This was probably the same paper as that printed in the 
Pennsylvania Packet, July 28, with an introduction by the editor, beginning, " The 
following paper is supposed to have been written by a celebrated American Philosopher, 
at Paris". Texts of this essay are found in Franklin's IVorks (ed. Sparks), II. 426, and 
Writings (ed. Smyth), VII. i. 
[26g]^ Letters, 1. 40s. 

2 Presumably the letter of May 14 (no. 271, post). If the date of Lee's letter is 
correct, the letter to the commissioners was drafted prior to May 14. 



May, 1778 233 

to congratulate you on your safe arrival in France. You will find our 
affairs at your Court in a much more respectable Train than they have 
been heretofore, and therefore no doubt more agreeable to you. Finance 
seems now the only rock on which we have any danger of splitting. How 
far European loans may help us you can judge, but I fear that the slow 
operation of Taxes, which indeed are pretty considerably pushed in many 
■States, will not be adequate to the large emissions of paper money which 
the war compels us to make.^ The number and activity of the British 
Cruisers on the coast, and in the Bays of the Staple States, render it utterly 
impossible with any degree of safety, and therefore very unwise, to 
attempt making remittances to Europe at present. It is in fact furnishing 
the enemy with what they want extremely, and much to our injury. 
Surely the Court of France will now give protection to their Commerce to 

and from America, the clearest policy demands it Monsr. Beau- 

marchais by his Agent Monsr. Francis has demanded a prodigious sum 
from the Continent for the Stores etc. furnished the States. His accounts 
are referred for settlement to the Commissioner [s] at Paris, and I hope 
they will scrutinise most carefully into this business, that the public may 
not pay a large sum wrongfully. We have been repeatedly informed that 
the greater part of these Stores were gratuitously furnished by the Court 
of France — How then does it come to pass that a private person a mere 
Agent of the Ministry, should now demand pay for the whole ?*.... 

270. Henry Laurens to Samuel Alleyne Otis.^ 

13th May. 
Sir 

I had the honor of writing to you the 21st Ultimo by Messenger Brown." 
I have remarked in Congress some difficulties which have arisen upon 
applications for Money on account of the Clothier general said to be 
intended for discharging the debt contracted by you for the purchase of 
Clothing on public Account, possibly no obstacle would have been thrown 
in as a Bar to payment of a Stated account directly from your self, or 
as I should say from Messrs. Otis and Andrews. It is not necessary to 
account for causes of the demurs which have happened therefore waving 
an enquiry give me leave to recommend to you to transmit an account of 
all your expenditures and engagements opposed by all the sums you have 
received and drawn for, strike the balance and either draw for such a 
Balance or desire it may be remitted to you and from the Justice of Con- 
gress and their readiness to pay every fair account you will meet no 
farther disappointment. 

If your Vouchers are not too bulky send them, if they are, Note at the 
foot of your account that if required you will transmit the whole, or pro- 
duce them for inspection to any person authorized for that purpose by 

3 Cf. no. 268, ante. 

^ See nos. 109, 133, 186, 240, ayite, and nos. 279, 281, 437, post. 
[27o]iS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. no. The letter 
is addressed to " Samuel Otis, Esquire, Boston ". 
2 See no. 297, note 2, post. 



234 Continental Congress 

Congress. It may be proper to give some account of the thin and ordinary- 
Clothing which have been produced in Congress, how the imposition 
upon you happened and why you have been obliged to submit to it.^ 

My regard for the Honor of Congress and my Esteem for a Gentleman 
who, as I judge from the tenor of his whole conduct, has acted the part of 
a faithful Steward to the public, has induced the present interposition, 
in this light you will be pleased to receive my private sentiments and be 
assured I am with great respect, Sir your most obedient Servant 

271. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to the 
Commissioners at Paris.^ 

York Town May 14th 1778. 
Gentlemen 

Our Affairs have now a universally good appearance. Every thing at 
home and abroad seems verging towards a happy and permanent Period. 
We are preparing for either War or Peace, for altho' we are fully per- 
swaded that our Enemies are wearied, beaten and in despair, yet we shall 
not presume too much on that belief, and the rather as it is our fixt deter- 
mination to admit no terms of Peace but such as are fully in Character 
with the dignity of Independant States and consistent with the Spirit 
and intention of our alliances on the Continent of Europe 

We believe, and with great Reason too, that the honor and fortitude 
of America have been rendered suspicious, by the Arts intrigues and 
specious misrepresentations of our Enemies. Every Proceeding and Policy 
of our's has been tortured to give some possible colouring to their asser- 
tions of a doubtful disposition in America as to her final perseverance in 
maintaining her Independance ; and perhaps, the speeches of several of 
the Minority in both houses of the English Parliament who seem to 
persist in the possibility of a reconciliation might contribute towards that 
Suspicion. We, at this Time feel ourselves exceedingly happy in being able 
to shew, from the accidental arrangement of Circumstances, such as we 
could have neither policy to foresee, nor power to alter, that the dispo- 
sition of America on that head was fixt and final. For a proof of which 
we desire your attention to the following 

The English Ministry appear to have been very industrious in getting 
their two Conciliatory Bills (even before they had been read once) over 
to America as soon as possible the reason of which haste we did not then 
foresee, but the arrival of your despatches since with the treaties have 
unriddled the Affair. Genl. Howe was equally industrious in Circulating 
them by his emissaries thro' the Country. Mr. Tryon at N york did the 
same, and both these Gentlemen sent them under sanction of a flag to 

3 See the Journals, May 5, 21, 22, 25; cf. no. 260, ante. James Warren wrote to 
Samuel Adams May 8 : " the Cloathers Otis and Andrews are in great difficulty for want 
of money and should be supplied, to preserve any kind of Credit to the Continent " 
{Warren-Adams Letters, II. 8). 

[271]! Plarvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., IV. 124; ("Duplicate", with autographic 
signatures, but not in the writing of either Lee or Lovell) ; ibid., Sparks MSS., XVI. 
236; Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, LIII. 41; Library of Congress, Papers Cent. 
Cong., no. 79, vol. I., f. 223 (letter-book copy) ; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 574. 



May, 1778 235 

Genl. Washington, who immediately sent the first he received to Congress. 
Mr. Tryons Letter which covered them and Genl. Washington's answer 
thereto you will find in Hall's and Seller's Gazette printed at York Town 
2d May 

Those Bills are truly unworthy the attention of any National Body ; but 
lest the silence of Congress should be misunderstood or furnish the 
Enemy with new Ground for false insinuation, they were instantly re- 
ferred to a Committee of Congress, whose judicious and Spirited report 
was unanimously approved by the house April 22d and published and 
Circulated thro' the several States with all possible expedition.^ 

The Dispatches in Charge of Mr. Dean did not arrive till the Second of 
May, Ten days after the reports were published ; and his expedition in 
bringing the dispatches to Congress, prevented any Intelligence arriving 
before him. Inclosed are the reports referred to to which we recommend 
your attention in making them as public as possible in Europe, prefacing 
them with such an explanatory detail of Circumstances as shall have a 
tendency to place the Politics of America on the firm Basis of national 
honor Integrity and fortitude 

We admire the true Wisdom and Dignity of the Court of France in, 
her part of, the Construction and Ratification of those Treaties; they 
have a powerful and effectual Tendency to dissolve that narrowness of 
mind which Mankind have been too unhappily bred up in. In those 
Treaties we see the Politician founded on the Philosopher and harmony 
of affections made the ground Work of mutual Interest. France by her 
open Candor has won us more Powerfully than any reserved Treaties 
could possibly hind us, and at a happy Juncture of Times and Circum- 
stances laid the seeds of an eternal Friendship 

It is from an anxiety of preserving inviolete this cordial union, so 
happily begun that we desire your attention to the nth and 12th Articles 
of the Treaties of Amity and Commerce. The unreserved Confidence of 
Congress in the good disposition of the Court of France will sufficiently 
appear by their having unanimously ratified those Treaties and then 
trusted any alteration or amendment to mutual Negociation afterwards. 
We are apprehensive that the general and extensive Tenor of the 12th 
Article may in future be misunderstood or rendered inconvenient or 
impracticable, and in the end become detrimental to that friendship we 
wish ever to exist. To prevent which you will herewith receive instruc- 
tions and authority for giving up on our Part the whole of the i ith Article, 
proposing it as a Condition to the Court of France, that they, on their 
part, give up the whole of the 12th Article, those two being intended as 
reciprocal ballances to each other.^ 

2 See nos. 202, 207-209, 213-216, 219-221, 223, 225, 227, 230, 268, ante; cf. no. 273, 
post. Thomas Gushing wrote to Franklin from Boston May 13, " Congress had received 
Lord North's Speech and the two Bills for quieting America before Mr Simeon Deane 
Arrived with the Two Treaties with France, and while entirely Ignorant of them passed 
a number of Observations respecting said Bills much to their Honor " (Univ. of Pa. Lib., 
Franklin Papers, vol. IL, nos. 25, 26, duplicate). Similar comment from Samuel Cooper, 
May 13, 14, is found ibid., nos. 27, 28. 

3 See the Journals, May 5 (pp. 459-462) ; also Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
I- 344-346, n. 477, 480, 481, 482, 485, 497. Cf. no. 279, post. In a letter to Franklin of 



236 Continental Congress 

It is exceedingly distressing- to Congress to hear of Misconduct in any 
of the Commanders of Armed Vessels under the American flag. Every 
authentic information you can give on this head will be strictly attended 
to and every Means taken to punish the offenders and make reparation to 
the sufferers. The chief consolation we find in this disagreeable business 
is that the most experienced States have not always been able to restrain 
the vices and irregularities of Individuals. Congress has Published a 
Proclamation for the more effectually suppressing and punishing such 
Practices ; * But we are rather inclined to hope that as the line of Connec- 
tion and Friendship is now clearly marked, and the Minds of the Seamen 
relieved thereby from that unexplainable mystery respecting their real 
Prizes which before embarrassed them, that such irregularities will be 
less frequent or totally cease, to which end, the Magnificient Generosity 
of the Court of France to the owners of the Prizes which, for " reasons 
of State " had been given up will happily contribute. 

We are. Gentlemen 

Your Obt. humble Servts 

Richard Henry Lee 
James Lovell. 
The Hon'ble Commissioners at Paris.^ 

272. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to William Lee.'- 

York, May 14, 1778. 
Sir: 

Your favors of November 24, and December 18, reached us only the 
2d of this month, with letters of our other friends at Paris, from whom 
we had not received a regular packet for eleven months. . . . 

The tijrn of affairs in Europe will make it needless for us to attempt 
the finesse of recruiting in Germany, which you hint at, and which would 
have a good effect in case of necessity.^ [Arthur] Lee's letters make it 

June 20 Lovell says, " By a most unlucky mistake I did not forward the resolve of the 
5th of May with the ratifications of the treaties sent in that month ", but that he has 
since sent it by way of Martinique and now sends another copy by way of Boston 
(Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 626). 

* The proclamation is in the Journals, May 9. For the origin of this procla- 
mation see Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 429, 433, 495 (letter of Arthur Lee, Nov. 27, 
and letters of Franklin, Deane, and I>ee, Nov. 30, 1777, Feb. 16, 1778). Cf. ibid., pp. 364, 
365, 376, 378, 425- 

s Concerning the manner and means by which the several despatches of 
May 14-15 were transmitted, see no. 297, post. 

[272]! Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 578; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 79, vol. I., f. 209 (letter-book copy). 

- In his letter to Secretary Thomson, Nov. 24, 1777 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
II. 426), William Lee speaks of British efforts toward obtaining troops in Germany, and 
then adds : " It would certainly add to their diffculty and embarrass the British ministry 
if there were only an appearance of beating up for men for the American States in some 
of the free towns of Germany, where all the world by custom is permitted to recruit 
and enlist men. Something of this sort might be attem.pted, sufficient to give a great 
alarm and create a diversion in your favor at a very little expense, if prudently 
managed." There is no evidence that Congress at this time even considered the question 
of hiring German troops. With regard to earlier suggestions of the sort, see these 
Letters, vol. II., no. 588, note 3. 



May, lyjS 237 

quite probable that your commission will prove successful at Berlin, and 
there appears the best agreement between the King of Prussia and the 
Emperor. 

The enclosed resolve of Congress, of the 7th instant, will show their 
intentions with regard to your support, which was not properly attended 
to when your commission was made out. 

Other papers herewith sent will give you a general idea of our situation. 
You may be assured that independence is firmly adopted by the States, 
and the unanimity of Congress is truly emblematic of all America. Nova 
Scotia has long ago expressed its wishes to be adopted by us. and now 
afresh solicits.^ Canada will be greatly affected by the news of our alliance 
with its former parent State. In short, sir, everv-thing which could be 
added to our own determination of being free and independent is insured 
by this eclaircissement of the court of Versailles. . . . The powers which 
had been given to our commissioners in France, and our great anxiety to 
keep perfect faith in treaties, induced a caution with regard to the powers 
given in after appointments which is now become unnecessary. Perfect 
equality being the basis of our present treaties, without any exclusive 
privileges to France, there can be no chance of discontent from the con- 
clusion of similar treaties with other powers of Europe ; therefore, we 
shall doubtless soon forward to you more full powers than were sent with 
your commission.* .» . . 

We are, with great regard, etc., 

R. H. Lee, 
James Lovell, 
Robert Morris. 

P. S. — You are to have a plenipotentiary commission, with instructions 
not limiting the term of the proposed treaties of amity and commerce. 

273. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to Ralph Izard.^ 

York, May 14, 1778. 
Sir: 

.... We hope you will be particularly industrious to expose those 
attempts of our enemies, which are calculated to lead Europe to think we 
are not thoroughly fixed in our plan of independence. You may observ^e 
that we proceeded on the drafts only of two intended bills which had been 
sent to America by the British ministry. We should not have done this, 
but from a conviction of insidious intentions founded upon former at- 
tempts to hurt our character abroad. We were so well satisfied of the 
spirit of these States to persevere in a noble cause, that we should have 
waited for the bills themselves, if we had not been anxiously attentive to 
the good opinion of Europe and the rest of the world. We were altogether 

2 See the Journals, May 14, 21. For the previous instance, see ibid., Nov. 21, 
1775- 

* See the Journals, May 16, 28, June i, 2, 1778; cf. ibid., July i, 1777. See also 
nos. 273, 317, post. 

[273]! Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 576; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 79, vol. I., f. 220 (letter-book copy). 



238 Continental Congress 

strangers to the happy state of our affairs in France, accident and knavery 
having suppressed the dispatches of our friends, as our former letters will 
prove, if any attempt should be made to attribute our late determined con- 
duct to a knowledge of our new alliance. Congress unanimously ratified 
the treaties on the 4th, and the people have showed their satisfaction 
wherever the knowledge of the proceeding has reached. The army, also, 
which is daily increasing in strength, has expressed its joy, and is now 
prepared either for honorable peace or a continuation of the just war. 
We shall endeavor to procure an enlargement of your powers, and shall 
immediately forward them to you. There can be no danger of any clashing 
of future treaties with those now made, provided the plain principles of 
mutual benefit, without any exclusive privileges, are made the basis.^ . . . 

R. H. Lee, 
James Lovell, 
Robert Morris. 
P. S. . . } 

274. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to Arthur Lee.^ 

In Committee for Foreign Affairs. 
Sir York Town, May 14th 1778. 

Your several Favours of Oct. 6th Novr. 27th, and Deer. 8th were 
delivered to us on the 2d Instant, the Dispatches by Mr. Deane and those 
by Capt. Young arriving on the same Day. We had before received your 
short Letter of the nth of June, but are yet without that of the 29th of 
July, in which you had informed us " at large of your Proceedings in 
Prussia ". Its contents would have proved highly agreable to us in those 
Months when we were quite uninfonned of the Proceedings and Prospects 
of your Colleagues at Paris. Impressed with a sense of the value of the 
King of Prussia's " warmest Wishes for our Success ", we give Assur- 
ances of equal Wishes in Congress for that monarch's Prosperity. We 
have little Doubt of open Testimonies of his majesty's Friendship in Con- 
sequence of the late Decision of the King of France.^ 

Your Information in Regard to our Connection with the fictitious 
House of Hortales and Co. is more explicit than any we had before 
received, but we further expect that all Mystery should be removed : 
Surely there cannot now be occasion for any, if there ever was for Half 
of the past.^ 

2 Cf. no. 272, ante, and no. 317, post. 

^ The postscript is the same as in the letter to William Lee, no. 272, ante. 
[274]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Distinguished Americans, no. 836; Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Lee MSS., IV. 123; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. L, 
f. 218 (letter-book copy) ; Hist. Mag., XIV. 241 ; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 577. 

2 See no. 255, note 4, ante. Arthur Lee's letters of Oct. 6, Nov. 27, and Dec. 8 
are in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 401, 429, 445, respectively; that of July 29 is 
ibid., II. 369; that of June 11 is ibid., II. 335. The expression of the King of Prussia's 
"warmest wishes for our success " is found in the letter of Oct. 6, but a similar expres- 
sion appears in a number of the letters from Schulenberg to Lee, and is several times 
repeated in Lee's letters to Congress. 

3 See especially Arthur Lee's letter of Oct. 6, 1777; cf. that of Feb. 15, also the 
letter of the commissioners Feb. 16, in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 401. 494, 495. 
Cf. no. 269, ante, and nos. 279, 281, post. Concerning Roderique Hortales and Co., other- 
wise Beaumarchais, see ibid., I. 364-386; also Lomenie, Beanmarchais and his Times. 



May, lyyS 239 

Our commercial Transactions will very speedily be put under the 
Direction of a Board consisting of Persons not Members of Congress, it 
being impracticable for the same Men to conduct the deliberative and 
executive Business of the Continent now in its great Increase.* . . . 

A few Weeks if not a few Days must produce fruitful Subject for 
another Letter when we shall in our Line of Duty renew our Assurances 
of being, with great Regard, 

Sir Your affectionate humble Servants 

Richard Henry Lee 
James Lovell 
RoBT. Morris 
Honble Arthur Lee Esqr. 

275. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to William Bingham.^ 

^^y York Town May 14th 1778 

At length, on the 2d Instant we received Dispatches from our Com- 
missioners at Paris. . . . 

We do not find, by the letters which we have received, that Congress 
may venture to enlarge the Power which was given to you by the Resolves 
of Apr. 1 6th. But it becomes less necessary that you should be furnished 
in that Way, as Commerce will, in all human Probability, be more easily 
carried on between the Continent and your Islands now than for some 
Time past. . . . 

RoBT Morris 
Rich'd Henry Lee 
James Lovell 
In Committee for foreign Affairs 

276. The Board of War to William Augustus Atlee.^ 

^jy War-Office May 14. 1778. 

Your letter of the nth instant directed to the President of Congress 
has been sent by him to the Board (the application to Congress being 
improper) who are of opinion that the prisoners now confined at Lancaster, 
should be sent to Fort Frederick." . . . 

277. William Ellery to } 

^j^ York Town May 14th, 1778. 

This will be accompanied by half a dozen Postscripts to the last 
Pennsylvania Gazette ^ which please to distribute in manner following to 

* Cf. nos. 109, 199, ante, 471, 505, 602, 603, post. 
[275]! Library of Congress, Portfolio 104 ("Copy", in the writing of James Lovell, 
including the signatures) ; Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. I., f. 217 (letter-book copy). 
[276] 1 Library of Congress, U. S. Revolution. 

2 The letter is signed "Tim: Pickering junr. By order of the Board", and is 
addressed, " To William Atlee Esqr. Dy. Commissary of Prisoners At Lancaster ". Cf. 
nos. 311, 324, 325, post. 

[277]! R. L Hist. Soc. MSS., VI. 104. The letter may have been to William Vernon, 
member of the navy board of the Eastern department. 
2 See the P. S. to no. 262, ante. 



240 ■ Continental Congress 

wit, — one to Gov. Cooke, one to Gov. Hopkins, one to the Secretary, one 
to the Gen. Treasurer, one to Gen. Sulhvan and the other to the 
Honble Jabez Bowen Esq. 

The old enfeebled Lion growls out and if [as ?] at the aggression on 
his honour, while the Cock crows round him determined to pick up his 
share of commerce. A war seems to be unavoidable. Can Britain, will 
Britain submit that France should carry on an unmolested Commerce with 
their [these ?] States? Her proud Spirit I think cannot brook it, what- 
ever sound Policy may dictate. Will she risk the Loss of her West India 
Islands, the Loss of Canada, the Loss of rank amidst the Empires of the 
world rather than acknowledge the Independence we are in fnll possession 
of. I think she will. Quos deus vult perdere prins dementat. I have not 
time to ask another Question, nor to add only that I am with great respect 

Your very humble Servant 

\Nm Ellery 

278. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
George Washington.^ 
^ly York Town 15 May 1778. 

The last I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency was dated the 
nth by the hand of Colo. Gimad. 

I have since presented to Congress Your Excellency's favors of the 
nth and 12th which were immediately Committed and remain uncon- 
sidered. .... 

[P. S.] Extracts from the Philada. Paper which Your Excellency was 
so obliging to send I caused to be made and Printed the Evening the Paper 
came to hand much to the satisfaction of Congress and I believe of every- 
body possibly many Gentlemen in the Army may be uninformed of these 
Interesting transactions and therefore I shall transmit by the present 
bearer about 50 Copies.^ .... 

279. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to the 
Commissioners at Paris.^ 

In Committee for Foreign Affairs, 
Gentlemen York Town, May 15, 1778. 

Your pressing request for 5000 Hhds of Tobacco, is a matter as embar- 
rassing to Congress as to yourselves.^ Their anxiety to get it to you is 

[278] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers; ibid.. President's Letter-Book, L 322. 
-Washington had transmitted with his letter of May 12 {Writings, ed. Sparks, 
V. 361) a Philadelphia paper of May 9 containing "a message from his Most Christian 
Majesty to the Court of London, in consequence of the treaty between him and these 
States, and his Britannic Majesty's Address to the Lords and Commons". Washington 
remarks : " The message is conceived in terms of irony and derision, more degrading 
to the pride and dignity of Britain, than anything she has ever experienced since she 
has been a nation. It is not an actual declaration of war, but it certainly must produce 
one." The message was delivered by the Marquis de Noailles, the French ambassador. 
It is in Annual Register, 1778, p. 291, and Almon's Remembrancer, V. 119. See no. 288, 
post, also John Laurens to his father, May 12, Army Correspondence, p. 171. 

[279]! Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, IX. 170; Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., IV. 
125; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. I, f. 228 (letter-book copy) ; 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl.^Corr., II. 582. 

~ See the letter of the commissioners Feb. 16, 1778, in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., 
II. 495 ; also ibid., pp. 284, 300, 390. Cf. no. 281, post. 



May, 1778 241 

as great as yours to receive it. We have already lost considerable 
Quantities in the attempt, and thereby furnished our Enemy, Gratis, with 
what was designed to discharge your Contracts with, and promote the 
Interest and Commerce of our Friends. We request your particular 
attention to this information. It is a matter of the highest moment to 
our allies as well as to ourselves. In the present State of things it is very 
probable that England will not interrupt the Trade of France in her oimi 
Bottoms, and our desire is, as well for her Benefit as ours, that France 
would open the Trade from her own Ports, so that the Intentional 
advantages of the Treaties may fully operate to both countries. We need 
not enlarge on this head, as your own discernment and Judgment will 
furnish you with all the reasons necessary therefor 

In addition to what is mentioned in our Letter No. ^ respecting the 
I ith and 12th Articles we observe that the 12th is capable of an interpre- 
tation and misuse which was probably not thought of at the Time of Con- 
structing it, which is, that it opens a door for all or a great part of The 
Trade of America to be carried thro the french Islands to Europe, and 
puts all future regulations out of our Power, either by imposts or Prohi- 
bition, which tho' we might never find our Interest to use, yet it is the 
keeping those in our Power, that will hereafter enable us to preserve 
equality with, and regulate the Imposts of the Countries we trade with. 
The General Trade of France is not under the like restriction; every 
Article on our part being Staked against the Single Article of Molasses 
on theirs. Therefore the Congress thinks it more liberal and consistent 
that both Articles should be expunged. 

We have no material military Transactions to acquaint you with. 
The Enemy yet remain in Philadelphia, but some late movements make 
it probable they will not stay long. Our Army is yet at the Valley forge. 
The Enemy thro' the Course of the Winter have carried on a low, pitiful, 
and disgraceful kind of War agst. Individuals, whom they picked up by 
sending out little parties for that purpose and revengefully burning 
several of their houses. Yet all this Militates against themselves, by keep- 
ing up an inflamable Indignation in the Country towards them ; and on the 
whole, we know not which most to wonder at, their folly in making us 
hate them, after their inability for Conquest and desires of Peace are 
confest, or their Scandalous barbarity in expressing their Resentments. 

You will see, Gentlemen, by the Contract which the commercial Com- 
mittee has signed with the Agent of Mr. Beaumarchais that Congress 
was desirous of keeping a middle Course, so as not to appear to slight 
any determined Generosity of the French Court, and at the same Time, 
to show a Promptness to discharge honourably the Debts which may be 
justly charged against these States by any Persons.* We depend upon you 
to explain the affair fully, as you seem to make a Distinction between the 
military Stores and the other Invoices, while no such Distinction appears 
in the Letters of Mr. Deane and Mr. Beaumarchais. In short, we are 

2 The letter of May 14, no. 271, ante. See particularly Franklin's comments on 
the subject in his letter to Lovell, July 22 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 656). 
■* See nos. 240, 274, ante, and no. 281, post. 



242 Continental Congress 

rather more undetermined by your late Dispatches than we were by your 
long Silence. 

Congress being at this Time deeply engaged in a Variety of pressing 
Business and the foreign Committee thin of Members you will be pleased 
to excuse us from being more particular in our Answer to your several 
Dispatches, as well as in our Information of the State of our affairs. 

We are, gentlemen 

Your very humble Servants 

Richard Henry Lee 
James Lovell. 
P. S. You will see what we have written to Mr. Dumas,^ and will 
point out to us what will be our Line of Honor to him and justice to 
these States. 

280. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

York May 15th 1778. 
Sir 

Your Favour of Deer. 21st I read in Congress that it might have the 
Operation which you benevolently generously and honourably intended.^ 

But really Sir, when you say you "perceive he (Mr. D — ) has 
Enemies ", I am not inclined to determine that you form your Opinion 
upon the Proceedings of Congress alone; to which you refer in the 
Beginning of your Letter. You can have no adequate Idea of the bold 
Claims and even Threats which were made against Congress inducing 
the Necessity of disavowing Mr. D's Agreements and the consequent more 
disagreable Necessity of recalling him.^ You will have seen by past 
Letters of the Committee how formidable some here thought the Enmity 
of disappointed foreign Officers would prove both to Mr. D — and to these 
States. That Gentleman's Embarrassm'ts have always been considered as 
Apologies for his Compliances ; and you may rely upon it that imagined, 
if not real Necessity alone has governed the Decissions of Congress in 
respect to him; and that he will find he commands general Regard for 
the Manner in which he has conducted our Affairs abroad. He is exceed- 
ingly wanted here to explain some Things ; especially the Connexion with 
Mr. Beaumarchais ; and, in my Opinion, he may return with renewed 
Honour in Commission to Holland. 

Folgier is to be dismissed with his Expences. I wish some Explanation 
may procure him a Gratuity * 

^ The letter to Dumas May 14 is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 580. The letter 
from Dumas particularly alluded to here is dated Aug. 22, 1777 (with a continuation 
of Sept. 5), and is found ibid., p. 2>77- 

[280] 1 Univ. of Pa., Franklin Papers, II. 30; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane 
Papers, III. 305. 

2 Franklin's letter to Lovell Dec. 21, 1777, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 
457. The letter may have been read in connection with the discussion of foreign affairs 
May 9. Cf. Franklin to the President of Congress, Mar 31, 1778, ibid., p. 527. 

3 The order for Deane's recall was passed Nov. 21, 1777. See also the Journals, 
Dec. 8, 1777, and these Letters, vol. II., nos. 753, 760, 766, 768, 769. Cf. no. 268, ante, 
and no. 330, post. In his reply to Lovell, July 22 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 656), 
Franklin makes some rather trenchant comments on the situation created by the 
plurality of commissioners in Paris. 

* See the Journals, Jan. 12, Feb. 23, May 8, 28; also nos. 24, 2)^, 240, ante. 



May, lyyS 243 

281. The Committee of Commerce to the 
Commissioners at Paris/ 

Committee of Commerce 
York in Pennsylvania May 16, 1778. 
Gentlemen 

This will be accompanied with a Contract entered into between John 
Baptist Lazarus Theveneau de Francy Agent of Mr. Peter Augustine 
Baron de Beaumarchais representative of the House of Roderique 
Hortalez and Co. and the Committee of Commerce." You will observe that 
their Accounts are to be fairly Stated and what is justly due Paid. For 
as on the one hand Congress would be unwilling to evidence a disregard 
for, and contemptuous refusal of the Spontaneous friendship of his 

[281]! Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, IX. 175; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
no. 49, vol. III., f. 25. 

2 The text of this contract, the " heads " of which had already been transmitted 
to the commissioners (see no. 240, ante), is spread upon the Journals under Apr. 7, 
the day on which the instrument was agreed to in Congress. As there printed, however, 
the names of the members of the commercial committee are omitted, naturally enough, 
since that committee, as well as all other standing committees of Congress, was a body 
of fluctuating membership. In the American Philosophical Society, Franklin Papers, 
LVII, 8, is a signed copy of the contract, dated Apr. 16, 1778, which has in the blank 
places for the commercial committee " the Honorable William EUery, James Forbes, 
William Henry Drayton, and William Duer Esquires ", and is signed by J. B. Lazarus 
Theveneau de Francy and these four members of the committee. The fluctuation in the 
membership of the committee at once appears when these names are compared with 
those subscribed to this letter, which bears a date exactly one month later. 

Among the Laurens Papers in the South Carolina Historical Society (vol. XXVII. , 
"Congressional, 1779") is a copy, in an unidentified writing, of the instrument appar- 
ently in the form in which it was brought before Congress. It is labeled : " Second 

plan proposed by Mr. M " (i. e., Robert Morris; see no. 186, ante). Besides 

a number of minor variations and probable errors in copying, there are several differ- 
ences between that document and the contract as signed which should be pointed out : 

In the first place, it is significant that the commercial committee is set down in this 
instrument as " F. Lewis and Co.". 

Next, among those seven stipulations on the part of Roderique Hortales and Co., the 
"First" {Journals, p. 316) has at the close (after the words "they were shipped") the 
words "to the Satisfaction of the Said Committee". 

In the "Fifth", after the word "chartered" are the words "or bought". 

In the " Sixth ", after the word " charters " are the words " and purchases ". 

The seventh stipulation in the Laurens document reads : " that what ever bills of 
exchange the Hble. Congress shall have occasion to draw on the Sd. R. Hortalez and Co. 
not exceeding livres per ann. shall be punctually honoured." 

The stipulations on the part of the commercial committee as set forth in the Laurens 
document are only six in number. .The " Second ", found in the text in the Journals 
(P- 3'^7) and in the signed contract, is lacking altogether, and the remaining items, 3d 
to 7th, are numbered 2d to 6th, respectively. 

In the 1st it is provided that remittances shall be made "to the American Commis- 
sioners at the Court of france or such agent as shall be appointed under the authority 
of Congress ". 

The 2d (which was replaced by the third in the Journals text) reads as follows: 
" that per Ct. interest shall be allowed on the debt already due, as well as on what 

is hereafter to become due to the Sd. R. PI. and Co. in Virtue of this agreement com- 
puting the same from the usual periods of Commercial credit on goods exported and 
discounting therefrom interest on all payments from the date of which they are made." 

The 5th ("Sixth") begins: "that per Ct. Commission shall be allowed", etc. 

and does not include the words " or other charges ". 

The 6th ("Seventh") likewise begins: "that per Ct. Commission shall bt 

allowed ". 

Finally, the last paragraph of the contract, " Provided always ", etc., is lacking in the 
Laurens document. 

20 



244 Continental Congress 

most christian Majesty; so on the other they are unwilHng- to put into 
private Pockets what was gratuitously designed for PubHc benefit. You 
will be pleased to have their Accounts liquidated and direct in the 
liquidation thereof that particular care be taken to distinguish the property 
of the Crown of France from the Private property of Hortalez and 
company and transmit to us the accounts so stated and distinguished. This 
will also be accompanied by an Invoice of Articles to be imported from 
France and resolves of Congress relative thereto. You will appoint if you 
judge proper an Agent or Agents to Inspect the quality of such Goods as 
you may apply for to the House of Roderique Hortalez and Co. before 
they are Shipped to prevent any imposition.^ 

The obstructions of the Bays and Harbours to the Southward by British 
Men of War, hath prevented our shipping Tobacco as we intended. We 
have ordered several Vessels lately to South Carolina for Rice and have 
directed the Continental Agent in that State to consign them to your 
address. So Soon as we can venture to send out Tobacco with any 
probability of Success we shall certainly do it. 

This goes by a dispatch Vessel under the direction of the Committee of 
foreign Affairs.* Five Others are employed in the same business, which 
you will load with such Articles as you may have ready to transmit to us. 

We congratulate with you in the treaties entered into with his most 
christian Majesty and are with greatest respect Gentn 

Your very hble Ser'ts 

William Ellery 

RiCHD. HUTSON 

Thos. Adams 
Copy 

The Honble 

The Ambassadors of the United States at Paris. 

282. Henry Laurens to Lachlan McIntosh.^ 

York Town i6th May 1778. 
My Dear General, 

.... I have been honoured by the receipt of your favor of the nth. 
an answer is anticipated. You have heard I presume in public Orders the 
Act of Congress respecting half pay for Officers and gratuity to Non 
Commissioned Officers and Soldiers after the conclusion of the War. 
the whole is gratuitous, and does not strike at the Constitution, unless 
Officers shall view in that light exclusion from holding Offices of profit 
in common with their fellow Citizens, which may appear to some a little 
invidious, this short Act is the issue of a mountain of Resolves and debates 
which had been in labour nearly two Months, the process will be a fitter 

3 See nos. 240, 279, ante, and no. 437, {yost. See also Franklin's comments on 
some features of the contract, in his letter to Lovell, July 22 (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., 
11.656). 

* See no. 297, post. 
[282]! Hist. Soc. of/Pa., Dreer Coll., Members of the Old Congress, III. 43; S. C. 
Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar._Sept., 1778, p. 114. The letter was addressed to 
Mcintosh at Valley Forge Camp. 



May, lyyS 245 

subject for conversation, I shall not therefore attempt to trouble you with 
it at present, the original demand was unjust, its warmest advocates 
receded and shifted their ground, from time to time, compelled by the 
power of reasoning opposition, what is now Resolved might have been 
obtained on the 30th March ^ but as I hope the pleasure of taking you by 
the hand in York ^ I will only add that your conduct has lost you no 
ground in the esteem of your fellow citizens 

283. Thomas McKean to Mrs. McKean.^ 
My dear Sally, 

York-Town, May i6th 1778. 

P. S 

Colo : Francis Johnston upon my recommendation, and without his 
sollicitation or knowledge, is appointed Commissary-General of Prisoners 
in the stead of Mr. Boudenot, who has resigned in order to take his seat 
in Congress.' 

284. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

1 6th May, 1778. 
My Dear Son, 

.... Monsr. Lanuville vexed me very seriously the other Evening, 
he brought your Certijfied Copy of General Washington's Letter and in 
much warmth asserted " it was not like the original — this had contained 
much warmer expressions in his favor ". I first mildly answered — he 
must certainly be mistaken, he persisted and warmly too. Sir! I replied, 
it is, it must be, a true Copy, I will stake my honor and my life upon it. 
he retired in much seeming disgust. I sent for Mr, Nourse Secretary 
pro. tem at the War Office, and between chiding for the repeated losses 
and miscarriage of public papers in that Office, and entreaties to search 
diligently for the Generals original, relative to Monsr. Lanuville, I pre- 
vailed on him at an unseasonable hour, not any such hour in my four and 
twenty, to rummage, horrible Idea to rummage in an Office which ought 
to be accurate in all things, he succeeded, brought the Letter, I sent it 
immediately to the Gentleman Monsr. Laneuville who returned a deep 
apology, which covered with blushes he repeated next Morning." 

2 See the Journals, May 15. Cf. nos. 222, 242, 247, 255, 267, ante, and no. 287, post. 

3 In a letter of May 12 {Writings, ed. Sparks, V. 361), read in Congress May 14, 
Washington informed Congress that he had appointed General Mcintosh to command at 
Fort Pitt, in place of General Hand, who, at his own request, had been ordered recalled 
(see the Journals, May 2). Washington's letter to Mcintosh appointing him to that 
command is in Writings (ed. Sparks), V. 382, with the date May 26. The draft of 
the letter in the Washington Papers bears, however, only the date " May 1778 ", although 
an endorsement (in an unidentified writing) makes the date May 26. Cf. nos. 289, 296, 
post. 

[283]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, VI. 15. 

2 See the Journals, May 11, 20, 21, 23. 
[284] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.— Sept., 1778, p. iii. 

2 The letter of Washington referred to is probably one dated May 7. The 
draft, in the writing of John Laurens, is among the Washington Papers in the Library 
of Congress. With regard to the case of Laneuville, see the Journals, May 5, 13, 14 ; also 
nos. 265, 266, ante, 285, 443, 445, 477, post. 



246 Continental Congress 

Congress must from necessity have done something for this Gentleman, 
because he had l^een detained here after he had asked only for a Yes, or a 
No, upward of three Months, there was however more than a little 
Struggle, under a droll resolution he is appointed Inspector of the North- 
ern department, where he is to be on probation three months and then 
considered according to merit, as he is said to be a competent Soldier and 
appears active, no doubt he will obtain his wishes, to the height of a 
Brigadier. 

to Inadvertence and not to want of good will must be imputed a defi- 
ciency in Congress towards Colo. Ethan Allen. I shall remind the House 
this Morning to order him a supply of Money, in the mean time I intreat 
you in my Name offer him any Sum he may require, obtain it of the 
Pay Master, or from any Body and I will remit immediately a sum to 
reimburse.^ .... 

285. William Duer to Horatio Gates.^ 

My dear General, ^^ ^^^X' ^778 

This Letter will be deliver'd to you by Monsr. de la Neuville who is 
appointed Inspector to the Army under your Command agreable to your 
Wishes. I could have wished with many others that Congress had con- 
ferr'd on him at present the Rank of a Brigadier ; but there was no soften- 
ing some of your Eastern Friends so that we have been obliged to content 
ourselves with a Promise from Congress to promote him to a Rank 
agreable to his Merit after an Experience of his Talents and Services for 
Three Months. At the Expiration of This Time I have no doubt but he 
will manifest himself Worthy of the Rank his Wellwishers were anxious 
to procure for him in which Case I doubt not he will meet with your 
Patronage, and favorable Recommendations to Congress.^ .... 

286. A Committee of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Sir, 

Inclosed we send you Extracts from a Letter found on board a sloop 
which stranded on Cape Henlopen the ist instant. 

We should have sent your Excellency the original, but that there were 
other matters in it which concern the State of Virginia. You will perceive, 
Sir, how necessary the utmost vigilance will be to detect and punish these 

nefarious practices Congress, having obtained several Letters 

which were found in the afsd. sloop, referred them to a Committee." .... 
Your Excellency's Most obedient humble Servants 

Wm. Duer 
Thos McKean 
York Town May i6th 1778. Richard Henry Lee 

3 See the Journals, May 14, 16. 
[285]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XII. 

2 See no. 284, ante. 
[286]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 81 ; Arch, of Md., XXI. 89. 

2 The Journals record under May 16 that a number of intercepted letters were 
laid before Congress and were referred to a committee, there named as Richard Henry 



May, 1778 247 

287. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes.)/ 

17th May [1778.] 
Dear Sir, 

My last private is dated ist Inst, and forwarded by Messenger Cross 
Since which I have been honoured with Your Excellencys favors of the 
13th and 1 8th April as acknowledged in a public Address of the 14th Inst.^ 

I presented and read these to Congress as public and received great 
Satisfaction from the attention which was paid to the whole and not less 
from the applause generally expressed upon particular articles. Men 
are pleased with instances of watchfulness over the public Stock even when 
they are not themselves half so attentive to expenditures as they ought 
to be 

Had your Excellency known in what manner we had just before treated 
your worthy predecessor's Certificates for Money advanced in So. Carolina 
for public services, you would have been more cautious of draining our 
private Treasury. I had intimated when the draughts were given to 
Mr. Rose on the Loan Office that there was no money there and that 
consequently the Bills would not be paid.^ I was really affected by the 
item of advance made on that acco't although made with the best inten- 
tions and my duty obliges me to add that more than one Member on the 
floor expressed dissatisfaction with the practice of advancing Money from 
a particular Treasury on general account without special order, this was 
indeed rather applied to the advance made to the Commercial Agent. 
EI^^ I was well pleased with the hint, persuaded in my o\vn mind Your 
Excellency will not insist upon a second. 

The taking up loan Office Certificates for raising Money seems to be 
very displeasing; If Money lenders will not deposit in that fund because 
of the low Interest, can a Negotiation in Trade be effected without vast 
discount? Whatever this discount may be, it is kept out of sight, by laying 
the loss on the purchase. I refer only to the practice in this part of the 
Union. 

It has been asserted in Congress that a gainful infamous traffic has 
been carried on by some of our numerous host of honest servants, by 

Lee, Lovell, and Witherspoon. It is conceived that the entry naming the members 
chosen is an error, since it does not accord with the membership of the committee as 
shown by its letters. There is, besides, this additional evidence, that the entry in the 
Journals is in a darker ink than that of the other entries of the day and is also somewhat 
crowded, both facts indicating a later insertion. Moreover, Witherspoon was probably 
not then in attendance, although he appears to have resumed his seat about May 21. 

The letter from which were taken the extracts enclosed in the committee's letter (see 
Arch, of Md., XXL 89) is dated Apr. 27 and relates in particular to a statement of " Old 
Gutrich" (see no. 523, post) that a number of men from Somerset County, Maryland, 
had enlisted in the British service. A reply to the committee, from the Maryland council, 
May 22, is ibid., p. 106. A letter from the committee to Governor Caswell (May 16) 
has not been found, but Caswell's reply, May 28, is in N. C. State Recs., XIIL 140. 

[287]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 117. 

2 Lowndes's letters were read in Congress May 14. See note 5, below. 

3 The reference is probably to the warrant for $25,000 on the loan office in 
South Carolina ordered issued to Alexander Rose, Jan. 26. See also the Journals, 
Mar. 9. With regard to certificates of Lowndes's predecessor (John Rutledge), see 
no. 146, ante. For action concerning South Carolina's accounts and loan office, see the 
Journals, May 14 (pp. 497, 498), 20, 29. Cf. ibid., July 11. 



248 Continental Congress 

means of loan office Certificates, which have been, as they impudently 
pretended, passed for ready Money ; but the prices of articles produced by 
them were enhanced 25 to 30 Pr. Ct. to the emolument of the contracting 
parties. I Say Sir, this has been asserted, and in a land abounding with 
practices of peculation and sacrilegious Robberies of public Money I find 
no difficulty in believing it, hence appears in another view the necessity 
for watchfulness, if the Evil had stopped in the instances alluded to, the 
loss would have been confined, but a door once opened to advanced 
prices corruption becomes contageous, pervades every branch of Com- 
merce, calls for extra Millions, depreciates the value of our Money, and 
threatens bankruptcy, there can be no doubt of the payment of Interest 
Money in Bills of Exchange in terms of the past Resolves of Congress, 
but this is another Evil to be deprecated for the future, an attempt to 
renew this mode of payment will be made. I shall as I did the former, 
oppose it with all my might. Some Gentlemen now see the pernicious 
effects and acknowledge the justness of my predictions but when Men are 
Interested, their sight fails on one side and continues extremely clear in 
the Sinster view 

With respect to the little explanation between your Excellency and 
Genl. Moultrie it is sufficient to intimate that under the Resolves of Con- 
gress of the 9th Febry. Governor Livingston Weeded out a number of 
useless and pernicious staff officers in the State of New Jersey, among 
others a Dep : Qur. Master gen. exactly a Case in point, for which 
I have once returned His Excellency the thanks of Congress, and shall 
repeat the same tomorrow.* 

Your Excellency's refusing to grant Money before an Account of the 
expenditure of former grants had been rendered has been marked with 
particular approbation, more of this will probably appear in the Report 
of the Committee.^ .... 

Doctor Franklin was presented on the 20th March to his Most Christian 
Majesty and now protector of the Rights of Mankind, in the Character 
of Ambassador plenepotentiary from the United States of America and 
was most graciously received, the King at the same time named an Am- 
bassador from his Court to the United States this circumstance has given 
a little fillip to Congress.*^ after living eight Months in a stile some what 

* See the Journals, May 16 (p. 504). The date of the resolution mentioned in 
that entry as of Feb. 19 should be Feb. 9. Cf. the Journals, May 29. 

^ See the Journals, May 14, 26, 29. Cf. nos. 290, 315, post. 

8 The same news is mentioned by the Connecticut delegates in three several 
letters, nos. 291, 293, 294, post. In the letter to Governor Trumbull it is stated that the 
duplicates of the French treaties arrived "yesterday" (Sunday, May 17), and that "by 
the same packet we have advice ", etc. May 19 Richard Henry Lee wrote to Arthur Lee : 
" Your several favors by the Vessel from Spain with duplicates of the treaties with 
France are arrived," etc. (no. 295, post). According to the Journals, May 20, "a dupli- 
cate of despatches" was brought by Capt. Harmon Courter (see also the Journals, 
May 30, June 2, 3; cf. no. 305, note 2, post) ; and James Lovell mentions in a letter to 
Franklin June 20 (Wharton, Kev. Dipt. Corr., 11. 626) that Courter arrived May 18 
(this is of course the day the despatches were delivered to Congress). Precisely when 
Courter left Paris has not been discovered, but he wrote to Franklin from Corufia 
Mar. 13 that he would embark that evening, and from Boston he wrote May 5 that he 
had arrived after a passage of fifty-one days (Calendar of the Franklin Papers, ed. 
Hays, L 376, 413 ; cf. ibid., p. 422) . A letter from the board of war of Massachusetts. 



May, lyyS 249 

below my Overseers in Carolina, we Talk of a Table a Committee is 
appointed for the purpose and I am ordered upon it/ .... 

May 6, read in Congress May i8 (see note 7, below), says: "This will be handed you 
by Capt. Courter, a Gentleman who arrived here yesterday in a French Frigate from 
Corunna Charged with dispatches of great importance for Congress. We have agreeable 
to the desire of our Plenipotentiary there furnished Capt. Courter with every necessary 
for his Journey and most sincerely wish the Contents of the Packetts may be agreeable." 
The date for the reception of the commissioners (Mar. 20) was designated by Vergennes 
Mar. 17 (letter of Gerard, Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 516), and the earliest mention 
of it in the diplomatic correspondence is in a letter of Mar. 19 from Arthur Lee to 
President Laurens (ibid., p. 517), "To-morrow we are to be presented to the King 
of France ". William Lee wrote Mar. 23 : " On the 20th instant your commissioners were, 
in form, introduced to the king and his ministers at Versailles, as the representatives of 
sovereign States, and on Sunday last [Mar. 22] they were introduced to the queen and 
all the royal family" (ibid., p. 517). There is no evidence that these despatches had 
reached Congress May 18. On the other hand, it is clear that Courter could have had 
no knowledge of the reception, inasmuch as he had left Paris sometime beforehand. 
Moreover, the news received by Congress mentioned the reception of Franklin alone. 

A postscript to the letter from the Massachusetts board of war May 6 says : " We have 
this moment receiv'd a Letter from our worthy Friends Mess. Gardoqui and Sons 
Merchants in Bilboa, extract from which we have the Honor to inclose. This most 
important intelligence, of the Truth of which we are fully convinced, must we appre- 
hend, establish the Freedom, and Sovereignty, of the United States beyond a Doubt." 
This extract (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 65, vol. I., f. 342), which bears the date Mar. 30 
and is certified by James Warren, mentions that the post had " this Instant " arrived 
from Paris bringing the news that " Lord Stormond, embassador of the Court of 
England, had departed for London on the 20th Instant, without taking any leave of 
H. M. Christian Majesty", that a declaration of war was expected, etc., and adds: 
" The same letters from Paris also mention, That the Honourable Doctor Franklin had 
also been presented on the 20th to His Most Qiristian Majesty, in quality of Embassador 
of the Thirteen United American States, and that haveing been graciously received as 
such, the King of France had likewise named another for your parts. Those news 
must certainly be depended on, as all the letters confirm the same ; Therefore hope they 
will reach your hands in 40 days from the date hereof." Undoubtedly therefore this 
letter from Gardoqui and Sons, which left Spain seventeen days subsequently to the 
departure of Harmon Courter, but reached Boston only one day behind him, the extract 
of which Courter himself brought to York, was the source of the information obtained 
by Congress May 18 of the official reception. 

'^ The Journals make no record of the appointment of a committee at this time 
specifically upon the subject of the President's table. It does appear, however, that a 
committee (which did not, however, include Laurens), appointed May 18 on a letter 
from the board of war of Massachusetts, drew a report on that subject. This report, 
which is without date, is inserted in the Journals (Library of Congress edition) under 
July 31, where it is stated in an editorial note that it is in the writing of Gouverneur 
Morris, who was not a member of the committee to whom the Massachusetts letter 
was referred Apr. 8. The Journals merely record under Apr. 8 that a letter from the 
Massachusetts board of war, dated Mar. 26, was referred to a committee consisting of 
Dana, Burke, and Chase. An examination of that letter (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 147, 
vol. I., f. 569) shows that it relates to the importation of flour. Again, under May 18, 
the Journals record that a letter from the board of war of Massachusetts, dated Mar. 26, 
" with an extract of a letter of 30, from Mr. Gardoqui and sons, at Bilboa ", were read, 
and that these were referred to Gouverneur Morris, Charles Carroll, and Elbridge 
Gerry. An inspection of this letter of Mar. 26 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 65, vol. I., f. 
292) ^hows that it is a copy of that read Apr. 8 and is followed (on the same sheet) 
by a new letter, dated May 6 (see note 6, above). The latter begins: "The foregoing 
is a Copy of the last letter we did ourselves the honor to write you to which we crave 
reference and now confirm." The copy of the letter of Mar. 26 was therefore essentially 
an enclosure accompanying the letter of May 6, and it is of course in the letter of 
May 6 that mention is made of the extract of the Gardoqui letter of Mar. 30. 

Undoubtedly the fact that the copy of the letter of Mar. 26 preceded the letter of 
May 6 misled Secretary Thomson to inscribe the endorsement, "Letter from the 
board of war of Massachusetts bay 26 March 1778 read 18 May 1778 referred to 
Mr. G. Morris Mr. Carroll Mr. Gerry", and to make the entry in the Journals in the 
same manner, without reference to the letter of May 6, whereas it was actually the 



250 Continental Congress 

We are now taking Measures for obtaining strong proofs of prevailing 
Reports, that the Convention of Saratoga was broken on the part of Great 
Britain, and I am particularly desired by Congress to request Your Ex- 
cellency will without delay, cause an enquiry to be made of Captain Senf 
lately arrived in Charles Town respecting the Colours and Military Chest, 
and to transmit such intelligence by a faithful and expeditious courier, as 
may be received from that Gentleman 

Since his departure from this place it has been repeatedly intimated to 
me, that he had said the Colours had been concealed in part of the Baggage 
declared saved by an article of the Convention and the Cash in the Military 
Chest deposited, in parts, in the hands of the Officers. 

I need not explain to your Excellency the vast importance of a detection 
of these frauds nor the absolute necessity for dispatch, nor that Captn. 
Senff otight to be examined touching other articles besides those above 
mentioned and the whole upon Oath, here we have also been somewhat 
dilatory. I urged the present determination upwards of two Months ago, 
within a few days of Captn. Senf 's leaving this place.^ .... 

After two Months labor on a scheme for half pay to ofiftcers, in which, 
as a Silent auditor and spectator, I was Witness to many excellent and 
some violent strokes in parliamentary Manuevre a long Report of a Com- 
mittee, ridden by amendments and new Resolves, the original project by 
the Grace of God, was the day before yesterday rid to Death, and from 
the Ashes, the inclosed Act of Congress of the 15th May, produced. I 
transmitted it Instantly to the Commander in Chief : I shall learn in a day 
or two, its reception in Camp.^ Congress have now entered heartily upon 
the general Arrangement of the Army and will get through without 
difficulty."" 

Your Excellency will receive in a seperate Packet 13 Sets of Marine 
Commissions etc, all I have at present and all in my opinion that ought to 
be used until amendments suitable to our change of Circumstances are 
made. I have addressed Congress on this subject and hope we shall find 
time for the purpose immediately after finishing the arrangement, also 

latter that was referred to the committee May 18. Strangely enough the committee, 
in drawing the report referred to above, mention the letter which was the subject of 
their consideration as of Mar. 26, although the committee must have had the whole 
communication before them, and certainly knew that the subject-matter assigned them 
was in the letter of May 6 and Hiat they had nothing whatever to do with that of the 
letter of Mar. 26. 

Concerning later action upon the question of the President's table, see the Journals, 
Dec. II, 12, 16, and no. 412, post. 

8 Cf. the Journals, May 15. There is no mention of Senf in this entry, but a 
letter from him to the president of South Carolina, in response to this inquiry, was 
read in Congress Sept. 23. Senf also wrote to Laurens, Aug. 18, concerning the matter 
of the colors : " His Excellency the President Lowndes ordered my [sic] last 'Week 
to give him some Intelligence about Genl. Burgoj'nes Army — according to His Order 
I gave Him in writing about Colours and Arms, which I was told of at Albany, but 
was not present in the Army at the time of the Capitulation." The letter is signed " Jn. 
Christian Senf, Capt. Engr." (Library of Congress, Laurens Papers). See nos. 379, 
383, 462, post. With regard to the inquiry concerning the infraction of the Saratoga 
convention, set the Journals, Jan. 2, 7, and passim. Cf. nos. 20, 21, 30, 42, ante. 

» See the Journals, May 15, and nos. 202, 203, 206, 211, 222, 231, 242, 244, 247, 
255, 258, 267, 282, ante, 288, 292, 293, 298, 299, 302, 314, post. Cf. no. 174, note 2, ante. 
10 See no. 288, note 4, post. 



May, 1778 251 

20 Military Commissions which may serve in cases of exigency until I 
transmit more, with the Report on your Excellency's Letters, the impro- 
priety of my predecessors conduct in signing and Spreading in every 
quarter Commissions in the moment of his retiring was obvious, it has 
been necessary for me to replace thousands in the several departments, 
it did not become me to restrain the act, but a remark escaped my 
Lips " My friend imitates General Vaughan who when he found it ex- 
pedient to withdraw from Hudson's Banks ravaged the Country ". some 
officers inadvertently hold Commissions under such premature signature, 
not worth a rush.^^ .... 



288. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

17th May, [1778.] 
Dear Sir, 

The very morning Colonel Gimat left York I sent to the Board of War 
an extract from your Letter respecting Colonel Armand and desired 
Monsr. Lomagne to attend the Board until a plan shall be digested and 
a Report made to Congress this I esteem the most eligible and most 
expeditious mode for bringing the purpose to effect. 

Your Excellency may rely on my good will and utmost endeavors but 
such crowds of important business now lie before Congress, increasing 
every Morning as almost forbid my hopes of introducing this in a few 
days.^ 

11 Cf. the Journals, May 25, 28 (pp. 531, S47). 

[288]^S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., p. 115. 

2 The letter from Lafayette, an extract of which Laurens had sent to the 
board of war, was probably one of Apr. 21 {S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VIII. 63), 
relative to an independent corps which Colonel Armand desired permission to raise. 
May I Lafayette wrote that he was impatiently waiting to hear that Armand's request 
had been granted {ibid., p. 124) ; and May 10 he wrote by Captain Lomagne, again 
urging consideration of the matter (ibid., p. 128). This was followed by another letter 
on the subject, May 14 (ibid., p. 129). It is the letters of May 10 and 14 to which 
Laurens is here replying. The matter was brought before the board of war probably 
May 12 (Colonel Gimat was the bearer of Laurens's letters of May 11, nos. 264-266, 
ante), and the board appears to have prepared a report upon it May 17, which was not, 
however, brought into Congress until June 25 (see the Journals of that date), and then 
adopted in part only. Cf. nos. 303, 324, 325. 361, post. For the earlier stage of Armand's 
plan see two undated letters from him to Washington, in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: 
Revolutionary Papers, I. 289-291, and Washington's reply to the latter of these. Mar. 25 
(Writings, ed. Sparks, V. 298). With regard to Armand's first commission, see vol. II. 
of these Letters, no. 508, and Robert Morris to 'Washington, May 10, 1777 (Letters to 
Washington, ed. Sparks, I. 375). See also no. 168, ante. Besides the body of Armand 
letters in the N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections, referred to above, there are extracts of a 
number of letters to Robert Morris (1777) in Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, items 313- 
322. One of these, in which he urgently requests Morris to use his influence to have 
him appointed a brigadier-general, is also in Catalogue, no. 1337, item 42. An account 
of Armand, by Townsend Ward, is in Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., II. i, and sketches 
of him are found in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., I. 399, and in Appleton, Cycle. Am. 
Biog. 

Lieutenant-Colonel Gimat was aide-de-camp to Lafayette (see the Journals Feb. 2 
and passim; also Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 219, 220). Lomange was one of those 
made captain Feb. 2 upon Lafayette's recommendation. In his letter of May 10, referred 
to above, Lafayette says : " Mons. de Lomange wants to be a major that I don't believe 
Congress will do but have promised to write you on the subject." 



252 Continental Congress 

I have not been able to collect one more french paper in addition to 
those few sent by Colonel Gimat Mr. Lovel gave me the strongest assur- 
ance those were all he was possessed of or knew where to collect. I will 
keep my attention very closely to future importations. 

Congress having finished after long labour, in a very few Lines, the 
scheme of gratuity for officers non Commissioned Officers and Soldiers 
of the Army ; ^ the general arrangement comes next under consideration.^ 
this work will be prepared by Mr. Govr. Morris and Mr. Dana, to these 
Gentlemen I will present all your Excellency's intimations respecting 
French Gentlemen and I could wish you would speak in a few Lines on the 
subject directly to Mr. Morris and Mr. Dana, there will be time enough, 
we shall get through the scheme in the course of a Week. 

the minute I read the Duke de Noaille's information to the British King, 
I sent for a printer and ordered 500 Copies to be immediately struck ofif 
Congress received the Impressions next Morning with great satisfaction 
and I believe everybody is equally well pleased.^ .... 

289. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO David Espy and Others.^ 

^ ,, Sunday Noon 17th May 1778. 

Gentlemen, ■' ' j 1 1 

Your Petition to Congress under a Cover directed to me, this moment 

came to hand, the little Lad ^ who brought it discovers some anxiety to 

return immediately — for this reason and also because I believe his stay 

here is not necessary I shall detain him no longer than while I assure you 

your Petition shall be presented at the earliest meeting of Congress 

to morrow.^ .... 

290. Henry Laurens to William Moultrie.^ 

Dear General, Y I 77 -1 

On the 13th Inst. I was honoured with your favor of the 20th April; 
the next Morning I presented it to Congress and it was ordered with 

3 See the Journals, May 15. Cf. no. 287, note 9, ante. 

* The report presented by the committee May 18 is evidently that printed as an 
appendix in the Journals, vol. XII., p. 1269. See the Journals, May 18, 19, 20, 26, 27, 29, 
June 2, 9. Cf. no. 287, ante, and nos. 298, 299, 307, 314, post. 

^ In his letter of May 14 (see note 2, above) Lafayette remarks: "I hope the 
Gentlemen of Congress have not been displeased with the letter of my uncle the M" de 
noailles to his brittanick majesty, and the effects it has produced." See no. 278, ante. 
[289]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 325. The address noted in 
the letter-book is, " David Espy, Charles Cosna, Andrew Huston, William Parker, 
and others, Petitioners to Congress, in a Petition dated Bedford 12 May 1778". 

- The Letter-Book contains the memorandum, " Sent by their Messenger George 
Bell". 

3 Laurens nevertheless discoursed at some length upon the enemy's attempts 
to stir up the savages, etc. The petition, which pertained to the dangerous situation 
on the frontier, was read in Congress May 18 and referred to the board of war, to 
whom was referred the same day a letter from Thomas Smith, and on May 19 a letter 
from the Pennsylvania council, all on the same subject. The council's letter (dated 
May 19) is in Pa. Arch., first sen, VI. 524; the letter of Samuel Hunter, which 
accompanied it, is ihid., p. 499. See no. 296, post. 

[290] ^S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter- Book, Mar .-Sept., 1778, p. 127. 



May, 1778 253 

His Excellency president Lowndes's dispatches to a select Committee, 
when a Report is made and I receive Commands you shall be immediately 
informed, in the mean time I may safely assure you the Dep. Qur. Master 
General is liable to suspension by the President, should he. which I hold 
to be impossible, give Cause by improper conduct.' I shall this day return 
thanks to Govr, Livingston for his attention to public Interest by Suspend- 
ing many staff officers among them a person exactly upon a Line with 
Colo. F. Hugen — a dep : Qur. Master appointed by Genl. Mifflin. 

Mr. Dart will probably be confirmed in the office of Dep : Clothier 
general. I believe this article rests pretty much in my own power, arising 
from a singular circumstance, and that Gentleman may depend upon my 
friendship. Will you do me the honor Sir, to present my Compliments to 
Mr. Dart. I beg his pardon for not writing, this respect shall not be 
omitted when I can tell him what he wishes to know.^ .... 



291. Oliver Wolcott to Jonathan Trumbull, jr.^ 

York Town i8th May 1778 
Sir, 

Your Letter of the 30th April to President Laurens, was referred to 
the Board of Treasury. By that Board I am desired to Acquaint you That 
on the Date of your Letter Congress had ordered 250,000 Dollars, and 
100,000 ditto in an order on the Loan Office of N York, to furnish your 
Chest, which I hope before now is reed, by you.- As to the Stile in which 
you ought to be addressed, it should undouptedly conform to the Tenor 
of your Commission. I shall only observe to you, that I beleive it never 
was intended to address you improperly. I suppose that Committees who 
have reported upon Subjects relative to your office thro' mere Inadvertence 
and Ignorance of your proper address, have given your office an improper 
Discription. such Discriptions being found in the Journals of Congress, 
they served tho' improperly as precedents for future address. This I 
apprehend is the Case of the present Error in your Stile. I really beleive 
that Nothing was ever intended in the address, injurious.^ But perhaps 
the President will not Write to you upon the Subject, as I think that he 
will not enter into any Debate upon it, however before long I hope that 
you will have a Stile perfectly unequivocal, as Congress have in Con- 
templation to put the Board of Treasury into Commission, which they 

- See the Journals, May 14, 26, 29 ; cf. no. 287, ante. A copy of the resolutions 
of May 29 was transmitted to Moultrie June i (S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 
p. 156). The deputy quartermaster-general, as the next statement of Laurens shows, 
was Francis Huger. The index to the Journals erroneously assigns the reference of 
May 29 to Col. Isaac Huger. See nos. 315, 634, post. Concerning the action of Governor 
Livingston, which Laurens mentions, see the Journals, May 16. 

•' See the Journals, May 29 (p. 553, erased entry), Aug. 20, Sept. 18. 
[291]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr., vol. L, no. 54. 

- See the Journals, Apr. 30, May 15, June 16. 
" See nos. 53, 84, 85, 98, 148, ante. 



254 Continental Congress 

douptless Will soon Do. In that Case I think it highly probable that you 
will be invited to take a Seat at that Board. ^ 

Yesterday Duplicates of the Treatys with France were bro't to Con- 
gress. Dr. Franklin on the 20th March was formally reed, at the Court 
of Versailles as Ambassador from these States. That Court has Nomi- 
nated a Person to Reside here under a like Character.'* 

Please to Present my Service to my Freind Mr. Peirce, and be assured 
that I am Sir 

Your Most Obedient humble Servant 

Oliver Wolcott 
Jonathan Trumbull Esquire 

292. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene)/ 

r-^y York Town May i8th. 1778 

I have received the powers and instructions respecting the confed- 
eration, and agreeably to a resolution of the house laid the proposed 
alterations and amendments on the table last Wednesday. The confed- 
eration was to have been taken up last Saturday ; but was kept back by some 
pressing business. I do not expect that any of the amendments proposed 
loy our State will take place, excepting that for taking estimates every 
five years. ^ .... 

I infonned the Assembly some time ago that it was proposed in Con- 
gress that half pay for life should be allowed to all military commissioned 
officers, who now or hereafter may be in the service, and continue therein 
during the war, and desired instructions thereon. 

This matter was first agitated in a committee of the whole, afterwards 
amended in Congress, and when amended a question was had, according 
to a previous agreement, whether the proposition should be referred to the 
States for their consideration or not, and passed in the negative by a 
majority of one vote only. The main question was then proposed, and a 
debate ensued, during which it was thrown out by the minority that if the 
half pay was fixed for a term of six or seven years it might produce a 
coalition; whereupon the question was put off to the next day when this 
knotty business was settled according to the inclosed resolution.^ .... 

* A committee report proposing the creation of a new board of treasury, com- 
posed of others than members of Congress, was brought in Apr. 15. July 30 it was 
referred to a committee, which made a report Aug. 13. A plan was adopted Sept. 26. 
For details of the proceedings consult the index to the Journals. Jonathan Trumbull, jr., 
was nominated for the office of comptroller of the treasury Oct. 31 and elected Nov. 3. 
His letter of acceptance, dated Nov. 30, was read in Congress Dec. 15. Cf. the Journals, 
Apr. 12, 13, 22, 1779. 

5 " This Day Duplicates of the Treatys with France were bro't to Congress." 
(Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott, May 17, Conn. Hist. Soc, Wolcott Papers, H. 56.) See no. 
287, note 6, ante, and no. 293, post. 

[292]! John Carter Brown Library; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., LIX. 430. 

2 See the Journals, May 9, 18, and no. 219, note 3, ante. For action on the 
Articles of Confederation see no. 243, note 4, ante, and nos. 293, 306, 336, 339, 2^y, post. 

3 See the Journals, May 13, 15. EUery's account of proceedings indicates that 
the half-pay measure was also discussed on the 14th. For the "previous agreement" 
referred to, see the Journals, Apr. i, and nos. 206, 211, ante. Cf. nos. 287, ante, 293, 
302, post. 



May, 1778 255 

293. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

York Town, May i8th, 1778. 
Sir, 

The inclosd Resolution of Congress is the result of the most painfull 
and disagreable question that hath ever been agitated in Congress." 

The question was stirrd before Col Dyer left Congress, and he will be 
able to give some account of the matter and sentiments of many of the 
States thereon. 

A most disagreable and serious debate hath continued about seven 
weeks, a bill being bro't in for an half pay establishment for life for the 
officers, and to their widows during their widowhood. Several collateral 
questions were determined in the progress of the debate, which shewed 
that eight of the States were in favor of the establishment for life, etc., 
as above; Rhode Island, Connecticutt, New Jersey, and South Carolina 
strenuously in the negative, New Hampshire being absent. 

General Washington wrote repeatedly upon the subject, expressing his 
great concern, and the necessity of the measure. In one of his letters he 
says, that alltho' he never would take any benefit of such an establishment 
himself, yet he did most religiously believe the salvation of the army 
depended upon it; many of the States deemed the measure not only 
absolutely necessary but salutary, just, and reasonable. 

The justice as well as necessity of doing some thing for the army was 
obvious ; to increase their wages would so directly tend to depreciate the 
currency it appeard dangerous as well as futile. 

Finally after long debate and delay, in hope some favorable event might 
turn up, even til delay became dangerous, the bill was carried for an 
establishment for life, but the four States who were in the negative, as 
before mentioned, persevering and urging the dangerous tendency of such 
a measure as being . totally inconsistent with free States, repugnant to 
principals upon which this great controversy was begun and by which 
it must and ought to be defended, with many other arguments and obser- 
vations too tedious to be enumerated, the majority of the delegates of 
Massachusetts came over to the negative side of the question. 

There appearing a serious concern in Congress to adopt some mode in 
this important matter, in which they might unite so as to answer the 
necessities of the army, and preserve harmony and unanimity in all the 
States, a reconsideration of the Bill was proposed and an amendment 
moved and finally adopted, which is the inclosed resolution, providing 
both for officers and soldiers such a reward as should be deemed equal 
in value to their wages at the original stipulation. 

It is allmost impossible to give a clear and full representation of the 
difficulties attending this debate, on both sides the question, to any gentle- 
man who was not present ; however many weighty reasons not here men- 
tioned will readily occur to your Excellency. 

[293]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 231. 

2 The half-pay measure adopted May 15. Cf. no. 287, 292, ante, 302, post. 



256 Continental Congress 

If the inclosd Resolve is not the best measure the nature and circum- 
stances of the case would admit, it is certainly the best that could be 
obtaind. 

Your Excellencies late correspondence with General Tryon meets with 
universal approbation.^ 

We have just receivd intelligence that North Carolina have acceeded 
to the Articles of Confederation; if the delegates from New Hampshire 
should arrive with powers to ratify, which we hope will soon be the case, 
there is a prospect the Confederation may soon be compleated.* 

Duplicates of the Treaties of Alliance and Commerce, with France, 
arrived here yesterday, and by the same packet we have advice that on the 
20th of March Doc'r Franklin was formally receivd as Embassador from 
these States at the Court of Versailes, and that his Most Christian Majesty 
had named an Embassador to reside here.° 
We are, with much esteem, 

Your Excellencies obedient, humble servants, 

Roger Sherman. 
Sam'el Huntington. 
Oliver Wolcott. 

294. Samuel Huntington to Joseph Trumbull.^ 

York Town 19th May 1778 
Sir 

I am favourd with yours of 29th ult. am sorry to say you are not like to 
obtain any money. Congress have adopted a rule not to pay out money to 
any gentleman any considerable time after he is out of Office; until his 
accounts are Settled, it was Urged in your Case, you was not Suppos'd in 
fault, that the accounts were not Settled, but in vain : they Strictly adhere 
to the rule in all Cases, hope therefore your accounts may soon be 
adjusted.^ .... 

3 In a letter of May 5 (read in Congress May 15), acknowledging Laurens's 
letter of Apr. 20, Trumbull wrote : " In Answer to the P. S. you will receive a 
News paper inclosed, which contains what passed on the Subject. Hope it will meet 
your approbation" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 66, vol. I., f. 390). May 28 Trumbull 
transmitted copies of a subsequent correspondence between him and Tryon {ibid., f. 394). 
Tryon had sent to Trumbull, May 21, the acts of Parliament, asking him to send them 
to Boston and the east, and had expressed the hope that they would meet with more 
confidence than the drafts of the bills. Trumbull's reply is dated May 25. See, further, 
the Journals, June 3, and no. 322, post. 

* See the Journals, May 18. Cf. no. 292, ante. 

5 See nos. 287, note 6, 291, ante, and nos. 294, 295, post. George Bryan, vice- 
president of the Pennsylvania council, wrote to Washington May 23 : " As it is appre- 
hended here, that the Marquis de la Fayette has been nominated by the most Christian 
King, Ambassador to the United States of America, and that he may be expected 
shortly to pass thro' this borough in his way to Congress, it would highly oblige the 
Executive Council of this State, if some previous intimation of the time of his Lord- 
ship's Journey could be given by one of the Gentlemen of your Excellency's family, in 
order that due honour might be done to so respectable a personage by this State, as 
far as present circumstances may admit" (Pa. Arch., first sen, VI. 546). Washington 
replied. May 28: "As yet I have had no official information of the Marquiss De La 
Fayette's appointment as ambassador from the Court of France to the United States of 
North America. But when I am advised of such an event, I shall take a pleasure in giving 
the Council previous notice of his departure from the army" {ibid., VI. 558). 
[294]! Conn. State Lib., Joseph Trumbull Papers, no. 169. 

- See the Journals, May 15, 19. 



May, 1778 257 

We have Just receivd Intelligence that Doc'r Franklin on the 20th of 
March was formally receivd as Embassador from these States at the 
Court of versailes and his most Christian Majesty had named an Em- 
bassador from his Court to reside here.^ 



295. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee.^ 

York in Pen, 19 May 1778 
My dear Brother, 

Your several favors by the Vessel from Spain with duplicates of the 
treaties with France are arrived and shall have my most particular 
attention.- .... 

I am astonished at the [impudence]^ and [jugglery] of [Deane] and 
his [associates]. You may depend upon their being [carefully attended] 
to, and as I have found during the progress of this [contest] that the 
[offenders] have been uniformly [discredited] and [punished], so I have 
no doubt it will happen now. Persevere in [honest patriotism] and all 
will be well. [Patience] you know is one of the Cardinal virtues, and in 
this case [we ?] must soon give you [relief] since the late [recall] 
has broken the [faction].* The members of Congress are so perpetually 
changing that it is of little use to give you their Names.^ .... Tis not 
worth while to mention others, you know them not and they are new 
Men 

296. The Board of War to George Washington.^ 

War Office May 19, 1778. 
Sir, 

.... Congress have in contemplation an expedition against Detroit,^ 
or at least into the Indian country, that they may strike at the root of the 
mischief. But should it be resolved on immediately, the necessary prep- 
arations cannot be completed till September ; and until then, such a regular 

3 Cf. nos. 291, 293, ante, 295, post. 
[295]! Univ. of Va., Lee Papers, no. 190; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 408 (except 
passage in cipher). 

- Cf. nos. 287, note 6, 291, 293, 294, ante. 

3 The words in square brackets are written in cipher. See no. 268, ante. 

* On the other hand, Benjamin Harrison, in a letter to Robert Morris June 8 
refers to the Lees as forming a " Cabal ", which is " at present too powerful to afford 
us the least prospect of their removal" (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 607; N. Y. 
Hist. Soc, Collections: Revolutionary Papers, I. 436; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, 
item 25). Cf. nos. 268, 280, ante, 330, 401, post. 

^ Lee gives a list of most, though not all, of the principal members of Congress 
then or recently in attendance or whose credentials had been presented, but includes 
one (AVilliam Williams) who was not then a member. Cf. no. 242, note 8, ante. 

[296]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCV. 5; Pa. Arch., first ser., 
VI. 528. 

2 A resolution to undertake an expedition against Detroit was adopted June 11, 
in consequence of a report from a committee appointed May 6, on letters from the 
commissioners at Fort Pitt, Apr. 27. The expedition was abandoned July 25. With 
regard to the appointment of General Mcintosh to command at Fort Pitt, see no. 282, ante. 



258 Continental Congress 

force as we have mentioned, on the frontiers, appears to us indis- 
pensible.^ .... 

297, The Committee of Foreign Affairs to Jesse(?) Brown.' 

[May 19, 1778.] 

Instructions for the Express 
Mr Brown ^ 

Directions have been sent for one Vessel to be prepared in Connecticut, 
two in Massachusetts bay and one in New Hampshire : ^ and you have 
packets marked A. B. C of great importance put under your care, which 
you are to carry with proper secresy and dispatch, and to dehver according 
to the following directions. 

3 The board transmitted to Washington a copy of a letter from Thomas Smith, 
written from Bedford, Pennsylvania, May 11 (see the Journals, May 18; also no. 289, 
ante), relative to the "distressed condition of the frontiers", indicating danger not 
only from the Indians, but also from the disaffected inhabitants, many of whom are 
" a wild ungovernable race, little less savage than their tawny neighbors ; and by 
similar barbarities have in fact provoked them to revenge". The board suggested that 
Washington despatch a detachment of his army thither. A report of the board relative 
to conditions in western Pennsylvania is in the Journals, May 19. See Pa. Arch., first 
ser., VI. 436, 438, 445, 447, 458, 459, 460, 467, 469, 4/8, 505, S06, 524, 526, 528, 530. 

[297]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Corrg., no. 79, vol. I., f. 232 (letter-book 
copy) . 

2 This is presumed to have been Jesse Brown, who served as express messenger 
during several years, particularly between Connecticut and the seat of Congress. See 
the Journals, Oct. 21, 1777, Mar. 17, 22, July 3, 1779, Jan. 8, Mar. 23, 1780, July 10, ir, 1781. 

3 The directions referred to were letters. May 5, from the marine committee to 
the commissioners of the navy board of the Eastern department at Boston to John 
Langdon, naval agent at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, and to Governor Trumbull of 
Connecticut. They are found in Paullin, Out-Letters of the Marine Committee, I. 234- 
235. Cf. no. 257, ante. The despatches to be conveyed were the ratification of the 
French treaties and the letters of May 14-16 to the commissioners at Paris. With the 
three several packets of despatches, the express messenger carried also letters from 
the committee of foreign affairs, bearing the date May 19, copies of which are in the 
Letter-Book, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. I., ff. 230 et scq. That to Governor Trum- 
bull is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 234. That to the council of Massa- 
chusetts is in Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), I. 407 (with the conjectural 
date May 15). The despatches were to be given in charge to "a trusty Captain, to 
deliver with his own hands to our Commissioners at Paris. Your wisdom will dictate 
pointed orders for conveying the Packets, without injury, with secresy and dispatch, 
but for sinking them in case the Vessel should be unfortunately taken ". Governor 
Trumbull sent his packet (presumably "A", the originals) by Capt. Robert Niles of 
the schooner Spy, May 29 (letter to the commissioners, in Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin 
Papers, IX. 199), and the Massachusetts council sent one of their packets by Capt. Corbin 
Barnes of the Despatch, June 9 (letter to the commissioners, ibid., LIII. 68). The 
instructions from the navy board to Captain Barnes, June 8, are in the University of 
Pennsylvania, Franklin Papers, X. 4Sa ; those from the Massachusetts council to Captain 
Barnes are ibid., X. 45b. The despatches carried by Captain Niles were delivered to 
the commissioners July 8 or 9 (see Adams to Lovell, July 9, Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., 
II. 642, Franklin to Lovell, July 22, ibid., p. 656, and Izard to Laurens, July 25, ibid.. 
p. 661). Franklin states in a letter to Governor Trumbull July 22 that Captain Niles 
had arrived after a passage of twenty-two days (Library of Congress, Franklin Papers). 
He was in Brest July 4 (Lieut. Thomas Simpson to Niles, July 4, Am. Phil. Soc, 
Franklin Papers, XLVII. 124). The ratifications were exchanged July 17 (Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., pp. 648, 650). Captain Barnes appears to have arrived July 25 (see 
Adams to Lovell, July 26, ibid., p. 664 ; cf. the commissioners to the committee of 
foreign affairs July 29, ibid., p. 672. Captains Niles and Barnes were both captured on 
the return voyage (Robert Grinnell to the commissioners Sept. 15, Am. Phil. Soc, Frank- 
lin Papers, XI. 144; Jonathan Williams to the commissioners Sept. 22, ibid.. XXXVII. 
162; Niles to Franklin Oct. 27, ibid., XII. 89) 



May, lyyS 259 

If his Excellency Governor Trumbull has a Vessel quite ready, at your 
arrival there, you will deliver A to him. If he is but in expectation of 
having one ready shortly, leave B with him. If he has no prospect or 
only a distant one, carry all the packets to Boston where you are to leave 
A B with the honorable President of the Council, and to proceed with C to 
Portsmouth, where you are to deliver it to the Continental agent John 
Langdon Esq, taking receipts for each delivery. Should you convey from 
Connecticut only two sorts, deliver but one at Boston, unless both Vessels 
are ready or will be ready in the time that will be required for your 
proceeding to Portsmouth. Should you proceed to the last mentioned 
place, and find Col Langdon not prepared, you will let him know the 
state of the business at Boston and Connecticut, so that he may use his 
judgement about the keeping the packet for an opportunity of conveyance, 
or sending it back to one of the other two places. 

298. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.^ 

York Town 20th, May 1778. 
Sir, 

I had this Morning the honor of receiving and presenting to Congress 
Your Excellency's favor of the 1 8th. which is Committed to the Committee 
on the Army. 

Inclosed Your Excellency will receive extract of a Letter from General 
Sullivan of the 3d Inst, and an Order of Congress thereon.^ Also one 
branch of the Army arrangement, which Congress Resolved this Morning, 
for establishing a Provost, the transmission of this detailed article 
arises from an opinion in Congress that the measure ought to be immedi- 
ately carried into Execution ^ 

A proposition having been intimated for allowing subsistence Money 
to Officers in lieu of part of the customary Rations, this article and that 
of Pay are reserved as the last points for consideration.^ the present 
prospect induces me to believe the whole intended arrangement will be 
finished in the course of this Week, possibly to morrow. 
[P. S.] Congress have adopted the Stile of the Treaties of Paris, " the 
United States of North America." ^ 
His Excellency General Washington. 

[298]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIL 51 ; ibid., President's 
Letter-Book, L 328. 

2 See the Journals, May 20. 

3 The complete army arrangement is found in the Journals under May 27. 
There is no indication in the Journals that the section estabHshing a provost was 
adopted May 20. See the Journals, May 18, 19, 20, 26, 27; also nos. 287, 288, ante, and 
nos. 299, 307, 314, post. 

* See the Journals, June 2, 6. 

■* In a postscript to a letter to Gates May 19, Laurens says, " This morning 
improved our Stile. The United States of North America in conformity to the 
Treaties of Paris the 6th Febry" (N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIL; Library of 
Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 327) ; and there is a similar statement in a letter 
to Governor Clinton May 23 {ibid., 1. 332), "Congress have adopted the Stile intro- 
duced in the Treaties of Paris of the 6th Febry. ' the United States of North America ' ". 



260 Continental Congress 

299. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO GeORGE WASHINGTON/ 

York Town 21st May 1778. 
D'r Genl, 

We are going- on with the regimental Arrangements as fast as possible 
and I think the Day begins to appear with Respect to this Business. Had 
our Saviour addressed a Chapter to the Rulers of Mankind as he did 
many to the Subjects I am persuaded his Good Sense would have dictated 
this Text. Be not wise overmuch. Had the several Members which com- 
pose our multifarious Body been only wise enough Our Business would 
long since have been compleated. But our superior Abilities or the Desire 
of appearing to possess them lead us to such exquisite Tediousness of 
Debate that the most precious Moments pass unheeded away like vulgar 
Things.^ .... 

As to your Friend who hath thought proper to demand of you a Com- 
mand, I did beleive from the first that his Resignation was like some 
former ones from the same Quarter meerly calculated to gain other 
Promotion or Favor or Revenge. I was therefore lead to expect that his 
Merits and our Misfortune in loosing him would become the Topick of 
Declamation and took the earliest Opportunity to express in the very 
strongest Terms my Satisfaction my Joy at the Receipt of the Letter 
from him and of Consequence to assign the Reasons why this Event 
gave me so much Pleasure. This gave a very different turn to Affairs. 
Panegyrick dwindled to Apology and no Opposition was made to the 
main Point of accepting his Resignation. The next Day I was informed 
that he did not intend to resign that his Letter was quite misunderstood etc. 
The Gentleman however had been so unlucky as to use the most pointed 
Terms and therefore his Aid from whom the Information came was told 
that the Observations he made came too late. I am persuaded that he will 
attempt to get reinstated if the least Probability of success appears but 
I am equally persuaded that his Attempts will fail. I believe his Friends 
are hitherto of the same Opinion and therefore we have as yet had no 
attempts made in Congress and possibly we never shall ^ 

No specific resolve to this effect is recorded, but in determining (May 19) the form of 
bills of exchange to be drawn on the commissioners in Paris that designation was 
adopted. However, on July 11 it was resolved to omit the word "North" from these 
bills of exchange (see no. 399, post). The reversion to the original style was probably 
due to the recollection that the name used in the Declaration of Independence and 
definitely incorporated in the Articles of Confederation was " The United States of 
America". A note by this editor on "The Name 'United States of America'" may be 
found in Am. Hist. Rev., vol. XXXI. 79 (Oct., 1925). A related study, by Mr. John C. 
Fitzpatrick, is '" The ' United States of America ' and the ' U. S. A.' ", in Daughters of 
the American Revolution Magazitie, LIV. 17, and in his volume of essays, The Spirit 
of the Revolution. 

[299]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIII. 178; Sparks, Life of 
Gouverneur Morris, I. 167. 

- The arrangement was completed May 2y. Cf. nos. 287, 288, 292, 293, 298, ante, 
307, 314, post. 

3 The allusion is to Conway. See the Journals, Apr. 28, and no. 242, ante. Cf. 
nos. 317, 319, 320, post. Morris is replying to a letter from Washington May 18 
{Writings, ed. Ford, VII. 16, ed. Sparks, V. 370; Sparks, Life of Gouverneur Morris, 
I. 166). 



May, 1778 261 

I wish you would contrive to get the necessary Returns from Maryland 
Troops and others who have not made them so as that the arrangement 
may take Place as soon as possible 

300. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO GeORGE WASHINGTON. '^ 

York Town Saturday Morning 
23d May [1778.] 
Dear General, 

.... Congress having determined on the Affair of the Prisoners, 
and (in my opinion wisely) dropt for the present all Mention of Citizens ; 
you will probably be enabled to negotiate a Cartel.^ .... 

301. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.^ 

York Town 25 May 1778. 
Sir, 

My last to Your Excellency was under the 21st by Wilkinson. 

Doctor Scudder on his return to New Jersey is so obliging as to take 
charge of this, and also of a Packet containing 100 Copies of an Act of 
Congress, half of these in En[g]lish and the other half in German, 
Recommending to the several States to exempt from Militia duty and to 
disqualify for acting as Substitutes all Prisoners and Deserters from 
the British Army and Navy during the present War. Congress apprehend 
that a proper dispersion of these Acts in the Neighborhood of the Camp 
and even in the Enemy's Garrison if practicable, will produce good effects. 
more of these shall be sent upon the first intimation from Your Excellency.^ 

302. James Lovell to William Whipple.^ 

York Town May 25th, 1778 
Dear Sir 

.... General Folsom and Commodore Frost ^ are I hope safely 
arrived. They can tell you a long story about an half pay establishment 

[300] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIIL 195; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. IIL, f. 252. 

2 See the Journals, May 21. Cf. nos. 139, 188, 202, 233, 235, ante. 

[301]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIL 58; ihid., President's 
Letter-Book, L 335. 

2 See the Journals, May 22; also the Bibliographical Notes, ibid., XIL 1286. 
Cf. ibid., Feb. 26, Mar. 13, 26, Apr. 23, 29. Laurens had sent the act on the day of its 
passage, May 22, to Francis Bailey, at Lancaster, asking him to print 500 copies " in 
hand Bills in pure German ". Copies both in English and in German were sent to most 
of the governors (also to General Heath) w^ithin the next two or three days, accompanied 
by similar comment on the act. Those to Governor Clinton were enclosed with a 
letter dated May 23 (President's Letter-Book, I. 332). On the question of the enlistment 
of deserters and prisoners, see Washington's letter to Jeremiah Powell, president of the 
Massachusetts council, May 19 {Writings, ed. Sparks, V. 375) ; also nos. 311, 324, 
325, post. 

[302]! Library q{ Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 489. 

2 George Frost had followed the sea for some twenty years and had been 
captain of a merchant vessel. The title " Commodore " here applied to him was doubtless 
one of courtesy only. 



262 Continental Congress 

it's origin, progress and impediments till they left this place. After being 
carried, barely, for life, it was by an effort made redeemable at six year's 
purchase and after a while, made absolute by a sort of common consent, 
for 7 years. 1 1 States were unanimous. Only Genl W of Connecticut and 
myself were nay, of individuals.^ I hope as it has passed that the people 
will be reconciled to it. None out of Congress can sufficiently know the 
necessity though they may judge as well as we about the justice and feel 
the impropriety 

303. Henry Laurens to Baron Steuben.^ 

York Town 25th May 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

I had the honor of writing to you the nth Inst, by Colo. Gimad which 
remains unacknowledged although I have since received your favors of the 
1 6th and 21st. the former I presented to Congress^ the latter lies 
before me. 

There is so great a reluctance in Congress to listen to applications for 
New Commissions, until the arrangement of the Army is completed, I 
had judged it best to wait that event before I introduced the name of 
Monsr. L'Enfant, but seeing you so pressingly desire it, I will apply 
to morrow Morning. If we succeed, you will have gained a preferrence to 
Marquis de la fayette and to Your humble Servant, the Marquis has long 
since applied in favour of Colo. Armand and Officers in his intended 
Corps, and I, for a Brigadier's Commission which has been due to my 
own State upward of three Months, both have been postponed, you shall 
hear from me on this head after to morrow's adjournment.^ I shall prevail 
on some of my friends to move for ordering two good Horses to be 
purchased for Baron Stiiben ; in this attempt, I flatter myself we shall not 
fail* every Gentleman appears possessed of a proper sense Sir, of your 
Merit, and I am persuaded Congress are disposed to testify their acknowl- 
edgements 



304. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO John Stark. ^ 

25 May [1778.] 
Sir 

Your favor of the 20th April did not reach me till the 12th Inst, when 
I immediately presented it to Congress, and received directions to inform 

3 The reference is to the vote of May 15, in which the only nays were Lovell and 
Wolcott. See nos. 287, 288, 292, 293, 298, 299, ante, 307, 314, post. 

[303] ^N. Y. Hist. Soc, Steuben Papers, I.; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 
Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 139; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XV. 76. 

~ See the Journals, May 20. 

3 In regard to L'Enfant, see no. 309, post. Concerning Armand, see no. 288, 
note 2, ante, and the Journals, June 25; also IDuane to Washington Jan. 29, 1779, in the 
next volume of these Letters. 

* See the Journals, May 26, and no. 309, post. 
[304]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 336. Addressed to Brigadier- 
General Stark, Fish Kill. 



May, lyyS 263 

you that it has not been the practice of Congress to grant Commissions to 
Brigade Majors, that therefore the further consideration of your appH- 
cation requesting a Commission for your Son Majr. Caleb Stark must be 
suspended until the arrangement of the Army which is now a subject of 
deliberation before the House be completed ; if it shall be determined to 
grant such Commissions Mr. Stark will undoubtedly receive one. hitherto 
Brigade Major has been appointed by the Commander in Chief or the 
Commander in a seperate department. I apprehend therefore an appoint- 
ment or confirmation of appointment by the Honble. Major Genl. Gates 
will entitle Major Starke to the usual Rank and emoluments.^ 



305. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

York Town May 25, 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

Your favor by Capt. Colter ^ overtook me on the Road ; agreably to 
your Request I immediately on my Arrival here mentiond to a Gentleman 
of the Marine Committee the Necessity and Importance of keeping your 
Board duly supplyd with Cash to enable you effectually to do the Duty of 
your Department, and was told that 50 m Dollars had been lately remitted 
to you.^ I will not fail to do what in me lies to forward that Service, as 
our Navy has always lain near my Heart 

I recollect that your Election of Councillors will come on the Day after 
tomorrow. Has Mr. ^ waited for the Event of that important Day? 

or is he on his Journey to this Place? It is a Matter of so much uncertainty 
here, that Nothing, I suppose prevents many Wagers being laid upon it, 
but its being not of so much Moment as some others. Was he present 
here, he might, if he pleased, vindicate me against a Report which has 
given Occasion to ni}^ Friends to rally me, that I have been called to 
Account and severely reprehended at a Boston Town Meeting for being 

2 See the Journals, May 13, 19 (p. 509). 
[SOsl^Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 209; Warren-Adams Letters, II. 11. 

2 Doubtless Capt. Harmon Courter. See no. 287, note 6, ante. The letter brought 
by Courter was probably that dated May 8, in Warren-Adams Letters, II. 8. 

3 An order for $50,000 for the use of the navy board at Boston is recorded in the 
Journals as having been passed May 23, two days after Adams's arrival in Congress, 
and at a time when Adams appears to have been present. The only other recent appro- 
priation for that board was $100,000, Apr. 4. As this sum was in three separate warrants 
of $40,000, $30,000, and $30,000, it is not likely that the remittance referred to was a 
part of the latter appropriation. 

4 Hancock. In a postscript to the letter of May 8 (see note 2, above) Warren 
wrote, "Mr. Hancock talks of going in a day or two". May 31 he wrote: " Doctr 
Holton is waiting for General Hancock, who I hear took a pompous Leave of the 
House Yesterday by going up and shakeing Hands with the Speaker, etc., after 
moving for leave to return soon if his health would not admit of his Tarrying long. 
I suppose a Cavelcade will attend him, Subscriptions for that purpose haveing been 
Circulated for a week. I believe he will go Tomorrow, you will provide for his 
reception as you think fit" (Warren-Adatns Letters, II. 13). To John Adams he wrote, 
June 7 : " The Great Man Tarried here till after Election, and then went off with the 
Pomp and retinue of an Eastern Prince" (ibid., p. 20). Cf. nos. 362, 396, 409. 4^0, 
518, post. 



264 Continental Congress 

in a Conspiracy against a very great Man.^ You know how little I care 
for such Rumours. It is easy for me to conjecture by what Means it 
extended it self from Manheim, where I first heard it, to York Town ; and 
it may not be difficult to guess how it came from Boston to that Place. 
Manheim is about 12 Miles East of the Susquehanna; there lives 
Mr. R. M.," a very intimate Acquaintance of my excellent Friend. Mr. H. 
is said to be on the Road, but no one makes it certain. When he arrives 
Messrs. Gerry and Dana propose to set off for N. England. I shall be 
mortified at their leaving us, for I verily think that the Accession even of 
that Gentleman will not make up for the Absence of the other two. 

I am happy to find C ^ in perfect good humour and attentive to Business, 
though so hard put to it in this place, as hardly to have a Room a peice, in 
which to write a Letter to a Friend. It brings to my Mind the Circum- 
stances and Temper of the old Deputies who sat down under a Tree to 
eat their Bread and Cheese. This is the Kind of Men who are the Terror 
of Tyrants. I hope I shall shortly be able to write you something of 
Importance, from the Army at least. In the meantime Vale at me aina. 

306. JOSIAH BarTLETT to THE PRESIDENT OF NeW HAMPSHIRE 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

York Town May the 27th, 1778. 
Hand. Sir 

.... The Confederacy is not yet ratified, North Carolina being un- 
represented and two or three of the other States not having impowered 
their Delegates to Confirm it; It is the opinion here that it will be 
Universally agreed to.^ .... 

307. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO GeORGE WASHINGTON.^ 

In Congress 27th May 1778. 
Dear General. 

I have a Word to say to you upon the Subject of Promotion which 
we have just now finished or rather unfinished at least if that Matter was 
before in an unfinished Situation. That famous incomprehensible Balti- 
more Resolution (unluckily perhaps) introduced a very tedious Debate 
which terminated at Length by rejecting the whole of what the Committee 

^ Evidently Washington is meant. Adams wrote to an unknown correspondent 
Oct. 26, "I have heard that my Enmity to G. W. was objected agt me on a late 
Occasion" (IVritings, IV. 83); and Mar. 23, 1779, he wrote to Warren: "Last year, 
as you observe, I was an Enemy to General Washington. This was said to render me 
odious to the People. The Man who fabricated the Charge did not believe it himself " 
(ibid., IV. 140). See also nos. 602, 635, post. 

^ Robert Morris. 

'^ Congress. 
[306] 1- Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 32; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, p. lo8. 

2 Cf. nos. 243, 292, 293, ante, and nos. 336, 339, 367, post. 
[307]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIII. 239; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), II. 129; Sparks, Life of Gouverneur Morris, I. 170 (except the addition 
of May 28). 



May, 1778 265 

reported with relation to the Promoting of Officers.^ You may be a little 
surprised when I tell you that upon the whole matter I believe this is best. 
But how ? It is true I confess that much Ground of Heartburning is left 
under the Baltimore Resolution governing these matters by the misterious 
trinity of Seniority Merit and Quota. Let me however on the other Hand 
observe that to tie up the Hands of the Republic as to the Officers whom 
they are to appoint is utterly inconsistent with the republican Principles 
of Government which ought to prevail among us. No Danger it is true 
can arise at present but my Dear Sir we are laying Foundations and how 
posterity in future Wars may build on the Foundations laid by Ancestors 
whom they will certainly reverence no Man can be hardy enough to assert. 
What then you will say is the Effect of the new Rule ? In my poor Opinion 
it is no Rule. What then is the use of the Resolution? Nothing more 
than an x\pology for Officers whom it may be found necessary to super- 
sede. Congress in Effect seem to have pledged themselves to their Constit- 
uents that they will pay a due attention to the Quota of Troops furnished 
by the States respectively, to the seniority of the Several Officers, and to 
that Degree of military Abilities which Nature or Industry may have 
conferred upon deserving Individuals. You ask me what is to be the 
Rule of Promotion below the Degree of a General Officer. I answer that 
Congress could not with propriety make any Rule. They have given to the 
States the Power of appointing- the Officers in their own Regiments, of 
Consequence therefore it would be idle to restrict them as to the persons 
whom they shall appoint. It will therefore be necessary to make Appli- 
cation to the several States on the occasion. They have already I believe in 
most Instances given you the necessary Power and if so then to fix the 
Order of Promotion will be only a Limitation of such Power, What are 
my Ideas on the Occasion you will see by the Letter I enclose directed to 
Governor Clinton which you will do me the Honor to transmit to him. 

I am Dr General most sincerely yours 

GouvR. Morris 

York Town 28th May. 
We are going on with the Arrangement of the Army with charming 
rapidity after a long Stop, a very little Time will I hope compleat it.^ 
I hear you expect soon to be in Philadelphia. In my Opinion the Instant 
the Enemy Evacuate it the best Disciplined Troops in the Army should 
be marched in and the several Inhabitants ordered on Pain of military 
Execution to confine themselves to their Houses. Proper Persons should 
then be sent to the several Stores to make out Lists of the Goods contained 
in them. From these Lists you should mark the Articles which may be 
necessary for the Army the Hospital and the like. The next Step should 

2 See the Journals, May 27 ; cf. the report printed in an appendix to the Journals, 
XII. 1269 (probably that presented by the committee, May i8). See also the Journals, 
Nov. 24, 1778. The Baltimore resolution to which Morris alludes was that of Feb. 19, 
1777- See these Letters, vol. II., nos. 363-365- Cf. the Journals, May 10, Dec. 27, 1776, 
and July 17, 1777. See also a committee report in the Journals, May 11, 1779. Cf. nos. 
288, note 4, 298, 299, ante, and no. 314, post. 

^ See the Journals, IMay 29, June 4. 



266 Continental Congress 



t>' 



be to levy a Contribution of at least £100.000 Stg. in hard Money which 
ought to be apportioned upon the Inhabitants according to their wealth 
and disaffection. They may then be permitted to go about their usual 
Occupations. But the Quarter Master should take proper Stores and 
therein lodge under Guard the Articles by you marked and Receipts should 
be by him given at the Rate such Goods Sold immediately before the 
Evacuation and duphcates of such Receipts forthwith transmitted to the 
Treasury Board. The Propriety of these Steps I will not dilate upon. But 
should they be pursued I think the most beneficial Consequences would 
accrue to the public.'* 

I am once more Yours 

GouvR. Morris 

308. Henry Laurens to Philip Schuyler.^ 

28th May [1778.] 
Sir, 

The day before yesterday I had the honor of receiving and presenting to 
Congress your favors of the 9th and nth Inst, together with Copy of the 
Message from the Oneida, which were immediately committed to the 
Board of War a Report from thence has not yet come up and I remain 
without commands from the House. You will therefore Sir do me the 
honor to receive this as private, which I dispatch partly to gratify your 
Messenger who discovers much anxiety to return, but principally from a 
feeling of my own, a repugnance to delay and holding coadjutors, in the 
service of my Country, in suspense when 'tis in my power by any decent 
means to releive them 

Permit me Sir, to congratulate with you on your Reelection to Con- 
gress. Self Intrest as well as love of Country prompt my wishes for your 
appearance 

I must not conclude, however troublesome I may have already been, 
without intimating, that Mr. Drayton yesterday shewed me some parts of 
an intended Report on the Ticonderoga affair, hence I expect that business 
will be speedidly brought on the Carpet and finished.^ .... 

309. Henry Laurens to Baron Steuben.^ 

29th May [1778.] 
Dear Sir, 

Just as I had predicted when I had the honor of writing to you by 
Doctor Scudder the 25th so it happened, the next Morning I presented 
your Letter to Congress, a Motion was presently made to postpone the 
consideration of granting a Commission to Monsr. L'Enfant until the 

* See Washington's letter to Congress May 31, in Writings (ed. Sparks), V. 393; 
also the Journals, June 2, 3, 4, and nos. 317, 323, 328, 332, post. 

[308]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 142. The letter is 
addressed to Schuyler at Fish Kill " by Mr. Scous ". 

^ See the Journals, May 26, June 3, 9, 11, 12, 20, and nos. 330, 338, 369, post. 
Cf. nos. 181, note 4, 232, 243, ante. 

[309]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 144. 



May, 17/8 267 

Army arrangements shall be completed and so it passed.^ I then informed 
the House, I had heard the Baron Stiiben, who went through much Duty 
in Camp, was reduced to the necessity often of walking on foot from a 
want of a good Horse, an order immediately took place that the Quarter 
Master General provide two good Horses for the use of Baron Stiiben, 
and by this conveyance I shall transmit the order.^ 

I conceive Sir, your Certificate hereafter of the usefulness of Monsr. 
L'Enfant in the Army will entitle him to pay and Rations but I cannot 
hazard even a conjecture concerning a Commission until the arrangement 
is completed, this I hope will be in a few days 

310. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

29 May, [1778.] 
My dear Marquis, 

.... I consulted Colo. R. H. Lee on the propriety of presenting your 
Excellency's other Letter to Congress, he advises, not for the present, for 
reasons which when we have further conversation on the subject shall be 
communicated to your Excellency.^ .... 

311. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO William Augustus Atlee.^ 

29 May [1778.] 
Sir 

I received by the hand of Count de Montfort ^ your favor of the 26th. 
after some conversation with that Gentleman he took leave fully convinced 
that his attempts to enlist prisoners of War had been contrar}^ to the 
Resolution of Congress under which he was authorized to Act your oppo- 
sition was consequently well founded and your conduct commendable.^ 

2 See no. 303, ante. The Journals contain no record at this time of any action 
of Congress relative to L'Enfant. He was made a captain Apr. 3, 1779. 

3 See no. 303, ante, and the Journals, May 26. As long ago as Apr. 18 
John Laurens had suggested to his father that Congress might appropriately present 
Baron Steuben with an elegant saddle horse {Army Correspondence, p. 160). 

[310]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 146. 

2 The letter of Lafayette to which Laurens here alludes was doubtless that 
dated May 25, in 5". C. Hist, and Getical. Mag., VHL 130. In that letter Lafayette says : 
" I have the honor to send you a pacquet for Congress which I beg you would examine 
and afterwards communicate to them — this scheme calculated upon some ideas of mine 
seem to me of an high moment for the united states ", etc. It appears from subsequent 
letters that the project proposed was some sort of combined French and American 
attack upon the British in the West Indies. See nos. 313, 361, post. 

[311]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, I. 343. 

2 Count Julius de Montfort was appointed major in Pulaski's corps Apr. 18. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 26, Mar. 13, 28, May 22. Cf. nos. 177, 276, 288, 301, ante. 
The board of war wrote to Atlee (deputy commissary of prisoners at Lancaster) and 
other commissaries of prisoners May 27 : " Altho 'tis prohibited to inlist prisoners or 
deserters into the Common battalions ; yet tis understood that for the purpose of Com- 
pleting Genl. Pulaski's independent Corps he should be permitted to inlist both " 
(Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 78, vol. I., f. i77). The board then 
proceeds to instruct Atlee to facilitate the enlistments, with certain exceptions. Atlee 
replied to this letter of Laurens June 2: "I am happy in the approbation of Congress; 



268 Continental Congress 

312. Daniel Roberdeau to the Acting President of Pennsylvania 

(George Bryan)/ 

York, May 30 1778 
Sir, 

Mr. Robert Craig, a commissioner of Cloathing, appointed, as he 
informs, by this State,^ appHed to the Board of War and the Board to 
Congress on his behalf thro the Dellegates of this State for a supply of 
Cash for his Department, on a Representation that he had expended 
Twenty thousand pounds, and could not perform the duties of his Office 
with a less Sum than Ten thousand pounds. This affair came into Con- 
gress in so vague a manner from a representation that our Treasury was 
exhausted, therefore the Requisition was made to Congress, without 
Mr. Craig's having it in his power to produce an Inventory or inform 
where the Goods were deposited, but in general that they were in the hands 
of a number of reputable people in the County of Lancaster, from these 
Considerations, and plainly seeing that Congress would not comply with 
any such request, but through the State immediately or the Dellegates 
thereof, I withdrew the application to have an opportunity to infonn you, 
as also that I have not the least doubt but Congress would most readily 
advance the State for the Clothiers Department on a proper application 
as above.^ 

313. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

31 May, [1778.] 
Dear Sir, 

.... from the remarks in your Excellency's present Letter I am not 
displeased with the late determination to withhold that which relates to a 
West India enterprize. when I catch Colo. R, H. Lee half an hour at 
leisure we will endeavour to produce from the two, a proper representation, 
as from Your Excellency, to Congress." .... 

but from the tenor of your Letter, fear I have since that acted contrary to their senti- 
ments. The Count on the 29th of last Month on his return from York brought me a 
letter from the War office dated the 27th (of which the inclosed is a Copy) directing 
me to suffer Genl. Pulaski's officers to recruit such of the Hessian Prisoners as are 
not Shoemakers or Tailors, who are not married in Europe, nor have wives in the 
Enemy's possession — and desiring me to facilitate their inlistment as far as in my power. 
This letter being brought by the Count, I concluded Congress had referred the matter 
to the Board of 'War and that it contained all the answer I had to expect to my Letter 
to you. I therefore, in obedience to it, not only encouraged the Hessians to inlist, but 
gave the Count a certified Copy of it, that he might meet with no opposition from the 
Commissaries of Prisoners in other places" (ibid., f. 173). See nos. 324, 325, postj and 
cf. the Journals, June 25, Sept. 29, Nov. 24. 

[312]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll.; Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 567. 

- See a letter from Craig to the council of safety Nov. 27, 1777, in Pa. Arch., first 
ser., VL 41. 

' See no. 328, post. 
[313]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 151. 

- See no. 310, ante. The letter of Lafayette here referred to is probably one 
written between May 25 and June i, which has not been found. In a letter of June i 
(5. C. Hist, and Gene al. Mag., VIII. 181), Lafayette says: "Whatever you think 
proper, my dear Sir, I heartily approve, therefore I have no objections to your keeping 
my west indian proposition as long as you please." See no. 361, post. 



May, 1778 269 

314. William Ellery to William Whipple.^ 

York Town May 31st 1778. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... France hath been disposed to enter into an alliance with us and 
upon terms of equality and reciprocity, herein discovering a mag-nanimity 
worthy of the most Christian King. We have illuminations and fired our 
feu de joie on this occasion, and it is already become an old story. We are 
now looking out for further alliances and commissioners from Britain to 
treat with us. We have not as yet heard that war was declared between 
France and Britain. It will be inevitable unless Britain can bring down 
her proud stomache to relish sound policy, to acknowledge our Inde- 
pendency, and make peace with us. Whether the haughty insolent Thane 
can stoop to this or not you are a good judge. I should with you, perhaps, 
have been willing that France should have continued in her usual way to 
have supported us, had not I in contemplation the divesting of Britain of 
every foot of land upon this Continent. I think it absolutely necessary to 
a future, lasting peace that we should be possessed of Canada, Nova 
Scotia and the Floridas, which we cannot so well effect without the open 
assistance of France 

Your plan for a Navy is approved excepting that part of it which pro- 
poses the turning of the 74 gun ships into frigates which Mr. Landais, 
whom the Committee imagine is a very good judge thinks would not do. 
He hath proposed that they should be constructed to carry only two 
batteries ; the lower battery to consist of twenty eight 24 pounders and the 
upper one of as many 18 pounders. In this way he says that the 56 gun 
ship will make as good a battle as a 74, be stronger, sail faster, take less 
men, be built quicker and be much cheaper. The Committee have laid his 
scheme before Congress : it was approved and I suppose the Committee 
will direct Mr Langdon to pursue the building of the intended 74 on 
Landais plan.^ .... 

Congress have lately passed a resolution punishing cowardice with 
death. A little Bynging ^ Avould be of infinite service. Capt. Thompson is 
suspended, and Barre * appointed to the Command of the Raleigh ; and it 
is proposed that the Warren and Raleigh should sail on a cruize in Com- 

[314] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 491; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. IL, p. 207!/^ (copy of part) ; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., 
Langdon-Elwyn Papers (copy of part). 

2 See the Journals, May 29; cf. no. 317, post. 

3 The allusion is to Admiral John Byng, who was court-martialed and shot, 
Mar. 14, 1757, for his conduct in the action at Minorca May 20, 1756, which lost the 
island to the French. Cf. the expression of John Adams in the letter to his wife Aug. 19, 
1777 (vol. IL, no. 597), " I think we shall never defend a post until we shoot a general ". 

* Capt. John Barry. The marine committee's letter to Barry informing him of 
his appointment and giving him his instructions, dated May 30, is in Paullin, Out-Letters 
of the Marine Committee, I. 250. In the letter to the navy board of the Eastern depart- 
ment, of the same date (ibid.), the committee remark; "This will be handed you by 
Captain John Barry whom we have appointed to Command the Frigate Raleigh. H,e is 
a brave active officer and we doubt not you will find him very attentive to his duty." 
See no. 316, post. 



270 Continental Congress 

pany. The commanders of those ships, are brave men and I dare say will 
not loose their ships through Cowardice. ° 

New Hampshire is at last represented ; but the representation came too 
late. The Resolve, respecting half pay, had passed by a majority of one 
State only. If N. H. had been present, Congress would have been divided. 
It first passed for life ; but the majority being as small as possible, agreed to 
a kind of coalition, and it was finally resolved that the military commis- 
sioned officers who should continue in the service to the end of the war 
should be entitled to half pay for seven years.^ The opposition which I 
think was justly made to the half pay establishment hath retarded the 
arrangement of the army so long that I am afraid it will not take place 
until next winter. It is proposed to reduce the battalions to 88 which will 
of course reduce the number of officers, and lessen the quantum of half 
pay. The Number of Battalions will continue to be reduced as vacancies 
of officers shall happen by death or resignation.'^ 

The argument you draw from the confederation was urged against the 
establishment and every method taken to get it to the States, but N. H. was 
not represented and so the minority failed, or rather there was a majority 
against referring it to the States.^ Some consideration ought certainly 
to be made to the brave officers who should continue in the service to the 
end of the war, on account of depreciation and the hardship they have and 
may endure, and the risk they have and may run of health and life. Taken 
up in this light, perhaps three and half year's pay may not be too 
much 

315. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

1st June 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

My last to your Excellency of the 14th Ulto. went by Messenger Sharp.^ 
The Committee to whom your Excellency's Letters of the 13th and i8th 
April had been referred having made their Report to Congress the inclosed 
Act of the 29th Ulto. was thereupon produced to which I beg leave to refer. 
Congress are truly Sensible of the necessity of marking a limit to the 
Military in every State, be this as it may, from the tenor of a Resolve, in 
an Act which I am to transmit to Georgia there appears to me an opening 
for disputes between the Executive of a State and the officer commanding 
the Troops in such a State, even in cases where the Salvation of the State 
may be at hazard, a capricious, or a Sensible Officer, according to my 
interpretation may under sanction of this Resolve, withdraw every Troop 
from a State whenever he shall judge it proper to do so, notwithstanding a 

^ The proceedings of the courts-martial on Captains John Manley and Thomas 
Thompson were laid before Congress Aug. 5. See Paullin, Out-Letters, I. 238, 242, 252, 
271, 280; also I. J. Greenwood, Captain John Manley. 

*^ See the Journals, May 15, and no. 302, ante. 

'' See nos. 288, 298, 299, 307, ante. 

8 The reference is to the vote of May 13 (Journals, pp. 495-496). Cf. no. 202, ante. 
[315]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 157. 

2 The reference is to an official letter of May 14. See the private letter of 
May 17, no. 287, ante. 



June, I//8 271 

fonner restriction.* ^ at best it will encourage dispute, being restrained 
within my own Sphere of Duty when this was offered I could do no more' 
than intimate in private my own feelings to one of my Colleagues and to 
the Member who had framed the Act. 

x\s these Gentlemen received no impressions from my remarks, I there- 
fore doubt the force of them, nevertheless as I cannot divest my mind of 
its original Ideas on the subject, I take the liberty of submitting my opinion 
to your Excellency. 

The Resolve in general, concerns the whole Union and may particularly 
affect the State of South Carolina. I shall therefore subjoin a Copy for 
the information of Your Excellency and the Executive of the State.* .... 

A Commanding Officer as a little reflexion will shew, may shield himself 
in almost every Case by unanimity of voices in a Council of War and by 
means which have sometimes been practiced and which may again be 
adopted. 

Under this Resolution I conceive every Garrison may be stripped, if 
not of all, of the best Men by a Commander of Troops whenever he shall 
determine the propriety of a distant expedition, the want of access to a 
Military Chest may be some check, but if there be danger in the power 
adventitious Checks I humbly apprehend cannot safely be relied on for 
preventing the exercise. I acknowledge I have not time at this Instant for 
examining and comparing the former Resolve alluded to above,* ^ as I 
remember the General or Commander cannot march out of our State more 
than 5^d of the Troops without order of Congress or consent of the 
president, if this be all he can do now, why this new and general Resolve 
Your Excellency will judge and you will be pleased to receive this from 
me as a private and pardon me for making it the vehicle of the public Act 
first mentioned 

316. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

York Town, June i, 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

.... Congress has been pleasd to put me on the Marine Committee.^ 
I mention this to you, in hopes that I shall have the Pleasure of receiving 
your Letters the oftener on that Account, and particularly on the Subject 
of the Navy, which I will use my utmost Endeavours to build up.'^ The 

3 The asterisk is in the original, and serves to designate the passage referred to 
near the end of the selection ("the former resolve alluded to above *"). See note 5, 
below. 

* The omitted passage is the first of the resolves passed May 29 (Journals, 
PP- 553-554) upon the letters of Gov. John Houstoun of Georgia and Gen. Robert Howe. 
Houstoun's letter, dated Mar. 20, was read May 25. No letter of Howe is mentioned 
in connection with Houstoun's letter until the committee makes its report. Similarly, no 
letter of Howe is mentioned when the letters of Governor Lowndes and General Moultrie 
are referred to a committee (May 14), yet there is mention of such a letter or letters 
in connection with the committee's report (May 26, 29). Cf. nos. 287, 290, ante. 

5 See note 3, above. The restriction to which Laurens refers is contained in the 
resolve concerning the South Carolina battalions, June 18, 1776 (Journals, V. 462). 
Cf. no. 220, note 4, ante. 

[316] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 209; Warren-Adams Letters, II. I5- 

2 May 27. 

3 See no. 305, ante. 



272 Continental Congress 

Committee have orderd a Letter to your Board by this Post.* Capt. Burk ^ 
is to have the Command of the Resistance which may be a Step to further 
Promotion hereafter. The french Gentleman ^ who was fed with Promises 
at Boston and afterwards substantially relievd by you is highly esteemd 
by this Committee, and will be rewarded and employed, and Capt. Peck ^ 
is not unnoticed. The new Frigate at Salisbury, though before christened 
by another Name, has that of the Alliance given to her by the Committee.^ 
This Letter I intended to have finishd and forwarded by the Post, this 
Morning, (June 2) but was prevented. Capt. Barry who is to take the 
Command of the Raughley " will deliver it to you. I am apprehensive for 
our Friend Mr. J. A. who if I mistake not had saild 7 Weeks when the last 
Vessel left Nantz. The Bearer is in Haste. Adieu. 

317, Henry Laurens to John Rutledge.^ 

3d June 1778 
Dear Sir, 

.... We have before us in Congress a plan for extending Commis- 
sioners and friendly commercial Treaties at the Courts of Lisbon, Hague, 
Stockholm, Copenhagen and St. Petersburgh. two whole days the subject 
has been upon the Anvil and very laboriously hammered.^ I have had the 
presumption to wish myself on the floor once or twice, from an opinion 
that even the little commercial knowledge I am possessed of might have 
struck light. There is not a Merchant present, and not a Book in Town 
to assist a speculatist, but there's another obstacle to dispatch in this point, 
which as a Silent Spectator and auditor I can see pretty clearly and half 
understand — a plurality of Officers partly established and further aimed at. 

* The letter, dated May 30, is in Paullin, Out-Letters of the Marine Committee, 
I. 250. One paragraph of that letter reads : 

" It was certainly out of the Line of your Department to have the receiving and 
storeing of Capt [a] in Greens cargo of Clothing and Stores — that was the business of the 
Continental Agent, who in the delivery thereof should be governed by the Orders of 
Congress, the Board of War or the Committee of Congress agreeably to the enclosed 
Resolve of Congress dated the 28th Current which we se'nd to prevent your taking 
unnecessary trouble in future." 

5 Capt. William Bourke. See ibid., p. 251. In a postscript to a letter to 
John Bradford Apr. 28 (ibid., p. 232) the marine committee say, " Inclosed is a 
Resolve of Congress of this date appointing William Burke a Captain in the Navy". 
The postscript should no doubt have been dated May i, as that is the date of the 
appointment as recorded in the Journals, and the correctness of the latter is indicated 
by the fact that the resolve was based on a memorial of Bourke dated Apr. 30. See, 
further, the Journals, June 19, Sept. 28; also Paullin, Out-Letters, I. 287-289, II. 2. 
Cf. no. 440, post. 

''' Capt. Pierre Landais. See no. 314, ante, and nos. 317, 362, 366, post. 

' Capt. John Peck of Plymouth (see Warren- Adams Letters, II. 305). He had 
been recommended as a skilled designer of vessels. See Paullin, Out-Letters, I. 253, 272, 
279, II. 54. 84. 

s See the Journals, May 29; also no. 440, post. In the letter of May 30 referred 
to in note 4, above, the marine committee remark : " The Printers were premature in 
naming the New ship at Salisbury. The Congress have resolved that she be called the 
Alliance." 

9 The Raleigh. See no. 314, ante. In his reply June 26, as also in his letters of 
June 28 and July 5 {Warren- Adams Letters, II. 24, 27, 30), Warren discusses further 
the several naval questions of which Adams here speaks. 

[317P S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 160. 

- See the Journals, Apr. 21, 30, May i, 7, 16, 28, June i, 2. Cf. nos. 272-275, ante. 



June, ly/S . 273 

One of the Ministers at Versailles * ^ who is Minister at Madrid, is ten- 
dered as the proper person to treat with Lisbon, the Alinister intended, if 
practicable, for Berlin and Vienna it is proposed Should negotiate with the 
Northern Courts; hence those minds disposed to assign a Minister to a 
Court and no more, are embarrassed, here a kind of delicacy, mark'd in 
my plain vocabulary, " false " restrains them from speaking out. hitherto 
therefore the contest has been confined to advanced guards and now and 
then upon the fianks. if it became me, I should be very apt to carry argu- 
ments home by the shortest inoffensive course, in my present situation, 
however important the point, I do not see my duty in interposition either 
within or out of Doors, the subject which has cost already two very 
precious days, will probably be postponed the third and possibly a very 
necessary measure too long delayed because some of us are not inclined to 
conduct it properly. 

Captn. Landais a skillful Sea Officer has prevailed upon us to reduce in 
Stile the 74 Gun Ship which had been intended at Portsmouth, his plan 
which we have adopted, is to lay two Decks only ; to mount on the lower 
28-24 and on the upper 28-18 pounders, the building will be much less 
expensive, the Vessel sail faster, and be of equal force with 450, instead of 
600 Men and now the workmen who had been taken off will be ordered to 
proceed.* 

I am thinking very seriously of an enterprize against the place where 
you and I Sir once Sent John Burnet, we may if the British Troops 
should withdraw and not pay Charles Town too serious a visit, obtain 
proper Officers and Men for beginning the operation the ist Novemb., the 
most proper Month in the twelve.^ 

the Remark wdiich I made on our Treaty of 6th Febry respecting 
Bahama and the latent views of Spain, were not a little exploded here, 
but since we have been told that Court is desirous of repossessing Pensa- 
cola, which might have been predicted without pretension to much depth 
in politics. Gentlemen begin to reflect, our feelings are generally propor- 
tioned to the distance from danger. New England's jealousies are excited 
by the proximity of Canada. Carolina sees the destruction of her Com- 
merce, from Bahama and Florida in the hands of our Enemy. I say 
nothing of Georgia because she is not represented. 

P. S. 

Major Genl. Conway is just come to Town in order to explain his 
meaning in a Letter of April, which Congress in his opinion had mistaken, 
and immediately notified him that his Resignation was accepted, if he 
fails of success in that point he intimates to me his hopes of a Recommen- 
datory Certificate of his behaviour, w^hether this alternative will be listened 

3 Note in the original : " * A. L. -f- W. L.", that is, Arthur Lee plus William Lee. 

* C/. nos. 314, 316, ante. 

^ The allusion is no doubt to a proposed expedition against Saint Augustine 
(East Florida). See the report on the state of Georgia, in the Journals, Feb. 13. Cf. no. 
482, post. See also the Journals, Nov. 2, 10. Cf. the Journals for 1779, Jan. 15, 28, 
Feb. 23, Dec. 16. Concerning a proposed expedition against West Florida, see Laurens's 
letters to General Mcintosh and Governor Rutledge, Aug. 11, 12, 1777, in vol. IL of 
these Letters, nos. 584, 586. 



274 Continental Congress 

to, is doubtful. Gentlemen feel keen resentment for the unprovoked gross 
affronts which he offered in January last to our worthy Commander in 
Chief; besides, he has been strongly charged with malconduct in other 
respects which it seems incumbent on him to answer, before he can expect 
general countenance in Congress.^ 

P. M. 

the forepart of this day devoted to selling the Bear's skin/ it might 
have diverted you Sir, to have heard the variety of sentiments delivered in 
each extreme upon this momentous Subject, the wrangling of two honest 
Lawyers who both mean the same thing is no novelty, but the manners of 
two Chief Justices ^ in conducting their debates, were curious enough, and 
if other people were right they were both wrong, people are anxious to 
know how we shall dispose of the goods Wares and Merchandize which 
we shall find in the city, some seemingly Wise, some very foolish and 
many premature propositions must be expected in a three hour discussion 
of this nature, a new Report may reconcile all opinions to mine, delivered 
only here, and which for ought I know may be ranged in the Second Class. 

" take special care to guard against removal of any article after the 
Enemy shall have withdrawn. When the City is actually in your posses- 
sion dispose of the Men and remaining property consistantly with Justice, 
good Policy, and the Laws of the State." ^ 

318. Henry Laurens to Baron Steuben.^ 

York-Town, June 4th, 1778 
To Maj Genl. Baron Steuben, 
Sir, 

I had the honor of your Letter of 27th May by the hands of Mr. Ternant 
on Sunday last, which I laid before Congress, and had appointed an hour 
for waiting on that Gentleman, to the Board of War, but some other cir- 
cumstances engaged his time, it is a very extraordinary thing for me to 
be a whole hour, from this Table unless I am in Congress, and I was the 
more concerned at the disappointment, because I had intended to have 
introduced Mr. Ternant to several of the Delegates, but indeed we are in 
such a place, and fare so meanly, as to render it painful to have Gentl. 
introduced, because it is not in our power to shew that respect which we 
would wish to do to Strangers.^ 

Mr. Ternant addressed himself to the Board of War, but as his de- 
parture was more sudden than I had expected, and no report concerning 

^ See nos. 319, 320, post. 

^ " Catch the bear before you sell his skin ". The allusion is to the discussion 
June 3 relative to the action to be taken upon the evacuation of Philadelphia by the 
British. Compare the report presented June 3 with the resolutions adopted June 4. 
See no. 307, ante, and nos. 323, 328, 332, post. 

8 William Henry Drayton and Thomas McKean. 

^ Cf. the resolutions adopted June 4. 
[318J1 Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XV. 82. 

2 The Journals make no mention of Steuben's letter of May 27. Concerning 
Jean Baptiste Ternant, see a letter from John Laurens to his father Mar. 25, in 
Army Correspondence, p. 145 (the name appears there, however, as "Ternaut"). His 
case was again brought before Congress Sept. 11, in a letter from Steuben of Sept. 5. 
He was made lieutenant-colonel Sept. 25. See also Heitman, Hist. Reg. 



June, ly/S 275 

him having been yet sent to Congress, I am ignorant of his proceedings 
there I have often heard of Mr Temants merit, and shall be happy on that 
account as well as from my respect for you Sir, to render him any service 
in my power, which I must candidly inform you is as limited and circum- 
scribed as that of any other Member of Congress. 

319. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

5th [4th] June 1778.' 
Dear Sir, 

I have before me Your Excellency's favor of the ist which reached me 
late last Night, and at the same time one for Genl. Conway which I de- 
livered to him. 

Your Excellency put rather a hard task on me, by desiring me to speak 
to Congress on behalf of General Conway after referring to Your Excel- 
lency's Sentiments of that Gentleman nevertheless I had determined, in 
the most proper and becoming manner, to have presented the Marquis 
delaf ayette's message in his favor ; had not the General himself put it out 
of my power. 

General Conway called on me this Morning and after some time spent 
in a manner which appeared to me very extraordinary, he expressed his 
" surprize that I had delivered to Congress his Letter of 22d April 
intimating his desire to resign his Commission ", said he " had intended 
it, a private confidential Letter, that he had also written to the president 
of the Board of War and expected I would have conferred with him upon 
the Subject, instead of doing so I had made a private Letter public." all 
this and much more of the same specie, were expressed in manner and 
terms altogether dissonant from the General's former soft mode of address. 
I had thought that I had learned to be surprized at nothing, but in this 
instance I discovered my mistake, I was greatly surprized at the weakness 
and wickedness of the attempt. 

I replied to the General, " if I have erred it has been unwittingly. Your 
Letter appeared to me to have been intended for Congress, I never had 
the honor of a private Correspondence with Genl. Conway, it would have 
been improper in me to have conferred with the President of the Board of 
War, if a conference had been expected why had not the president called 
upon me. you injure me exceedingly by the imputation of exposing in 
public what was intended to be private. I feel my self satisfied that this 
beliaviour is unprovoked and unmeritted, but General, the Letter is at 
band let us appeal to that, I have really forgot the Contents." 

I then sent to the Secretary's Office for the Letter, the perusal of it 
heightened my surprize, I shall take the Liberty of inclosing an exact 
Copy in order that you may judge Sir whether it had been designed to be 
private, the General had delivered me a Memorial directed to Congress. 

[319]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 164. 

2 The date of this letter should evidently be June 4, for the presentation of 
Conway's memorial to Congress is recorded in the Journals of that day ; besides, in the 
letter to John Laurens dated June 5 {post), this letter to Lafayette is mentioned as 
" my letter of yesterday to the Marquis ". Lafayette's letter of June i is in S. C. Hist, 
and Geneal. Mag., VIII. 181. His reply to this letter, June 7, is ibid., p. 187. 



276 Continental Congress 

I intimated that with his Memorial, " I should deliver also his Letter of 
the i8th [22d] ApriP and take the sense of Congress whether it was 
private or public, that if it should appear I had acted improperly I would 
make every becoming concession." 

Accordingly I appealed to Congress, I could do no less under so grave 
a charge, the House were astonished, and condescended to offer a Reso- 
lution in my favour, which I declined with thanks, adding " that their 
opinion was satisfactory to me without further trouble — the Letter would 
always speak for itself." the General's Memorial was ordered to lie on 
the Table, and although I am sure there were Gentlemen present who had 
been disposed to speak in the General's favor, yet there was not a dissent- 
ing Voice. 

Your Excellency as a Man of honor and feeling I am persuaded will be 
surprized too at this very extraordinary circumstance, but how much more 
when you are told that on the i8th May the General wrote to Congress 
and apologized for the former Letter by saying he was an Irishman and 
therefore hoped proper allowance would be made for his mode of expres- 
sion, which had not been intended to give offense, or words to this effect 
for I have not the Letter before me. 

The Letter in question of 22d April is indubitably public. 

On the i8th May the General acknowledges it to iDe so by apologizing 
for its tenor. 

On the 4th June he modestly avers upon his honor that it was intended 
to be private, and in the face of the Letter maintains that position. 

Sir I am happy in a mind capable of forgiving the greatest injuries and 
incapable of Malice. I would now rather do General Conway a favor than 
requite his injustice but I desire never again to converse or correspond 
with him.* 

I request your Excellency will be so obliging to shew this to Colonel 
John Laurens and also the inclosed Letter. I have taken up so much of 
your Excellency's time and have also so many other Letters to write as 
render it necessary for me to conclude. 

I shall have the honor of writing again in a day or two mean time I 
continue with the highest regard and Esteem. 

3 The letter of resignation dated Apr. 22, read in Congress Apr. 28. The same 
slip of the pen occurs in the letter of June 5 to John Laurens, evidently due to the 
presence in the writer's mind of Conway's letter of May 18, read in Congress May 26. 
Extracts of Conway's letters of Apr. 22 and May 18 are in Washington's Writings (ed. 
Sparks), V. 372 n.— 373 n. 

Gates wrote to President Laurens May 27: "General Conway, who is just returned 
from Albany, seems much chagrined at the sudden and unexpected acceptance of his 
resignation, with no marks of respect or approbation paid to his services. He assures 
me that he only meant to desire his dismission, provided he was not allowed to share 
in the active service of the campaigns; as it would otherwise be considered in France 
as a reproach to his military character to have remained in an inland garrison town, 
without any suitable command, while the armies were in the field. Your Excellency 
will receive General Conway's letter upon this subject; and I hope, sir, Congress will 
not think me importunate when I say I wish that the only gentleman who has left France 
with the rank of colonel of foot, should not be returned to his prince and nation in any 
other manner than such as becomes the gratitude, honour, and dignity of the United 
States of America." Correspondence of Henry Laurens, p. no. 

4 See the Journals, Apr. 28, May 26, June 2, 4. Cf. nos. 242, 299, 317, ante, and 
no. 320, post. 



June, ijjS 277 

320. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

York Town 5th June 1778. 
My Dear Son, 

I wrote you a few hasty lines this Morning-, immediately after which I 
had occasion to wish that a little dash of hypocrisy had been thrown into 
my frame. In came General Conway with a Letter in his hand and in an 
obsequious address, different from that of yesterday, asked me if I were 
sending- Letters to Camp. I decently replied in the affirmative, desiring 
him to put his Letter upon the Table it should be forwarded with other 
dispatches immediately, so far duty in Office demanded good manners 
on my part, he then asked me in a low and soft tone " did not the Marquis 
delafayette Mr. President write you in my behalf ["] and was proceeding 
to further conversation. I felt the injury he had attempted, and instantly 
replied, I have really forgot. General Conway and I must beg Sir you 
will excuse me. 

I had informed him yesterday Morning so very explicitly that the 
Marquis had writ to me and he had extorted from me repetitions of the 
same so very often, I judged it necessary to intimate that my memory was 
as defective as his own, and by begging him to excuse me, I meant, from 
all future conversation or correspondence. 

If this honest and frank proceedure is censurable then I have cause to 
wish for a little dash of hypocrisy but upon a fair estimate of my past 
life and a review of a multitude of extraordinary circumstances which 
have chequered it, I find a Balance largely in favor of honesty and there- 
fore I cast out the wish. 

You will have seen my Letter of yesterday to the Marquis and General 
Conway's of the 226. April a Copy of this shall be inclosed and also Copy 
of his Letter of the i8th May. lay these together and tell me if I could 
notwithstanding my general maxim resist against surprize at the audacity 
of a Man who should in rude language in my own House charge me in 
presence of one of my Secretaries with having made a confidential private 
Letter, public, to his prejudice, and repeating the same in a Memorial to 
Congress, charging me with the Memorial in order that I might exhibit 
and Read my own Indictment. 

You will observe in this Letter of the iSth May he acknowledges the 
Rect. of mine the [/tTi] in which he had been informed that his former 
Letter of i8th [22d] April " had been presented to Congress etc. can 
there be a stronger instance of effrontery than appears in his conduct by 
trumping up a pretence on the 4th June that his Letter was private, confi- 
dential and not intended for Public view. Congress happened at the 
reading of his Memorial to be very full, every Member seemed struck 
with amazement and although there were several Gentlemen who I am 
sure would otherwise have pressed warmly for some kind of handsome 

[320]! Long Island Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter- 
Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 167. 

2 See no. 319, note 3, ante. 



278 Continental Congress 

dismission to him, there was not a dissenting voice to the Order for dis- 
missing his Memorial without consideration. I'll trouble you no longer 
about this compound of weakness and impudence.^ .... 



321. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott.^ 

York Town 5 June, 1778. 
My Dear. 

.... I imagine that Congress will Return to Philadelphia within a 
forthnight or three Weeks as it is Very desirable to regain the Ground 
which has been lost. Altho for myself were I to continue in this Country 
during the summer I should much preferr being here than to be in the 
City.=^ .... 

A Recommendation of Congress goes by this Express to our Assembly 
to suspend or Repeal the Regulating Act.* .... 



322. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Governor of Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).'- 

5th June [1778.] 
Sir 

I had the honor on the 3d Inst, of presenting Your Excellency's favour 
of 28th Ulto. to Congress with the correspondence of Mr. Tryon inclosed. 

Congress were well pleased with Your Excellency's Reply and have 
ordered it to be printed.^ .... 

3 A passage in a letter from Conway to Gates, written from York Town, 
June 7, 1778, may appropriately be quoted here: "I never had a sufficient idea of 
Cabals untill I reached this place my reception, you may imagine, was not a warm one 
I must except Mr. Sam Adams Coll. Richard Henry Lee and a few others who are 
attached to you but who can not oppose the torrent, before my arrival General Mifflin 
had joined General Washington's army where he commands a division, one Mr. Carroll 
from Maryland upon whose friendship I Depended is one of the hottest of the Cabal, 
he told me a few days agoe almost Litterally, that any Body that Displeas'd or did 
not admire the Commander in chief ought not to be kept in the army. Mr. Carroll 
might be a good papist, but I am sure the sentiments he expresses are neither roman 
nor catholick. I expect to Depart from this Court in a very few Days, if there is an 
appearance of any attempt from the enemy upon your post I will ask your Leave to 
serve in the quality of a volunteer" (N. Y. Hist. Soc. Gates Papers, XII.; Sparks, 
Life of Gouverneur Morris, L 169; Writings of Washington, ed. Sparks, V. 373 n., 
extract). Laurens had probably received at the time of this interview with Conway 
Gates's letter to him, May 27, in Conway's behalf. See no. 319, note 3, ante. 
[32i]iConn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, 11. 52 (2). 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 9, June 20. Cf. nos. 323, 371, post. Wolcott had written 
to his wife June i : " I find that I shall not Return home so soon as I expected when 
I wrote some of my last Letters. Mr. Ellsworth has lately wrote me a Letter that in 
Case Mr. Adams shall not come forward he will do so by the latter End of this Month. 
I trust that it will not be long before that I am relived" (Wolcott Papers, H. 53). 
June 12 he wrote, " it is said Mr. Hosmore is probably on his way, if so I suppose 
Mr. Elsworth or Adams is with him" (ibid.). 

3 See the Journals, June 4; cf. nos. 198, 205, 234, ante. 
[322]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 353. 

2 See the Journals, June 3. Cf. no. 293, note 3, ante. 



June, 1778 279 

323. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington/ 

York Town 5 June 1778. 
Sir, 

.... A Report on Your Excellency's Letter of the ist Inst, relative 
to measures necessary to be taken in Philadelphia in case the Enemy shall 
abandon that City had been considered in part yesterday and I had enter- 
tained hopes the whole would have been determined this Morning, but 
other business having interfered and occasioned delay I judge it necessary 
to transmit the inclosed Resolve, which, if it is ever to have operation, I 
apprehend cannot reach Your Excellency too soon.^ 

[P. S. ] Your Excellency's favor of the 4th together with divers dispatches 
from Sr. H Clinton Lord Howe etc., came to hand late this Evening 
now 10 oClock, shall be laid before Congress to morrow.^ 

324. The Board of War to William Augustus Atlee.^ 

War Office June 5, 1778. 
•Sir, 

Your letter to Congress of the 2d instant has been referred to the board, 
with the sense of Congress intimated at the same time, that prisoners of 
war should not be inlisted into any corps in the service of the United 
States.^ The licence given Genl. Pulaski to inlist prisoners, is to be con- 
sidered as recalled. The licence was founded on a supposed intention of 
Congress to permit the inlistment of prisoners into that particular corps. 
Prisoners were in fact included in the resolve (as originally drawn up) 
as well as deserters ; and tho' the former were finally struck out ; yet the 
information given to the board led them to the determination mentioned 
in their former letter to you on the subject.^ .... 

I am, sir, your obedient servant 

Tim. Pickering junr. 

By order of the Board 
William Atlee Esqr. 

325. Thomas McKean to William Augustus Atlee.^ 

Dear Sir; 

Upon receipt of your favour of the 26th Ulto. I applied to some of the 
members of the Board of war respecting the Instructions they had given 
to General Pulaski for inlisting Prisoners of war, and was told they had 

[323]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIL 2; ihid., President's Letter- 
Book, L 353- 

2 Washington's letter was dated May 31, but with an addition of June i, this 
addition being the part here referred to {Writings, ed. Sparks, V. 393). See also nos. 
307, 317, ante, 328, 332, post. 

3 See the Journals, June 6, and no. 327, note 3, post. 

[324]! Library of Congress, U. S. Revolution. Addressed, "The Honble. William A. 
Atlee Esqr. D'y Commissary of Prisoners, at Lancaster ". 

2 See the Journals, June 4 (pp. 567, 570) ; also nos. 288, 311, ante, 325, post. 

3 See no. 177, ante. 

[325] 1 Library of Congress, Pennsylvania Papers. 



280 Continental Convress 



is' 



given such, and had wrote to you about it ; this made me think it unneces- 
sary to write to you, but upon examining the Acts of Congress on this 
Head I found the Board were wrong, and that no prisoners of war can 
be inlisted in that Legion, or in any other Corps. Congress decided 
accordingly yesterday, of which you will be informed by the President. 
Tho' we have a surplus of privates of the Enemy at present after exchang- 
ing our own, yet they have Citizens and may make more prisoners ; besides 
from my knowledge of the human heart I am convinced, that if these 
prisoners of war were to come to a close and hot engagement with the 
enemy, the fear of the latter in case of their being made prisoners would 
induce them to seek safety in flight.^ .... 

York Town, June 5th 1778. 

326. Richard Henry Lee. Draft of a Letter to Lord Howe.^ 

[June 6, 1778.] 
My Lord 

The unprovoked and cruel war that has been waged against these States, 
renders every idea inadmissible, that proposes a return to the domination 
of that Power which by its own Acts of devastation and slaughter, has 
forced a separation. The Acts of the British Parliament lately transmitted 
by your Lordship having this domination principally in view require no 
further comment. But the good people of N. A. my Lord not insensible 
of what belongs to humanity, can forgive their enemies, and wish to stop 
the effusion of human blood. When therefore the king of G. B. shall be 
seriously disposed to peace, Congress will readily attend to such terms as 
may consist with the honor of Independent nations, with the interest of 
their Constituents, and with the sacred regard they mean to pay to 
Treaties.^ 

By order of Congress. 

327. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.^ 

York Town 6th May [June] 1778.^ 
Sir, 

Referring to my Letter of yesterday's date forwarded by the hands of 
Messenger Davis I proceed to inform Your Excellency that having laid 

2 The decision of Congress is not recorded in the Journals June 4, Atlee's letter 
being merely referred to the board of war. According to the board's letter June 5 
(no. 324, ante), the decision of Congress was intimated to the board, probably by 
pointing out previous resolutions. 

[326]! Univ. of Va., Lee Papers; Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Transcripts, III. 45; Letters 
(ed. Ballagh), L 411- 

~ Richard Henry Lee was a member of the committee appointed June 6 to 
prepare an answer to the letter of Lord Howe and Sir Henry Clinton. Cf. the letter 
adopted, found in the Journals, June 6. See no. 323, ante, and nos. ^27, 349, post. 
[327]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIL 5; ibid., President's Letter- 
Book, L 356. 

- In the Long Island Historical Society is a letter from Henry Laurens to 
John Laurens, June 7, in which he speaks of the error in dating this and other letters 
of this day. 



June, 1778 281 

before Congress the Letters from Lord Viscount Howe and Sir H Clinton 
I have received instructions from the House to return the necessary 
repHes. Accordingly, Your Excellency will find within this Inclosure a 
Packet directed to His Lordship and another to Sir Henry which Your 
Excellency will be pleased to send forward. 

I requested pennission of Congress to transmit to Your Excellency 
Copies of these Addresses, which Your Excellency will find inclosed in one 
draught admitting the proper variations of Title." 

328. Daniel Roberdeau to the Acting President of 
Pennsylvania (George Bryan). ^ 

York, June 6th, 1778. 
Sir, 

The Delegates of this State are honored with the commands of Council 
respecting a supply of money for paying of Clothing, and the State of the 
Frontiers ; these, together with the petition of some of the Inhabitants of 
Northumberland, were duly laid before Congress, and without a word of 
debate referred, the former to the Treasury, the latter to the board of 
War, with an order to confer with the Gentlemen who were Bearers of 
the petition. I expect a favorable Issue to this Business on Monday." 

Two Letters, one from Lord Howe, the other from Genl. Clinton, to 
Congress, with the three Acts of Parliament which are the Subjects of 
publick speculation, were under consideration on this day, and a short 
answer given to the Letters. A copy is prohibited, as indelicate, until the 
Letter get to hand ; in substance it refers to the resolves of Congress on 
two Bills circulated substantially the same as two of the above : that when 
the King shall be seriously disposed to peace, Congress will be ready to 
put an End to the cruel, unprovoked war waged against America, on 
Terms honorable to our Nation, for the Interest of our Constituents, and 
with a sacred regard to Treaties.^ .... 

3 The letters from Lord Howe and Sir Henry Qinton were laid before 
Congress on the morning of June 6 and referred to a committee, who were instructed 
to " retire into the next room, and prepare an answer ". The reply, which was identical 
except for variations of title, is found in the Journals of the same day. They are sepa- 
rately recorded in the Letter-Book (Library of Congress), L 355, and are also found in 
Laurens's private Letter-Book in the South Carolina Historical Society (p. 170). They 
were printed in the Royal Gazette of July 8, 1778. The letter to Sir Henry Clinton is in 
the Royal Institution, American MSS., vol. VHL, no. 106, bearing the erroneous date 
"May" 6, 1778 (see note 2, above), and is found among the Stevens Facsimiles (no. 
1096). See no. 326, ante, and nos. 328, 331, post. Cf. a letter of Samuel Adams to 
Samuel Phillips Savage, June 8, in Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, XLHL 331. Washing- 
ton repHed to this letter of Laurens June 9. See the Jourtials, June 11, and nos. 330, 
Zi^, 334- 335, 339. 343-346, post. 

[328]! Pa. Arch., first sen, VL 584. 

- See the Journals, June 6, 8. According to the Journals, two letters of the 
Pennsylvania council dated June 5 were laid before Congress June 6, one of them 
in connection with the Northumberland petition. The latter is probably the letter, with 
the date June 4, printed in Pa. Arch., first sen, VL 577. See the correspondence of Vice- 
President Bryan with the board of war June 3, 5, 8, 10 {ibid., pp. 576, 581, 586, 593). For 
the action of the board of treasury on the letter of the council referred to it, see ibid., 
p. S91. Cf. no. 312, ante. See also a letter from the council to David Rittenhouse, 
treasurer, July 14 (ibid., p. 643), and the Journals, June 16, 25. 

3 See the Journals, June 6; also no. 327, note 3, ante, and no. 331, post. 



282 Continental Congress 

I hope to congratulate you soon on regaining our Capital. Some step 
will be taken by Congress for securing property until a deliberate discrimi- 
nation can be made, in which a due regard to the prerogative of the State 
will be attended to.* 

329. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene).^ 

Pennsylvania, York Town, June 8th, 1778. 
Sir, 

Mr. Marchant arrived at this Town the sixth Instant. The Situation of 
Mr. Ellery's Family necessitates his Return in a few Days. Confederation, 
it is expected, will soon be taken up; and if Congress should determine 
that, immediately upon the completion of that Business, no State can be 
represented without two Members, the State we have the Honor to 
represent may not have that Share in the Common Counsells of the States 
which Our Interest and Circumstances require : Solicitous this may not 
be the Case, we hope One of our Colleagues will soon give his Attendance. 

We lament the Waste and Destruction made upon Our State by that 
more than Savage Barbarity peculiar to Britons ; But we are utterly at a 
Loss to account for that cruel Desertion of our Sister States which has 
thus laid Our State bare to the Insults and Ravages of Our Enemies. This 
is a Subject we feel most pungently, and shall not fail to endeavour to 
excite in Congress a common feeling with us, that if possible, some Steps 
may be taken for Our Relief.^ 

.... We enclose to your Excellency the last York papers, and are, 

Most respectfully your Excellency's 

Most obedient and humble servants, 

William Ellery. 
Hy Marchant. 

330. Henry Laurens to George Washington.^ 

York town 8th June 1778 
Dear Sir, 

My Colleague Mr. Drayton having shown me about a fortnight ago the 
draft of a Report which he had prepared, stating charges against the 

•* See the Journals, June 3, 4, and nos. 307, 317, 323, ante, 332, post. To a copy of 
the resolve of June 4, printed (with the date June 5) in Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 578, 
Roberdeau has appended the following note : 
"Dear Sir, 

" I write at a publick Table, much embarrassed, to hand you the above Copy of a 
Resolution of Congress. 

" I am very respectfully, D'r Sir, Yr. most Obt Hum. Servt. 

Dan'l Roberde.\u. 
" P. S. My design is that you may cast about and be in readiness to appoint proper 
persons." 

[329] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778, p. 83; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 184. 

2 See the Journals, June 13, 25, and nos. 342, 2>7~, 2>°S, post. 

[330]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIIL 330; S. C. Hist. Soc, 
Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 172; Harvard LIniv. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
LXVn. 18, 20; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), II. 132. 



June, I'j'jS 283 

General Officers who lately abandoned Ticonderoga and flattering me with 
assurances that he would soon offer it to Congress I delayed replying to 
your Excellency's Favor of the 29th Ulto.^ hoping for ground to intimate 
that that business was ready to be dispatched to Your Excellency for the 
further necessary order, but, to my great mortification, it continues to 
be procrastinated, some of the Gentlemen of the Committee it seems are 
or have been desirous of new lights ; in a word Sir, I am quite in opinion 
with those Gentlemen who say " the not proceeding in this matter is cruel 
and oppressive ", although I am as well convinced, the delay has not been 
calculated or intended to distress the parties affected. It has arisen from 
a vapid desultory habit, which if I am not mistaken, I have seen, squander 
Millions and endanger States. I speak with warmth and I believe with 
equal truth. On my Country's account as well as from a feeling for the 
Culprit Officers, I am really ashamed of our conduct respecting the par- 
ticular affair in question, however as I can always take a decent freedom 
with my Colleague, who is really a diligent Man, I will not let him pass a 
day unreminded of the necessity for bringing forward his report. I sent 
off a Messenger today with a Letter to Lancaster at his request for 
collecting somewhat relative to the business, and I think he hinted that 
when that ingredient should be obtained the Report would be complete.^ 

Frequent Items have been given in public of the disagreements of our 
Commissioners. This day a private perusal of Papers treating on that 
subject gave me much pain. I fear an investigation upon the arrival of 
Mr. Deane who is every hour expected will spread the trouble wide. I 
have suppressed all that has been written to me and have sealed my Lips 
except to Your Excellency and one other Gentleman. I know all the 
Gentlemen yonder, some of them very intimately, know their tempers 
and habits and think I can mark out causes, but I can only deplore their 
impolitic and I was going to say School Boy jarrings and dread the con- 
sequences of a heated and injudicious discussion on this side.'* 

(^th. late last Night Your Excellency's public Letter of the 7th was 
brought to me. I shall lay it before Congress at 10 oClock. Lord Abing- 
don's protest does honor to Mr. Morris of N York, the merit of our 
Resolves of 22d April is fairly to be ascribed to him.^ 

I have lately much regretted that I had it not in my power to transmit 
to Your Excellency some of the English Papers which we had received 
and which indeed came originally into my own hands but judged it my 
Duty to present them to the House, where they were so, and so suddenly, 
dispersed as to deprive me of the reading even of one of them, yet I dare 

2 Washington's letter of May 29 is in Writings (ed. Ford), VII. 33, (ed. 
Sparks), V. 383. Only a brief postscript concerns the Ticonderoga matter. 

' See nos. 308, ante, and nos. 338, 369, {>ost. 

* See nos. 268, 280, 295, ante, 401, post. See also the letter of Benjamin Harrison 
to Robert Morris June 8, mentioned under no. 295, note 4, ante. 

^Washington's letter of June 7 relative to the British peace commission was 
read in Congress June 9. A letter of June 9 upon the same subject was read June 11. 
See no. 327, note 3, atite, and nos. 331, 335, 339, 340, 343-345, post. With regard to 
the resolves of Apr. 22, taken upon the first presentation of the conciliatory bills, see 
no. 271, note 2, ante. Concerning the Earl of Abingdon's "Protest", see no. 335, post. 



284 Continental Congress 



&' 



not say, I'll take better care another time, my own duty will be to do, 
as I have done. 

in order to save time I have sent to the Secretary's Office a Young Man 
to Copy the Resolves of Congress required by Your Excellency, and which 
will be found here inclosed. I am with the most sincere Regard and Esteem 
Sir Your Excellency's much obliged and most obedient servant 

Henry Laurens. 
His Excellency 

General Washington. 
Your Excellency will do me the honor to accept this as private. 

331. Thomas McKean to Mrs. McKean.^ 

My dear Sally, 

.... Lord Howe and General Clinton have at last found out the way 
of writing to Congress.^ We had a letter from each, directed to Henry 
Laurens Esquire President of Congress at York-Town, on Saturday 
morning ; they let Congress know, that they have it in command from His 
Majesty to lay three Acts of Parliament before Congress, and to com- 
municate them to the Commander in chief of their Armies etc. Congress 
referred them to their determination on the 22d of April last, a'nd let them 
know whenever their King is seriously disposed to put an end to the present 
unprovoked and cr[uel] war, Congress will be ready to conclude a peace 
upon terms honorable to Indcpcndant Nations, and beneficial for their 
Constituents etc. As the answer will probably be received to day in 
Philadelphia I do not think they will stay three days longer.^ .... 

York Town. 
June 9th 1778. 

332. Gouverneur Morris to George Washington.^ 

York Town 9th June 1778 
Dear Gcnl. 

.... The Opinion of Congress relative to Phila : you have doubtless 
ere this received. Mine did not arise from any Pleasure I take in the 
Distresses of my Fellow Creatures still less from that horrid Proscription 
which however dictated certainly disgraces human Nature. Simply I 
wished that our Enemies should be mulcted before they were received into 
our Bosom and that we might thereby possess ourselves of the Sinews of 
War.- Should there be still other Disiderata as to the Amiy which indeed 
I well know there are pray let me hear of them in a Letter to which I shall 
call the attention of the House who have now entangled themselves in 
such an Lifinity of Matter that some Management is really necessary to 
lead them to the most serious and important Objects 

[331]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, VI. 17. 

2 An allusion to Lord Howe's letter of July, 1776, addressed to " George Wash- 
ington, Esq.", which Washington refused to receive. See Washington's letter to Congress 
July 14, 1776 {Writings, ed. Ford, IV. 247), and the Journals, July 17, 1776. 

3 See no. 327, note 3, ante. 

[332]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIII. 342; Letters to Washing- 
ton (ed. Sparks), II. I35- 

2 See nos. 307, 3i7, 323, 328, ante. 



June, i/;S 285 

333. James Lovell to Horatio Gates. ^ 

York Town June 9th 1778 
Dear General 

Here we are still the Sport of Lyars. One Day we are told the Enemy 
are filling their Ditches and preparing to leave Philada., en Ami; in the 
next we are informed of new Works and fresh arrived Troops. For my 
own Part, I think they will aim to give us a Drubbing on one Quarter or 
another. We have therefore laid an Embargo on all Provision both with 
a View to our own Supply and the Enemy's Distress ; ^ and we shall urge 
the States to instant Exertions for the compleat Number of Levies." .... 

334. John Wentworth, jr., to John Langdon.^ 

York Town Penna. June 10, 1778. 
Dear Sir: 

.... The enemy at Philadelphia for three weeks past have been doing 
and undoing — one day extremely busy in fortifying and the next in 
demolishing — in short their manoeuvres are so various as to render it 
utterly impossible to guess what measures they mean finally to pursue, 
from every circumstance however their intention to evacuate the City is 
beyond doubt ; ^ how long that step may be retarded by the late arrival of 
commissioners from England is altogether uncertain, the commissioners 
have directed their General to apply to General W^ashington to obtain a 
passport for a Dr Ferguson, Secretary to their King's Commission to wait 
on Congress. General Washington has submitted the matter, which is 
not yet determined upon. 

I hardly think Congress will have the honor of seeing those gentlemen 
Commissioners very soon, unless they comply with measures which from 
the present conduct of the enemy we have little reason to expect.^ .... 

335. Henry Laurens to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

P. S.' Private. 

Your Excellency will find enclosed several copies of Lord Abingdon's 
speech and protest in the British House of Lords upon the acts of Parlia- 

[333]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XII. 

2 See the Journals, June 8. In a letter to Elias Dayton, dated " Near Springfield ", 
June 8, Abraham Clark discusses the question of the enemy's movements, inclining to 
the view that they will not soon leave Philadelphia. An extract of the letter is in 
Henkels, Catalogue, no. 969, item 83 (where the date is given as "Jan. 8, 1778"). See 
also the letter from Joseph Reed to Mrs. Reed, June 9, Life of Reed, I. 366. 

2 See the circular letter in the Journals, June 10; also nos. 335, 341, post. 
[334]^ Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, II. 503; Harvard Univ. Lib., 

Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. II., p. 210; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Langdon- 
Elwyn Papers (copy). 

- Cf. no. 333, ante. 

3 Cf. nos. 335, 339, 340, post. 

[335P N. C. Hist. Comm., Caswell Papers; S. C Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 
Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 175; N. C. State Recs., XIII. 157. 

2 This postscript is appended to a copy of the circular letter of June 10. 
Although, according to the Journals, one passage of the circular letter was to be 



286 Continental Congress 

ment, for removing all the doubts concerning Taxation etc. these as I 
endeavour to do all papers proper for public information shall [be] dis- 
persed as extensively as possible.^ 

I shall add copies of a late correspondence betvi^een Lord Howe, Sir H. 
Clinton, Genl. Washington and Congress. 

Last Night, late I received a Letter from General Washington. Sir H. 
Clinton had requested a Passport, for Doctr Ferguson Secretary to the 
Commissioners to attend Congress. General Washington demur'd until 
he should inform Congress. This will be the subject of our consideration 
at lo o'clock.^ 

Doctor Ferguson was tutor to Lord Chesterfield at Geneva, where a 
young Gentleman ' with whom I correspond in Camp knew him intimately. 
He says " the Doctor is known in the literary world, and whose profound 
knowledge makes him very respectable.". . , . 

nth June 1778 

336. Francis Dana to George Washington.^ 

York June nth. 1778 
Dear Sir 

I had the honor last evening, of your favor of the 9th inst : requesting 
me to repair to camp to assist in the business of arranging the army, as 
soon as possible Altho' I am impressed with the necessity of that business 
being finished without delay, yet I cannot in duty to the State I represent 

omitted in the letters to North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, and a paragraph 
was to be added to the letters to Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina, the letter 
to North CaroHna appears without either the subtraction or the addition. Barring 
errors, it is identical with the letter to Pennsylvania (Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 592 j. 
The circular letter is recorded both in the President's Letter-Book (I. 368) and in 
Laurens's private Letter-Book (p. 182), and a number of copies, addressed to the 
respective states, are extant. Curiously enough, as printed in A''. /. Rev. Corr., p. 116, 
it has the signature " John Hancock ", as well as the erroneous date " June 17 ". The 
original in the New Jersey State Library has, however, Laurens's signature and the 
proper date, June 10. See no. 333, ante, and no. 341, post. 

2 The reference is no doubt to the Earl of Abingdon's speech in the House of 
Lords Mar. g, on the Conciliatory Bills, and his " Protest ", entered upon the Journals 
of that date. A resume of the speech is found in Hansard, Parliamentary History, XIX. 
856; the Protest is ibid., p. 868, and in the Lords' Journals, XXXV. 356. See no. 330, 
ante. An earlier pamphlet of the Earl of Abingdon, Thoughts on Mr. Burke's Letter 
to the Sheriffs of Bristol on Atnerican Affairs (Oxford, 1777), had attracted wide 
attention, and had just been reprinted in Lancaster by Dunlap. See Evans, Atnerican 
Bibliography, V. 367 (nos. 15740, I574i)- In this connection a letter from Thomas 
Wharton, jr., president of Pennsylvania, to Robert Morris, Feb. 4, 1778, is of interest: 
" Mr. Fitzsimmons delivered me the Earle of Abingdons Pamphlet wliich you were so 
kind as to send me — it is a Treasure worth preserving, and therefore should be 
reprinted that every American may have an opportunity of reading it with attention. 
Mr. Dunlap has a great desire to sett his types for it, and Council is well disposed to 
encourage him, but it is just necessary to obtain your consent" (Library of Congress, 
Morris Papers). See nos. 107, 180, ante. A sketch of Willoughby Bertie, fourth earl of 
Abingdon, with some account of this pamphlet, is found in Diet. Nat. Biog. 

4 Cf. nos. 334, ante, 339, 340, post. 

^ John Laurens. 
[336]^ Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIV. 5; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), II. 137. 



June, ly-jS 287 

quit Congress till the Confederation is ratified, which I hope will be done 
in a few days.- .... 

337. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes). '^ 

12 June [1778.] 
Ur Sir 

.... An Enquiry is ordered by Congress into the conduct of Major 
General Mifflin and the Officers in his late department of Quarter Master 
General, there was a violent opposition of near four hours.' 'tis amazing 
to me, who am persuaded as a Man of Honor, the General must wish for 
an investigation in order to Satisfy the Public who at present clamor 
exceedingly upon the subjects of neglect, misapplication, peculation etc. 
an enquiry will remove every groundless imputation 

338. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
to Philip Schuyler.^ 

12 June [1778.] 
Sir 

In consequence of your favors of the 17th and 29th May which I have 
lately had the honor of presenting to Congress, I expect to receive com- 
mands to be transmitted to you tomorrow 

I moved Congress yesterday to call for the Report on the Tyconderoga 
affair, it will be made this morning ^ 

339. JosiAH Bartlett to Nathaniel Folsom.^ 

York Town June 12 1778 
Dear Sir 

I arrived here the 21 stulto 

The latter End of May Genl Clinton and Lord Howe sent the late 
famous acts of the Brittish Parliament to G Washington and Requested 
leave to send out a person to him, which He Refused and informed them 
that if what they had to Communicate to him was what came under the 
military Department, He Desired it might be sent him in writing, but if 
it was of any other nature their application ought to be made to Congress ; 
the Begining of this month they sent the same acts in a letter signed by 
Ld. Howe and G Clinton Directed to the President of Congress signifying 

2 Washington wrote to Dana June 9 that he had received the resolution of 
Congress (see the Journals, June 4) by which Dana was appointed to assist in arranging 
the army, and added, " As so important a matter ought not to be delayed I would be 
glad to see you at camp as soon as possible ; and to know when I can have that pleasure " 
(Library of Congress, Washington Papers). Cf. the letter of Joseph Reed to Mrs. Reed, 
June 9-1 1, in Life of Reed, I. 366. Concerning the Confederation, see the Journals, 
June 19, 20, 22, 23, 25-27, July 9, 10. Cf. nos. 243, 292, 293, 306, ante, and nos. 339, 367, post. 
[337]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 177 (in the writing 
of Moses Young). 

- See the Journals, June 11 
[338] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 365. 

2 See the Journals, May 26, June 3, 9, 11, 12, 20, and nos. 308, 330, ante, 369, post. 
[339] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Old Congress, L 22; Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog , 
XXIX. 194; Brotherhead, Book of the Signers, p. 165. 



288 Continental Congress 

their being authentick Copies and saying they wished they might have the 
Desired Effect. The Congress Directed the President to inform them 
that when the King of England was seriously inclined to put an end to 
the cruel and unprovoked war he had waged against the United States 
they would readily Concur in all proper measures Consistent with the 
Rights of Independant Nations, the Intrest of their Constituents, and the 
Sacred Regard they owed to Treaties. 

The 9th Instant Genl Clinton sent a letter to G Washington informing 
him of the arrival of the Earl of Carlisle, Mr Eden and Governor Johnstone 
the Commis'rs and Requesting him to grant passports to Dr Ferguson 
their Secretary to repair the next morning with letters to Congress; 
G Washington Refused the passports till he Reed the order of Congress 
on that matter, the Congress have not yet Determined on it I believe he 
will not be permitted to Come to Congress But G Washington ordered to 
Receive the letters at the line and Send them to us.^ A French Ship of 50 
Guns is arrived at Virginia with Cloathing. 

The Congress have not yet Ratified the Confederation, two or 3 of the 
States not having Signified their assent. I expect it will not be long before 
it will be Confirmed.^ .... 

340. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Horatio Gates.^ 

York Town 13th June 1778 
Sir, 

.... The Newspaper Inclosed will shew you a late correspondence 
between Philadelphia and Congress. Congress will some time to day 
determine on a proper answer to Sir H. Clinton's late attempt to obtain a 
Passport for Doctor Ferguson Secretary to the Commissioners to attend 
them at York Town without previously announcing the subject of his 
errand.* " 

-See the Journals, June 6, 11-13; cf. no. 335, note 4, ante, and no. 340, post. 
Clinton's first letter to Washington relative to the proposed visit of the commission 
is dated May 30 (contemporary copy in the Library of Congress, Washington Papers) ; 
Washington's reply, May 31, is found in Writings (ed. Sparks), V. 394. Clinton wrote 
again June 3, and this letter from Lord Howe, May 27, was transmitted to Congress by 
Washington June 4 and read in Congress June 6. Washington's letter of June 9, in 
reply to Clinton's letter of the same date, asking for a passport for Dr. Ferguson, is 
in Writings (ed. Sparks), V. 397. Oliver Wolcott wrote to his wife, June 12: "Con- 
gress are united and firm not to enter into any kind of Negotiation but upon the 
acknowledged Principles of our Independence" (Conn. Hist. Soc, Wolcott Papers, IL 
53). The use, as in this letter, of " G " as an abbreviation for General was not an uncom- 
mon practice. 

^ See no. 336, ante, and no. 367, post. 
[340] IN. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIL ; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., 
Revolutionary Papers, HL 401 (copy of part) ; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, L 366 (without the private postscript) ; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 
Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 180 (only the private postscript, which appears in the form of a 
distinct letter). 

- Except for the formal conclusion and signature and the brief postscript 
relative to the messenger, the official letter ends here, the asterisk pointing to the 
longer, private postscript. In a letter to General Heath June 12 Laurens wrote: "The 
Commission at Philada. are anxious to send a Messenger and Message to Congress if 
I guess right at opinions, the decision this morning will be to demand an explanation of 
the business, as a preliminary" (S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 
1778, p. 179)- 



June, 1778 289 

[P. S.] The Messenger^ having been long detained stands in need of 
Money I have suppHed him with Sixty Dollars. Please to inform the 
proper Officer. 

The Honorable Major General Gates Fish Kill 

* While Congress were this Morning in debate on this subject * a large 
Packet from Head Quarters was ushered into the House and dd [deliv- 
ered] to me. I suggested that this, holding up the Packet, might prove an 
attempt to mend the whole, and so it happened. Doctor Ferguson had pro- 
ceeded with a Flag to Radnor but finding he could not obtain a Passport 
left his dispatches which were under a superb direction and triple Seals, 
the device of the latter, a fond Mother embracing returning Children, 
both, no doubt, projected for the occasion — here honour and duty bid me 
stop. Congress having heard me read two Pages of the Commissioners 
address gave me direction to seal up the whole and adjourned to Monday 
Morning. 

I have a confidence in Congress that their future determination on this 
important subject will give the People satisfaction and do themselves 
honor on both sides the Atlantic.^ 

Governor Johnson is liberal in addresses to particular persons, under 
his single signature, among others he has honoured me with a Letter 
much too polite to be sincere.'' he has sent me Letters from my old and 
best friends in London all tending to the same point to wheedle us into 
resubjection, but if I do not misinterpret the intimations of one, a Man of 
as good sense as any in G Britain, and high in Esteem with the first Men 
on both sides at Court, '^ these same Commissioners now are, or very soon 
will be, possessed of such Powers as will be acceptable at the Court House 
of York Town. 

You will be pleased Sir to receive this P S. as the private respects of, 

Your obliged and obedient Servant, 

Henry Laurens 

Lord Carlisle and Comp. the Commiss'rs adventured the 10 List't under 
an Escort of Light Troops to take an airing as far as Germantown I am 
in hopes if they repeat this frolic, wh. is certainly calculated for shewing 
themselves to the people, they will be introduced to an audience under an 
Escort of our own. 

3 In the President's Letter-Book this postscript reads, " This Mess'r Simon 
Crigier having been ", etc. At the head of the letter-book copy the name had been written 
by the recording clerk as " Simon Crygier ", but Laurens erased it and wrote instead, 
"by Simon Crugier ". In Cal. N. Y. Hist. MSS.: Revolutionary Papers "Crygier" 
appears to be the accepted form of the name, although other forms are found. 

■* In the Laurens Letter-Book in S. C. Hist. Soc, where this private postscript is 
recorded (in the writing of Laurens's secretary, Moses Young) as a distinct letter, the 
following explanatory note is found, " Referring to an application for a Passport for 
Dr. Ferguson ". 

^ See the Journals, June 11, 13, 15-17; cf. nos. 327, note 3, 334, 335, 339, ante, and 
nos. 343-346, post. Of especial interest at this point is a letter which the Earl of 
Carlisle wrote to George Selwyn June 10, immediately after the commissioners' letters 
to Congress had been despatched. It is found in J. H. Jesse, George Selwyn and his 
Contemporaries, III. 280; also in Life of Joseph Reed, I. 379. 

** See Laurens's proposed letter to Johnstone in reply, June 14, no. 346, post. 
Cf. nos. 348, 356, 360, 370, 272,, post. 

"^ Cf. the letter to Washington, June 18 (no. 358, post). 



290 Continental Congress 

341. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 

Governor of Virginia (Patrick Henry)/ 

13th June [1778.] 
Sir 

I had the honor of writing to you the 9th by Barry. In the Act for 
laying an Embargo then transmitted, there should have been an addition 
of a clause wh. I apprehend was omitted, and therefore I trouble Your 
Excellency with a Copy inclosed and beg leave to refer to it.^ .... 

Your Excellency will also find inclosed two other Acts of Congress viz. 

loth June ^ Requesting Your Excellency to purchase under a limitation 
certain articles for the use of these United States from on board the 
French ship Le Fier Roderiqtie. 

And I am ordered to intimate to Your Excellency to take the opinion of 
persons properly skilled, respecting the prime cost and a comparative 
quality of the Goods, particularly that of shoes.* .... 

342. The Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the 

Massachusetts Council (Jeremiah Powell). '^ 

York Town June 13th 1778 
Sir 

The Intelligence which Congress has very lately received of the Enemies 
reputed Depredations in the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plan- 
tations gave Occasion to the passing of the inclosed Resolution ; But, such 
has been the Attention of the Massachusetts Bay to the safety of these 
united States as renders it needless for us to enlarge upon the Necessity of 
their turning an immediate Attention to the relief of one of their own 
Neighborhood which now bears a large share in the calamities of 
War.^ .... 

Your very humble servants 

Samuel Adams 
E. Gerry 
Fra. Dana 
James Lovell 

[341 ]i Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, L 365. 

' A similar letter to Governor Johnson of Maryland is found in Md. Hist. Soc. 
Red Book, VIL 139. The enclosure to Governor Johnson {ibid., VIL 138) was, however, 
that paragraph which was to be added to the circular letter of June 10 as transmitted to 
Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina (see nos. 2>2i3, 335. note 2, ante). It bears the 
heading, "Resolve of Congress of the 8 June 1778", and is signed, "Certified Henry 
Laurens President", li therefore the record in the Journals is correct, Laurens was in 
error in characterizing this paragraph as an addition to the embargo act of June 8. The 
letter to Governor Johnson is also found in the President's Letter-Book, L 366, and a 
similar letter to Governor Caswell is ibid., p. 367, dated June 14. 

3 The other act enclosed was that of " nth June for raising troops", etc. 

* The instruction indicated in this paragraph is not found in the Journals. On 
the other hand, the President did not include in his letter an explanation of " the principles 
of such limitation ", as instructed in the resolution of June 10. 

[342]! Mass. Arch., CXCIX. 208 (in Lovell's writing; autograph signatures); 
Library of Congress, Force Trans., Massachusetts Records, Letters, 1778, p. 208. 

2 See the Journals, June 13, 25. Cf. no. 329, ante, and nos. 372, 385, post. 



June, i/yS 291 

343. Samuel Adams to James Warren/ 

York Town, June 13, 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

.... By the inclosd News Paper you will see that the Scene begins 
to open. You may depend upon it that Congress will not attend to any 
Propositions until Independence is acknowledgd. The Day before yester- 
day, we were informd by a Letter from General Washington that Sr. H. 
Clinton had requested a Passport for Dr. Ferguson, Secretary to the 
British King's Commissioners, who was chargd with a Letter from them 
to Congress ; and that he had acquainted Sr. Harry that he could not grant 
the Request till he should receive the Directions of Congress. In the 
Midst of a Debate on the Report of a Committee on this Subject, the 
Letters were brought in, having been receivd by our General and for- 
warded. This Mode of Conveyance suited the Inclination of the House, 
they being, as I thought, at that Juncture ready to assent to a Proposition 
approving of the General's Conduct in refusing to grant a Passport to the 
Messenger, and expressing themselves content that he should receive the 
Message and send it by a Messenger of his own. 

The Contents of the Letter, as far as they were read appeard extraordi- 
nary indeed, and show'd plainly that their Design was to draw us back 
to a Subjection to their King. Some Expressions in the Letter gave par- 
ticular Disgust to all the Members. The House adjournd till Monday 
when I think I may assure you the Subject will be treated with becoming 
'Spirit and Propriety.^ .... 

344. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

13 June [1778.] 
My dear Son 

I thank you for your very sensible Letter of the nth wh. came with 
the General's dispatches at past i o'clock just as Congress were about to 
adjourn. How came those important papers to travel so very tardily? 

Congress I think determined properly to reflect a little and I have no 
doubt but that on Monday their Resolutions will be equally proper.^ .... 

345. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.^ 

York Town 14th June 1778 
Sir, 

.... Between one and two oClock yesterday the Packet which Your 
Excellency sent to Congress accompanied by Your Excellency's favor of 

[343P Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 212; Warren-Adams Letters, II. 21. 
2 Cf. nos. 323, 326-328, 330, 331, 334, 335, 339, ante, and nos. 344-346, 348-352, 
354-360, 362, 370-374, 378, 381, post. 

I344P S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar .-Sept., 1778, p. 180. 

2 John Laurens's letter of June 11 is in Army Correspondence, p. 183. Two 
letters of June 9 {ibid., pp. 178, 181) also pertain especially to the British peace com- 
mission. See nos. 343, ante, 345, 355, post. 

[345]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCII. 12; ibid., President's 
Letter-Book, I. 367. 

2Z 



292 Continental Congress 

the I ith was brot into the House, among other Papers it contained an 
Address from the British Commissioners to Congress, at that minute 
Congress were determining on a proper reply to be given to Sir H Clinton's 
application for a Passport for Doctor Ferguson. I was ordered to read the 
Address, when I had advanced to the second Page, the House directed me 
to Seal up all the Papers and adjourned to Monday Morning.^ .... 



346. Henry Laurens, Proposed Letter to George Johnstone.^ 

York Town 14th June 1778 
Dear Sir 

Yesterday I was honored with your favor of the loth and thank you for 
the transmission of those from my Dear and worthy friends Mr. Oswald 
and Mr. Manning, had Doctor Ferguson been the bearer of these papers, 
I should have shown that Gentleman every degree of respect and attention, 
that times and circumstances admit of. 

It is Sir, for Great Britain to determine whether her Commissioners 
shall return unheard by the Representatives of these United States, or 
revive a friendship with the Citizens at large, and remain among us as 
long as they please. 

You are undoubtedly acquainted with the only terms upon which Con- 
gress can treat for accomplishing this good end; terms from which, 
although writing in a private character, I may venture to assert with 
great assurance, they never will recede, even admitting the continuance of 
hostile attempts and that from the rage of War the good people of these 
States shall be driven to commence a Treaty westward of yonder Moun- 
tains ; and permit me to add Sir, as my humble opinion, the true Interest 
of Great Britain in the present advance of the Contest will be found in 
confirming our Independence. 

2 See the Journals, June 13 ; also nos. 340, 343, 344, ante, and nos. 346, 355, 358, 
360, 373, post. Johnstone's letter to Washington dated June 10 is in Letters to JVashhig- 
ton (ed. Sparks), II. 136. Washington's reply, June 12, is in Writings (ed. Sparks), 
V. 402; his reply of the same date to Eden's letter dated June 9 is ibid., p. 401. Besides 
the public letter transmitting the address, etc., of the British commissioners, Washington 
also wrote a private letter to President Laurens June 11, in which he said : " I must take 
the freedom to hint to you, that if in the packets transmitted by this conveyance there 
are any letters for persons, with whom you are not acquainted, or in whose firmness and 
attachment you have not an entire confidence, it may not be improper to open them. This 
I am persuaded would be the case. However I am the more induced to mention it, as 
the obvious nay almost sole design of several letters which have come to my hands is to 
give the Commissioners the most favourable characters for candor and integrity and 
to establish a belief that they have the most competent and extensive powers. The 
letters coming sealed was sufficient to awaken my suspicions and I shall not transmit 
a single one of this complexion. You and I, I am convinced move on the same principle, 
and therefore I am certain, I hazard nothing in taking this liberty" (IVritings, ed. Ford, 
VII. 57, ed. Sparks, V. 400). See also Washington to Laurens June 18, "six o'clock,, 
P. M." (Writings, ed. Ford, VII. 68, ed. Sparks, V. 411). 

[346]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIV. 61; S. C. Hist. Soc, 
Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept, 1778, p. 183; ibid., Laurens Papers, vol. 28 (copy); 
N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XII. (copy in the writing of Laurens's secretary, Moses 
Young) ; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), II. 136 n. 



June, 1778 293 

Congress in no hour have been haughty, but to suppose that their minds 
are less firm in the present than they were, when, destitute of all foreign 
aid, even without expectation of an Alliance, when, upon a day of general 
public fasting and humiliation, in their House of Worship and in the 
presence of God, they Resolved, " to hold no conference or Treaty with 
any Commissioners on the part of Great Britain, unless they shall as a 
preliminar}' thereto, either withdraw their Fleets and Armies or in positive 
and express terms acknowledge the Independence of these States," would 
be irrational. 

At a proper time Sir, I shall think myself highly honored, by a personal 
attention and by contributing to render every part of these States agreeable 
to you, but until the Basis of mutual confidence shall be established, 
I believe Sir, neither fomier private friendships nor any other considera- 
tion, can influence Congress to consent, that even Governor Johnston, 
a Gentleman who has been so deservedly esteemed in America shall see 
the Country. I have but one voice and that shall be against it. But let me 
intreat you my Dear Sir do not hence conclude that I am deficient in 
affection to my old friends, through whose kindness I have obtained the 
honor of the present correspondence, or that I am not with very great 
personal Respect and Esteem, Sir 

Your most Obedient and most Humble Servant 

Henry Laurens 
The Honorable George Johnston Esquire 

Philadelphia ^ 

347. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of 

New Hampshire.^ 

York Town Pennsylvania June 15th 1778. 
Hon'd Sir. 

Congress having received advice by Letters from General Sullivan of 
the late Ravages of the British Troops in his Department; and of his 
present inability to prevent the like in future should they come out with 
any considerable force — have directed the Delegates of New Hampshire, 
Massachusetts Bay and Connecticutt to address the Legislatures of their 
respective States, requesting them forthwith to send forward their 
Quotas of Troops destined for the defence of the State of Rhode-Island.^ 

Tho' we think there is no reason to doubt but that the Quota of our 
State will be raised and marched, before this reaches you yet in Obedience 
to the Orders of Congress, we cannot do less than solicit your attention 
to a Matter so important in its Consequences — that if, by any means our 
State should be wanting in that respect, your immediate Care might supply 
the Deficiency. 

- See nos. 340, 345, ante, and nos, 355, 358, 360, Z73, post. In the N. Y. Hist. Soc, 
Gates Papers, vol. XII., are also copies of Johnstone's letter to Laurens June 10, and 
his letter to Robert Morris June 16. See the Journals, July 9, 18, Aug. 11. 

[347] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 24; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, f. 114. 
2 See the Journals, June 13. 



294 Continental Cottar ess 



&' 



We have only to add our hearty wishes that this and every other 

Exertion of the State in defence of every thing valuable may be attended 

with the best success. 

We are with great Esteem 

Sir, your Obedt. very hum'le Servants 

JosiAH Bartlett 

TT 1-1 A/r T^r T- John Wentworth Tunr. 

Honble M. Weare E^qr. '' -' 

President of New-Hampshire. 

348. Robert Morris to Gouverneur Morris.^ 

Valley Forge, June i6th, 1778. 

I came down here about ten days ago, expecting to go into Philadelphia 
immediately, and should certainly have done so, had not the Commis- 
sioners arrived at the critical time they did. Since then I have been 
prevailed on to stay, day after day, until Congress give them their answer, 
which, it is expected here, will be such, as will send them of¥ immediately. 
After that answer is given, I should like to hold an hour or two's conver- 
sation with my friend, Governor Johnstone, but have not yet determined 
on doing so. I think he will be much mortified at his disappointed embassy, 
and I could wish to convince him, that Great Britain may still be happy 
and continue rich, by forming a commercial alliance with us, on the same 
broad basis that other nations do. It will be no difficult matter to con- 
vince any reasonable man, that Great Britain would still enjoy under 
such treaties the greatest share and most valuable parts of our trade ; but 
the best and most liberal of the British subjects feel themselves humbled, 
in the idea of quitting their sovereignty over us; and this with many will 
preclude all reasoning on the subject. Whether Governor Johnstone is of 
this number or not, I cannot tell ; but we know he is strongly opposed to 
our independence, although unbounded in offers of everything else. No 
offers must tempt us ; they ought not to have a hearing of one moment, 
unless preceded by acknowledgment of our independence, because we can 
never be happy people under their domination. 

I have frequently ventured to assert here, that Congress will not give 
up one of their former resolves on this subject, nor do a thing in the 
least degree inconsistent with their public faith, plighted in the ratification 
of the treaty with France. I am sure you will make my words good." 

349. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

York in Pennsylva. 16 June 1778 
Dear Sir, 

.... The enemy have made many insidious attempts upon us lately, 
not in the military way, they seem tired of that, but in the way of negoti- 

[348]^ Sparks, Life of Gouverneur Morris, I. i86 (extract). 

2 See nos. 340, 343, ante, 356, 370, 373, post. It was on the very day on which 
this letter was written that Johnstone wrote to Robert Morris his famous letter offering 
honors and emoluments to those who might steer the vessel safely to port. See the 
Journals, July 9, Aug. 11; cf. nos. 419-422, 462, post. 

[349]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second ser., LI. 21; Letters (ed. 
Ballagh), I. 412. 



June, lyyS 295 

ation. Their first, was by industriously circulating the bills of pacification 
as they call them, before they had passed into Acts, in order to prevent our 
closing with France. These bills received a comment from Congress on 
the 22d of April, which no doubt you have seen.^ The inclosed paper 
will shew you the second attempt from Lord Howe and Gen. Clinton, with 
the answer of Congress.^ The third movement happened very lately, when 
Clinton desired a passport from Gen. Washington for Dr. Ferguson to 
come to Congress with a letter from the newly arrived Commissioners Lord 
Carlyle, Wm. Eden esqr. and Governor Johnston. The General refused the 
passport until Congress should give leave. Their letter from Clinton was 
transmitted here, but the impatience of the Commissioners did not suffer 
them to wait for an answer. Thro the medium of the General, leaving their 
Secretary Dr. Ferguson behind, the packet arrived containing a letter 
from the Commissioners with a copy of their Commission. Their letter 
is a combination of fraud, falsehood, insidious offers, and abuse of France, 
concluding with a denial of Independence. The sine qua non being with- 
held, you may judge what will be the fate of the rest. An answer has 
not yet been sent. In due time you will have both the letter and its 
answer.* .... 

350. Charles Thomson, Memorandum.^ 

[June 16, 1778.] 
All agree the terms are inadmissible ^ Some think the insulting way that 
the whole letter so far as read is an insult; First as it is grounded on a 

2 See nos. 207-209, 213-216, ante. 

3 See the Journals, June 6, and nos. 326, 327, ante. 

* See the Journals, June 11-13, IS, 16; also nos. 340, 343-345, ante, and nos. 350- 
352, 354-360, 370-373, 378, post. The committee appointed June 16 on the letter of the 
British commissioners was composed of the same members although named in a different 
order, as the committee of June 6 on the letters of Howe and Clinton; and two of the 
same members, namely, Richard Henry Lee and Samuel Adams, were of the committee 
on Washington's letters of June 7 and 9 (see the Journals, June 9, 11), which were con- 
cerned with essentially the same subject. 

[350] ^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. The document is in the writing of 
Charles Thomson, but bears an endorsement in Adams's writing (probably placed there 
at a later period) which reads, " Respecting the ground taken by Congress with 
English Corns, under Lord North's Conciliating bill ". 

2 This paper is evidently a discussion of the course which Congress should 
pursue relative to the letter of the British commissioners, Carlisle, Eden, and Johnstone, 
received by Congress June 13. After some discussion of the question on the 13th 
(Saturday), and again on the 15th and i6th, the matter was referred to a committee, 
who reported a draft of a reply in the afternoon of the same day. This underwent 
further discussion until the 17th, when a reply, which was drawn by Gouverneur Morris, 
was adopted. Richard Henry Lee and Witherspoon also drew up replies (nos. 351, 352, 
post), but whether these were proposed in Congress or only offered in committee is not 
known. In the IVritings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), IV. 25, is an address to the 
British commissioners (together with Lord and General Howe), there and elsewhere 
credited to Samuel Adams, but which was actually written by Gouverneur Morris 
(see no. 378, post). The present paper, being in Thomson's writing, may reasonably 
be assumed to be of his authorship, and the most probable explanation of its being 
among Adams's papers is that Thomson saw fit to draw up an argument of the case 
and put it into the hands of Adams, a member of the committee. At the same time it 
appears to present the possible lines of action suggested in the course of debate in 
Congress. William Henry Drayton, another member of the committee, also employed 
his pen in replying to the commissioners, but it was as a member of the committee on 
publication (see the Journals, June 17, and nos. 351, 352, 378, post). 



296 Continental Congress 

supposition that we are so devoid of understanding and every sense of 
honor as to violate the treaties we have just entered into and give our- 
selves up to the mercy of those, who have demonstrated that they have 
the will if they had but the power to reduce us to abject slavery and that 
they would exterminate rather than not subject us. 

2. As it accompanies these inadmissible terms with reproaches against 
that power which steps in to rescue us from destruction ; thereby supposing 
that we have not sense to feel nor spirit to resent abuse offered to our 
friend. 

The question is in what manner to treat this letter. 

1. Whether to enter into a train of reasoning and shew that from a 
regard to safety, and the faith due to treaties Congress cannot listen to 
terms short of independence, or 

2. Leaving the Commissioners to draw that conclusion, to reject it on 
the footing of the insult contained [in] it, or 

3. To unite these and comprehend both in the answer 

The first is a temporising method and will shew that Congress have 
not a full confidence in the firmness and persevering spirit of their constit- 
uents: For such a train of reasoning cannot be for the purpose of en- 
lightening the understanding or convincing the judgment of the Com- 
missioners but of the people of this continent. What occasion for this if 
they are convinced of their independence and determined to support it. 
Besides it will inspirit our enemes as it will convince them Congress have 
not a full confidence in the establishment of their independance or their 
resources for supporting it. For who but a simpleton attempts to prove a 
self evident proposition. 

Second. Rejecting the letter on the ground of the insult, which may be 
considered as double in offering chains to freemen and abusing our 
frien[ds] ; will carry all the force of reasoning on the first ground: It 
will do more, it will appall our enemies and inspirit the friends of the 
cause. The Com'rs. will thereby see that nothing short of Independance 
will be listened to and must therefore come to that or break of[f] the 
conference; and that even admitting independance they must treat our 
allies with respect. It will carry with it to the Com'rs a conviction of the 
confidence Congress have both in their cause and resources, and must 
therefore force them to a speedier Declaration of their further powers if 
any they have. 

3. Mixing both will only weaken the force of the reasoning on the 
second ground. 

351. Richard Henry Lee, Draft of Letter to the 
British Commissioners.^ 

[June 16, 1778.] 
My Lords and Gentlemen 

I have recei[ved] your letter of and laid it before Congress 

with its inclosures. In answer I am instructed to inform you, that Con- 
gress ever ready to stop the effusion of human blood, have been induced 

1351]^ Am. Phil. Soc, Lee Papers, vol. II. p. 128, no. 36; Letters (ed. Ballagh), 
I. 414. The second sentence of the text as here given presents a somewhat different in- 
terpretation of the interlineations of the draft from that found in Ballagh. 



June, 1778 297 

to hear your letter read thro out. and to consider its inclosures and that hav- 
ing Considered it with a coolness that, notwithstanding the very inad- 
missible and offensive things that are contained in the former, Tho 
It is impossible Congress can fail to be affected with the highest resent- 
ment at the indignity offered them by the indecent reflections you have 
thought proper to make upon his most Ch. Majesty the Great and good 
ally of these States. The Commission from his Britannic Majesty under 
which you act, a copy of which you have inclosed, and the Acts of Parlia- 
ment on which the Commission is founded, being both formed upon the 
idea of the good people of these States being Subjects of the Crown of 
Great Britain, and proposing peace upon dependent principles and a 
return to the domination of a power that hath accumulated every injury 
and insult, on their unoffending State, Congress consider them both as 
totally inadmissable, and cannot consent to any further communication on 
such grounds. I am further instructed to inform your Excellency that 
Congress will be always ready to enter upon the Consideration of a 
Treaty of Peace, when a sincere disposition thereto shall be evidenced on 
the part of G. B. by an explicit acknowledgement of the Independence of 
their States, and by withdrawing his Fleets from our Coasts and his 
Armies from the 13 States.^ 

352. John Witherspoon, Proposed Letter to the 
British Commissioners.^ 

[June 16, 1778.] 

I received Your Letters and Papers accompanying them which have 
been laid before Congress and read. By them I am instructed to inform 
you that they are and invariably have been desirous of Peace as with all 
the World so more especially with great Britain. This Desire is not yet 
extinguished even by the extreme Barbarity with which the present 
War has been carried on by the Forces of that Nation. 

I am particularly desired to mention to you that they are surprised how 
you could think thus throwing out such Reflections as are contained in 
your Letter against the King of France with whom they are in Alliance 
would contribute to hasten an Accommodation. They are sensible of their 
Obligations to him and firmly resolved to abide by their Engagements. 

I am further desired to assure you on the most explicit Terms that 
Congress are determined to enter into no Treaty unless you have Powers 
either expressly to acknowledge the Independance of the united States of 
America or immediately to withdraw the british Forces from every part 
of these States. 

You know best your Instructions and reserved Powers. If therefore 
you think that after the above Declaration there is Room for any further 
Discussion Gen. Washington is directed to grant a Passport to Dr Fer- 
guson to come to this Place " 

- See nos. 348-350, ante, 352, 378, post. 
[352l^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Continental Congress, p. 258. Witherspoon was 
a member of the committee appointed June 16 to prepare an answer to the letter of 
CarHsle, Eden, and Johnstone, and this paper is endorsed by him, " Draught of a 
Letter to the Commissioners to be given in to the Committee ". 

2 Cf. the letter offered by Richard Henry Lee, no. 351, ante, and the letter adopted 
(Journals, June 17), which was drawn up by Gouverneur Morris (see no. 378, post). 



298 Continental Congress 

353. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Horatio Gates/ 

York Town 17th June 1778. 
Sir, 

Three days ago I had the honor of presenting to Congress your favor 
of the loth with several other papers put into my hands by Colo. Malcomb ^ 
these were committed to the Board of War with orders to act upon them 
without Report and I believe what appeared to be necessary has been 
done by the Board from whence Colo. Malcomb intimates he has received 
his dispatches 

354. Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates.^ 

(Private) 

York Town 17th June 1778 
Dear Sir, 

I troubled you with a few private Lines on the 13th by Crugier.^ Con- 
gress have not determined their answer to the British Commissioners 
Address, although I foresee it will be a veiy short one. when that is 
finished the whole will probably be published.^ in the meantime I consider 
'Sir your situation and distance from the Center of intelligence and con- 
clude that the following brief account of the Address will not be unac- 
ceptable. 

There is rather a repletion in the direction of the Paper leaving no 
room for caret on that score.* 

The Commissioners after the necessary preface observe — " That in 
the present state of our affairs tho' fraught with subjects of mutual regret 
all parties may draw some consolation and even auspicious hope from 
recollecting that cordial reconciliation and affection have in our own and 
other Empires succeeded to contention and temporary division not less 
violent than those we now experience. 

they wish not to recall subjects now no longer in controversy, observe 
that the Acts of Parliament which they transmit and refer to, passed with 
singular Unanimity. 

they are willing to consent to a cessation of hostilities by Sea and Land. 

to extend every freedom of Trade that our respective Literests can 
require. (11^^ who is to adjust this point) to agree that no Military 
forces shall be kept up in the States without our Consent, to concur in 
measures calculated to discharge the debts of America and to raise the 

[353]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XII.; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, I. 369. 

2 Col. William Malcom of New York. See the Journals, June 2, 6, 19. Laurens 
wrote to Washington June 17 " Yesterday I signed a Commission to William Malcom 
Esquire to Rank Colonel, by order of Congress, from the nth March 1776" (Washington 
Papers). 

[354]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XII. 

2 The postscript of the letter of June 13, no. 340, ante. 

8 Congress reached a determination later in tlie same day. Cf. nos. 350-352, 
ante, 355-360, 370-373, 3/8, post. The proceedings were printed in the Pentisylvaniti 
Gazette of June 20. 

* See no. 331, note 2, ante. 



June, 1778 299 

Credit and Value of the Paper circulation, to perpetuate our Union by a 
reciprocal Deputation in Parliament and in the several General Assemblies. 

In short to establish the Power of the Respective Legislatures in each 
particular State, to settle its revenues its Civil and ]Militarv' establishment 
and exercise a perfect freedom of Legislation and internal Government 
so that the British States throughout North America acting with us in 
Peace and War under one common Sovereign may have the irrevocable 
enjoyment of every privelege that is short of a total separation of Interests 
or consistent with that Union of force on which the safety of our common 
Religion and Liberty depends." 

The French Court are illiberally charged with insidious practices, 
this gives much offence. If all the fine things now offered had been 
tendered some time ago, admitting their solidity, there can be no doubt 
but that the People of America would joyfully have embraced the propo- 
sition, but now what answer can be given but that which was returned to 
the foolish Virgins — " the Door is shut " more especially when we reflect 
that there is no solidity, because all is to be transmitted to Parliament for 
Ratification "And until such Ratification no such regulation matter or 
thing shall have any other force or eft"ect or be carried further into Execu- 
tion than is hereafter mentioned " here's a Boy's Card House tumbled 
down by a Breath. 

" If," say Lord Carlisle, Will'm Eden and Geo. Johnstone Esquires, 
" after the time that may be necessary' to consider this communication 
and transmit your answer the horrors and devastations of War should 
continue We call God and the World to Witness that the Evils which 
must follow are not to be imputed to Great Britain ". to whom are the 
past to be imputed ? but are they not now in the very moment of pre- 
tended attempts to establish Peace burning ravaging and murdering ? 

they seem to mistake our understanding as once they did our Resolution. 

Colonel Malcom waits I must stop short and assure you I am with 
great Esteem Dear Sir Your obliged and hum. servt. 

Henry Laurens 
Major Gen. Gates. 

355. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

17th June [1778.] 
My Dear Son, 

I will endeavor to discharge my debt to your favour of the 14th and 
15th both received yesterday.^ 

you will know sometime to morrow the part which Congress will act 
respecting the late Address from the Commissioners, it is my duty to 
subscribe not to Comment when a Letter undergoes for two or three days 
the consideration and correction of a House of 31, but it is very admissible 
to say the long delay has given me much anxiety.^ 

[355]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Alar.-Sept., 1778, p. 188. 
2 These letters are in Army Correspondence, pp. 185, 187. 

2 The reply of Congress to the commissioners is in the Journals, June 17. 
Cf. nos. 351, 352, ante. 



300 Continental Congress 

I wished to have returned Govr. Johnston Mr. Oswald and Mr. Man- 
nings ^ answers, but did not think the correspondence Lawful! without 
leave of Congress, or, say judged it best to apply for leave it was not 
unanimously granted and I preferred withdrawing my petition to a denial, 
because this might have ruffl'd me ^ you will smile with some contempt 
when I explain this matter fully, if this refusal would be productive of 
the expected benefits I should be content, even rejoice, it would be a 
politic measure, in the present case, all the weak and wicked, with whom 
Govr. Johnstone has corresponded and will correspond, will make him 
flattering returns, those Gentlemen who would attempt to open his Eyes 
and persuade him to undeceive himself will not be heard, honor will 
command Silence to the latter — the former will laugh at Proclamations, 
however I will endeavor to send you the Speeches which were intended to 
have been Spoken, as well as the Letters received from Philadelph'a 
possibly the General may Spare time to peruse that from Mr. Oswald 
who, if I do not misconstrue him, only wishes for our Dependence, but 
does not expect it and hence I conclude the commissioners are now or 
soon will be in possession of full powers, to acknowledge the Soveignty 
of these States 

356. Thomas McKean to the President of Delaware 
(Caesar Rodney).^ 

Dear Sir, 

.... I have lived to see the day when, instead of "Americans licking 
the dust from the feet of a British Minister," the tables are turned. The 
Commissioners are, Frederick Earl of Carlisle, Richd. Viscount Howe, 
Sir Henry Clinton, Wm. Eden Esquire (one of the Lords for trade and 
plantations and brother to the late Governor of Maryland) and Captain 
George Johnstone, commonly called Governor Johnstone. The last Gentl 
sent me a Letter from an old Correspondent in London,^ warmly recom- 
mending him as a Commissioner of peace, and begging that I would 
receive him among my friends, as he most ardently desired it etc. Several 
Members of Congress have received such Letters; but no Answers will 
be given by Individuals, it being treason to correspond with Enemies by 
the laws of Pennsylvania.^ The Commissioners have sent us again the 
three Acts of Parliament, their Cominissions from their Sovereign, and 
their Propositions; w'ch in brief are, to suspend hostilities by Sea and 
Land immediately, to join in supporting our Paper money, to agree that 
we shall govern ourselves in all cases, excepting matters of trade, and for 
the equal adjustment of that, the British Nation shall have Agents in 

* Richard Oswald subsequently had an important part in the peace negotiations. 
For Laurens's prior relations with him, see Wallace, Laurens, passim. William Manning 
was the father-in-law of John Laurens. See ibid., p. 299. Cf. no. 346, ante, and 
no. 358, post. 

5 See the Journals, June 17. The " intended " letter of Laurens to Johnstone is 
found under June 14, no. 346, ante. See especially no. 358, post. Cf. nos. 356, 360, 373, post. 
[356] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Collection, Signers, IL 40. 

- Dennis Deberdt. See no. 357, post. 

3 Cf. the Journals, June 17, and see nos. 340, 346, 354, ante, and nos. 360, 373, post. 



June, 1778 301 

Congress to have a voice there, and Congress or the several States, to 
appoint Agents in Parliament, who are to have a voice there ; and in fine 
seem willing to any thing but a total seperation ; they desire we should 
have the same King, the same wars and the same peace.* In my opinion 
their propositions cannot be fully supported by the Acts of Parliament. 
Be that as it may, Congress will again repeat; acknowledge our Inde- 
pendence or withdraw your fleets and armies, and we will enter into 
treaty with you. This answer will be sent off to day, and as soon as it 
is received you may expect to hear the Enemy have evacuated Philad'ia, 
if that should not be done sooner. 

Be upon your guard with regard to Letters from the Enemy; they 
intend to seduce, corrupt and bribe by every method possible. Keep the 
whole militia under marching orders, if you have the power. Warn the 
people to double their vigilance, and not be lulled with these pleasing 
prospects, lest they meet with some terrible stroke, when they do not 
expect it 

York Town June 17th 1778. 
P. S 



357. Thomas McKean to Mrs. McKean.^ 

My dear Sally, 

.... No other Delegate but myself from Delaware, nor likely to be 
for some time. 

The Commissioners from Great Britain are, Frederick Earl of Carlisle, 
Richard Viscount Howe, Sir Henry Clinton Knight of the Bath, William 
Eden Esquire, one of the Lords for trade and plantations, and George 
Johnstone, Esquire, Captain of a man of war, commonly called Governor 
Johnstone. They have sent a copy of their commission from their King to 
Congress, with a Letter directed to " His Excellency Henry Laurens 
President and the other members of Congress at York-Town," and call us 
States (not Colonies or Provinces) throughout. My old correspondent 
Dennys De Bert ^ Esquire of London has written to me a Letter of recom- 
mendation of Governor Johnstone, in very flattering terms, as he desired 
an intimate acquaintance with a Gentleman of such abilities etc. as myself ; 
which Letter the Governor sent with the dispatches from the Commis- 
sioners.^ .... 

To these they have received an answer "Acknowledge our Independence 
or withdraw your fleets and armies, and we will treat with you for peace 
and commerce ["] etc. This answer was agreed to unanimously, by 31 
members, the whole number in York-Town 

YoRK-Tow^N June 17th 1778. 

* See the Journals, June 11-17. Cf. no. 354, ante. 
[357]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, VI. 18. 

2 See nos. 356, ante, 373, 422, 429, post. 

3 Here follows a summary of the propositions of the commissioners, varying 
but little from that given in the letter to Rodney, no. 356, ante. 



302 Continental Congress 

358. Henry Laurens to George Washington.* 

York Town i8th June 1778. 
Dear Sir 

It has not been in my power with any convenience to make an eariier 
acknowledgement of Your Excellency's favor of the iith.^ 

There were Letters in the Commissioners Packet only for Congress and 
particular Members then present in the House, one for Mr. E. Rutledge 
unsealed and several also unsealed were brought as being taken from the 
Express — the utmost caution is necessary in the present conjuncture of 
our affairs and therefore had any suspicious directions turned up, such 
should have passed under the Eye of Congress. The Idea of opening other 
people's Letters is exceedingly abhorrent to me, but I think Congress have 
a power over Letters equal at least to that which necessity obliges them 
sometimes to exercise over persons; but Governor Johnstone is too well 
hackney'd in the ways of Men to trust his deep schemes within our reach. 

His private Letter to me, by the bye, is notwithstanding all his good 
sense, no proof of an infallible judgement. I am sure it is one of his 
having mistaken his Man. I take the liberty of transmitting it, together 
with my intended answer ^ and the letters from Mr. Oswald and 
Mr. Manning under this Cover for Your Excellency's perusal.'* There are 
some traits in Mr. Oswald's which strongly imply a determination on 
the part of Great Britain, but reserved as the ultimatum, to submit to our 
Independence. I am much inclined to believe those Commissioners now 
are or soon will be vested with powers for that purpose. Mr. Oswald is 
a Gentleman of solid understanding and quick perception, of a very large 
Independent fortune much exceeding a quarter of a Million Sterling, 
often consulted by Administration ; for the goodness of his heart I refer 
you to this particular part of his Character, he is no place Man, but much 
Esteemed by the first Men of each of the political parties.^ great reliance 
may be placed on what he writes or even hints. 

Yesterday there was an extraordinary Motion on our floor for call- 
ing upon Members to lay before Congress such Letters as they had 
received from the Commissioners or other persons, meaning persons in 
Great Britain on Political subjects ® I could not forbear offering some 
objections; it appeared to be a dangerous attempt to stretch the power of 
Congress, my letters had been read by many Members and were at the 
service of every Gentleman who should request a perusal, but I could 
never consent to have my property taken from me by an Order from my 

[358]^ Library of Congress, LeUers to Washington, XXIV. 52; S. C. Hist. Soc, 
Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept, 1778, p. 186; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
IL 140. 

2 Washington's letter of June 11 is in Writings (ed. Ford), VIL 57, (ed. 
Sparks), V. 400. 

3 See no. 346, ante. 

* See no. 355, note 4, ante. 

5 Cf. no. 340, ante. 

6 While the action of Congress June 17 took a somewhat modified form, a 
motion of this character did prevail July 9. See also the Journals, July 16, 18, Aug. 11, 12. 
Cf. nos. 360, 422, 429, 462, 499, post. Cf. Wallace, Laurens, pp. 295-299. 



June, lyyS 303 

fellow Citizens destitute of authority for the purpose, this circumstance 
and some remarks which followed have induced me to put Govr. John- 
stone's Letter and my intended answer into Mr. Drayton's hands who is 
collecting materials for displaying the Governor's good designs and no 
doubt he will according to his usual tone add pretty severe stricture, 
among other Papers I transmit to Your Excellency Copies of the Com- 
missioners Address to Congress and of their Commission, these are to 
be published by order.^ If no mistake was made a Copy of the Answer of 
Congress was sent to Your Excellency yesterday in my Public Letter. 

I pray God to support and direct Your Excellency in this moment of 
extraordinary tryal and I am with the most sincere Esteem and Regard 
Dear Sir 

Your much obliged and Obedient humble Servt. 

Henry Laurens.^ 

359. James Lovell to Horatio Gates. '^ 

June I 8th 1778 
Dear General 

.... No Peace can take Place in Consequence of any Powers we 
have seen of the King's Commissioners. Saturday's Paper will contain the 
whole of what has hitherto passed. I can only say, they do not allow 
Independence ; therefore they might have tarwed at Home. 

They call on God to witness that future Carnage will not be chargeable 
against Britain, if we refuse to listen to the Terms now offered.^ .... 

360. Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates.* 

York Town 19th June 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

By Colo. Malcolm yesterday I had the honor of writing you a few lines 
while that active Spirit sat jogging my Elbow for dispatch. 

The contents of the several Papers which will accompany this will 
appear in print some time to morrow.^ These will probably be two or three 

^ See the Journals, June 17, and nos. 350-352, 354-357, ante, 359, 360, 370-374, 3/8. 
post. 

^ A letter from General Conway, dated June 17, read June 18, bears the follow- 
ing endorsement in Laurens's writing: "Gen. Conway 17th June dd. to me the i8th 
at Yz p. one oClock in presence of Colo. Bartlet Mr. Wentworth and Mr. Carmichael 
Presented to Congress at 3 oClock meeting." For an endorsement on a letter of Conway 
June 19, see the Journals, p. 624 n. 

[359]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XII. 

2 The proceedings were published in the Pennsylvania Gazette, June 20, Cf. nos. 
358, ante, and 360, 378, post. 

[360] ^N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XII.; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 
Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 190. 

2 The Library of Congress does not possess a copy of the Pennsylvania Gazette 
of June 20, in which the letters from the British commissioners, the proceedings of Con- 
gress, etc., appeared, but apparently the whole was reproduced in the Pennsylvania 
Packet of July 4 and July 9. The publication is introduced by a letter from William Henry 
Drayton to the printers of the Pennsylvania Gazette, dated June 17, and includes John- 
stone's letter to Laurens June 10 and Laurens's proposed reply, of June 14. William 
Henry Drayton's address to the commissioners, June 17, is in the issue of July 9. The 
matter was also reprinted in other papers, among them the Gazette of the State of South 
Carolina (July 22, and "Extraordinary", July 24), and the South Carolina American 
and General Gasette (July 30). See also no. 381, post. 



104 Continental Congress 



&' 



days in front. ^ I think Sir you are intitled to some of the first fruits 
of all important Public intelligence and therefore I had directed the 
inclosed Copies to be taken for your use. 

The correspondence between Govr. Johnstone and myself was not 
intended for the Public eye but a certain Itch for knowing- it both in and 
out of Doors combined with private considerations respecting myself 
which you will understand Sir, without explication prevailed on me to 
send it abroad in the very shape, meaning my answer, in which first 
impulses had formed it immediately after reading that Grentleman's 
Address/ 

I am with great Esteem and Regard Dear Sir 

Your obedient and Most hum. Servant 

Henry Laurens. 
The Honorable Major General Gates. 

Next Week will produce you curious private applications to Members 
of Congress etc. I have an Instance before me in which a great Man con- 
cludes, *' lose not the feelings of Christians in the resentment of Men and 
as you have nobly fought now act more nobly and forgive us " ^3^^ one 
part of the Mission is to grant Pardons. 

sing tantarara All Mad. 

361. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

19 June [1778-] 
Dear Sir 

.... Congress have done nothing yet respecting ]\Ionsr. Tousard " 
and Colo. Armand.^ I believe the business lies in the Board of War, and 
will enquire about it. I never heard before of Chevr. De Fayolles or it has 
escaped my Memory.'* possibly he may appear under a different appella- 

3 That is, the enclosures will reach Gates two or three days earlier than the 
issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette in which they are to be printed. 

* In effect Laurens is anticipating the order of Congress July 9, that all private 
letters from the British commissioners to members of Congress be laid before that 
body. 

^ The quotation is from the letter of Dennis Deberdt to Joseph Reed, Apr. 10 
(see no. 2,72, post). As printed in the Life of Reed, I. 375, it reads, "lose not the 
feelings of the Christian in the resentment of the man, and as you have nobly fought, 
act more nobly and forgive ". Cf. nos. 356-358, ante. 

[361]! s. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept. 1778, p. 191. 

2 Lafayette had expressed the wish June 4, and again June 7 {S. C. Hist, and 
Geneal. Mag., VIIL 182, 187), that Congress would grant Capt. Louis Tousard a major's 
commission. In his letter of June 12 (ibid., IX. 4), to which Laurens is replying, he 
merely asks Laurens what, in his opinion, Congress will probably do in the cases of 
Tousard, Armand, and Fayolles. See the Journals, June 4, 9, Oct. 27. On the latter 
date Tousard was given the rank of lieutenant-colonel by brevet. A sketch of him isin 
Appleton, Cyclo. Am. Biog. See also Heitman, Hist. Reg., and Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., IV. 493, V. 501. 

3 See nos. 168, 288, ante, and the Journals, June 25. In almost every letter to 
Laurens Lafayette had been urging the determination of Armand's affair. He repeated 
his insistence in a letter of June 23 (S. C. Hist, and Geneal Mag., IX. 7). 

4 Nevertheless, the Chevalier de Fayolles had been a subject of correspondence 
between Laurens and Lafayette only five weeks before. See no. 266, ante. Sept. 10 
Fayolles made a further representation to Congress, asking that the agreement made 
with Silas Deane in November, 1776, whereby he was to be given a commission in the 



June, ijjS 305 

tion wh. I have observed frequently in the Addresses to French Gentlemen. 
I delivered the Paper concerning the West Indies to Congress who 
seemed by expressions to be properly impressed with a sense of your 
Excellency's Zeal and good will for our Cause, but the late Treaty is a 
bar to an attempt at this time.^ .... 

362. Samuel Adams to James Warren.'- 

My dear Sir, 

I have Time only to write you a few Words by Captn. Landais who is 
appointed by Congress to the Command of the new Ship of War Alliance.'^ 
This Gentleman is esteemd for his Experience and Knowledge in Marine 
Affairs and will go first to Portsmouth to direct in the Construction of 
the Ship designd to be built there. I wish you would (with the other 
Gentlemen of your Board) assist him with a popular as well as able 
Lieutenant : popular, because as he is a frenchman, it may be difficult for 
him to procure a sufficient Number of American Seamen. He is in hopes 
of getting french Sailors out of the Vessels that are or may be at 
Boston, etc. 

I will by the next Post send you a full Account of our late Transactions 
with the British Peace Makers which conclude with confirming on our 
Part our former Resolutions. 

We have just reed. Advice that the Enemy have totally evacuated 
Philadelphia and we expect every moment to have the News confirmd. 
Mr. Hancock and Dr. Holton are arrivd. The last mentiond deliverd 
me a Letter ^ from you which I will more fully acknowledge in my next. 
Adieu my Friend. 

S. Adams. 
York Town June 19, 78. 

363. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[June 19, 20, 1778.] 
ip.- Being somewhat indisposed and not having proper lodgings, I did 
not take my seat in Congress. We are informed by Gen. Washington that 

service of the United States as lieutenant-colonel, be complied with, " or at least a 
letter which may convince the french ministry that his want of success has only pro- 
ceeded from the Refusal of Congress "'. He added that he was induced to make the 
request " to avoid the censure which their Refusal to employ him in the month of 
September 1777 may Subject him to on his return to his own Country, and he hopes 
from the justice of the Congress, that they will have the goodness to attend to his 
request" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 43, f. 77). The letter was merely referred to the 
board of war. 

5 Cf. nos. 310, 313, ante. 
[362]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren AISS., vol. 3, p. 213; Warren- A dams Letters, 11. 22. 

- See the Journals, May 9, 29, June 19; also nos. 314, 316, 317, a)ite, and no. 366, 
post. A letter from the marine committee to Landais, notifying him of his appointment, 
is in Paullin, Out-Letters, I. 259, dated June 18. See also the committee's letter to the 
navy board of the Eastern department June 18, ibid., p. 258. 

3 Warren's letter of May 31, in Warren-Adams Letters, II. 13. 
[Z^ZY Essex Institute Historical Collections, LV. 165. 

- The preceding entries in Holten's Diary, besides some memoranda of matters he 
was to attend to at Congress, record briefly the journey from Dan vers, from which he 
set out May 25, to York Town, where he arrived June 18. The Diary extends to 
Aug. 23, 1780. 



306 Continental Congress 

the Enemy have left the City of Philadelphia and our people have taken 
possession. The people here are not at all obliging. I want to git from 
this house. ^ 

20. I have not taken my seat in Congress for the reasons mentioned 
yesterday. 

364. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.^ 

York Town 20th June 1778. 
Sir 

Yesterday I had the honor of presenting to Congress Your Excellency's 
favors of the i8th Inst. A M and P M.^ 

At present I have only in charge to transmit the Report of the Com- 
mittee appointed to examine the evidence collected and to state charges 
against the General Officers at Tyconderoga etc. which Your Excellency 
will be pleased to receive inclosed with this.^ 

And I take the liberty of adding twenty Copies of this days Gazette * 
containing the British Commissioners Address to Congress, etc. etc. 

[P. S.] Major Campbell's new Commission is " a Brevet Lt. Colonel, 
this Rank to have effect only in the Western department not to affect any 
Officer in the Virginia line nor to entitle him to any other Pay than that 
of Major, the Rank he held previous to this appointment, to rank from 
20thFebry 1778".' 

The bundle of Papers relative to an enquiry came to hand yesterday 
with Your Excellency's 2d Letter.® 

2 His dissatisfaction with his boarding-house had been emphatically recorded 
in the preceding entry. 

[364] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIL 22; President's Letter- 
Book, IL 4. 

2 Washington's letters are in Writings (ed. Ford), VIL 66, 68, (ed. Sparks), 
V. 409, 411. The Journals record the letters as having been read June 20. 

3 See the Journals, June 12, 20. 
* See no. 360, ante. 

5 This was Maj. Richard Campbell of Virginia. The Journals do not record the 
granting of this brevet. Gen. Lachlan Mcintosh had written to Washington, Sunday, 
June 7 : " This is the ninth Day since I have been in York, regularly attending each 
day upon the Board of Warr, and seem not to be much forwarder in my Expedition 

than at first I submit to your Excellency, if it will not be necessary to send the 

bearer Major Campbell back to me again either in the capacity he is now in, or as 
Lieut. Colonel if he is entitled to it, as the 13th Regiment has no other Field Officer 
but Colo. Russell, and I have reason to think it would not be disagreeable to himself " 
(Library of Congress, Washington Papers). Washington replied June 10 that in con- 
sequence of this request Major Campbell would set out the next day to serve with him 
(ibid.). To President Laurens he wrote on the same day, recommending that "a Com- 
mission for a Lieutenant Colonelcy in the Virginia Line, to which he has been intitled 
in the ordinary course, since the 20th of February last", be granted to Major Campbell, 
if Congress shall think proper (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 152, vol. VL, f. 97). At the 
foot of the letter, in a writing other than that of the body of the letter, is this note: 
"There are elder Majors in the Virginia line than Major Campbell." This letter bears 
an endorsement by Secretary Thomson that it was " read 15 referred to the board of 
war ". In another hand is the notation, " acted upon ". With regard to an earlier 
question concerning Campbell's rank, see the Journals, May 13, i777- 

6 See the Journals, June 20, p. 629. 



June, I'j'jS 307 

365. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO William Heath/ 

20th June [1778.] 
Sir 

Since my last of the 26th Ulto. your favor of the 25th of that Month 
came to hand and has been presented to Congress — ^but I have received no 
commands except the Inclosed Act of Congress of the 17th for preventing 
all Correspondence between the Enemy and private persons Citizens of 
these States — to which I add three of this day's Gazettes containing very 
important and interesting intelligence. 

With respect to the unhappy Culprit under sentence of Death 
Mr Hancock has said nothing since his arrival, and Congress take it for 
granted that the sentence will be executed on the day which you had 
assigned.^ .... 

I should acknowledge also the receipt of your favor of the first Instant, 
and if I mistake not, there is another which the Secretary has not given 
me the date of. I recollect the subject of the other Letter to have been on 
Colonel Armand's enlisting Deserters — it is committed and not reported. 

366. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Dear Sir, 

In my Letter of yesterday's date (by Capt. Landais) I promisd to 
write again by the next Post, and give you a full Account of our Transac- 
tions with the British Peace Makers. Cap Landais after the ensealing of 
my Letter obtaind a News Paper which he intends to deliver to you.^ That 
will answer the Purpose. The President has infomid us of an opportunity 

previous to the Post which I readily embrace 

York Town June 20, 78. 

[365]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, H. 7; Mass. Hist. Soc, Heath 
Papers, X. 52. 

2 Heath's letter of May 25 (Papers Cont. Cong-., no. 157, f. 144) relates to 
Ensign Brown, under sentence of death. Letters of May 9 (ibid., f. 125) and 11 (ibid., 
f. 140) relate principally to the same subject. In the letter of May 11 he says he is 
informed that the friends of Ensign Brown waited on Mr. Hancock and requested his 
interest, which he understands Hancock has promised. " The case of Brown may not 
be determined untill Mr. Hancock arrives least the Friends of the Culprit should think 
that I was not treating them fairly." An endorsement on the letter of May 9 records that 
both the letters of May 9 and 11 are " ordered to lie until the arrival of Mr. J. Hancock ". 
In the letter of May 25 he says : 

"The Honble, Mr. Hancock did not begin his journey on thirsday as he intended, his 
Lady being near the hour of travel, and is since delivered of a Son which was christened 
yesterday by the name of John George Washington. Mr. Hancock now intends siting out 
for Congress the latter end of this week. 

" The friends of Ensign Brown are very anxious that Mr. Hancock should be in Con- 
gress when their Petition is considered." The petition is ibid., p. 129, and is endorsed as 
" read 15 July, 1778. Ordered that it be dismissed ". See the Journals, July 15, 20, Oct. 22, 
Nov. 28, Dec. 2, and no. 441, post. 

[366]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 214; Warren-Adams Letters, II. 23. 
2 Probably the Pennsylvania Gazette of June 20. See no. 360, ante. 
24 



308 Continental Congress 

367. Richard Henry Lee to John Adams/ 

York in Pennsyl'a 20th June 1778 
My dear Sir. 

.... The Treaty with France was soon ratified here, desiring only 
that the nth and 12th Articles might be reconsidered and omitted. Three 
Copies of ratification have been sent away from hence near a month and 
now 3 more are dispatching. The former dispatches would inform you the 
determination of Congress upon the English Acts of pacification before 
we knew of our new Alliance, and these will acquaint you with the recep- 
tion Messrs the Commissioners from London have met with. The figure 
they cut is truly ridiculous.^ .... 

The friends to the future happiness and glory of America are now 
urging the Confederation to a close, and I hope it will be sighned in a few 
days. All but a few delegates have powers, and those that have not come 
from Small States that will undoubtedly fall in.^ Our next business is 
Finance, and this is a momentous point in deed. Every State exclaims 
We are overflown with our emissions of money yet all seem to be going on 
in the same beaten Track, and will I fear until invincible Necessity shall 
force a change 

368. John Hancock to Mrs. Hancock.^ 

York Town, June 20th, 1778, 

Saturday morning. 
My Dear Dolly, 

I arrived at this place the i8th Inst, after a most fatiguing Journey, bad 
roads and miserable entertainment, but thank God I am in tolerable 

health 

[P. S.] We have this moment an account that the enemy have evacuated 
Philadelphia and that some of our Troops have march'd in, and taken 
possession of the City.^ 

369. Henry Laurens to Philip Schuyler.^ 

20th June [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

At length I can tell you the Report of the Committee with Charges 
stated against the Commanding officer in the Northern department and the 
General Ofiicers who were at Tyconderoga when that Post was abandoned 
last Year is g-one to the Commander in Chief.^ .... 



& 



[367]^ Letters (ed. Ballagh), I. 416; Adams MSS., Boston, 
~ Cf. no. 349, ante. 

3 See the Journals, June 19, 20, 22, 23, 25, 26, 27, July 9, 10. Cf. no. 243, note 4, 
ante, and nos. 372, 376-382, 386, 387, 394-396, post. 
[368] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, XLVIII. 506. 

2 The evacuation had taken place in the early morning of Thursday, June 18. 
The information came to Congress on the morning of June 20 through a letter of 
General Washington written at "half after eleven A. M.", June 18 {IVritings, ed. Ford, 
VII. 66, ed. Sparks, V. 409). Cf. no. 369, post. 

[369115. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 192. 
- See the Journals, June 12, 20. Cf. no. 338, ante. 



Jtine, 1778 309 

When the coast is quite clear, Congress will talk of adjourning from 
hence, but there will be some struggle against meeting in Phila- 
delphia.^ .... 

370. JosiAH Bartlett to William Whipple.^ 

York Town June 20th. 1778 
My dear Sir. 

.... I make no doubt you have heard of the arrival of His Britannic 
Majesty's Commissioners and of their letters being sent to Congress. I 
now enclose you a paper which will inform you of all the transactions of 
Congress relative to that affair, which will I hope give full satisfaction to 
every honest American 

I have the pleasure to inform you that every member of Congress, were 
firm and steady, never to make a peace, but on the principles of absolute 
Independence. I am sorry that the answer was deferred some days, on 
account of the Zeal of some members, for sealing the letters up, and send- 
ing the letters back, without reading in consequence of some harsh ex- 
pressions against the King of France; however it was overruled as you 
will see, and a more proper method (in my opinion) taken. What will be 
their next steps, time only will discover.^ In the packet to Congress were 
inclosed a great number of letters to the separate members, some from 
Govr. Johnstone to such of the members as he was acquainted with, and 
others from other persons in England, who had any acquaintance with 
them.^ The inclosed from Robert Trail came directed to you as a Delegate 
of Congress, which was opened, and I now inclose it to you. 

As to i\Iarine affairs, Congress are very sensible some very essential 
alterations are necessary, and seem determined to attend to it, as soon as 
the confederation, and some other very important matters are finished. 
I wish I could inform you that I thought it would soon happen, but the 
multitude of business that is daily crowding upon us, and the time it some- 
times takes to determine on some not very important matters, makes me 
fear it will not take place so soon as I could wish. Beside the want of men 
in Congress acquainted sufficiently with Marine Affairs, is another great 
difficulty, and causes that Committee to be filled with some persons like 
myself, unacquainted with the business they are appointed to superintend. 

I heartily wish (with you) to see the American navy respectable, and 
hope it will be put wholly into the hands of men whose private business 
does not militate with the Public. But I can not be fully of your opinion 
that it would be for the public service to put an entire stop to privateering; 
as I think experience has shewn that privateers have done more toward 
distressing the trade of our enemies, and furnishing these States with 
necessaries, than Continental Ships of the same force : and that is in my 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 9, June 20 (p. 626), 24, 27. Cf. no. 368, ante, and 
no. 371, post. 

[370] 1 Harvard U«iv. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. II., p. 211I/2; Bancroft Coll., 
Langdon-Elwyn Papers (copy of part) ; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, 
p. 507; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), II. 142 n. (extract). 

2 See the Journals, June 13; cf. no. 345, ante, and no. 378, post. 

3 Cf. nos. 340, 343, 345, 358, 360, ante, yj\-l7A, post. 



310 Continental Congress 

opinion the greatest advantage we can at present expect from our Navy; 
for at this early period we can not expect to have a Navy to cope with the 
British. However I am quite convinced, that it might, with proper 
management, be in a much better situation than at present, and should be 
happy to see it soon take place. 

The Congress is at this time pretty full. I know not whither you are 
acquainted with the President, Mr. Laurens. I think him a very sensible, 
judicious Man, acquainted with the World, and makes an excellent 
President. Mr. Drayton the chief judge of So Carolina, is a sensible 
judicious man, and a good speaker; firmly attached to Independance and 
not given to the chicane common to Lawyers. Mr G Morris from N York 
is an eternal speaker, and for artifice a Duane, and for brass equal to any 
I am acquainted with. Mr Adams from Virginia is a Member ; he informs 
me that he was innoculated with you at Elizabeth Town, and desires to be 
remembered to you. On the whole we have a pretty good Congress and if 
we have nothing more to fear from British Anns and Policy, than from 
their Gold, I think you may make yourself perfectly easy as is your sincere 
friend, and most obedient servant J : B. 

Honble. Wm. Whipple 

371. Oliver Wolcott to Mrs. Wolcott.^ 

- , „ York Town 20 Tune 1778 

My Dear ■^ '' 

.... I Enclose to you the Proceedings of the Commissioners and the 
Answer of Congress. This answer as it was most unanimously given, will 
douptless close the Correspondence unless G. Britain will accede to the 
Terms which it proposes. As the Commissioners are using every means 
to make some Impression upon the Americans, their Conduct will be care- 
fully Watched, altho I am fully of Opinion that every Art of theirs will 
be totally ineffectual.^ 

Mr. Hosmore I hear is on his Way to Congress. But I do not hear 
wheither any Other Delegate is with him. I expect to Return soon, 
certain Matters of an Important Nature are now in Consideration which 
I should be much Satisfied to see determined before I leave Congress. 
I hope they will be so within about the Course of a Week, after which 
Congress will undoubtedly adjourn to Philadelphia, thro which I shall 
probably Return home. I hope I shall see you in about a Month.^ .... 

372. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor 
OF Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

York Town, June 20th, 1778. 
Sir, 

Mr. Collins arrived the Day before yesterday, and brought forward 

Instructions from the Councill of War.^ By the last Letter from Mr. Ellery 

[371]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, II. 54 (2). 

2 See the Journals, June 17, and no. 370, note 3, ante. 

3 See no. 369, note 3, ante. 

[372]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778, p. 92; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 188. 

2 See the Journals, June 25, and no. 385, post. 



June, I'/'/S 311 

and Mr. Marchant, you'll perceive that they were not unmindful of, and 
had not delayed to impress upon Congress, the critical Situation of Our 
State, and the late Ravages there committed.^ There needs no Information 
or complaint against the Clothier General. We shall as soon as we have 
the least Prospect of Success, urge a Further Supply of Monies to Our 
State, but it cannot immediately be done : We shall also press the Necessity 
of some armed Vessells for Our Bay; But we are rather fearful of not 
succeeding in such an Application. A letter from Genl. Sullivan, pointing 
out the Uttillity would however strengthen Our Efforts.* .... 

Congress have given their Answer to the British Commissioners — the 
inclosed News Paper, of this Day, will give your Excellency the whole 
Proceedings which on Our Part, we doubt not will be satisfactory to every 
American Whig. Confederation was this day taken up by Congress, and 
we are in hopes of soon seeing it completed : For this is the Grand Corner 
Stone.' We are, with great Respect to the Honble the Genl. Assembly, 
their and Your Excellency's 

most obedient and very humble Servants, 

William Ellery. 

H'y Marchant. 

John Collins. ; 

373. Henry Laurens to Joseph Reed.^ 

2 1 St June [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

.... The Inclosed Ga::ette will shew you Sir, the proceedings of Con- 
gress respecting the Commissioners, that I also have been honor'd with 
a Letter from Governor Johnstone introduced by two from my best 
Friends in England. And that you judged with Congress in with-holding 
an Answer to the Governor. 

Congress seemed by no means disposed to consent that any private 
Character should correspond with him and I would not hazard a denial, 
some strong attempts were made to have all Letters received from Gov- 
ernor Johnstone and from England through him laid before Congress. 
Many Gentlemen had perused mine, and every one who should have asked 
might have done the same, but I dont relish compulsion unauthorized, 
to avoid misconstruction therefore, I submitted to a solicitation for mak- 
ing his Letter to me and my intended Answer just in the shape in which 
I had carried it to Congress, Public.^ 

3 See no. 329, ante, and no. 385, post. 

* See the Journals, June 25, 26; cf. ibid., June 11, 22. 

^ Cf. no. 367, note 3, ante. 
[373]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 193. 

2 See the Journ<ils, June 17, 18; also nos. 356-358, 360, 370, ante, and nos. 422, 
429, 467, post. Governor Johnstone had brought a letter to Reed from Dennis Deberdt, 
his brother-in-law, dated Apr. 10, had himself written to Reed under date of Apr. 11, 
and it was concerning his proposed reply to Johnstone that Reed was taking counsel of 
his friends. The letters of Deberdt and Johnstone are in Life of Reed, 1. 27^-Z77> ^'^^ 
Reed's reply, dated at Valley Forge, June 14, is ibid., p. 277- For some account of the 
course of this letter, which probably never reached the hands of Governor Johnstone, 



312 Continental Congress 

374. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to the 
Commissioners at Paris. ^ 

In Committee for Foreign Affairs 

York Town in Pennsylv'a, 21 June 1778 
Ge?itlemen 

The British Commissioners have arrived and transmitted their powers 
and propositions to Congress, which have received the answer you will 

see in the Pennsylvania Gazette of the 20th instant 

There has arrived here a Mr. Holker, from France who has presented a 
paper to Congress declaring that he comes with a verbal message to Con- 
gress from the Minister of France touching our treating with Great 
Britain and some other particulars which for want of his paper we cannot 
at present enumerate. The style of his paper is as from the representative 
of the Court, but he has no authentic Voucher of his Mission for the 
delivery of this verbal message. We desire of you Gentlemen to give us 
the most exact information in your power concerning the Authenticity 
of Mr. Holker's Mission for this purpose." 
We are Gentlemen, with esteem and regard 

your most obedient and very humble servants 

Richard Henry Lee 
Thos. Heyward Junr. 
James Lovell 

see ibid., p. 378 n. Cf. Laurens's proposed reply to Johnstone, of the same date, no. 346, 
ante. Reed also wrote to Washington June 15 asking his advice in the matter, which 
Washington gave in a letter of the same date {Writings, ed. Sparks, V. 407). The 
letter to Johnstone, in Reed's writing and signed by him, with the date June 13, is among 
the Washington Papers. The following letter from Reed to Robert Morris (Library of 
Congress, Morris Papers; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, item 311) may appropriately be 
included here. It is without definite date, but it was doubtless written on the same day 
as Reed's reply to Johnstone, June 14. Robert Morris was at that time at Valley Forge 
(see no. 348, ante). 
" Dear Sir 

" I think the common Terms of Civility and Politeness requires that I should answer 
Govr. Johnstone's Letter, but as such Correspondence is of a delicate Nature and 
liable to Misinterpretation I did not chuse to forward my Letter untill I had submitted 
it to better Judgment than my own, and have therefore taken the Liberty to leave it 
for your Perusal that if there are any improper Sentiments I may revise it. My Boy will 
call for it in the Morning. I have also left the Governor's Letter as the Complim'ts 
made it disagreeable to me to read it entire the other day. 

" I am with due Regard, Sir 

" Your Obed. Hbbl. Serv. 
"Jos: Reed. 
*' Mr. Nixons Sunday Afternoon." 

[374]! Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, X. 49; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IL 627. 
2 See the Journals, June 18, 27, July 9, 16, 23. Cf. Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr. 
IL 372. At the foot of this letter in the Franklin Papers is the following note : " Count 
Vergennes Answer respecting Mr. Holker was, that he was astonished, that Mr. Holker 
had no commission verbal or other from the Ministry; and was only desired to com- 
municate to them his observations on the Country." See the letter of Franklin, Lee, 
and Adams to the President of Congress, Sept. 17, 1778, in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
II. 722. 

Lovell wrote to Franklin June 20 : " By the arrival of Messrs. Simeon Deane, May 2, 
Courter, May 18, Stevenson, June 10, Holker and Carmichael, June 18, we have the 
favors of yourself and other friends in continuance. Commissioners will be particularly 
nominated to transact affairs for us at Lisbon and the Hague, if those courts are well 



June, 1778 313 

375. Samuel Holten, Diary/ 

[June 21, 22, 1778.] 

21. Sabbath day, being somewhat indisposed did not attend public 
worship. 

22. I took my seat in Congress, and it is a very august assembly.^ 

376. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the' 
Governor of Georgia (John Houstoun)/ 

22d June [1778.] 
Honorable Sir, 

I had the honor of writing to you the 9th and loth Inst, by Messenger 
Wilkinson through Charles Town and on the 14th Inst, of receiving Your 
Honour's Letter of the i6th April. Congress were so ardently engaged in 
business respecting the British Commission at Philadelphia at the time 
Your Honor's Letter reached [me] and for a few days after as deprived 
me of opportunity to present it before the 19th. it was then, with Genl. 
Howe's Letters and one from the Honorable Mr. Speaker Committed to 
a select Committee, from whom no Report is yet come up and possibly in 
our present crowd of business may not be made. I am persuaded it will 
not be taken under consideration, for several days. Congress seem deter- 
mined to suffer no other matter to come before them if possible to avoid 
it until they shall have Ratified Confederation, in these circumstances I 
have judged it proper to return your Messenger, whose expences are in 
this place intolerable, and I expect to have an opportunity of writing by 
Colo. Marbury full as early as I shall receive commands, if it shall hap- 
pen otherwise an Express Messenger shall be dispatched." .... 

This day carried us through two of three objections to articles of con- 
federation from Maryland, the third will be decided by a question to 
morrow Morning without farther debate and without alteration, admit- 
ting this, the whole will be ratified in the original form within three days. 
I am not apprehensive of any long debate except from South Carolina, and 
her Delegates have full power. ^ 

disposed towards us" (Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 626). See also Samuel Adams 
to John Adams June 21 (Writings of Samuel Adams, IV. 39). Concerning Carmichael, 
Adams says: "Mr. Carmichael comes strongly recommend[ed] by Dr. Franklin and 
Mr. Silas Deane ; but Dr. Lee in his Letter gives Reasons why he cannot place a 
Confidence in him." Cf. James Warren to Samuel Adams, May 13, Warren-Adams 
Letters, II. 10. 

[ZISV Essex Institute Historical Collections, LV. 165. 

2 Of the actual proceedings of Congress Holten records very little. Indeed, at 
the close of the Diary he has penned this statement : " I was careful not to make any 
remarks upon the public affairs in this diary, for reasons I shall not mention at this 
time." Accordingly, only occasional extracts from the Diary will be found in the 
following pages. He does, however, mention systematically the persons with whom he 
came in contact in dinings, walks, rides, and (though less frequently) in conferences. 

[376] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, II. 8. 

2 See the Journals, June 19, 26 (p. 660). 

3 See, however, no. 394, post. For the amendments proposed by South Carolina 
see the Journals, June 25 (pp. 652-656). Cf. the speech of Drayton, delivered before the 
general assembly of South Carolina Jan. 20, 1778, found in Niles, Principles and Acts 
of the Revolution, etc. (1876), p. 357- 



314 Continental Congress 

377. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor and 
Assembly of Maryland.^ 

York Monday P. M. 226. June, 1778. 
Gentlemen, 

The Instructions of the House of Delegates of the i8th instant we 
this morning received in a letter from Mr. Chase, and laid them before 
Congress ; whereupon at our earnest desire, it was resolved to take into 
immediate consideration the amendments proposed by our State to the 
Confederation, altho' Congress had previously determined to take up the 
amendments offered by the several States in the order, in which the States 
are ranged in the Confederacy, beginning first with Newhampshire, and 
so on. 

This evening the 3 amendments offered by Maryland were debated, 
and II States out of the 12 present, rejected the amendments to the 4th 
and 8th Articles, so that our State only voted for them. The fate of the 
most important amendment is not yet decided, the question being put off 
by adjournment till tomorrow morning, when it will probably be rejected 
by a majority of eight States out of twelve. 

A Confederation at this critical juncture appears to Congress of such 
momentous consequence, that I am satisfied a great majority are resolved 
to reject the amendments from every State, not so much from an opinion 
that all the amendments are improper, as from the conviction, that if any 
should be adopted, no Confederation will take place, at least for some 
months, perhaps years ; and in that case, many apprehend none will ever 
be entered into by all of the present United States ; the distractions probable 
consequent on such an event, and the many dangers and evils, which may 
arise from partial Confederacies (which you may more easily paint to 
yourselves than we can express) have determined some States to accept the 
present Confederation, altho' founded on principles not altogether con- 
sistent, in their opinion, with justice and sound policy. For if any amend- 
ments should be adopted, it will then be necessary to send the Confederation 
back to those States, whose Legislatures have empowered their Delegates 
to sign and ratify it in its present form; for instance, to Newhampshire, 
New York, Virginia, and North Carolina, the Delegates of which States 
are positively instructed to ratify the Confederation, as it now stands, 
and some of them are directed to admit of no alterations, even litterary 
ones, such as would not affect the true spirit and meaning of any article, 
but only serve to elucidate that meaning and spirit by removing all am- 
biguity and doubt. 

In debating our second amendment, viz. to the 8th article, it was 
admitted on all sides to be the true meaning and intention of that article, 
that all lands, not only those already granted to, or surveyed for any 
person, but all lands hereafter to be granted to, or surveyed for any 
person, should be subjected to valuation, and considered as a part of the 

[377] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 3515 ; Rowland, Charles Carroll of Carrollton, 
II. 7. 



June, lyyS 315 

whole wealth of the State in which they lie. It was contended by several 
members that the meaning of the 8th Article is clearly expressed, but 
confessed by some to be dark and ambiguous, who nevertheless voted 
against the amendment, for the reasons we have already assigned. 

The amendment to the 4th Article was considered by every State, 
Maryland excepted, as unimportant: the Article not being liable, in the 
opinion of any other State to the objection made, and consequences appre- 
hended by Maryland.^ 

2sd P. M. 

Our third amendment has just been rejected by a Majority of one State ; 
the division was as follows : 

Against the Amend't. For the Amendment 

N. Hampshire Rhode Island 

Massachusetts Jersey 

Connecticut Pennsylvania 

N York divided Delaware 

N. Carolina — absent Maryland 

South Carolina 

Georgia 

Virginia 

Inclosed you have a copy of Gen. Washington's letter received this 
morning. We are with great respect Gentlemen 

Your most obdt. hum. Servants 
Geo : Plater 

Ch. Carroll of Carrollton. 
[P. S.] 

378. Gouverneur Morris to John Jay.^ 

York Town, 23 June 1778 
Dear Jay 

I enclose you the papers. They are important and from my friendship 
you have a right to expect comment from me : but my friend, I am every 
moment employed. I am hurried and it gives me pain that a set of little 
whiffling incidents should deprive me of one out of the few real conso- 
lations the world affords. The answer to the Commissioners and the 
annotations signed an American were the product of your friends lucu- 

2 See the Journals, June 22, 23, and nos. 367, 27'^, 376, ante, 379-382, 386, post. 
Cf. vol. II., nos. 68, 191, 205, 216, 219-221, 226, 359. The fundamental reason for 
Maryland's refusal as yet to accede to the Confederation is set forth in instructions to her 
delegates Dec. 15, 1778, which were laid before Congress Jan. 6, 1779, and are found in 
the Journals under May 21, 1779. In brief, Maryland declined to give her adherence to 
the Confederation until those states having claims to western territory should cede 
that territory to the United States for the common benefit of the Union. The question 
of Maryland's adherence accordingly becomes bound up with the question of territorial 
claims and cessions, and is of fundamental importance in the history of the Union. 
The subject is treated at large in H. B. Adams, Maryland's Influence upon the Land 
Cessions to the United States. 

[378]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. III. p. 21. 



316 Continental Congress 

brations. When their insolent letter was read in Congress, I opposed going 
on with it, and laboured hard to send it back with contempt. In this my 
view was to oblige them to garble it of the offensive matter, and send 
it back, thereby striking conviction to the souls even of Tories, that G. B. 
is reduced to implore a peace from America.^ .... 

379, Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes).'- 

23 June [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

.... I troubled your Excellency some time ago with a request to 
obtain certain Evidence from Captain Senff, and I hope soon to receive it 
in confirmation of what has lately been declared by other foreign Officers 
respecting the Colours which ought to have been surrendered at Saratoga, 
and which General Burgoyne like an honest candid Man declared had 
been left in Canada, a copy of this declaration will be found Inclosed, and 
may, with Captain Senf's in general Terms and even with Comments, 
leaving out names for the present, be published." .... 

We are now to the exclusion of all other business closly engaged on 
Confederation. If I judge right. Ratification of the original Act will be 
obtained in the course of this week, were the various amendments to be 
fully discussed and alterations made I should not live to see Ratifi- 
cation." .... 

380. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

York the 23d June 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

The inclosed Gazette will shew you the progress and perhaps the end 
for some time, of our negotiation with the British Commissioners.^ .... 
We hope in 6 or 8 days to ratify the Confederation (all but two or 3 
small states, at the head of which is Maryland and all of whom I have 
no doubt will soon fall in) with[ou]t amendments.^ After which Con- 
gress will adjourn to Philadelphia. I am dear Sir affectionately yours 

Richard Henry Lee 

2 See nos. 345, 358, 360, 370, ante. Cf. no. 381, post. What Morris here calls 
" annotations ", signed " An American ", is one of the items included in Drayton's 
publication of proceedings, etc., in the Pennsylvania Gazette of June 20. It is an address 
" To the Earl of Carlisle, Lord Viscount Howe, Sir William Howe (or in his absence 
Sir Henry Clinton), William Eden and George Johnstone", and is conveniently found 
in the Writings of Samuel Adams (ed. Cushing), IV. 25, where it is indicated that it 
had previously (as in the Remembrancer for 1778) been attributed to Adams. Cf. 
Sparks, Morris, I. 188. Cf. no. 421, note 2, post. 

[379]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 195. 

2 See no. 287, ante. Cf. nos. 383, 462, post. 

3 On the whole subject of the proposed amendments to the Confederation, see a 
paper by G. D. Harmon, in South Atlantic Quarterly, July and Oct., 1925. 

[380]^ Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second ser., LI. 20; Letters (ed. 
Ballagh), I. 418. 

~ The Pennsylvania Gazette of June 20. See no. 360, ante. 
3 Cf. no. 2i77, ante. 



June, 1778 317 

381. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO THE GOVERNOR OF NeW YoRK 

(George Clinton)/ 

York Town 23d June 1778, 
Sir 

.... I have the Pleasure to perceive that a Spirit of Justice reigns 
throughout Congress inclining them to do every thing necessary to quiet 
the unhappy Disturbances in the North Eastern Part of our state." It is 
impracticable to force this Business on nor indeed can I as one Member 
answer it to myself to postpone the Great Business of Confederation we 
are now engaged in even for a Moment. I enclose you the Public Prints 
from whence you will perceive that Matters of no small Importance 
occupied our late Deliberations. It is my earnest Hope that our Determi- 
nations may be agreable to those whom I have the Honor to represent.^ 
The very important Business of regulating the civil Departments of our 
Army and the numerous Train of et caeteras which go to the Composition 
of that more important Business of Finance will I hope be prosecuted 
with unremitted Attention upon our Arrival at Philadephia 

382. Samuel Holten, Dl\ry.^ 

[June 23-25, 1778.] 
2^. Attended in Congress and the chief of the day was taken up in 
Disputing on the Articles of Confederation. 

24. Attended in Congress, dined with the President. 

25. Attended in Congress. Toward night I walked out with a number 
of gentlemen of Congress about a mile to a farmhouse. The people was 
kind, we eat Cherries and drank whiskey. 

383. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO William Heath. ^ 

York Town 26th June 1778 
Sir 

.... The testimony of the Foreign Officers relative to Colours said 
to have been concealed by General Burgoyne's orders I have transmitted 
to Governor Clinton and Congress request you in the most effectual 
manner and by all proper means, unalarming to the present Commanding 
Officer of the British Prisoners, to obtain further accounts of any violation 
of the Convention of Saratoga and particularly if possible to obtain the 
very Colours, admitting they are carried off by Gen. Burgoyne or 
destroyed before he left you a search would prove fruitless and wear 
an ill aspect, but getting the Colours in hand will carry proof unde- 
niable." .... 

[381]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 9478. 

2 See no. 22,7, ante, and no. 426, post; also the Journals, Sept. 16. 

3 Cf. no. 378, ante. 

[Z%2y' Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 165. 

[383] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Heath Papers, X. 69; Library of Congress, President's 
Letter-Book, H. 13. 

^ See nos. 287, 379, ante. 



318 Continental Congress 

384. Samuel Holten, Diary/ 

[June 26, 27, 1778.] 
26. Attended in Congress, and it is the hottest day I ever knew. Went 

and drank with the President and drank tea with the Secretar}^ 

2/. Congress adjourned to the City of Philadelphia to meet on Thursday 

next, 10 o'clock. 

385. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene).^ 

York Town June 27th 1778 
Sir, 

Your Excellency's Letter of the 13th Instant came to hand, as also 
one other of the nth instant from the Council of War. Your Excellency's 
Letter addressed to Congress was also received.^ .... 

We have, from our first Knowledge of the late Attempts of the Enemy 
upon Our State, reflected upon the Subject with Seriousness, and pressed 
for Relief of any kind; and upon the Receipt of the Letters from your 
Excellency and the Councill of War, we have again applied with Ardor 
and unremitted Zeal, and have obtained Warrants for 250,000 Dollars, 
which the President will enclose to the State ; also Orders for supplying 
the Military Chest there with 300,000 Dollars ; also an Order for 2000 
Stand of Arms, which order will be forwarded by the Board of War to 
Genl. Sullivan. Also a Resolution for building three Galleys on certain 
Conditions, Also an Order to Gen. Washington, to send the Rhode Island 
Battalion now in Camp, to Our State, if it can be done consistently with 
the genl interest. We place no great Expectations from that Resolution, 
unless the Campaign should soon end successfully on Our Part in the 
Jerseys, and which, by the Blessing of God, we have great hopes of .^ .... 

The Matter respecting Cloathing advanced to Our Officers at 4 i 
Sterling for i is laid before a Committee ; We shall give You the earliest 
Intelligence of the Result. We are in hopes the State and the Dep : 
Cloth'r will be justified, altho' it is said the Advance was not quite large 
enough. The Propriety of the Advances to Officers of State Battallions 
are also doubted. We shall carefully attend to it, And are most respect- 
fully 

Your Excellencys most obedt. and humble Servants 

William Ellery 
Hy Marchant 
P. S. Mr. Collins has gone to Philadelphia. Congress this day will 
adjourn there. 

[384]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 165. 

[385]^ R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778, p. 100; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 189. Addressed, "His Excel'y Govr. Greene or Council of War Providence". 

2 See no 372, ante, and the last paragraph of this letter; also Staples, R. I. in 
Cont. Cong., pp. 185-187, and the Journals, June 25, Sept. 4, Oct. 13. In Staples (p. 185) 
the communication from the council of war is dated June 10. 

3 See the Journals, June 25, 26. Cf. nos. 329, 372, ante. 



July, 1778 319 

386. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

27th June [1778] 
Dear Sir 

Congress will adjourn this Morning to Philadelphia. I have many 
things to do and to hear in a short space of time. Your Excellency will 
therefore account for brevity 

After spending 4^ hours in Congress I am just going to Philadelphia 
without Ratifying Confederation which would have been done by all 
the authorized Delegates about 9 or 10 States but there appeared such a 
number of interlineations and mistakes in the Secretarys engrossed Copy 
as rendered it necessary to delay this great work. Saturday 4 July is 
now the order of the House.^ 

387. John Hancock to Mrs. Hancock.^ 

Philadelphia July ist 1778 
My Dear 

.... I write in great haste, being much Engag'd in the Business 

I came from York Town upon have not got lodgings have some 

thoughts of Taking Mr. Williams's house, if I should, and I find I must 
Tarry here, I shall Take the Liberty of Sending for you, but have come 
to no Determination. The Confederation will soon be ratified, and a new 
Congress will bring on the Conclusion of my Plan.^ .... 

388. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[July I, 1778.] 
July I. To the City of Philadelphia, 15 miles, before breakfast. Dined 
at a public house, then took Lodging at the Wid° Robbinson's on Chestnut 
Street." 

389. Samuel Adams to Samuel Phillips Savage.^ 

Philada. July 3d 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

Yesterday I arrived in the City, and today I have the Pleasure of re- 
ceiving your Letters of the loth and i8th of June, the last of which 

inclosed the News Papers of that Day Capt. Courter ^ brought 

us nothing new from France. You have commonly had News from 
Europe earlier than we, though not so authentically. Your Papers give 

[386]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens LeUer-Book, Mar. Sept., 1778, p. 201. 

2 That is, " That another copy be made out and laid before Congress on or 
before the 4 July next ". Congress was to meet in Philadelphia on Thursday, July 2, but 
it was not until the 7th that a quorum was obtained, and it was not until the 9th that 
the matter of ratification was resumed. See the Journals, June 25-27, July 9, 10, and 
nos. 394-396, post. Cf. no. 367, note 3, ante. 

[387]! Library of Congress, Stauffer-Morgan Collection of Signers of the Declaration 
cf Independence. 

2 See no. 386, ante, and nos. 394-396, post. 
[Z%BY Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 166. 

~ See no. 435, post. 
[389]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, XLHL 332. 

2 Capt. Harmon Courter. See no. 287, note 6, and no. 305, note 2, ante. 



320 Continental Congress 

us brilliant Accounts from that Quarter. " Spain has this day avowd her 
Acknowledgment and support of the Independence of America." " It is 
expected that Holland will be the next Power to recognize the Independ- 
ence of America," etc. etc. These things we expected to hear of before 
this Time. They are the Effects of Instructions given to the Agents of 
Congress so long ago, as while they were at Baltimore in Dec. 76,^ and at 
a time when the Enemy were striding through the Jerseys. Our affairs 
were then at a low Ebb indeed ; but Nil desperandiim was the Motto of 

the true Patriots of America I now begin to promise myself the 

Pleasure of seeing the Liberties of our Country established on a solid 
Foundation 

390. Samuel Chase to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.)/ 

^ ^. Philada, July 4th, 1778 

Dear Sir. ^ j j -t , / 

.... I was yes [ter] day honoured with your Letter of last fryday. 

No application has been made to Congress for Leave to export to 
Burmuda, nor do I believe it will be granted. The Virginia Delegates 
discredit the assertion that their state has granted Leave." .... 

391. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[July 4-6, 1778-] 
^. It being the anniversary of the Independence of America, the Con- 
gress dined together at the City Tavern and a number of the Council of 
this State, several Gen. officers and other Gentlemen of Distinction and 
while we were dining there was an Agreeable band of Musick and we had 
a very elegant dinner.^ 

3 The instructions were approved by Congress Oct. 16, 1776, but appear not to 
have been despatched until December. See the letters of the committee of foreign affairs 
to the commissioners at Paris, Dec. 21, 30, 1776, Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 226, 
231, 240. 

[390]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 58; Arch, of Md., XXI. 155. 

-Cf. the Journals, Nov. 2y, 1778, Apr. 19, 22,, May 4 (letter of Albouy), 5, 7, 
12, 17, 18, 1779- 

[391 ]i Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 166. 

2 Cf. no. 393, post. In a Supplement to the Pemusylvania Packet, Monday, July 6, 
appeared the following : 

" Saturday the fourth of July, the glorious Anniversary of the INDEPENDENCE 
OF AMERICA, was celebrated by the Honorable the Congress with a grand festival at 
the City Tavern in this metropolis. The principal civil and military officers and 
strangers in town were present at it by invitation. After dinner the following Toasts 
were given by the Honorable the President of Congress : 
" I. The United States of America. 

2. The Protector of the Rights of Mankind. 

3. The Friendly European Powers. 

4. The happy era of the Independence of America. 

5. The Commander in Chief of the American Forces. 

6. The American Arms by land and sea. 

7. The Glorious 19th of April, 1775. 

8. The Glorious 26th of December, 1776. 

9. The Glorious i6th of October, 1777. 

ID. The 28th of June, twice Glorious, 1776-1778. 

11. May the Arts and Sciences flourish in America. 

12. May the People continue free forever. 

13. May the Union of the American States be perpetual." 



July, 1778 321 

5. Sabbath day. Attended Church in the forenoon with the Congress, 
and in the afternoon went to a Congregational meeting. The Church 
minister Preached a political discourse. The other Gentleman I could not 
understand. 

6. Attended in Congress. 

392. Henry Laurens to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 7 July 1778. 
Dear Sir. 

I have had the honor of presenting to as many Members of Congress 
as have been convened in this City since the adjournment from York, 
Your Excellency's several favors of the 28th and 30th June, and ist Inst : 
and at their special Instance have caused them to be printed for the infor- 
mation of the public.^ 

I arrived here on Tuesday last but hitherto have not collected a sufficient 
number of States to form a Congress, consequently I have received no 
Commands.^ Your Excellency will therefore be pleased to accept this 
as the address of an Individual intended to assure you Sir of my hearty 
congratulations wath my Country Men on the success of the American 
Arms under Your Excellency's immediate Command in the late Battle of 
IMonmouth and more particularly of my own happiness in the additional 
Glory atcheived by Your Excellency in retrieving the honor of these States 
in the Moment of an alarming dilemma. 

It is not my design to attempt encomiums upon Your Excellency. I 
am as unequal to the task as the Act is unnecessa^v^ Love and respect for 
Your Excellency is impressed on the heart of every grateful American, 
and your Name will be revered by posterity. Our acknowledgments are 
especially due to Heaven for the preservation of Your Excellency's person 
necessarily exposed for the Salvation of America to the most imminent 
danger in the late Action, that the same hand may at all times guide and 
shield Your Excellency is the fervent wish of Dear Sir. 

Your much obliged and faithful humble Servant 

Henry Laurens. 
His Excellency General Washington. 

393. Thomas McKean to William Augustus Atlee.^ 

Dear Sir, 

On Thursday last Congress met at the State House, when 13 cannon 
were discharged on Market street wharff; and on Saturday the Anni- 

[392]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIV. 277; S. C. Hist. Soc, 
Laurens Letter-Book, Mar .-Sept., 1778, p. 206; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
LXVn. 25, 26; Letters to IVashington (ed. Sparks), IL 154. 

- See the Journals, July 2, 7. Washington's letter mentioned as of June 30 w^as 
dated June 29. The letters of June 28 and July i are in Writings (ed. Ford), VH. 76, 
78; all are in Writings (ed. Sparks), V. 419, 421, 422. They were printed in a Supple- 
ment to the Pennsylvania Packet of July 6. 

3 This letter was evidently written before the session of July 7. 
[393]^ Library of Congress, Pennsylvania Papers. 



322 Continental Congress 

versary of Independance was celebrated at the new Tavern, where there 
was an elegant entertainment, and a fine band of musick. the firing of a 
vast number of cannon proved that there was no want of powder,^ .... 

Philadelphia. July 7th 1778. 

394- John Mathews to John Rutledge.^ 

Philadelphia July 7th 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

.... We are thrown into a good deal of confusion with regard to the 
Confederation. Before we left York-Town, Congress proceeded to the 
consideration of the amendments offered by the different States, to the 
Confederation, every one of which have been rejected. It was then ordered 
to be engroced to [be] ready for ratification when we came to Philadelphia. 
Now, that it is so, Mr. Laurens, Mr. Drayton and Mr. Hutson, say they 
will not sign it, because they do not think themselves authorized by our 
instructions to do so, unless the other twelve states will agree to sign it 
likewise. Maryland has refused to ratify. Mr. Heyward and my self are 
of a different opinion, and think we are authorized, not withstanding one 
or even two States were to refuse, nor do I apprehend that inconsistancy 
will arise in the Confederation, from the Defection of one or two States 
which these three Gentlemen seem to imagine, however they mean, I 
believe, to write to the Prest. or to you, to be laid before the Assembly. 
I do not think it necessary for Heyward and myself to write on the 
subject, in our public Characters, as we think we are authorised to sign it, 
but as Three are necessary to a final Ratification, we must wait for your 
decision. This I am clear in, from what I have seen, and know, since I 
have been in Congress, that if we are to have no Confederation until the 
Legislatures of the Thirteen States agree to one, that we shall never 
have one, and if we have not one, we shall be literally a rope of sand, and 
I shall tremble for the consequences that will follow at the end of this 
War.=^ .... 

395. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[July 8, 9, 1778.] 
8. Congress received a packet from France giving an account of a 
French Fleet coming here." I dined with General Arnold. 

2 See no. 391, ante. A description of one phase of this Fourth of July celebration 
is given by Richard Henry Lee in a letter to Francis Lightfoot Lee July 5 {Letters, 
ed. Ballagh, I. 420). 

[394]^ Charleston Lib. Soc, Miscellaneous Letters, p. 99. 

2 Cf. nos. 376, 386, 387, ante, and no. 396, post. Mathews further remarks 
in this letter : " I have wrote to you for leave to come home in December for 
God's sake procure it for me, and I'll be dam'd if you ever catch me here again. 
Those who have dispositions for Jangling, and are fond of displaying their Rhetorical 
abilities, let them come. I never was so sick of anything in my life." Cf. no. 534, post. 
[395] 1 Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 166. 

2 The letter from Franklin and Adams, May 18 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
n. 589). See also the letter from Arthur Lee to the committee of foreign affairs, 
May 23 {ibid., p. 593). Cf. no. 398, post. President Laurens transmitted to the 
governor of Maryland July 9 the resolve of July 8, adding: " Monsr. Girard as 
Plenipotentiary from the Court of Versailles to these United States is on board one 
of the Ships in the expected french Fleet" (Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VH. 144). 



July, 1778 323 

p. The Articles of Confederation was signed by all the States that 
liad received instructions for that purpose, being 8 States.^ 



396. Samuel Adams to Mrs. Adams.'^ 

Philade July 9 1778 
My Dear Betsy 

.... I now write at the Table in Congress, having just put my Hand 
to the Confederation with my Colleagues and the Delegates of seven 
other States. North Carolina and Georgia whose Members are absent 
have acceded to the Confederation." Mr. H has just obtaind the Leave 

3 See no. 396, post. 
[396]! Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 41; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 See the Journals, June 25, 27, July 9, 10, and nos. 367, 372, 376-382, 386, 387, 
394. 395, ante, 403-405, 410, 417, 420, 423, 424, post. The Articles of Confederation are 
found in the Journals under starch i, 1781, the date when they were brought into force 
by the accession of Marj-land, with the names of all the signers affixed. Most of those 
who signed subsequently to July 9, 1778, inscribed the dates upon which their signatures 
were respectively appended, but a few of them did not. It was assumed by Congress 
that all those states whose delegates then present had signed the articles had completed 
their acts of ratification. Josiah Bartlett of New Hampshire indicates, however, in his 
letter to President Weare, July 20 (no. 423, post), a doubt as to the efficacy of his sole 
signature. His colleague, John Wentworth, jr., was then absent, but the latter affixed 
his signature Aug. 8. Concerning a question that had agitated the South Carolina 
delegation, see the letter of John Mathews, July 7 (no. 394, ante). Joseph Reed of 
Pennsylvania, who was absent at the general signing, returned to Congress a few days 
later and signed July 22. Whether his colleague, William Clingan, signed on July 9 or 
at some later time is uncertain, for he appears to have been absent from Congress from 
the end of June until the middle of September. His name, however, precedes that of 
Joseph Reed, though there is no date attached. On the other hand, the name of 
James Smith of Pennsylvania, who was also absent at the time of the signing but 
presently returned, does not appear among the signers of the articles. Francis Lightfoot 
Lee, whose name is last in the group of Virginia signers, was likewise absent and did not 
return until Nov. 9 ; while James Duane, whose name is first among the New York 
delegates, did not appear until Nov. 19. The ratifications by North Carolina and Georgia, 
already authorized, were completed shortly after July 9 by delegates of those states. 
John Penn of North Carolina took his seat July 16 and affixed his signature (together 
with the date) July 21, his sole signature effecting the ratification of his state (see the 
Journals, July 21, 24). Of the other North Carolina delegates who signed, John Williams 
took his seat Aug. 4, and Cornelius Harnett Aug. 10. Harnett's name precedes that of 
Williams, but neither of them inscribed the date of his signing. Edward Telfair, 
delegate from Georgia, took his seat July 13, his colleague, John Walton, July 23, and 
these two signed the Articles July 24. While only Walton attached the date to his 
signature, the Journals record that both delegates signed on that day (see the Journals, 
July 13, 23, 24). Edward Langworthy, the other Georgia delegate, returned to 
Congress about the middle of August and doubtless affixed his signature at that time, 
although no date is attached to it. There remained three states, New Jersey, Delaware, 
and Maryland, which had not yet given their adherence to the Confederation. New 
Jersey's attitude is set forth in a representation laid before Congress June 23 and 
recorded in the Journals under June 25, the principal objection being the same as that 
of Maryland (see no. 377, ante; cf. nos. 403, 405, post). An act of authorization was, 
however, passed by the state Nov. 20, and her delegates, John Witherspoon and 
Nathaniel Scudder, signed the Articles on behalf of their state Nov. 26 (see the 
Journals, Nov. 25, 26, and no. 638, post). Delaware, although not represented at the 
time of the general signing of the Articles in July, had indicated a similar reluctance to 
join the Confederation. When, however. New Jersey had yielded, Delaware was also 
prevailed upon to come into the Confederation (see nos. 599, 612, 630, post), and on 
Jan. 28, 1779, passed an act of authorization. Feb. 22 Thomas McKean signed the 

25 



324 Continental Congress 

of Absence and is going home on Account of his ill State of Health and 
the Circumstances of his Family. He tells me his Wife is dangerously ill.^ 



397. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Horatio Gates/ 

loth July [1778.] 
Sir 

The derangement of the affairs of Congress in consequence of their 
removal from York Town, rendered it impracticable to present your 
favors of the 23d Ulto. and 2nd Instant, and the sundry papers which 
accompanied them at an earlier day than the 8th Instant, the whole were 
then committed to the Board of War, and I have received no particular 
commands.' .... 



398. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[July 10, II, 1778.] 
70. A man came to this city this day and informs that a French Fleet 

is off Maryland. 

II. This day was the first time that I took any part in the debates in 

Congress. We have certain accounts of the arrival of a French Fleet off 

the Delaware, 12 Ships of the line and 4 Frigots.^ 



399. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia nth July 1778. 
Sir, 

.... Congress have directed me to propose for Your Excellencys 
consideration an attack by Vice Admiral Count d'Estaing upon the 
British Ships of War and Transports in the harbor of Rhode Island, by 
which possession of a safe Port ma}'- be gained and the retreat of the 

Articles, effecting the ratification of his state (see the Journals, Feb. 8, 16, 22, 1779). 
Two other Delaware delegates, John Dickinson and Nicholas Van Dyke, affixed their 
signatures to the Articles May 5 (see the Journals), although only Dickinson inscribed 
the date after his name. The principal reason for Maryland's refusal to ratify the 
Confederation at this time has already been pointed out. It was not until the beginning 
of 1781 that the obstacle was sufficiently overcome to induce the state's adherence. The 
act of authorization was passed Feb. 2, 1781, and on Mar. i following the Articles were 
signed on behalf of Maryland by her delegates, John Hanson and Daniel Carroll, 
thereby completing the Confederation. 

^ See nos. 305, ante, 409, 410, 518, post. 

[397]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 21; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates 
Papers, XHL 

2 See the Journals, July 8. 

[l9^V Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 166. 

- See the Journals, July 12; also Elias Boudinot to his wife July 9, Life, p. 152. 

[399] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCL 122; ibid.. President's 
Letter-Book, H. 28. 



July, I7j8 325 

British forces on that Island be cut off, as an alternative to a hazardous or 
ineligible attempt upon the British Squadron within Sandy Hook.' 

[P. S.] Sometime ago I informed Your Excellency that Congress had 
adopted the Stile of '* North America " to these States. This day that 
Resolution was reconsidered and reduced to the former mode of 
" America ".^ .... 

400. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
President of New Hampshire (Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia 12th July 1778. 
Honorable Sir. 

Present circumstances of Public affairs affords me barely time for 
referring you to the Inclosed Act of Congress of yesterday's date, em- 
powring Gen. Washington to call on the State of New Hamshire and 
other States therein enumerated for such Militia as he shall think requisite 
for co-operation with Count d'Estaing Commander of the French Fleet 
arrived on this Coast, against the Enemy, and earnestly recommending to 
each State, the forwarding such force as shall be required, with the utmost 
dispatch.' 

I expect ]\lonsr. Girard in the Character of Plenepotentiary from the 
Court of Versailles, in Philadelphia early this Morning, a Novelty in these 
Infant States which cannot but occasion some uncommon and extraor- 
dinary movements among those whose proper business it is to pay due 
attention to the first European Ambassador to Congress.^ 

401. Richard Henry Lee to Francis Lightfoot Lee.^ 

Philadelphia 12 July 1778. 
My dear brother, 

.... the Count D'Estaing, with a french Squadron under his com- 
mand has arrived in Delaware Bay, and last thursday morning he pro- 
ceeded to N, York with determination to loose no time in attacking the 

English in that Harbour In this fleet came the french Ambassador 

Monsr. Gerard who is expected in Town every hour Carriages being sent 
to Chester for him. Silas Deane is also arrived in this fleet, and I expect 
that he and Carmichael will soon begin to intrigue." We have received a 
very polite Address from the Count D'Estaing enclosing us a copy of his 

2 See the Journals, July 11. Washington's answer, July 22, read in Congress 
July 27, is in Writings (ed. Ford), VII. 108, (ed. Sparks), VI. 9. 

3 See no. 298, ante. 

[400]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. The same letter was written also to Massachusetts, Rhode Island, 
Connecticut, New York, and New Jersey (Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, 
II. 29). The letter to Alassachusetts is in Mass. Arch., CXCIX. 277. 

2 See the Journals, July 11 ; cf. no. 399, ayite, no. 401, post. 

3 Cf. nos. 406-411, post. 

[40i]iL'niv. Va. Lib., Lee Papers; Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Papers, IV. (copy embodied 
in letter of Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter, July 23, 1778) ; Letters (ed. 
Ballagh), I. 422. 

- See nos. 268, 280, 295, 330, ante, 421, 439, 462, 467, 468, 487, 524, post. 



32G Continental Congress 

powers from the King of France which are plenepotentiary to treat with 

Congress We have been very busy in Marine Committee this 

morning, altho 'tis Sunday, directing fresh provisions and Water to be 
sent to this fleet. Gen. Washington is directed to Cooperate with Count 
D'Estaing in offensive operations against the common enemy. We may 
expect good events from this if Keppel with his 1 1 Sail of the Line do 
not interrupt us too soon.^ .... Thus the Ball begins to open, and the 
guilty Sons of G. Britain upon the eve of making severe retribution for 
the heavy crimes both in the east and the west. The Ambassador is arrived, 
and during the course of dinner I have had an opportunity of conversing 

largely with him Monsr. Gerard seems rather above 50 years of 

age is as grave as a Frenchman can be, and he is a wise well bred Gentle- 
man. We are told that many of the first Nobility of france solicited his 
missions in vain.* .... 

402. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[July 13, 1778.] 
ij. Yesterday Monsieur Gerard, the Ambassador, arrived here, and 
I waited on him this day and welcomed him to the United States of 
America.^ 

403. Nathaniel Scudder to the Speaker of the 
New Jersey Assembly.^ 

Freehold, July 13th, 1778. 
My Dear Sir, 

I do myself the Honor to address you upon an Affair to me of the 
most serious and alarming Importance. The Honorable Council and 
Assembly of this State have not thought proper to invest their Delegates 
with Power to ratify and sign the Confederation, and it is obvious that 
unless every of the thirteen States shall accede to it we remain an uncon- 
federated People. These States have actually entered into a Treaty with 
the Court of Versailles as a Confederated People, and Monsieur Girard, 
their Ambassador Plenipotentiary to Congress is now on our Coast with 
a powerful Fleet of Ships, which have taken Pilot on Board for Dela- 
ware. He probably may be landed by this Time, and will at all Events be 
in Philadelphia in a few Days. How must he be astonished and con- 
founded, and what may be the fatal Consequences to America when he 
discovers (which he will immediately do,) that we are ipso facto uncon- 
federated, and consequently, what our Enemies have called us, " a Rope 
of Sand"? * 

3 See nos. 399, 400, ante, and no. 424, post ; also a letter from Lee as chairman 
of the marine committee to Comte D'Estaing, July 16, in Letters, I. 425. 

* The arrival of Gerard evidently intervened between the writing of the first 
part of this letter and the last. 

[402]^ Essex hist. Hist. Colls., LV. 166. 

2 Cf. no. 410, post. 
[403]! N. J. State Lib.; N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 119. 



July, 1778 327 

Will he not have just cause to resent the Deception? and may not 
insidious Britain, knowing the same, take Advantage of our Disunion? 
for my own Part I am of Opinion she will never desist from her nefarious 
Designs, nor ever consider her Attempts upon our Liberties fruitless and 
vain, until she knows the golden knot is actually tied. I left Congress 
last Wednesday Evening. The Affair of Confederation was to be taken 
up next Day. The Magna Charta of America was amply engrossed and 
prepared for signing. Ten States had actually authorized their Delegates 
to ratify; a Delegate from an eleventh (viz. Georgia) declared he was so 
fully possessed of the Sense of his Constituents, that he should not hesitate 
to subscribe it. New Jersey and Maryland only stood out. Mr. Chase, 
one of the Delegates from that State, told me the Day I left Philadelphia, 
that he imagined the Determination of Maryland would depend much 
upon that of New Jersey, and thought if our state should accede, theirs 
would also — he therefore concluded to go immediately down and try 
what could be done. I at the same Time assured him I would write you 
on the Subject on my Return. 

I ought to inform you, Sir, that the Objections stated by New Jersey 
were read and considered in Congress, and after being entered at large 
on their Minutes, a Question was taken whether Congress at that Time 
judged it expedient to take up the said Objections so as to admit any 
Emendations in the Plan of Confederation, or not? and it passed in the 
Negative.^ In Consequence of wdiich they remain both upon the Journal 
and Files to be taken up and considered at any future Time when they 
may be called for. I expect my Colleagues will soon address you on 
this Subject. I left Doct. Witherspoon, Doct. Elmer and Mr. Boudinot at 
Philadelphia, whither I expect to return in a few Days. 

I should have been much more uneasy when I was last at Princeton, 
and should have taken more Pains to convince the members of the Neces- 
sity of granting the Powers of Ratification to their Delegates, had I not 
been encouraged to expect that the Legislature would not rise without 
doing it ; at the same Time supposing the Reason, why they withheld at 
that Juncture, to be, that their Objections might have the greater Weight 
with Congress. Indeed I all along expected Doct. Witherspoon would 
have brought on such Powers with him, especially as I hoped the Honor- 
able Houses would be clearly of Opinion, that it were better to confederate 
under all the Disadvantages they apprehended, than that the general 
Union should be broken or even greatly endangered. 

I know not whether I ought to say any Thing respecting the Objections 
themselves: some of them are perhaps not very essential. The Obtain- 
ing an Admission of several of them would doubtless be of great local 
Advantage to this State; but every State must expect to be subjected to 
considerable local Disadvantages in a general Confederation. Indeed upon 
the whole I am fully [of] Opinion that no Plan can or will ever be adopted 
more equal or less generally injurious to the confederated States than the 
present. I also declare it as my Opinion that if the general Business of 
Emendation were to be fairly taken up in Congress to morrow, several 

2 See the Journals, June 23, 25. 



328 Continental Congress 

Alterations would be made exceedingly Disadvantageous to the smaller 
circumscribed States, and which perhaps might more than counterbalance 
the obtaining what we apply for. As to the grand and capital Objection 
respecting the Lands, etc : I will only observe that in Case we never obtain 
an original Quota of them, we shall only lose a Share in the prime Sales of 
them, which will probably be very low, while we shall inevitably reap a 
permanent and increasing Benefit from the rapid and enormous Growth 
of the larger States ; for surely in Proportion to their Extent and Popu- 
lation, their Quota of the Public Expense and Debt will be increased, while 
ours will be proportionably diminished. What avails it therefore to us, 
whether five Pounds of our national Debt be paid by the Accession of a 
Subject to this State, or whether our Quota be really lessened Five pounds 
by the Settlement of a Person in the State of Virginia at the Distance of a 
thousand Miles from the Atlantic? for my own Part I think we shall 
have greatly the Advantage of these enormous, unwieldly Governments ; 
nor do I judge it unlikely they will soon find it necessary to sue for the 
curtailing their extravagant Jurisdiction. 

In the Settlement of our Soldiery, and the foreign Deserters at the 
Expiration of the War, we shall incur considerable Disadvantage ; however 
as the larger States will doubtless rejoice to have their Frontiers im- 
mediately enlarged, and will vie with each other in Courting so great an 
Accession of Inhabitants, there will probably be no greater Expense than 
barely that of locating the Lands, our Quota of which cannot be any very 
considerable Sum. 

I congratulate you on the signal Success of our Arms in this Neighbor- 
hood on the 28th of June. Great Plunder and Devastation have been com- 
mitted among my Friends in this Quarter, but through the distinguishing 
Goodness of Providence, my Family and Property escaped, and that almost 
in a miraculous Manner. 

I wish you to take the above Representation into your serious Con- 
sideration, and, if with me you shall judge it a Matter of sufficient Im- 
portance, that the Legislature may be as speedily as possible convened to 
deliberate and determine thereon.^ 

I am, Dear Sir, with great Esteem, your most obedt. hble servant, 

Nath. Scudder. 
Honble John Hart, Esq. 

404. JosiAH Bartlett to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia July 13th 1778 
Dear Sir 

.... Your letter to the IMarine Committee of the 20th ulto came by 
today's post and will be considered as soon as opportunity permits : the 
removal of Congress to this City has greatly retarded business. We have 

3 The New Jersey assembly enacted the necessary authorization Nov. 20, 
which was presented in Congress Nov. 25, and the Articles were sig^ied by the delegates 
Nov. 26. See no. 396, note 2, ante, and no. 424, note 4, post. 

[404]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 513; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. IL, p. 211; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Langdon-Elwyn 
Papers (copy of part). 



July, 1778 329 

not yet procured proper offices for our several Boards and Committees — 
hope in a few days we shall be better accomodated and attend with more 
alacrity to business. The Congress meets in the College Hall, as the 
State House was left by the enemy in a most filthy and sordid situation, as 
were many of the public and private buildings in the City." .... 

The confederation was signed last week by the delegates of the New 
England States, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia and South Carolina ; 
North Carolina have sent their ratification of it, but had no delegates in 
Congress to sign it. This day a delegate is arrived from Georgia who 
says he is authorized to sign it in behalf of that State.^ New Jersey, Dela- 
ware and Marydand have objected to it and not authorized their delegates 
as yet to sign it. Congress have wrote to them and I have reason to think 
they will accede to it.* .... 

405. James Lovell to William Whipple.^ 

July 14th 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Nine States have signed the Confederation and there is no doubt 
but, Georgia, Delaware and Jersey will soon sign. Maryland will take 
airs and plague us, but upon our detemiination to confederate with 12 will 
do as she has always before done — come in without grace." .... 

406. Elias Boudinot to Mrs. Boudinot.^ 

Philadelphia July 14th. 1778 
My dearest Love, 

I am distressed to account for your total Silence, not having recieved a 
Line from Home since my departure. My fears are raised in proportion to 
my Anxiety for your welfare and Comfort. I have written you several 
Letters lately, by different Opportunities. Yesterday I had the Honor to 
dine with Le Sieur Gerard, Minister plenipotentiary to his most Christian 
Majesty. He is about 50 Years of Age, appears to be a Modest, Grave, 
decent, cheerfuU Man — highly pleased with our Country and the Struggles 
we have made for Liberty. A Committee of Congress were appointed to 
wait on him at Chester. On their Arrival a Barge with 12 Oarsmen dressed 
in Scarlet trimmed with Silver were ready to recieve them. When the Barge 
was half way to the Ship, she lay on her Oars and fifteen Guns were fired. 
When they came to the Ship her Sides were Manned and our Committee 
were recieved on the Deck by the Marines with rested Arms. At the Gang 
way they met the Plenipotentiary etc. etc. and were conducted into the 
great Cabbin, where the Compliments of Congratulation being given they 

2 C/. nos. 411, 422, post. 

3 Cf. no. 417, post. 

* The draft of the letter is in the Journals, July 10. The letter sent to Governor 
Johnson of Maryland is in Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 145, and has the first blanks 
filled with " Jersey Delaware and Georgia ". See no. 396, note 2, ante. 

[405]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 517; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft 
Coll., Langdon-Elwyn Papers (copy of part). 

- See nos. 396, 403, 404, ante, 410, 417, 423, 424, post. 
[406]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., Misc. 



330 Continental Congress 

returned to the Shore in the same Manner and with the same Ceremony, 
accompanied by Le Sieur Gerard, Mr. Deane etc. etc. here were four 
Coaches with four Horses our Committee had prepared, in which they 
returned to this City, when they were saluted with 15 Guns.^ .... 
I am very happily situated here, considering my absence from a beloved 

Wife I shall soon be quite settled when I hope to have some 

leisure to write you fully. We are preparing for a publick Reception to 
the Sieur Gerard when he will have a publick Audience I will let you 
know the Ettiquette used on this Occasion. I know it will tend to divert 
your lonely moments, altho' I confess I should prefer another mode, was 
it in my Power.^ .... 

407. Henry Marchant to John Carter.^ 

Philadelphia July 14th, 1778. 
Sir, 

Your agreable Favour of the 2d Instant, I reed yesterday. As Congress 
was designd by its Institution to be a true Representation of the Minds of 
its Constituents; So that Body find itself happy when Acts and Resolutions 
of material Consequence, meet the Universal Approbation. 

The Scene brightens, grows more and more interesting, and calls for 
new and fresh Exertions of Senatorial Wisdom. We advance into the 
Circle and Standing of mighty Nations — Adepts in all the Policy of Peace 
and War. May Heaven protect our Youth and prove the Friend, Pro- 
tector and Counsellor of America ! 

I shall enclose you the Paper of this Day, which will render many obser- 
vations useless.^ 

I had the Honor last Sabbath of welcoming in Person the Plenipo- 
tentiary of France to these United States — Grand and important is the 
year 1778. We behold with wonder and Astonishment a Leap of at least 
a Century. Sturdy indeed and wonderfully Successful thro' Divine Assist- 
ance, have been the Efforts of the well sinewed American Confederates. 

As I was present at, so I never was Witness to a more elevating and 
unspea[ka]bly joyous Interview than that between the Plenipotenteary of 
Flis most Christian Majesty, and the President of Congress in the Name 
and Behalf of the thirteen United States of America. It was reciprocally 
easy graceful Endearing and Noble. May it presage a happy Issue to the 

2 See nos. 400-402, ante, and nos. 407-411, post. 

3 See no. 453, post. 

[407] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778, p. 107. 

2 The following appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet of July 14: 

" Early last Sunday afternoon his Excellency Monsieur GERARD, Ambassador from 
his Most Christian Majesty to the United States, arrived in this city. He was accompa- 
nied from Chester to an elegant apartment provided for him in Market street by a com- 
mittee of Congress appointed for that purpose. On his Entrance into the city he was 
saluted by Colonel Proctor's artillery. It is impossible to describe the joy that appeared 
in every good man's countenance upon this auspicious event 

"Who would have thought, (says a correspondent) that the American colonies imper- 
fectly linown in Europe a few years ago, and claimed by every pettyfogging lawyer in 
the House of Commons, and every cobler in the beer houses of London, as a part of 
their property, should in the course of three years of a war with Great Britain, receive an 
Ambassador from the most powerful Monarchy in Europe." 



July, 1778 331 

american Struggle and a growing and undecaying Glory that shall diffuse 
its grateful Influences thro' the World. ^ .... 

408. Henry Marchant to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, July 14th, 1778. 
Sir, 

As I shall enclose to your Excellency the newspaper of this day/ I have 
no occasion to add, but that I had the honor of being present the last 
Sabbath at the most interesting interview that ever took place in America, 
or perhaps in the world, between Monsieur Gerard, the Plenipotentiary 
of France, and the President of Congress, on the part of the Sovereign 
Independent United States of America. 

This interview was most cordial, generous and noble. In my turn, I had 
the honor of personally congratulating his Excellency upon his safe 
arrival, and giving him a hearty welcome to the United States of America.^ 

I am in daily expectation of hearing that Rhode Island is evacuated. 

409. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philada. July 14, 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

I am to acknowledge the Receipt of your favors of the 26th and 28th of 
June.- .... I will take an Opportunity when I am at Leisure to answer 
your Letter of the 26, which I have communicated to my Friend Colo. 
Lee.^ Yesterday I made a short Visit to Monsr. Gerard. If I can form any 
Judgmt. of him, his Manners Avould suit our country.^ But I expect to be 

better acquainted with him soon. Mr. H ^ has asked and obtaind 

Leive of Absence and is going home ! Adieu. 

^Cf. nos. 401, 406, ante, 408-411, post. 
[408]! R. I. Hist. Soc, Collections, VI. 215; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 191 

2 See no. 407, ante. 

3 Cf. nos. 400-402, 406, 407, ante, 409-411, post. In a letter to Governor Greene, 
July II, Marchant mentioned the news of D'Estaing's arrival and added: "The French 
Ambassador, Mons. Girard, and Mr. Deane, in a frigate, are now coming up the river " 
(Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 190). 

[409]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 215; Warren-Adams Letters, II. 32. 

2 These letters are in Warren-Adams Letters, II. 24, 27. The first relates 
principally to the navy, the second to the troops of Burgoyne. 

3 See no. 421, post. 

* Cf. nos. 401, 408, ante, 410, 421, 430, 460, post. 

5 Hancock. See no. 396, ante, and no. 410, post. In a letter to Samuel Phillips 
Savage Aug. 11 Adams wrote: "You ask me what occasiond the very sudden return 

of Mr. H . I answer in his own Word to me, His own Want of Health and the 

dangerous Illness of his Lady. You say he arrivd quite unexpected — you must surely 
be mistaken; for he publickly said he had Leave of Absence from his Constituents. 
You add, various are the Conjectures for the true Cause. It is the lot of a great Man 
to have every Movement he makes critically scanned, and the strangest Constructions are 
oftentimes put upon those parts of his Conduct which may be most easily explaind " 
{Writings, IV. 49). Savage's letter to which Adams is replying is in Mass. Hist. Soc, 
Proceedings, XLIII. 333, dated July 29. See also his letter of Oct., 1778, ibid., p. 334. 
In numerous letters of this period Adams refers to Hancock in sarcastic, even con- 
temptuous, terms ("the Great Man", etc.). See, for instance, his letters to Warren, 
Sept. I, 12, Oct. 17, and to Savage, Sept. 14. Nov. i. Writings, IV. 52, 58, 61, 75, 86 (cf. 
ibid., p. 83: "Tell my Friend M[r.] S"). 



332 Continental Congress 

410. Samuel Adams to James Warren/ 

Philada. July 15, 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

Mr. H.- informs me that he will certainly set ojfif for Boston immedi- 
ately after Dinner, and being now in Congress I have Time only to write 
you a short Letter. 

The Sieur Gerrard, will soon have an Audience in Congress in the stile 
of " Minister Plenopotentian,^ of his most Christian Majesty the King of 
France ". Would you think that one so little of the Man of the World as 
I am should be joynd in a Committee to settle Ceremonials? It is however 
of some Importance that we agree upon Forms that are adapted to the 
true republican Principles; for this Instance may be recurrd to as a 
Precedent in Futurity. 

The Articles of Confederation were signd last Week by seven [eight] 
States. North Carolina has sent a full Ratification of it, so the Members of 
that State will sign when they arrive which is expected in a few Days. 
Congress has written a Letter to the States of Georgia, Maryland, Dela- 
ware and Jersey pressing them to authorize their Delegates to joyn in this 
most necessary Transaction. I believe there will [be] no Difficulty except 
with Maryland, and she will finally accede. The Articles have undergone 
no Alterations.^ 

The french Minister arrivd in this City on Lords Day, and the day 
following, last Monday the Delegates of Massachusetts Bay paid him 
their Complements in Form. I know not that those of any other State 
have observd this Ceremony. It appeard to us highly proper. We were 
receivd with Politeness, and heard some handsome Things said of the 
State we have the Honor to represent.'* 

The Minister plenipotentiary deliverd to Congress a Letter from his 
Sovereign expressd in the strongest Terms of Affection and Friend- 
ship.^ .... 

411. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

15th July [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

I had the Honor of addressing Your Excellency the 27th Ulto. through 
the hands of Governor Henry via Williamsburg. On that day I left 
York Town and arrived here the 30th. from various impediments I could 
not collect a sufficient number of States to form a Congress earlier than 
the 7th Instant; one was the offensiveness of the air in and around the 

[410]! Mass. Hist. Soc. Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 216; Warren- Adams Letters, II. 23- 
- Hancock. See nos 396, 409, ante. Cf. no. 518, post. 
" See no. 396, note 2, ante. 

* See no. 402, ante. Holten records in his Diary under July 16: "I was invited 
to dine at the city Tavern with Monsr. Gerard, but declined on account of my health." 
s See no. 411, post. 
[411]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 208. "By Barry 
to the Black Horse Tavern there to be deliver'd Sharp." A similar notation appears 
on nos. 412 and 417, post. 



July, 1778 333 

State House, which the Enemy had made an Hospital and left it in a con- 
dition disgraceful to the Character of civility. Particularly they had 
opened a large square pit near the House, a receptacle for filth, into which 
they had also cast dead horses and the bodies of men who by the mercy of 
death had escaped from their further cruelties. I cannot proceed to a new 
subject before I add a curse on their savage practices. 

Congress in consequence of this disappointment have been shuffling f roni 
Meeting House to College Hall the last seven days and have not performed 
half the business which might and ought to have been done, in a more 
commodious situation.^ .... 

On Sunday last the Committee appointed for the purpose received 
Monsr. Girard at Chester, and under a respectable Cavalcade conducted 
him to temporary Apartments at General Arnold's where the Committee, 
a few other Members of Congress including myself dined with him. on 
Monday he dined with me, walk'd an hour in the Evening and yesterday 
Morning Monsr. Girard breakfasted with me and explained his Mission 
for the information of Congress. He intimated to me his powers for 
appearing in the Character of Minister Plenipotentiary, or more simply a 
Resident; "that which he should assume awaited the determination of 
Congress respecting the public Character of their Minister or Ministers at 
the Court of Versailles, who without full powers would in many instances 
find themselves incapable of accomplishing essential services to these 
States ". 

He marked the distinction of Ambassador, a character in which he did 
not appear, and put into my hands Copy of the Kings sign Manuel appoint- 
ing him Minister Plenipo : another by which he is appointed Consul 
General in the several United States with powers to depute and several 
other Papers. Copies of some of these Your Excellency will find among 
the numbers above mentioned. No. — respecting Prizes which may be 
made by American Vessels of War is another mark of the good will of 
our illustrious Ally and ought to be published immediately. These Papers 
I laid before Congress and reported all the necessary articles of conver- 
sation with Monsr. Girard. a Committee of three are appointed for con- 
sidering and reporting upon the subject and upon a proper mode of 
receiving Monsr. Girard in fomi.^ .... 

412. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais.^ 

15 July [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

.... When I tell you that hitherto Congress have only talked of a 
Table but seem to evade all Measures for covering one, either with an 

2 The Journals do not mention the " shuffling from Meeting House to College 
Hall", except that the first meeting had been in the state house, and that the adjourn- 
ment July 9 was to " 9 o'Clock to Morrow to meet in the College hall ". Cf. no. 404, 
atite, and no. 422, post. 

3 See the Journals, July 11, 14-18, 20, 25, 28-31, Aug. 5, 6, 8, Sept. 3. Cf. 
nos. 400-403, 406-410, ante, 414, 422, 424, 430, 431, 438, 443, 449, post. 

[412]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 212. Cf. no. 411, 
note I, ante. 



834 Continental Congress 

House or Viands,^ that I am forced every day to entertain Delegates, 
Strangers and Sometimes Ministers plenipo : you will naturally ask, will 
Mount Tacitus, Mepkin etc. support the expence? I can assure you their 
produce must be uncommonly ample if they answer in the affirmative, if 
my diurnal Account amounted at York Town to near fifty Dollars, what 
will be the sum in Philadelphia. I hope not much more, be that as it may, 
I must bear it until the Celebration of All Saints — ^the first time I ever 
wished for the arrival of a Saints day since I left school, then by the Grace 
of God I mean to break up.^ .... 

413. John Penn to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia, July 15th 1778. 
Dear Sir: 

Col. Williams never gave me the certificate of our appointment until a 
few days ago when we parted, he choosing to be inoculated for the small 
pox at Alexandria. I was then hurried and did not examine it, not having 
the least reason to doubt but that the powers given to the Delegates were 
the same as usual, however on producing the commission it was so worded 
as to make it absolutely necessary that all the Members should be present, 
to give us a right to vote. As it may be a long time before Mr. Harnett 
arrives or Col. Williams gets over the small Pox, I have thought it my 
duty to write to you by express, requesting that your Excellency would be 
pleased to mention whether one Gentleman by the design of the General 
Assembly cannot vote, if so you will be pleased to send a Commission for 
that purpose, but if no alteration can be made, pray inform Mr. Harnett 
that it is absolutely necessary for him to repair to Philadelphia without 
delay. I find myself in a disagreeable situation which is the reason of my 
application to you. I was told that the Assembly expected that the Dele- 
gates were upon the same terms as formerly 

P. S. Some matters of very great importance will soon come in. It is 
the wish of the Southern States that North Carolina should vote, as I am 
confident that it was not the design of the General Assembly to alter our 
old mode of one Delegate representing the State. I hope your Excellency 
will send a Commission for that purpose. However the Clerks may have 
expressed the resolution of the Assembly, and we shall have nothing to 
do or say this year." Enclosed is a Newspaper. j p 

2 See no. 287, note 7, ante, and the Journals, Dec. 11, 12, 16, 22; also Laurens 
to Gibson, Jan. 21, 1779, in vol. IV. Concerning the entertainment of Gerard, see no. 408, 
note 3, a7itc. 

3 November i (All Saints' Day) would complete a year of service by Laurens as 
President of Congress, and he is here indicating a determination to quit the presidency 
at that time. See nos. 598, 663-668, 677, 680, 683, post. 

[413]! A^. C. State Recs., XIII. 196. 

2 The North Carohna credentials are in the Journals, July 16. They are also 
found in A''. C. State Recs., XIII. 112, 409 (with some small variations). Cf. no. 430, 
post. See also Willie Jones to Caswell, July 25, N. C. State Recs., XIII. 200. Caswell's 
reply to Penn., Aug. 13, is ibid., p. 207. The new resolutions concerning the delegation, 
referred to by Caswell as " this day entered into ", are found ibid., p. 467, with the date 
Aug. 12. See no. 531, post. 



July, 1778 335 

414. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Governor of New Jersey (William Livingston)/ 

17th July [1778.] 
Sir ^ 

Your Excellencys Letter of the 25th Ulto. reached me in this City. Here 
many impediments prevented the forming Congress earlier than the 7th 
Instant. On the 8th I had the honor of presenting that Letter and the 
pleasure of perceiving an high degree of indignation kindling in the minds 
of Members as I advanced in unfolding the villianous attempts of the 
Enemy against Your Excellencys Person. This indignation was discern- 
able even in Gentlemens countenances, but more strongly marked in 
expressions suitable to the occasion which broke forth from many quarters 
of the House. The Letter was committed,^ but our attention almost ever 
since that period has been drawn to the businesses which Your Excellency 
well knows, naturally arise from the arrival of a Minister Plenipotentiary 
in the City where Congress sit, and the fleet of an Ally on the Coast which 
Congress wish to have cleared of Enemies.^ from these considerations 
Your Excellency will not be surprized that a Report has not yet come up 
from the Committee 

415. Henry Laurens to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 18 July 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

Yesterday I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency a public letter 
by James Martin and also of presenting to Congress Your Excellency's 
favor of the T4th, which the House received with satisfaction. 

Permit me Sir, to recommend to Your Excellency's protection two 
Packets from the Sieur Gerard to Count d'Estaing, which will accompany 
this. I have assured Monsieur Gerard that it is altogether unnecessary to 
urge Your Excellency to give these dispatches the quickest safe passage to 
the Vice Admiral. 

Prizes are finding the way into Delaware, one, laden with Rum Limes 
etc. intended for the Enemy's refreshment embraced one of our Wharves 
the Evening before last and I learn a Rich Ship is on her way up. 

I have this moment Reed, a second Letter from the British Commis- 
sioners if I dared to venture an opinion, from a very cursory reading of 
the performance, it would be, that this is more puerile than any thing I 
have seen from the other side, since the commencement of our present 
dispute, with a little dash of insolence, as unnecessary as it will be unavail- 
ing. If the Marquis de Vienne will indulge me, till I return from Congress 
Your Excellency will find a Copy of that Letter within this, at present 

[414] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 30. 

2 See the Journals, July 8. No record of a report from the committee has 
been found. 

2 See no. 411, note 3, ante. 
[415]^ Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIV. 34; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), IL 159. 



336 Continental Congress 

as he is on the Wing I must send to obtain his permission and in order 
to be quite ready in case he shall refuse to wait, conclude this with repeated 
assurances of being, with the highest Esteem and Respect Dear Sir, 
Your Excellency's Obliged and Obedient humble Servant, 

Henry Laurens 

[P. S.] Returned from Congress 3 oClock — a Resolve relative to the 
Commissioners Letter that it ought not to be answered etc. with the 
Letter will appear in print.^ 

416. Henry Laurens to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston)/ 

i8th July [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

.... When Congress were on the point of adjourning, your Excel- 
lency's Letter of the 17th was brought in to me, and I immediately pre- 
sented it to the House, but I received no order, therefore I speak to it only 
private. Your Excellency's opinion respecting common Lands will have 
my simple voice, provided we agree in the necessary preliminary 
Lines.- .... 

417. Henry Laurens to the Governor of Georgia 
(John Houstoun).^ 

iSth July [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

.... Georgia has at present only one Delegate in Congress who alone 
cannot on her part ratify confederation." I am very unhappy from having 
received no further commands from Congress respecting poor little 

- See the Journals, July 18, and no. 421, post. 

[416]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar .-Sept., 1778, p. 218. 

" See the Journals, July 18. 
[417]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 221. See no. 411, 
note I, ante. 

- Edward Telfair attended July 13 and John Walton July 23, and on July 24 
these two signed the Articles of Confederation. See the Journals, and no. 396, note 2, 
ante. Cf. nos. 404, 405, ante. 

About this time there must have been put into the hands of President Laurens a letter 
addressed to him by the Rev. Dr. Zubly. The letter, which is dated at " Midlesex, state 
of South Carolina, June 27, 1778 ", discusses in particular his banishment from Georgia 
and asks leave to address the President of Congress in " a Candid Narrative signed with 
my Name, Supported by Vouchers ", etc. The letter is in the Long Island Historical 
Society, Laurens Papers. There is no record in the Journals that this or any subsequent 
memorial from Zubly was presented in Congress. His appeal to the grand jury Oct. 8, 
1777, written immediately after the act of confiscation and banishment, is in Ga. Hist. 
Quar., L 161. 

Elkanah Watson records in his Men and Times of the Revolution (p. 60) : " On the 
6th of I'ebruary [1778], we reached the Savannah river at Zubly's ferry. At the same 

time, Dr. Zubly and his son crossed the river from the Georgia side Dr. Zubly 

informed us, that he could not conscientiously sustain the cause of Independence ; and, 
in consequence, that he and his son were this day banished from Georgia, and his 
estate confiscated. He expressed strong indignation, at the ingratitude and harshness 
he had experienced. Although he was much depressed and extremely agitated, his 
conversation was in the highest degree interesting and instructive. He concluded the 
evening with an eloquent and affecting appeal to the throne of grace, to vindicate the 
rectitude of his intentions." 



July, 1778 337 

Georgia; in hopes of such I had detained the Bearer three days, but the 
arrival of a French squadron and a Minister Plenipotentiary has accu- 
mulated the labours of Congress insomuch that many necessary considera- 
tions for the benefit of particular States unavoidably lie dormant, the 
first hour of leisure I will give Mr. Telfair all the aid in my power to bring 
his state on the tapis. ^ .... 

418. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

1 8th July [1778.] 
Sir 

I have with pleasure executed an Order of Congress by signing and 
delivering a Brevet to the Marquis de Vienne to rank Colonel in the Army 
of United States of America. My pleasure as an individual would not 
have been less if my name had been ordered to a full Commission, such 
an one I make no doubt will be readily granted if the ^Marquis de Vienne 
shall think it more valuable than the present, when he shall be returning to 
his Native Clime." Your Excellency cannot conceive the embarrasment 
which is often occasioned to Congress by granting Commissions to foreign 
Gentlemen to the prejudice of rank of many of our own home born 
Officers, who have served the public with honor from the very commence- 
ment of the War 

419. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[July 18, 1778.] 
18. Congress received a letter from the Com'rs of the King of Great 
Britain, but it was couched in such terms no answer is to be given.^ 

420. Gouverneur ]\Iorris, Proposed Resolves.^ 

[July 18? 1778.] 
A Remonstrance etc. etc. being read Congress took the same into Con- 
sideration and thereupon 

Resolved that on the 4th Day of July 1776 the Colonies of New Hamp- 
shire etc. etc. being duly represented by their Delegates in Congress did 
declare themselves to be sovereign free and independent States, that being 
in full possession of the Independence so declared these United States by 
their Commissioners at Paris thereunto duly authorized did on the [6th] 
Day of Februarv^ 1 778 enter into Treaties of Commerce and Alliance with 
his most Christian ^lajesty thereby further asserting and being admitted 
to their Station among Sovereign Powers, and therefore that the said 
United States are entitled to and in possession of all the dignities and 

3 Cf. the Journals, May 29, June 26, and no. 482, post. 
[418] ^S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar .-Sept., 1778, p. 215. 

- See the Journals, July 15, Oct. 27. Two letters from Lafayette to Laurens, 
both dated at Brunswick, July 6, are in S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., IX. 59-60, the 
first transmitting a petition of Major Du Bois, the second relating in part to Vienne, 
but also to Du Bois and Tousard. 

[^igY Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 167. 

- See nos. 420-422, post. 
[420]! S. C. Hist. Soc, vol. XV. 



338 Continental Congress 

Privileges which appertain to such Powers by the Laws of Nature and 
Nations. 

Resolved that it is the indispensible Duty of Congress to claim and 
maintain the Dignities and Privileges aforesaid in their fullest Latitude 
and Comprehension. 

Resolved that no Person can have AutJiority or be authorized or ad- 
mitted to treat with or make Propositions to any Prince or State on Behalf 
of the King or Kingdom of Great Britain unless by Powers derived from 
the said King in the Manner and Form customary and acknowledged 
among Nations. 

Resolved that neither of the Commissioners above mentioned appear 
to be duly impowered either as an Ambassador, Minister Plenipotentiary 
Resident or otherwise to represent the King of Great Britain to these 
united States. Wherefore 

Resolved that Congress can by no Means hold any Treaty with or 
answer anv Proposition which may be made by the Said Commissioners 
or either of them." 

421. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philada. July 20, 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

Last Saturday a Letter was brought into Congress from the British 
Commissioners. You have it in the inclosd News Paper with a short 

2 This document, which is in the writing of Henry Laurens, is endorsed, 
" Mr. Morris's Move for Ansr. to Commiss'rs ". It is without date, but the tone and 
contents of the resolves suggest that they were probably prepared as a response to the 
letter of July 11 from the British commissioners, which was read in Congress July 18. 
It seems less probable that they could have been intended as a reply to the commissioners' 
letter of June 9, particularly in view of the fact that Morris prepared the response that 
was actually sent. Moreover, if the resolves had been prepared on that occasion, it seems 
probable that Morris's letter to Jay June 2^ (no. 378, ante) would have contained some 
intimation of them. The word " Remonstrance " suggests the communication of 
Aug. 7, read in Congress Aug. 12, but that remonstrance pertained to the convention 
troops, which are not mentioned in these resolves. Cf. no. 443, post. 

The Journals of July 18 would seem to indicate that the resolution there recorded 
was taken immediately upon the receipt of the communication and without the inter- 
vention of a committee; nevertheless there may have been much intervening discussion 
of which the Journals give no intimation. That part of the letter of the commissioners 
which more particularly appears to have suggested these resolves is this : 

" We likewise think ourselves entitled to a full Communication of the Powers by 
which you conceive yourselves Authorized to make Treaties with Foreign Nations. 

" And we are led to ask Satisfaction on this point because we have observed in your 
proposed Articles of Confederation Nos. 6 and 9 it is stated that you should have the 
Power of entering into Treaties and Alliances under certain Restrictions therein 
specified Yet we do not find promulgated any Act or Resolution of the Assembly's of 
particular States conferring this Power on you " (Library of Congress, \J. S. Revolution). 

Inasmuch as the commissioners raised the question of the authority of Congress to 
make treaties, these resolutions propose to raise a similar question with regard to the 
powers of the British commissioners. In the address to the Earl of Carlisle by " An 
American", presumably Gouverneur Morris (see no. 421, note 2, post), this language 
is found : " It is a most diverting circumstance to hear you ask Congress what power 
they have to treat, after offering to enter into a treaty with them, and being refused. 
But I shall be glad to know by what authority you call on them for this discovery. 
The Count de Vergennes had a right to it, but the Earl of Carlisle certainly has not." 

[421]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 218; IVritings (ed. Cushing), IV. 
45 (dated July — , printed from the draft, showing considerable variations). 



July, 1778 339 

Resolution upon it." This shuts the Door and it will remain shut till 
they will be pleasd to open it again. Governor Johnston has acted so base 
a Part as to hint the offer of Bribes to the President and every other 
Member of Congress, as well as the General, as you will see in the printed 
Letter to Mr. R Morris. By this he has in my Opinion forfeited the 
Character of an honest Man and exposd himself to the just Contempt of 
the World. I hope some Strictures will be made in the News Papers on 
this, as well as the disrespectful and even insolent Language in the Com- 
missioners' Letter, not so proper to be noticed by Congress. I have lately 
been well assured that a Bribe of ten thousand Guineas has been offerd to 
a Gentleman of Station and Character here. He refusd it, as you might 
well suppose, with proper Resentment, telling the Lady who negotiated 
this dirty Business, that the British King was not rich enough to purchase 
him.^ 

Mr. D.* of whom I may hereafter have much to say to you, is arrivd 
with the Sieur Gerard. I have long ago made up my opinion of the 
American Commissioner, and have not yet alterd it. That of the french 
Minister is a sensible prudent Man, not wanting in political Finesse, and 
therefore not to be listend to, too implicitly. The french Squadron lies 

ofif Sandy Hook Mr. D's political and commercial Friends, some 

of whom I suppose are in Boston, are disposd to give him great Eclat, on 
Account of the Aid afforded us in sending this Squadron. His Interest is 
represented as having been very forceable in procuring it, and the News 
Papers mention the Tokens of great Respect shown to him by the King and 
his Ministers at Versailes. The Truth, as I conceive it is, The total Over- 
throw of Burgoyne's Army was an Event which, it was thought, would 
produce Overtures from Britain, and France was apprehensive of our 
hstening to Terms and compromising ^Matters. Hence it was, more than 
from any other Cause or the Interest of any Individual, that a Treaty was 
facilitated and agreed to ; and to secure us in their Alliance and suport us 
in our Independence was, I suppose, their Intent in sending this Squadron 
as well as the Purpose of Mr. Gerard's Mission. 

I have not yet answerd your Letter of the 26th of June. I declind it, 
until I could assure you that the Sum you wishd for, for the Use of your 
Department, was granted. I now have the Pleasure of acquainting you, 

2 In the Pennsylvania Packet of July 21 are found: the letter of Carlisle, 
Clinton, Eden, and Johnstone to Congress July 11, Johnstone to Dana June 10 (with 
omissions), Johnstone to Reed Apr. 11, Johnstone to Morris June 16, "An American"' 
(Gouverneur Morris? cf. no. 378, ante) to the Earl of Carlisle, and W. H. D. (William 
Henry Drayton) to the commissioners July 18. Drayton's address includes an extract 
of Johnstone's letter to Robert Morris and also a statement of Joseph Reed, the latter 
being essentially the same as that included in the " Declaration " of Congress Aug. 12. 
These letters are in Almon's Remembrancer, 1778-1779, pp. 8-12, 19-22. See nos. 360, 
373, ante; cf. no. 514, post. 

3 Joseph Reed. Cf. no. 373, ante, and nos. 422, 429, post. The lady was Mrs. Eliza- 
beth Ferguson. An account of the episode by Joseph Reed, bearing the date Sept. 8, 1779, 
was printed by Francis Bailey in the same year, with the title, Retnarks on Governor 
Johnstone's Speech in Parliament; with a Collection of all the Letters and Authentic 
Papers relative to his Proposition, etc. It includes a statement of Airs. Ferguson " To 
the Public", dated Feb. 16, 1779, relating her part in the affair. 

* Deane. See no. 401, note 2, ante. 

26 



340 Continental Congress 

that it is done and the Money will be orderd on as soon as it arrives here 
from York Town, which is every hour expected.^ The Marine Committee 
have agreed that the Navy Board shall appoint Commanders for Vessels 
of War under Twenty Guns.^ .... 

I find Mr. Dana ^ an excellent Member of Congress. He is a thorough 
Republican, and an able Supporter of our great Cause. I am satisfied it 
would be for the great Benefit of our Country if you and he were to form 
an intimate Connection with each other. This I am the more desirous of, 
because I have no Idea of your being long secluded from the publick 
Councils. He will go home shortly. 

422. JosiAH Bartlett to William Whipple.* 

Philadelphia July 20th. 1778. 
My Dear Sir, 

Since I wrote you last week nothing very material has happened. 
Mons Girard has informed Congress that the King his master, has left it 
to Congress to receive him as Minister Plenipotentiary or as a simple 
resident; that he had two commissions and would produce that which 
would be most agreeable ; that it was expected our Ministers at their Court 
would be entrusted with the same commission we should choose to receive 
Mr Girard in : signifying at the same time, that it was the wish of the 
French Court he should be received as Minister Plenipotentiary, as it 
would be doing more honor to these States, and would be entrusted with 
greater powers, which would be a great advantage at the distance the 
two States were from each other and he likewise requested a public 
audience as soon as convenient. The Congress have agreed to receive him 
as Minister Plenipotentiary but the adjusting the ceremonial, has taken 
some time and is not yet agreed on, nor the day appointed.^ Beside he will 
be rec'd in the State House which was left by the enemy in a most filthy 
situation ^ and the inside torn much to pieces and is now cleansing and 
repairing for the purpose 

Last Saturday we rec'd another letter from the British Commissioners 
dated at New York the nth. inst. : they seem much dissatisfied with our 
answer to their former letter, dispute our authority to make treaties, 
demand to know the nature of the treaties we have entered into, intimate 
that we are not the representatives of the people and threaten to submit 
to the people at large to judge between the Congress and them. The Con- 
gress resolved that as the Commissioners had not complied with the terms 

'" See no. 409, ante, and the Journals, July 15, 16. Cf. the draft in Writings, IV. 45. 

« The marine committee's letter dated July 24, is in Paullin, Out-Letters of the 
Marine Committee, I. 270. Cf. no. 440, post. 

7 In the draft the name is left blank. Adams is doubtless writing anent a remark 
of Warren in his letter of May 31 (Warren- A dams Letters, II. 13) : "I suppose my 
Cousin will be an Influential Member." 

[422]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 519; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. II., p. 213; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Langdon-Elwyn 
Papers (copy of part). 

2 Cf. no. 411, note 3, ante, and nos. 438, 443, 449, post. 

2 The Sparks copy has "condition". Cf. nos. 404, 411, ante. 



July, i/y8 341 

we had laid down in our answer to their last, no answer ought to be given 
to this and ordered it to be published. If it comes out before the post goes 
out, I will try to send it for your perusal. Sundry letters rec'd by private 
members from the Commissioners are ordered to be printed, which will 
I think convince the world (if it is not already convinced) of the meanness 
and depravity of the Commissioners. They have not only in a polite man- 
ner in some of their letters hinted at bribes to be given to bring their pur- 
poses to pass, but have actually (by means of a woman in this City) offered 
ten thousand guineas to one of the members of Congress and any office he 
should choose, for his assistance in carr}-ing their plan of reconciliation 
into effect. Probably similar offers have been made other persons who 
may not yet have informed of it.* .... 

423. JOSIAH BaRTLETT to THE PRESIDENT OF NeW HaMPSJIIRE 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia, July 20th 1778. 
Hon'd Sir: 

I have Received your favor of the 3d Inst : This Day with the order of 
the Committee of Safety to Mr. Wentworth and my self to apply to Con- 
gress for Two Hundred Thousand Dollars in behalf of our State, and will 
take the Earliest Opportunity to lay the same before Congress. 

The Enormous sums of money it takes to supply the army and navy, 
at the present advanced price [of] things, and the great Desire of Con- 
gress to avoid as much as possible the Emission of more bills of Credit, 
will I fear retard the Business, and perhaps lessen the sum granted. But 
I shall use my best Endeavors that the Requisition may be Complied with.^ 

The former Commissions and instructions for armed vessels being 
judged very Defective, The Congress sometime ago appointed a Committee 
to make a new Draft and lay it before the Congress for their approbation, 
but by reason of the multiplicity of Business, it has not yet been Done as 
soon as any are printed, I will endeavor to send some forward to our 
state.^ 

I am sorry to inform you that Mr. Wentworth is not yet arrived here 
from York Town.* .... 

* See the Journals, July 9, 16, 18, Aug. 11, 12. Cf. nos. 419-421, ante, 424, 429, 
430, 432, 442, 443, post. 

[423]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 2>7'< Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, p. 128; 
Haverford College, Roberts Coll. (draft with variations) ; Hist. Mag., IV. 331. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 5. Cf. nos. 447, 507, post. 

3 Such instructions were issued to the marine committee Mar. 5, but it cannot 
be discovered from the Journals when the committee made a report on the subject. 
Cf. no. 438, post. 

The text of this paragraph as printed in Hist. Mag. varies somewhat from that here 
given. In that text the paragraph concludes with the following sentence : " Hope it will 
be soon, as many of the States are calling for them." There are several other variations. 
See note 5, below. 

* In a letter to President Weare July 11 Bartlett wrote: "Mr. Wentworth 
had a fever at York Town was pretty bad I tarried with him 4 days after the Congress 
adjourned left him better Thursday the 2nd Instant Have not heard from him since 
Hope he will be here the beginning of the week " (Library of Congress, Force 
Trans., Weare). 



342 Continental Congress 

The Confederation is agreed to by all the States Except New Jersey, 
Deleware and Maryland, and I have signed it in Behalf of our State, but 
as the Power to Ratify was Given to the Delegates in Congress, I have 
some Doubt (as have some others) whether my signing it is a sufficient 
Ratification notwithstanding our appointment authorizes us severally to 
Represent the State in congress.^ and if Mr. Wentworth should not be 
able soon to come and Sign it, I Earnestly request the State to give some 
order about it.® .... 



424. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia July 20th. 1778 
Dear Sir, 

.... With this Squadron [D'Estaing's] came Le Sieur Gerard 
Minister Plenipotentiary from his Most Christian Majesty. He is a 
sensible well bred Man, and perfectly well acquainted with the politics of 
Europe. From him I learn that the Court of France consider the Message 
of the King of England to his Parliament and their answer, upon the 
Count Noailles notification of our Alliance, as a denunciation of War on 
the part of G. Britain, and that they mean to Act accordingly, without an 
express declaration, leaving this last to England. 

We are busied now in settling the Ceremonials for the reception of 
foreign Ministers of every denomination — And I assure you it is a work 
of no small difficulty. When this is finished, Monsr. Gerard will have his 
audience in Congress — I suppose this week.^ .... 

The B. Commissioners have sent us a second letter, very silly, and 
equally insolent. The preliminaries insisted on by Congress (an acknowl- 
edgement of Independence or a withdrawing of their fleets and Armies) 
not having been either of them complied with, this letter is to receive no 
answer. We have detected and fully exposed Govr. Johnstone, who under 
the plausible guise of friendship and Virtue, has endeavored to bribe 
Members of Congress — The whole body indeed, as well as individual 
Members.^ The Confederation is ratified by 10 states, there remains only 
Jersey, Delaware and Maryland; but I suppose their obstinacy will e'er 
long submit to their interest, and a perfect coalition take place.* 

s The words " notwithstanding .... Congress " are not found in the text in 
Hist. Magazine. Cf. nos. 507, 560, post. 

6 See the Journals, June 23, 27, and nos. 396, note 2, 403, 404,. 405, ante, 424, post. 
[424] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second ser., LI. 19; Letters (ed. 
Ballagh), L 426; Lee, Memoir of Richard Henry Lee, IL 43. 

2 Cf. nos. 408, 411, 422, ante, and no. 438, post. 

3 See no. 422, note 4, ante. 

4 Cf. nos. 396, note 2, 403-405, 410, 417, 423, ante, 456, 560, 567, 599, 612, 
628, 630, 638, post. Strictly speaking. North CaroHna and Georgia had not completed 
their acts of ratification, as the articles were not signed by the delegates of those states 
until July 21 and 24 respectively. For a movement by Virginia to confederate without 
Maryland, see a letter from the North Carolina delegates to Governor Caswell May 20, 
1779, and one from the Virginia delegates to Governor Jefferson, May 22, in vol. IV. 



July, 1778 343 

425. Samuel Holten, Diary/ 

_ [July 20, 21, 1778.] 

20. Received an account that the French Admiral is sending a number 
of Prisoners here. 

21. Col. Partridge from our Court paid me a visit and informed me 
he was charged with several Public matters from said Court to Congress.^ 

426, The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia 21st. July 1778 
Sir 

Just before we left York Town in Conjunction with our Colleague 
Mr. Lewis we moved for and obtained from the Congress an Advance of 
100.000. Dollars for the Use of the State and for which they are to be 
accountable.' The Reasons were as follows. We found by various Intelli- 
gence laid before Congress that the savages were about making an Irrup- 
tion upon our Frontiers and from the probable Evacuation of Philadelphia 
it was not unlikely that the british General would again pursue his favorite 
Object of Hudson's River. In this Situation of Affairs it appeared to us 
that Money might be wanting in our Treasury which we had Reason to 
believe was not very full and further we were infomied that our Militia 
remained unpaid for Services formerly done and therefore might not 
turn out with their usual Alacrity These Things were laid before Con- 
gress and they surprized at the Moderation of a Demand which we venture 
to say from any other State in similar Circumstances would have been at 
least three Times as great instantly made the Grant. The Adjournment 
to Philadelphia The Change of Political Circumstances by the Battle of 
Monmouth and arrival of the French Squadron on both of which Incidents 
we heartily congratulate your Excellency, And the Want of a safe Oppor- 
tunity have delayed the sending forward of the Money. We have further 
to observe to your Excellency that the Complaints of our Fellow Citizens 
who are unpaid by Commissaries Quarter Masters and the like have been 
laid before Congress but unfortunately the Complaint is universal and 
therefore it is objected that a general Remedy is necessary ^ In this Situ- 
ation we have it in View to obtain a Recommendation to the State to 
liquidate and adjust those Accounts in like Manner as their own Accounts 
are liquidated and adjusted and this Money may be of Use in discharging 
them. Besides this it is to be further observed that the Continent are 
very considerably indebted to our State and the Accounts will be settled 
with greater Ease full than empty handed. Mr. Duer would have gone 

[^2s]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 167. 

2 Probably the matters presented in the Massachusetts letter of June 23. See 
the Journals, July 21, Aug. 8, 10, 11. Partridge was elected a delegate to Congress 
June 29, 1779, and took his seat Aug. 20 following. 

[426]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, V. i (draft, in the writing of Morris) ; Public 
Papers of George Clinton, III. 567. 

2 See the Journals, June 20, 22. 

^ Cf. the Journals, June 11, Aug. 4, 5, 17, Oct. 31, Nov. 10, Dec. 22. 



344 Continental Congress 

forward long ago but Mr. Lewis was under the Necessity of going to 
Baltimore to bring up his Family and the State would have been unrepre- 
sented had Mr. Duer left this Place. We hope that the Arrival of Genl. 
Schuyler or of Mr. Lewis will soon put it in his Power to return to the 
State. 

We do ourselves the Honor to enclose to your Excellency a Copy of the 
Report brought in but never yet read upon our Vemiont affairs.* We 
think it short of wdiat is necessary and shall therefore urge Congress to 
such Amendments as may render it more equal to the Purposes proposed 
to be answered by it. It is possible Sir that our Constituents may be led 
to beleive that there hath been a Remissness in their Delegates in not 
urging this Business with a Degree of Rapidity which in their Opinion 
would have ill answered the wise Purposes of the Application. Your last 
Letter ^ on this Subject is now before us and we shall do ourselves the 
Honor to present it as soon as the Matters necessary to the Audience of 
the French Minister shall be adjusted which is not yet done so dilatory 
are the proceedings of our Body. The Presenting your Excellency's Letter 
will afford a proper Opportunity to call for and urge the Report the 
Amendments to which will be if within our Powers such as are stated on 
the Enclosed Paper. 

We are with the Greatest Respect Your Excellency's Most obt. etc. 

Wm. Duer 
GouvR. Morris.^ 

427. A Committee of Congress, Report.^ 

[July, 1778-]^ 
The Committee to whoom was referd the letter from Govr Clinton of the 
7th of April AD 1778 with the proclamation Inclosd take leave to report 
the following Resolutions — 

Vis 

Resolved that the Independant Government attempted to be Established 
by the people Stiling themselves the Inhabitants of Veniiont cannot derive 

* The report is doubtless that prepared by the committee (appointed Apr. 20) 
on Clinton's letter of Apr. 7, and alluded to in the delegation letter of Apr. 30, no. 237, 
ante. The report is no. 427, post. Cf. nos. 381, ante, 469, post, and see the Journals, 
Sept. 16. 

^ Clinton's letter dated July 8 was read in Congress Sept. 18. 

^ The draft has no signatures, but these names are affixed to the text in the 
Clinton Papers. 

[427]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, IV. 403-404 (in the writing of Samuel Hunt- 
ington) ; Clinton Papers, HI. 569. 

2 A copy of this report was enclosed with the letter of the New York delegates 
to Governor Clinton, July 21 (no. 426, ante), and there designated as a "Copy of the 
Report brought in but never yet read upon our Vermont affairs ". The committee was 
appointed Apr. 20, on a letter of Apr. 7 from Governor Clinton, and it is doubtless the 
resolutions expected as the outcome of this report which the delegates hoped, Apr. 30 
(no. 22,7, ante), to transmit in a few days. It can not be discovered from the Journals 
when the committee brought in the report, or whether this particular report was ever 
taken into consideration by Congress. In the Duane Papers only the report, in the 
writing of chairman Huntington, is found; but in the Clinton Papers the report is 
followed by the amendments which the delegates indicate it is their purpose to offer 
(see no. 428, post). 



July, 1778 345 

any Countenance or Authority from the Congress of the thirteen United 
States of America. 

Resolved that no number or body of people within any part of these 
Unites States can be Justified in Attempting- to form and Establish any 
new Independant States within any part of these United States without the 
Consent of the State or States in which they are and were Included at 
the time the Congress were at first Elected and Convened for the Safety 
and defence of these United States ; and the approbation of Congress.'' 

And it is recommended in the Strongest tenns to the people afore- 
mentioned and all other the good people of these United States and any 
particular State Interested or Claiming to be Interested in the premises 
to refrain from all Acts of violence and coersive measures as they regard 
the peace and welfare of these United States.^ 

428. The New York Delegates, Proposed Resolutions.^ 

[July,_i778.] 

The Committee who brought in this report ^ were : Mr. Huntington, of 
Connecticut, Mr. J. B. Smith, of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Francis Lightfoot 
Lee, of Virginia. 

Amendments intended to be proposed to the Report : 

Resolved, that no man or body of men can of right on any territory 
within North America fonii or establish any State, (other than those 
which were called the British Colonies, Provinces, or Plantations in 
North America,) without the Special consent of that State within which 
such territory shall lie, and the approbation of Congress. 

Resolved, that Congress do highly reprobate all attempts to set up, 
form, or establish any new State or government, as tending to break the 
Union of the States they represent, to produce civil wars, and to destroy 
the peace, freedon, and happiness of America. 

Resolved, that Congress have not given and will not give any counte- 
nance or authority to the discontented subjects of the State of New York, 
Styling themselves the inhabitants of Vermont, but do disapprove of their 
proceedings. 

Resolved, that it be most earnestly recommended to the persons afore- 
said, forthwith to submit peaceably and quietly to the jurisdiction, govern- 
ment, and authority of the said State of New York, and that they repre- 
sent unto the said government any grievances they may labor under. 

Resolved, that the State of New York be requested to forbear, for the 
present, all coercive measures to compel the submission of their discon- 

3 In the Huntington copy (Duane Papers) the following resolution is found, 
although erased : 

" Resolved that a Copy of these Resolutions be forthwith Transmitted to the people 
Stiling themselves Inhabitants of Vermont and that they be directed to lay before 
Congress the Causes and reasons of their proceedings in attempting to Establish a new 
Government to the end that such proceedings may be had thereon as to Right and 
Justice shall be found to appertain." 

* Endorsed, in the writing of James Duane, " draft of Resolutions for a 
decision ". 

[428]! C/iHfOM Papers, III. 569. 

2 No. 427, ante. 



346 Continental Congress 

tented subjects, and also, on a proper representation, to redress the griev- 
ances they labor under, if any there be.^ 

429. Joseph Reed to Mrs. Reed/ 

Philad. July 21 [1778.] 
My dear Hetty 

I send you inclosed all the News Papers published since I wrote you last 
by Capt. Mercers ^ Harry. You will in the last Paper find Govr. John- 
stones Letter to me published by Order of Congress. I had some Difficulty 
to prevent the Extracts from your Brothers Letter [from being] published 
in the same Paper. You will perhaps wonder at this as supposing it con- 
tains nothing disadvantageous to him, but I assure you a very different 
Idea was entertained of it in Congress and I only got it withdrawn on 
the Plea of personal Favour.^ .... 

430. John Penn to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia July 21st 1778. 
Dear Sir: 

I wrote to you the 15th Inst, by an express informing you that by the 
Commission Col. Williams obtained it would require three Delegates to 
be present before the State could have a vote, and then indeed we must be 
all of one opinion. As there are several gentlemen here that represent the 
State they belong to singly, and as I proposed to our Assembly that they 
would choose four Delegates confining two to be here at a time, which was 
not done, the Members saying they would proceed the old way, I am 
induced to wish that your Excellency would send a Commission giving all 
or either of us a right to vote until November,^ when I think the Con- 
federation directs two. I mention this again lest some accident should 
happen to the express.^ .... 

Monsr Gerard the French Minister is here, he is a very polite and well 

bred man, Mr. Deane says he has been our first friend in France 

We had a curious letter from the Commissioners lately, calling upon us to 
know, by wdiat authority we presume to make treaties with the King of 
France, or any other foreign power, declaring we had no authority dele- 
gated to us, for that purpose by the Assembly's of the different States, 
before or since the supposed confederation; the answer was short, " that 

3 Cf. the Journals, May 22, 1779, and a letter of the New York delegates to 
Governor Clinton, June i, 1779. in vol. IV. 

[429]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, MSS. of Joseph Reed, IV. 

- Probably John Francis Mercer of Virginia, who had, however, been made a 
major June 8, 1778, and was aide-de-camp to General Lee. There was a Captain John 
Mercer of New Jersey, who had, however, since February, 1777, been a prisoner of 
the British. See Heitman, Hist. Reg. 

3 See nos. 357, 272>, 422, ante, 442, 443, 467, post. Mrs. Reed's brother was 
Dennis Deberdt. Cf. vol. II., no. 25. 

[430] IjV. C. State Recs., XIII. 198, XXII. 975. 

2 The other text has " November 3 ". According to the Articles of Confed- 
eration Congress was to meet the first Monday in November, which, in 1778, would 
have been November 2. 

3 Cf. no. 413, ante, and see the Jotirnals, July 24. 



July, 1778 347 

the British Fleet and Anny not being- sent away, nor the Independence of 
America acknowledged, no answer be given ".* Enclosed is a Newspaper, 
I hope Sir you will forward a Commission by the first opportunity as 
desired unless you find some express resolution to the contrary, of the 
Assembly. Indeed I am perfectly satisfied from what I heard when at New 
Bern, that no alteration was intended. I feel myself in an awkward 
situation not having a right to vote, matters of importance will soon be 
debated. 

431. Andrew Adams to Oliver Wolcott.^ 

^. Philadelphia 22d July 1778 

The Arrival of the French fleet added to the Battle of Monmouth seams 
to put our affairs upon a respectable Footing and Defuses a general Joy 
among the friendly Inhabitants of this City : however I must freely own 
I dont feel myself so compleatly flush'd upon this Occation as many do : 
I cant say but it may be attended with the happy Consiquences expected ; 
but when I view the Matter upon a larger Scale sundr}^ Questions suggest 
themselves for our Consideration ; I was fully of Oppinion that the War 
was drawing to a speedy issue : I look'd upon the present Campaign as 
the last, and that we had before us every prospect of Success, and our 
Independ[enc]e as fix'd — upon this View of the Case I would quere 
whither the arival of this Fleet will not be a Means of lengthining out the 
War, and also ley us under an Obligation of affordin^g France an arm'd 
force in Case they Need it w^hich as the Case may be circumstanced as to 
time place etc. may be very disagreable to our Northern people : besides 
would it not be much to our Advantage had we settled the present Con- 
troversy in our favour without a foreign Aid. 

Under such Idears I have never been fond of the Assistance of any 
foreign Power : However I am no Adept in Politicks, nor do I pretend 
to determin those Questions either Way. I only hint some things that 
have ever been upon my Mind and leave the Decision to abler Politi[ci]ans 
or future Time — should be glad of your Sentiments upon those Matters. 

The Seiur Gerard with Mr. Dean arrived in this City (if I mistake not) 
the 1 2th instant; he has not as yet been admitted to an Audience: The 
Cerimonials for that purpose are fix'd and that will now be done in a 
very few Days: he is not to be reed, as Ambasador but as Minister 
Plenipotentiary.^ .... 

432. Henry Laurens to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

^. Philadelphia 23d July, 1778. 

As I have nothing public in charge for your Excellency I must request 
you sir to indulge me in this private, for the cover of six marine com- 
missions, instructions and bonds, and of a letter to Captain Cottineau. 

* See the Journals, July i8. Cj. nos. 419-422, 424, 429, ante, 432, 442, 443, post. 
[431] J- Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, I. 43. 

2 Cf. nos. 411, 422, 424, ante, 438, 443, 449, post. 
[432] liV. C. St. Recs., XXII. 976, XIII. 199; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 
Mar .-Sept., 1778, p. 225 (dated July 22). 



348 Continental Congress 

The Captain applied to me in York town, for a commission for his own 
ship, and for one or two which he said he intended to equip and to form a 
Httle squadron. Congress is not inchned to grant commissions for vessels 
in distant States unless special descriptions are previously laid before them. 
Your Excellency will be capable of judging of the propriety of Captain 
Cottineau's pretensions and will act as you shall think for the benefit of 
the public. At this critical moment 'tis highly probable demands will be 
made on your Excellency for all that remains after Captain Cottineau 
shall be supplied.- .... 

I take the liberty of enclosing to your Excellency two of the latest 
newspapers. 

I am anxious that Congress should resolve to hold no conference with 
men who have dared to tempt them with bribes of gold, and I trust that 
through the endeavors of some diligent patriots in the House, those men 
will be compelled to return the bearers of their own impeachment, will be 
held up to the severe resentments of their much injured countrymen, and 
their names transmitted to posterity in characters which will render their 
memory infamous.^ 



433. Jonathan Elmer to Ebenezer Elmer.^ 

Philada. 23d: July 1778 
D'r Brother 

.... The complaints of the Officers of the Army which you mention I 
acknowledge are in general but too well founded. But when you reflect 
upon the rapid progress of our political affairs, the multiplicity of business 
Congress have had to transact, and the many difiiculties they have had to 
surmount ; I am convinced you will readily perceive that Congress is often 
unjustly complained of. The depreciation of our paper Currency is irre- 
mediable at present, as it arises in a great measure from the superabund- 
ency of it in circulation. But as our affairs now begin to wear a smiling 
aspect, and as we are beginning to sink our bills of credit by Taxes, the 
value of our money will indubitably soon begin to appreciate. This in 
my opinion ought to aft'ord some satisfaction to those who are at present 
sufferers in the Service of their Country 

I have very little reason to believe that any new regulations respecting 
the medical department in the Army will take place this Campaign, Con- 
gress having too much business on hand of a more general and important 
nature, to attend to that matter. 

Dr. E : Elmer " 

2 See N. C. State Recs., XII. 593, 599, 614, 700, 734, 738. 

3 See no. 430, ante, and nos. 442, 443, post. 

[433P Qjllection of the late Garrett D. W. Vroom, Trenton, N. J. 

- Dr. Ebenezer Elmer was surgeon of a New Jersey regiment. Sketches of him 
and his brother, Dr. Jonathan Elmer, are in Appleton, Cyclo, Am. Biog. 



July, 1^78 349 

434. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Governor of Virginia (Patrick Henry)/ 

24th July [1778.] 
Sir 

I have to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's several favors 
of the 4th, 8th and i6th Instant, which have been in due course presented 
to Congress, but hitherto I have received no commands in return, suppos- 
ing- Your Excellency's Messenger, who will be the bearer of this may have 
been employed for the special purpose of bringing your favor of the 20th 
and that expences are consequently increasing every day; I have judged 
it best to dispatch him without further delay. I have Men here employed 
as Messengers in constant pay. one of these shall conduct to your Excel- 
lency such Resolves as Congress shall forni on the last mentioned Letter 
immediately after the Act shall be sent to me. That Letter had been com- 
mitted to the Board of War on Monday last a Report was made yester- 
day, and after some Debate re-committed. If I dare judge of opinions not 
yet delivered Congress will coincide with your Excellency's respecting the 
intended expedition against Detroit, and the further raising troops of 
horse.^ .... 



435. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[July 23-26, 1778.] 

2 7,. I removed from the Wid° Robbinson's to board at the house of 
Miss Dolley and Clark in 2d street.^ I dined and drank tea at Doctr. Ship- 
pin's, director Genl. of the continental Hospital. 

24. I dined with the President, and went and viewed the Hospital, 
workhouse and City goal, they are very elegant and great Buildings. 

^5. Two months this day since I left home. Col. Partridge ^ spent the 
afternoon with us. 

26. Sabbath day. I went to St. Peter's Church in the forenoon and in 
the afternoon to the College where I heard the best sennon since I left 
Boston. Dr. Weatherspoon and Colo. Partridge dined with us. 

[434] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 32. 

- See the Journals, July 13, 20, 22, 25. There were actually four letters from 
Governor Henry, July 4, 8, 10, and 16, and the dates have been somev^fhat confused in 
the entries in the Journals (cf. no. 436, post). They are in Henry, Life of Henry, HL 
178, 180, 183, 185. The letter of Patrick Lockhart July 3, enclosed with Henry's letter 
of July 10, is ibid., p. 184. The originals are in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 71, vol. L, ff. 
161, 165, 169, 173, 179. The letter of July 8 is endorsed by Laurens: " Govr. Henry 8th 
July 1778 Read late P. M. i8th " ; by Secretary Thomson : " Read 20 Referred ", etc. 

[A35V Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 167. 

2 See no. 388, ante. Samuel Adams speaks, in the letter to his wife Dec. 13 
(no. 671, post), of Mrs. Clark and her sister, Miss Daily, in whose house the Massa- 
chusetts delegates resided. William Whipple refers to it (see no. 615, note 4, post) 
as " Liberty Hall ". The name which appears in Holten's Diary as " Dolley " and in 
Adams's Writings as " Daily " was probably Dally or Dalley. Gifford Dally was the 
keeper of the City Tavern. See no. 449, note 2, post. It may therefore have been at 
the City Tavern that Holten took tea on New Year's Day, 1779, for he records under 
that date, " I drank tea at Mr. Dolley's ". 
" See no. 425, ante. 



350 Continental Congress 

436. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Governor of Virginia (Patrick Henry)/ 

26th July [1778.] 
Sir 

I beg leave to refer Your Excellency to my last Letter under the 24th 
by the returning Messenger. 

Inclosed with this Your Excellency will receive an Act of Congress of 
the 25th consisting of divers Resolutions founded on a Report from the 
Board of War to whom Your Excellency's Letters of the 8th and loth 
Instant were referr'd; either the Board of War have misquoted these 
dates or the Secretary's return led me into an error in reciting them in 
my last.^ 

This Act contains so full an Answer to Your Excellency's Letters on the 
intended Expedition against Detroit, and the raising a Reinforcement of 
Infantry and Cavalry in Virginia as leaves me nothing to add, except 
an explanation which I am directed to make on the 5th Resolve. It is 
meant and intended by Congress by the inexpedience of the march and 
services of those Troops that an immediate abatement of expence shall 
be made 

Nothing from His Excellency General Washington or from Count 
d'Estaing since my last. 

437. Henry Laurens to Jean Baptiste Lazarus 
Theveneau de Francy.^ 

26th July [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

.... The Letter which you sent from the Commercial Committee was 
deliver'd to me by that Board and immediately presented the Congress. 
The House order'd it to be returned to the Committee, and that they should 
after full consideration make a special Report. This happened yesterday 
Morning, Congress did not rise 'till near four o'clock P. M. this is Sunday 
consequently the Report cannot be made before tomorrow, but considering 
the business which we have to transact with Mr. Girard I rather think 
nothing will be done in your affair before Wednesday; to prevent anxiety 
therefore to your self and perhaps some expence I submit to your Servants 
importunity to return, and you may be assured of hearing from me by a 
special Messenger without the loss of one minutes time after I shall have 
received the commands of Congress. And if I form a right judgement 
from the sentiment of particular Members you will be convinced that Con- 
gress have in view nothing short, or that you can in our present Circum- 
stances require in favor of Monsr. Beaumarchais, and in fulfilment of the 
Contract lately entered into.^ .... 

[436]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 34. 

2 See the Journals, July 25, also no. 434, ante, and no. 439, post. 
[437]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 229. Addressed 
to him at Williamsburg. 

2 See the Journals, July 25, Aug. i. Cf. nos. 109, 133, 186, 240, 279, 281, ante. 



July, 1778 351 

438. JosiAH Bartlett to William Whipple.^ 

Philadelphia July 27tli. 1778. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... The Congress have some time since determined as soon as possi- 
ble to take up the Marine affairs and make some very essential alterations 
in it and also the affair of our money which seems to be going to con- 
fusion by the enormous rise of every thing, but when it will be done 
God knozvs.^ The almost innumerable letters and business that daily crowd 
upon Congress for want of regular Boards, properly appointed and filled, 
and the time it takes in such large Assemblies, to transact business, keeps 
us forever behindhand in our affairs and I am sorry to say that sometimes 
matters of very small importance waste a good deal of precious time, by 
the long and repeated speeches and chicanery of gentlemen who will not 
wholly throw off the lawyer even in Congress. 

Till we get into better regulations as to our Marine Affairs, I am per- 
suaded no class of men are so much wanted in Congress as men acquainted 
with that business, for though Navy Boards are established, yet there is 
a constant appeal to the Marine Committee of Congress, who I am sure are 
at this time inadequate to the business. I hope our State will have wisdom 
enough to appoint you to relieve me here in the fall and that you will have 
virtue enough still to forego your own private interest for the public good 
and will accept of their appointment and without flattery I really think you 
would be very serviceable to the public here, especially in the Marine De- 
partment. If I knew you would not attend Congress I should be glad 
you might be appointed one of the Navy Board at Boston, for I am sure 
that Board does not attend sufficiently to the business. 

Mons : Girard has not yet had the ceremony of an audience but believe 
it will take place some day this week : the ceremonials are agreed on by 
Congress and the House nearly cleansed and fitted up. The Minister seems 
urgent to have it as soon as may be.* .... 

439. Richard Henry Lee to Francis Lightfoot Lee.^ 

Phila. July 27th 1778. 
My Dear Brother, 

.... The change in Affairs has occasioned Congress to desire that 
both supplies of Infantry and Cavalry from Virga. voted by last Assembly, 
may be not sent forward, and the expedition against Detroit is changed 
to a Chastisement of the offending Indian Tribes to the West and North 
West.' .... 

[438]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 525; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. IL, f. 214H. 
2 Cf. no. 423, note 3, ante. 

2 The audience was given Aug. 6. See the Journals, July 14 to Aug. 6, passim. 
See nos. 408, 411, 422, 424, ante, and nos. 443, 449, post. 

[439]^ Univ. of Va., Lee Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), L 428; Southern Literary 
Messenger, XXX. 14 (Jan., i860). 

^ See the Journals, July 25, and no. 456, post. 



352 Continental Congress 

Mr. D r^ is deep in the [plot] for supporting [Deane] and the 

[party] so that he remains [here] though leave of absence has been long 
asked and granted. 

I am really tired with the folly and the wickedness of Mankind, and 
wish most earnestly to be retired absolutely 

440. Samuel Adams to James Warren.* 

Philada. July 27, 1778, 
My dear Sir, 

Capt. Manly has obligd me with your favor of the 5th. ^ He and 
McNeil are here with different Views. The one to obtain another Ship, 
and the other to get the Sentence of a Court Martial reversd. Perhaps 
both may be disappointed. I have receivd a Number of Letters bv both. 
To yours I shall pay a particular Regard, because I am well satisfied 
you never suffer Prejudices to divert your Attention from the great 
Object — the publick Good. " Manly is a blunt, honest and / believe brave 
officer." I observe your Caution, and am pleasd with it; for I think it 
is a fresh Proof of your Integrity. Manly's Bravery is an Article of 
your Belief. His Bluntness and Honesty are Matters of Certainty. I have 
not yet looked into the Papers ; but I recollect to have heard, when they 
were read, the Want of Experience imputed to him, and some thing that 
had the Appearance of blaming him for not giving any Signals for the 
Direction of the Ships under his Command. This it must be ownd, 
strongly implys a Want of Discretion. Does the Character of a blunt and 
honest officer intitle him to the Command of a capital Ship if he is deficient 
in Point of Experience and Discretion? Especially if he has had the 
Misfortune of losing one already. " McNeils Address is insinuating, his 
Assurance great. He will tell you fine Storys," etc. I should think he 
had taken his Lessons out of Hutchinson's political Book, if I had not 
Reason to believe that he used to despise him most heartily. When I 
advert to a Letter from another of my Friends,^ I find him " open and 
sincere," " His Temper naturally warm, which he has sometimes indulged 
in speaking his Mind freely of Persons in office." This you know has 
always been deemd an unpardonable Sin, and I am affraid it always will 
be. To be sure it always will be so deemd by that Kind of ]\Ien iii office, 
who meet with none to hinder them from persisting in the most egregious 
and expensive Blunders, but the open sincere and zvarni Friends of the 
Country. " We all know ", says my, Correspondent, " his Zeal and Suffer- 
ings for our glorious Cause." Such a Character, I must confess, com- 
mands my Friendship ; but it has no Consideration in the present Appeal. 
Has he had a fair Trial ? I pay a proper Regard to the Decisions of Courts 

3 Duer. The words in square brackets in this passage were written in cipher. 
See nos. 268, 295, ante, 524, 590, post. Concerning the Deane affair, see no. 401, note 2, 
ante, and no. 487, post. 

[440]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 217; Writings (ed. Gushing), 
IV. 41 (dated July — , printed from the draft, showing variations). 

2 Warren's letter of July 5 is in Warren- Adams Letters, II. 30. 

3 The writer of this letter has not been identified. 



July, ly/S 353 

Martial, and shall not give my Voice for altering them, but when Error, 
Partiality or Injustice shall appear plainly to my own Satisfaction/ 

Our Na\y officers must not expect to pick and chuse for themselves. 
They ought to be content with such Appointments as are given to them. 
Indeed Appointments should be made with more Judgment than I think 
they can be by any Set of Men at three or four hundred Miles Distance. 
For this Reason I movd that they m't be made by the Navy Board, which 
obtaind in a certain Degree, as you will see by a Letter from the Alarine 
Committee.^ Had this been the Case before. Olney ® would have remaind 
in the Resistance, and Burk ^ must have waited for another. If the Queen 
of France is a better Vessel, it will turn out not to the Disadvantage of 
Olney. While we have more Captains in Commission then we have ships 
to give them, there must be Disappointments, En\ws and Suspicions (often- 
times unreasonable) of each other. This is the Make of Man, and we may 
as well think of stopping the Tide as altering it. " The Appointment of 
Cap. Landais affords an ample Subject for the Observations of Specu- 
latists, and the Resentment of Navy officers." I think he is. as you 
observe, an ingenuous and well behavd Man ; and if he is an able and 
experienced officer, as we are assured he is by those who ought to give us 
the best Information, it is a Pity that two very good Lieutenants should 
leave the Ship and the Service on that Account. I hope others may be 
found to fill their Places. " It is an opinion that I was Landais' chief 
Patron." This is a mistaken Opinion. You discover yourself on this 
Occasion, as you are disposd to do at all Times, partial in my Favor. If 
I was in any Degree instrumental in the Promotion of Landais, it was 
because I really thought him a considerable Acquisition and that he would 
be eminently useful to our Navy. And I am apt to believe it would have 
been thought a judicious Appointment, if there had not been a fanciful 
Predilection in favor of another. Even the Name of the Ship may have 
given Disgust to some Men.^ I hope when Manly is provided with such 
a Ship as will please him, the Difficulties or Obstructions in the Way of 
getting the Alliance manned will be removed. I am sure your Exertions 
will not be wanting to forward the Service. 

July 2g. Yesterday I sent you a fresh News paper by the Post which I 
intended as an Apology for not writing to you. I kept this Letter open, 
knowing that ]\Ir. Dod the Express was to set off soon, and designing to 
say a few things in Addition to what I just hinted to you in my last. But 
I must defer it till another opportunity. I shall be obligd to you if you 
will give my Respects to Air. Story " and tell him that his Petition with a 

* Concerning Manley and McNeil, see the Journals, July 28, 29, Aug. 5, and 
nos. 496, 518, 532, 614, post; also Allen, Naval History of the Revolution, I. 216; 
Paullin, Out-Letters of the Marine Committee, I. 164, 170, 243, 252, 271, 280. 

^ See no. 421, ante. 

^ Capt. Joseph Olney. See Paullin, Out-Letters, I. 170, 2y2>. 

^ Capt. William Bourke. See ibid., I. 233, 241, 251, and no. 316, note 5, ante. 

^ See the Journals, May 9, 29, June 19. The last sentence is an allusion to the 
name Alliance, given to the frigate to which Captain Landais was assigned. See no. 316, 
ante; also Adams to Warren, Sept. 12, in Writings (ed. Cushing), IV. 58. 

^ William Storey, clerk of the navy board. See the Journals, July 31, Aug. 4. 



354 Continental Congress 

Number of others was put into the Hands of Mr. Lovel when Mr. H.^° 
left this City. We will take the first opp'ty to present it, and endeavor 
to get his Wishes answerd. 

441. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO William Heath. ^ 

29th [30th] July [1778.] 
Sir 

Since my last of the 9th Instant I have been honor'd with your several 
favors of the 6th, 8th and 9th which I duly presented to Congress ^ the 
first was committed to the Board of Treasury, where I believe proper 
attention has been given to the demand for Money. That of the 8th 
was committed to the Honble Mr. Sherman and others from whom you 
will by the present Messenger receive a Letter respecting John Brown's 
case to which I beg leave to refer you.^ 

You will see by the inclosed Act of the 1 5th July that Congress had no 
intention of interposing authority in his favor, and had I had any other 
subject for a Letter, the application to which he is indebted for the present 
respite would have come too late. 

Congress are disposed to hear every thing that can be offered on his 
behalf, and therefore the intended effect of this Act is suspended. 

Your last quoted Letter is committed to the Board of War and remains 
unreported. I have nothing new except the inclosed Advertiser of 
this date.* 

442. Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, jr.^ 

Philadelphia July 30th 1778. 
Dear Sir 

I received your letter of the 25th Listant directed to the "Connecticut 
Delegates. I heartily condole with you on the news of the death of your 
Brother.- Congress have accepted your resignation. 

I should with great pleasure have recommended Mr. Pierce to have 
filled the vacancy had it not appeared by your Letter to Congress that 
by the junction of the two armies the office was become unnecessary, but 
I did mention him in Congress as a person well qualified for such an 
appointment, and whose continuance (for some time at least) might be 
necessary to close the accounts, he being perfectly acquainted with the 

1° Hancock. 
[441 ]i Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 35; Mass. Hist. Soc, Heath 
Papers, X. 153 (dated July 30). 

2 These letters were all read in Congress July 20. 

3 The letter of Sherman, Marchant, and Drayton, July 22, asking for a copy of 
the proceedings in Brown's case, is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Heath Papers, X. 129. See 
no. 365, ante, and the Journals, July 15, 20, Oct. 22. Nov. 28, Dec. 2. 

4 Presumably the Pennsylvania Packet, which was often called by its secondary 
title, the General Advertiser. The issue was doubtless that of July 30. 

[442]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull, jr. Addressed: "To Jonathan 
Trumbull Junr. Esqr White Plains pr. favr. of Mr. Pierce." 

2 Joseph Trumbull, sometime commissary-general of purchases, died July 23. 



Jtily, 1778 355 

business. It was supposed that if the money was delivered over to 
Col. Palfr}^ he could do what was necessary without any special appoint- 
ment by Congress.^ 

A Treasurer of loans has lately been appointed, whose business is to 
sign loan office Certificates and Bills of Exchange, and send them to the 
loan officers in the Several States ; and, to receive all Bills of Credit called 
in to be Sunk, etc. with a Salary of 2000 dollars pr, annum.^ I nominated 
you for that office but your Friends in general were of opinion that you 
would be wanted for a more important one that of a Commissioner of the 
Treasury Board, there is a report for putting that Board into Commission 
and if it shall be accepted as have no doubt but that it will, either three 
or five persons will be necessary' for that business. I suppose the Salary 
will be the Same as the Commissioners of the Board of War, which is 
2500 dollars pr. annum. I wish to know if such an appointment would be 
acceptable to you. that I suppose will be a permanent office.^ We have no 
later accounts from Europe than you have had in the public papers, the 
operations of war you have earlier intelligence of than we. 

Our public affairs at present seem to be in a favourable Situation, 
except that of the currency which demands immediate attention and I 
think measures may be devised to put it on a better footing. 

I think our enemies can have but little prospect of Success in Subduing 
us, and I believe they wish for peace on almost any terms. The conduct 
of the British Commissioners, especially of Govr. Johnston has been 
Scandalously mean in endeavouring to Bribe Members of Congress, 
though I know of no instances but those published in the news papers.® 
I hope and believe that by the Interposition of Divine Providence in our 
favour, all their counsels against us will be turned into foolishness. 
I am with Esteem and Regard Your humble Servant 

Roger Sherman. 
Jonathan Trumbull Jun. Esqr. 

443. Henry Laurens to George Washington.^ 

31st July [1778.] 

I am this minute favor'd with Your Excellency's very obliging Letter 
of the 24th. ^ 

The British Commissioners, for, in the Act of one, there is a good 
ground for charging the whole, having by various means attempted to 
bribe Congress and thereby offer'd the highest possible affront to the 

3 See the Journals, July 29. John Pierce, jr., assistant paymaster, was made 
deputy paymaster-general June 7, 1779, and paymaster-general Jan. 17, 1781. 

* See the Journals, July 15, 2y. 

5 See the Journals, July 30, Aug. 12, 13, 22, 24, Sept. 5, 8, 10, 15, 17, 26, 
Oct. 13, 29, 31, Nov. 2, 3, 13, 16, Dec. 15. 

^ Cf. nos. 422, 429, ante, and no. 443, post. 
[443]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar .-Sept., 1778, p. 236. 

2 Washington's letter to Laurens July 24, largely concerning the demands of the 
two La Neuvilles and Baron Steuben, is in Writings (ed. Ford), VIL 119. Cf. his letter 
to Gouverneur jSIorris, same date, ibid., p. 116. The letters are also in Writings (ed. 
Sparks), VL 16 and 13, respectively. See nos. 445, 477, 527, post. Cf. nos. 265, 266, 284, 
285, ante. 

27 



356 Continental Congress 

Representatives of a virtuous, Independent People, are in my humble 
opinion rendered wholy unworthy of the further regard of Congress in 
their Ambassadorial character. 

Viewing them in this light I have been from the first reading of their 
last Address under that kind of anxiety which had possessed my Mind 
when there was some cause for apprehending that General Burgoyne 
and his Troops would have Slipt thro' our fingers into New York or 
Philadelphia, an anxiety to which I am a stranger, except in such mo- 
mentus Concerns. 

I have for several days past urged my friends to move Congress for a 
Resolve that they will hold no conference with such Men assigning reasons 
in ample, decent terms, to transmit the act by a flag to the Commissioners, 
and make them the bearers of their own indictment ; they will not dare to 
withhold the Resolve of Congress from their Court. Thence it will soon 
descend to the Public at large, and expose themselves and their Prompters 
to the just resentment of a deluded and much injured Nation, whose 
deplorable circumstances I must confess deeply affects my heart. These 
Commissioners will be also held up in scorn at every Court in Europe, 
and finally be transmitted to Posterity in Characters which will mark their 
Memory with Infamy.^ .... 

On Thursday the sixth of August Congress will receive Monsr. Girard 
in his public character. Your Excellency will find within, copies of the 
intended Address of the Minister and answer of the Representatives of 
the thirteen United States of America. Speaking as a Citizen I cannot 
forbear disclosing to you Sir, that there is a reluctance in my mind to 
acknowledgements of obligation or of generosity where benefits have 
been, to say the least, reciprocal.* .... 

444. Elias Boudinot, Reminiscences.^ 

[July 31? 1778.] 
When I found every application to obtain hard money from Congress 
for the Cloathing of our Prisoners in vain, I waited on Genl Washington, 
and proposed my resignation, as my Character was at stake, having (on 
the promise of the Secret Committee to yield me every necessary aid) 
pledged myself to the officers in Confinement that they should be regularly 
supplied with every necessary, but they now suffered more than ever. In 
much distress and with Tears in his Eyes, he assured me that if he was 
deserted by the Gentn of the Country, he should despair. He could not do 
everything — He was Genl. Quarter Master and Commissary. Every thing 
fell on him and he was unecjual to the task. He gave me the most positive 
Engagement that if I would contrive any mode for their Support and 
Comfort he would confirm it as far as was in his Power — On this I told 
him, I knew of but one way and that was to borrow Money on my own 

3 C/. nos. 420-422, ante, 460, 462, post. See the Journals, Aug. 11, 12; cf. ibid., 
Aug. 31. 

* Cf. nos 411, 422, 424, 438, attte, and no. 449, post. 
[444]! MS. Journal, John Carter Brown Library; Journal, etc. (ed. Bourquin), p. 68; 
Boudinot, Life of Elias Boudinot, I. 158. 



July, 1778 357 

private Security. He assured me that in Case I did, and was not reim- 
bursed by Congress, he would go an equal share with me in the loss. I 
then formed the plan of obliging Genl. Burgoyne to pay hard money for 
the support of the british Prisoners whom we supplied with daily rations, 
and in the meantime proceeded to borrow money or take Goods in New 
York on my own Credit. Thus I furnished 3CK) officers with a handsome 
suit of Cloaths each, and iioo Men with a plain suit, Found . them 
Blanketts, Shirts etc. and added to their provisions found by the British 
a full half ration of Bread and Beef pr. day for upwards of 15 Months. 
Part of this I supplied by sending wheat and flour to New York, and 
selling them for hard money, under leave from Genl Robertson. Some 
time in the beginning of the year 1778, Congress reed from Genl Burgoyne 
nearly 40,000 Dollars in hard money. In the beginning of 1778 I was 
chosen a Member of Congress, but continued in the Army till June, when 
Genl. Washington knowing that I was near thirty Thousand Dollars in 
advance for the Prisoners, urged me to go and take my Seat in Congress, 
where I might get some of the hard money reed from Genl Burgoyne 
before it was all expended, for if it was once gone, I should be totally 
ruined. I accordingly left the Army and joined Congress on their return 
from York Town in Pennsylvania, after the British had evacuated the 
City of Philadelphia.^ I applied to the Chamber of Accts. and wnth great 
difficulty got my Accts settled. A very large Ballance was found in my 
favour, and a warrant ordered for 1 5000 Dols Continental and a report 
made that I had actually advanced the Cash, and there was upwards of 
ten thousand Pounds [word illegible] hard money that I yet owed. I 
urged the appointment of a Committee of Congress to an examination of 
the expenditures and to report upon them. Richard Henry Lee and 
Wm. Duer were accordingly appointed and after a full Examination 
reported the Sum of Twenty Six Thousand Six hundred and Sixty Six 
Dollars and ^ds in Specie, for which they recommended a warrant to be 
immediately issued. On Considering this report Mr. Dana from Massa- 
chusetts and Mr. Merchant from Rhode Island opposed the report of the 
Committee with great violence, insisting that as Mr. Boudinot had taken 
up this money at the instance of Genl Washington without the approbation 
of Congress, he had no right to be paid but in Continental money as other 
Creditors of Congress. After much altercation I got up and informed the 
House that I had borrowed this money on my private Credit, in the City 
of New York. That I should never ask the House for the payment of it 
again. That I should on my return Home, sell what property I had and 
pay as far as that would go, and then publish to the world why I was 
insolvent for the Balance — But I also informed the House that even to that 
moment our prisoners in New York were fed and cloathed on my private 
Credit. That I would immediately send orders to stop further issues to 
them on my Acct. in 10 days, and desired provision might be made for 
these unhappy People after the expiration of that time. On which they 
went to other business, without doing anything on the Report. 

- Boudinot took his scat in Congress July 7. Cf. Life of Boudinot, I, 158. 



358 Continental Congress 

I sent orders to my Agent in New York, and all further Issues were 
stopped accordingly. 

The latter End of July, I reed, a very affecting Letter from my Agent 
painting the distresses of the Prisoners in so striking a manner, and the 
death of several more than had been usual, that I could not longer persist 
in my determination of silence on the Subject. Having reed this Letter 
in Congress, I rose with tears in my Eyes, and reminding them of my 
former promise begged leave to break thro' it, so far as to read the Letter 
which I did. On this, Mr. Duer (a Man of much feeling) rose and in a 
speech of more than half an hour declaimed so severely agt the ungrateful 
Conduct of the House, that a unanimous Vote immediately passed for a 
Warrant in my favour [for] £10,000 in specie, which was immediately 
sent to New York." 

445. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO GeORGE WASHINGTON.^ 

Philadelphia 2 Augt. 1778. 
Dear General, 

.... I feel the full Force of your Reasoning. The Faith of Congress 
is in some Measure plighted to Mr. De la Neuville but it is not their Interest 
that his Brevet shall give Command. I will take Care to get this expressed 
by a particular Resolution. The Baron has a Claim from his Merit to be 
noticed but I never will consent to grant what I am told he requests and 
I think Congress will not. At least they wont if I can help it.^ .... 

446. Henry Marchant to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia August 3d 1778 
Sir, 

finding that all Persons who had the Disposal of Continental Lottery 
Tickets in the several States were required, by a certain Day to make 
Return of all Tickets they had on hand and unsold to a Magistrate, to be 
by him sealed up and forwarded to the Contl. Treasury Board, and finding 
no such Returns from Our State, I am affraid the Resolution has not been 
properly attended to, and that Damage may arrise tliereby to some Gentle- 
men of Our State. I take the Liberty to enclose to Your Excellency Copies 
of those Resolutions, which relate to that Subject, and beg Your Excel- 
lency to make some Enquiry into the Matter, that if there has been any 
Neglect it may be mended as much as possible.^ .... 

3 See the Journals, July 30, 31 ; cf. ibid., Apr. 10. No record is found in the 
Journals of the appointment of the committee (Lee and Duer) mentioned by Boudinot, 
nor of a report made by it. 

[445] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXV. 116; Sparks, Life of 
Gouverneur Morris, I. 174. 

2 Morris is replying to a letter from Washington July 24, relating in part to 
La Neuville and Baron Steuben. Washington's letter to Laurens the same day (see 
no. 443, note 2, ante) discussed the cases of the two La Neuvilles and Steuben more at 
length. See nos. 477, 527, post. 

[446]! R. L Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778, p. 123; Staples, R. I. in Cant. 
Cong., p. 192. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 6, May 2, June 3, 4. Cf. ibid., Dec. 18. Governor Greene's 
reply to this letter, Aug. 20, is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 196. 



August, lyyS 359 

447. JOSIAH BarTLETT to THE PRESIDENT OF NeW HAMPSHIRE 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia August 4th. 1778. 
Hon'd Sir, 

Your favor of the i8th July is just Rec'd and must beg leave to Refer 
you to a letter I wrote (previous to the Receipt of yours) to Colo. Nicholas 
Gilman Giving him an account of what is Done in Consequence of the 
application for money for the use of our State. Money Cannot be sent 
from this place at present nor will it be easy to procure an order for 
money till the Difficulties I mention in my letter to him is Cleared up by 
Letters from our State as is therein mentioned, afterwards Drafts on the 
Loan Office or on our own Treasury as part of the money to be raised 
for Continental use as has been Done on the Treasurer of Connecticut 
and Massachusetts Bay if such Drafts would answer please to in- 
form me.^ .... 

448. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 

(Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

5th August [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

.... Nothing has been done in the arrangement since the return 
of Congress to Philada. and it appears to me that nothing will be done 
while the Army continues migrative. I am very sensible Your Excellency 
will in the meantime have experienced much inconvenience and trouble 
from the demands of our local Continental Officers for Commissions. The 
terms in which our Carolinian Regiments were originally established, as 
far as I know, are singular, and entitle the officers to claim all the benefits 
which were held up to them ; and I am persuaded Congress will not con- 
tend the point when fully and clearly explained, but every attempt to this 
end has been over rul'd by the repeated reply " we cannot interfere in or 
consider these matters until the Army Arrangement is finished " from 
this consideration, and from that of the peculiar circumstances of the 
troops in our State, I am also persuaded that Congress will not censure 
the Executive, should they advise Your Excellency to grant so many 
Commissions as shall appear to be absolutely necessary. I am further 
confirmed in this opinion from the silence of the house when they were 
informed that Your Excellency had granted from necessity a few Com- 
missions subsequent to the Act of the 31st Deer. And therefore I shall 
inclose with this 20 signed Commissions, submitting these and my private 
Sentiments to your Excellency's final determination referring at the same 
time to the Act above mention'd compared with the circumstances of 
our Regiments.^ .... 

[447]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 8i A 38; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, p. 134. 

2 Cf. no. 423, ante, and no. 507, post. 
[448]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 241. 

2 The same or a similar problem was brought before Congress through a letter 
of President Lowndes Aug. 31, read in Congress Sept. 29 and referred to a committee, 
whose report was taken into consideration Nov. 17. 



360 Continental Congress 

I am much affected by the relation of my fellow Citizens conduct in 
opposition to Your Excellency's Proclamation of the 13th of June, the 
Act of Congress upon which that Proclamation was founded was well 
intended, but it passed after much contention and proves to be the most 
unpleasing to the States in general of any detennination of Congress 
within my experience. There is a distinction made by Tories between 
moral private honor and Political honor in the practice of which Men of 
the. first Character have been detected and driven to a necessity for 
explaining in order to preserve some Character which has rendered every 
Man coming within the description suspicious in the highest degree. It 
would be tedious and probably unnecessar}^ at this date to adduce par- 
ticular proofs in the conduct of General Sir William Howe, Sir H. 
Clinton, Sir Wni. Johnstone,^ Governor Franklin and twenty etcetera. 
Nevertheless nobody here thinks your Excellency was faulty in pursuing 
the Recommendation of Congress in terms of the Proclamation and by 
advice of Privy Council.* 

I was well aware the embargo would press heavily on our State, and 
upon that occasion I desired to deliver my sentiments to Congress from 
the Chair. Your Excellency may rest assured I shall watch the earliest 
opportunity for recommending to Congress a revocation of the Act. 
In the mean time it may merit our attention Whether other states pay that 
implicit obedience to such an Act of Congress as we do in South Carolina 
and our future submission with or without Remonstrance may be war- 
ranted by the discoveries which shall be made.^ 

The General Gazette of the 4th Augt. will shew Your Excellency what 
respect has been paid to the Resolve of Congress by this State. I am 
determined to introduce Vice President Bryan's Proclamation into the 
house; Your Excellency shall be duly and as speedily as possible inform'd 
of the reception which my application shall meet with. My Countr^^men 
will Act accordingly. I must do them the justice to say, they have hitherto 
acted with as much uprightness and fidelity in the common cause of the 
Union as any State of the thirteen. I will say nothing that shall appear to 
be invidious, altho' I have feelings against the expressing of which I 
can scarcely resist.^ .... 

Part of Your Excellencys Letter from the words ""/ am extremel\ 
happy " to the words "" / mean to the Public " I presented to Congress : 
'twas extremely approv'd of and committed, instead of saying to the grave, 
I will only intimate that no Report has been made thereon.' .... 

^ Presumably Governor George Johnstone is meant. 

* The act of Congress to which Laurens alludes was that of Apr. 23 relative to 
offering pardons to subjects of the several states who had aided or abetted the enemy. 
The South Carolina episode concerning which Lowndes had evidently been writing to 
Laurens is related by McCrady, South Carolina in the Revolution, ij/yi/So, pp. 266- 
274, 305-308. McCrady refers to two letters from Gadsden to Drayton, June 15 and 
Oct. 5, in a volume of Gadsden MSS. See also a letter of Howe, Aug. 28, 1777, and one 
of Gadsden, Sept. 9, 1778, in Hist. Magazine, IV. 265-266. 

•' See the Journals, June 4, 8, Aug. 19, Sept. 2, Oct. 2. 

<■' Bryan's proclamation appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet of Aug. 4, and 
is found in Pa. Col. Rccs., XL 545. See also ibid., p. 546. 

" See the Journals, July 11. 



August, i/y8 361 

A discovery having been made of frauds in the Accounts of the Deputy 
Commissary General of Military Stores, he was arrested and committed 
to Goal; there he made some confessions and charg'd the Commissary 
General, hitherto a Gentleman of very fair character, as a tempter and 
accomplice. Congress had directed the Board of War to arrest and safely 
keep him also, the Board proceeded not with proper vigor and wrote such 
a letter to the house as is deem'd a disobedience of Orders and an high 
insult. The adjusting this troublesome affair will much retard business 
of the greatest importance — it has already cost us two days, stagnated 
correspondence with the Board, and is not ended.^ .... 

P. S. 

.... Mr. Drayton two days ago told me a Story which almost sur- 
pris'd me, that General Gadsden has again endeavour'd to injure me, by 
a groundless charge or insinuation, that I had presented the Letter intimat- 
ing the resignation of his Commission, either improperly in the manner, 
or at an improper time, all his suspicions have been equally unjust, but it 
has not always been in my power to prove it, as I shall do in the present 
case. His resignation was tendered to Congress the 2nd of October by 
Mr. Hancock. I was order'd in the Chair the ist of November. It is 
true I said nothing upon the occasion; neither did any Member in the 
house, except those who said, " accept it, accept it ". I was not one of 
them. I should have been very cautious had it been put to a vote, even 
of giving my voice against it. 'Tis probable I should have with drawn 
upon such an occasion — the risk of offending would have been equal on 
either side. When ]Mr. Gadsden was in the service I now am in, he knows 
I endeavoured to assist and serve him and God knows I never attempted to 
under value or depreciate him if he had had any foundation for censuring 
me, he should have communicated his complaints directly to myself or 
have reserv'd them to be communicated at my return, instead of such 
generous procedure, he has, according to his custom, stabb'd me in con- 
versations and private letters. It was by mere accident I learn'd his dis- 
courteous, injurious, attempts, from Mr. Drayton, and this, as I said 
above, but two days ago. I wish you would read every word of this to 
General Gadsden ; it will keep up a consistency in all my conduct towards 
that Gentleman." 

449. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[August 5, 6, 1778.] 

5. Congress sat from 9 till almost 3 and from 5 till almost 10 o'Clock. 
I am much indisposed. 

6. Monsieur Gerard, Minister Plenipotentiary from his most Christian 
Majesty, had a public audience with Congress and dined with them; the 

"The commissary-general of military stores was Benjamin Flowers; his 
deputy was Cornelius Sweers. The history of their cases can be traced by means of the 
index to the Journals. Cf. nos. 455, 457, post. 

^ See Wallace, Life of Laurens, pp. 299-302. 
[449V Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 168. 



362 Continental Congress 

proceedings were conducted with great decorum. The entertainment was 
grand and elegant, the band of musick was very agreeable.^ 



450. A Committee of Congress to the Pennsylvania Council.^ 

Messrs. Richard H. Lee and Samuel Adams, a Committee of Congress, 
present their respectfull Comp'ts to the Hon. the Vice President and 
Council of the State of Pennsylvania, and beg the favor of them to order 
a sufficient number of Peace Officers to prevent any Interruption of the 
Minister of France, in his Passage to and from the Congress Chamber, 
this day.^ 

Aug. 6th, 1778. 

451. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[August 7, 1778.] 
7. Monsieur Gerard made a visit, in the edge of the evening (about 
an hour) to the Delegates of the Mass. Bay agreeable to the public 
ceremonies agreed on by Congress for a Minister Plenipotentiary', my 
Colleagues being absent upon his first coming in, I had the honor of his 
company alone. 

2 For the ceremony aiid the steps preparatory thereto see the Journals, July 11, 
14. 16-20, 25, 28-31, Aug. 5, 6. Cf. nos._4ii, 422, 424, 438, ante, 450, 453, 455, 459, 460, post. 
The proceedings of Aug. 6 appertaining to the reception were ordered printed Aug. 8, 
and appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet of Aug. 11, accompanied by a general 
description of the ceremonies. The items also appeared in the Royal Gazette of Aug. 26. 
The whole may be found in Almon's Remembrancer, I7y'&-i7yg, pp. 5-8, in the Annual 
Register, 1778, and in Hazard, Register of Pennsylvania, IV. 102. The account closes 
with this paragraph : " The audience being over, the Congress and the Minister at a 
proper hour, repaired to an entertainment by Congress given to the Minister; at which 
were present by invitation several foreigners of distinction, and gentlemen of public 
character. The entertainment was conducted with a decorum suited to the occasion ; 
and gave the most perfect satisfaction to the whole company." A French account, 
together with a " Plan de la Seance du Congres ", transmitted by Gerard to Vergennes, 
is in Arch. Aff. Etr., E. U. 4: 62, 64, and may be found in Doniol, III. 311-313. The 
dinner following the reception is thus described: 

"Le Congres donna ce jour la un grand repas au ministre plenipotentiare a la 
taverne de la Cite. L'Etat de Pensylvanie y assista. Le ministre plenipotentiare fut 
place par le comite du repas a la droite du president et le chef de I'Etat a sa gauche. 

" Les 21 toasts furent but au bruit du canon. On but a la sante du roi, de la reine, du 
roi d'Espagne, a la perpetuite de I'Union entre la France et I'Amerique, au succes des 
armes combinees ", etc. 

Aug. 19 Congress resolved that there was due Gifford Dally for providing this 
entertainment the sum of 1424 dollars. See also the Journals, Jan. 20, Mar. 9, Aug. 2Q 

1779- 

[450]! Pa. Arch, first ser., VI. 677; Henkels, Catalogue, no. 683, item 363. 

2 Lee and Adams (with Gouverneur Morris) were a committee (appointed 
July 14) to report on the time and manner of the reception to Gerard. In Pa. Col. Recs., 
XL 548, is a minute of the council accepting the invitation of Congress, extended through 
Robert Morris and Daniel Roberdeau, to attend the reception. See the Journals, Aug. 5 ; 
also no. 449, ante. 

[45i]iii,yie.ir Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 168. 



August, 1778 363 

452. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Benedict Arnold.^ 

7th August [1778.] 
Sir 

Congress are much interrupted in the course of business in their Sessions 
at the State House by the beating of Drums and noise of the Soldiers at 
the Guard House. Will you be so obliging as to give the necessary orders 
for preventing in future the inconvenience complained of. 

453. Elias Boudinot to Mrs. Boudinot.^ 

[August 8, 1778.]^ 

.... We gave the Sieur Gerard his public audience The Ceremony 
as follows: Our President was seated in a Mahogany armed chair on a 
platform raised about two feet, with a large table covered with green 
cloth and the secretary along side of him. The Members were all seated 
round within the Bar and a large armed chair in the middle opposite the 
President for the Plenipo. At Twelve Oc. our State Coach and Six 
waited on the Minister at his quarters. He was preceded by his own 
Chariot and two with his Secretaries. The Minister was attended by two 
Members who introduced him thro' the crowd and seated him in the chair; 
He then sent to the President (by his Secretary) the Letters from the 
King of France to Congress, which was opened and read aloud first in 
French and then in English. It was then announced to the house by the 
waiting Member, that the stranger introduced was the Minister Plenepo- 
tentiary from His most Christian Majesty, upon which the Minister arose 
and bowed to the President and then to the House and the House rising 
returned the Compliment. The Minister then addressed the Congress and 
was answered by the President, on which, the bowing again took place 
and the whole concluded. A public Dinner succeeded at which was a band 
of musick and the firing of Cannon. The whole was plain, grand and 
decent. The Minister was much pleased as well as the Audience 

454. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[August 8, 1778.] 
8. At 5 o'clock P. M. met a joint Com't of Congress and the Executive 
Council of this State in search after British property in this City." 

[452]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 40 (addressed to Arnold at 
Headquarters, Philadelphia). 

[453]^ Boudinot, Life of Elias Boudinot, L 161 (extract). 

2 The biographer of Boudinot states that the letter bore date of Aug. 8, but 
that the extract here printed was added Aug. 13. See no. 449, note 2, ante. 

[^^^Y Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 169. 

2 See the Journals, July 23, 31, Aug. 14, 29 (letter of Wilcocks), Sept. 9, 11, 
26, Oct. 22, Dec. 8, 16, 1778, Jan. 16, 19, 20, Feb. 20, Mar. 12, 1779. A report of the 
joint committee placed in the Journals under Aug. 14, taken from Pa. Arch., first sen, 
VL 703, is also found ibid., p. 753. See also ibid., pp. 724, 740, 754. One copy of this 
report is in the Pennsylvania State Library, PP, XLIX. 60; another {ibid., f. 80) bears 
the following endorsement by Henry Laurens: " Comm*"" in Conjunction witji 
Comm"'* of the Council of Pennsylvania Permitted to be given in 24 Augt. not Read." 
Cf. no. 526, post. 



364 Continental Congress 

455. Andrew Adams to Oliver Wolcott/ 

Philadelphia loth August 1778 
Sir 

I have the pleasure to inclose this Day's paper, to which I beg- Leave to 
refer you for what News we have here. You will see the Minister has 
reed his Audience, and those eventual Ingagements containd in the Treat}- 
of Allience, have now been declared by both parties to have become 
possitive 

Cornelious Sweers who is now in Goal has since you left this City wrote 
a Letter to the president in which he confesses some part of the Charge 
against him : he says that he has altered some Accts. etc : that he 
purchased a Number of Arms and returnd them into the Stores at a 
greater price than he gave and that Col : Flowers was equilly concernd 
with him in this and every fraud he may have been guilty off in that 
Department : he refers to some papers which he says will tend to evince 
the matter, (those papers I have not seen) In Consiquence of this 
Col : Flowers is now under an arrest by order of Congress : How it 
will appear upon Examination I cant pretend to say : A Com'tee is 
appointed to take Sweers's Examination upon Oath in the Matter: a 
Measure this I dont very well approve off; for should Col: Flowers be 
acquited perhaps Sweers may avail himself by having given his Depo- 
sition : this was objected but it was carried notwithstanding." 

Nothing is yet done in Regard to our Currency. The Report from 
the Treasury Board upon that Subject yet lies on the Table : a special 
Com'tee have been appointed upon the Matter of arrainging the Treasur}^ 
who are ready to report : ^ the want of that Report has been assignd as a 
Reason for Deleying the other matter : I hope in Consience it will be soon 
taken up as I think every other Matter is comparatively but tithing ]\Iint, 
Annis etc. until that is done : The Cloather General's Department is in a 
most wretched Situation : as are our Commercail Aft'airs and indeed 
some others by the best Intelligence I can obtain : but of these things I 
need not inform you. 

Mr. Sherman is appointed immediately to repair to the Army for the 
purpose (with others) of compleating the Arraingm't, this will make it 
necessary for Mr. Elsworth to come forward.* 

456. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia loth. Augt. 1778 
Dear Sir, 

I agree entirely with you concerning the importance of the confedera- 
tion, and have never failed to press it. Ten States have ratified. Jersey, 

[455]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, I. 44. 

2 Cf. no. 448, note 8, ante. 

3 See the Journals, July 30, Aug. 12, 13, and no. 442, ante. 

4 See Sherman's letter to Governor Trumbull, Aug. 10, Mass. Hist. Soc, 
Collections, seventh ser., H. 247. 

[456]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second sen, LI. 22; Letters (ed. 
Ballagh), L 430. 



August, I//8 365 

Delaware, and Maryland have not, and one of them, Maryland, has ad- 
journed until November, so that the new Congress under the Confedera- 
tion cannot meet this year at the time proposed by the Confederacy." .... 
The design against Detroit is abandoned for the present, and a force 
will be sent into the Indian Country^ to chastise their late insolence." .... 

457. Andrew Adams to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia: nth Augt. 1778 

(Private) 
Sir, 

The unexpected Death of the late amiable and I thing [sic] much 
injured Commissary Genl." (on which I do most sincerely condole your 
Excellency) renders it at present impracticable to have any thing done 
on the subject of his Accounts ; tis my Oppinion something would have 
been done notwithstand[ing] a late Resolution of Congress:^ some 
Gentlemen I know felt that Matter most sensably : and I beleave Congress 
themselves (that is a Majority) would have been willing to reconsider 
that Matter : 

I see no prospect of haveing any thing done in favr of Col : Derricks.* 
Mr Hancock on whom he seam'd to have some dependance left Congress 
soon after my Arival. I had therefore no Oppertunity of consulting him 
upon the subject, but the Objections appear to me at present unsunnount- 
able tis said he went voluntarily out of the Line into the Staff; that the 
Conduct of that Department was such as not only to Occation great 
uneasiness but even endanger the Existance of the xA.rmy. in Consiquence 
of which a Court of Inquiry has been ordered by Congress : and tho no 
particular Objection is made to him, yet if the Inquiry extends not only 
to Genl. Miflin but to the whole Department, it would be altogather im- 
proper to advance any Gentleman from thence while the Inquiiy is pend- 
ing, besides we have at present many supernumerary Officers in the Line, 
and a Com'tee of Arraingment appointed to reduce the Number so that 
it becomes impossible to introduce any new officers without turning out 
some of our own against whom there is not the least Objection : I am very 
sorry for the particular Situation of Col : Derrick but I know of no other 
Way at present for his Employ in the Army unless he can be again intro- 

2 See no. 424, note 4, ante. 

^ See the Journals, July 25, and no. 439, ante. 
[457]^ Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), VIII. 171. 

■^ Joseph Trumbull, who died July 23. Concerning the settlement of his accounts, 
see the Journals, Aug. 31, and no. 567, note 2, post. 

3 Probably the resolution of May 19. 

* Jacob Gerhard Diriks. See the Journals, May 8, 18, 19, Oct. 26 (letters of 
Governor Trumbull and Gosuinus Erkelens), Nov. 5, Dec. 23. He bore a letter of 
introduction to Franklin from Governor Trumbull, dated Dec. 12, 1778 (Am. Phil. Soc, 
Franklin Papers, XII. 191), and he appears to have been a friend of C. G. F. Dumas 
and to have taken some steps toward negotiating the loan proposed by Dumas (see 
Dumas to Franklin, June 29, 1779, ibid., XXXIX. 113). Cf. the letter of Baron Van der 
Capellen to Governor Livingston, July 16, 1779, in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh 
ser., II. 468. 



366 Continental Congress 

duced into the Staff By an Application to Genl. Green who is at the head 
of the Quartermaster Department. The Commissary Genl. of Military 
Stores and his first Deputy ^ are now under an Arrest by Order of Con- 
gress for fraud and Mai Conduct in the Execution of that Office : The 
Deputy has confest a part of the Charge and accuses Colo. Flowers the 
Comis'y Genl. of being concerned with him: The Clotheir Genls. De- 
partment is in a most wretched Situation, as is also some other Branches 
of our Affairs : many things are conducted very different from what I 
could wish, which it is improper to mention in a Letter. The Deplorable 
Situation of our Currency I have expected would come under Considera- 
tion ever since I have been here, but as yet Nothing has been done : I think 
every Regulation vain so long as that is neglected, there is a prospect of 
its being taken up soon, but I hardly know what to depend upon as to the 
Course of Business.^ 

We have no News more than what is contain'd in the papers or comes 
from the Eastward. 

I am with highest Esteam 

your Excellencys most Obedt. and very hum'e Servt 

And'w Adams. 
His Excellency Govr. Trumbull 

458. Titus Hosmer to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, August 11, 1778. 
Sir, 

.... The removal of Congress from Yorktown and the reception of 
the French minister have engrossed a great part of our time, the remainder 
has been spent principally in the common routine of business which arises 
daily, and tho' very necessary to be done, could not deserve your Excel- 
lency's attention in the recital Congress are very industrious, yet 

many affairs of great importance are crouded out and postponed by an 
inevitable attention to events and business constantly arising ; and although 
I have nothing of consequence to inform you of which they have done, I 
have many things I can mention which they have not done. They have 
not taken into consideration the state of our paper currency, nor divised 
any means to stop the headlong current of depreciation. They have not 
settled their accounts with the army, the Commissary General, the Quarter- 
master General, the Clothier General, the Commercial Committee, or any 
other large department. 

They have not settled any mode by and in which they can call their great 
servants authoritatively to account for the expenditure of public monies. 
They have not constituted and empowered a Board of Treasury nor a 
Marine Board, though each seems to be generally allowed to be necessary 
to release the attendance of members of Congress, and give them leisure 

^ Benjamin Flowers and Cornelius Sweers, respectively. See the Journals, 
June 20, 26, 27, July 17, 27, Aug. 1-8, 10, 14, 18, 22, 24, 26, Sept. i ; also no. 448, note 8, ante. 
•5 Cf. nos. 458, 470, post. 
[458]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 248. 



August, I//8 3G7 

to attend to more general and necessary business, which can be done only 
in Congress or by its members. All these matters are in prospect, and are 
to be attended to as soon and as fast as other business will admit, yet I 
fear much time will elapse before they are brought to a conclusion.^ .... 

459. Henry Marchant to the Rhode Island Assembly.^ 

Philadelphia, August nth, 1778. 
Gent 

Last Thursday, Congress gave publick Audience to Monsr Gerard, the 
Minister Plenipotentiary of France. It was an Important Day. An Im- 
portant Transaction; and I hope replete with lasting Advantages to the 
United States in General, and much so to the State of Rhode Island in 
particular. By this Day, perhaps at this Moment, We are reaping the 
Blessings arising from a Treaty with so powerful an ally. I think the 
Connection brought about by the Hand of Heaven, and that therefor, it 
promises to be as lasting as it is mutually beneficial, generous, and noble. 
The particulars of the Proceedings of the Day Your Honors will have in 
the envelopd News Papers. 

Congress have at length come to a Resolution upon a Report of their 
Committee, that the Expense of the Expedition agt. Rhode Island last 
Fall shall be born by the United States. The Report was reed and agreed 
to without argument, and without the least Division. Nothing could ever 
have stood such a Question, but for a Letter from Genl. Heath, wrote I 
conceive, in Consequence of some Dispute he had had with Gen. Spencer, 
In which Letter he is pleased to say he never knew how the Expedition 
came to be formed, nor from whence it originated. I have the honor to 
enclose, your Honor, the report and the resolution of Congress." .... 

460. Samuel Adams to Peter Thacher.^ 

Philad. Augt. II — 78 
My dear Sir ^ 

.... By the late Publications, you have seen, and doubtless have 
made your own Comments on the epistolary Correspondence between the 
British Commissioners and Congress. The short Resolution on their last 
Letter has put an End to it. Last Week the Minister from France had an 
Audience in Congress. The Manner of conducting this Ceremony, to- 
gether with a Letter from his most Christian Majesty and the Speeches 
of the Minister and the President are publishd in the inclosd News Paper. 
I have had several opportunitys of seeing him at his own House, and a 

~ Cf. no. 457, ante. 
[459P R- I- Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779, p. 124; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 193. 

- The documents were not, however, enclosed with this letter, but with one of 
Aug. 17 {ibid., p. 195). See the Journals, Aug. 7. Cf. nos. 11, 33, 120, 160, ante. 

[460] IN. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 50. 

- Rev. Peter Thacher, to whom this letter was addressed, was a clergyman of 
Maiden, Mass. A memoir of him is found in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, first ser., 
VIIL 277-284. 



368 Continental Congress 

few days ago he made a Visit to the Delegates of the Massachusetts who 
live together. He is easy and polite in his Manners and converses freely 
without much Ceremony.® 

Under an Apprehension that our connection with France might lead 
us to partake in her wars, which might be grounded on Views of Ambition 
and Conquest, I took occasion to hint to him that the sole object of 
America was independence. He frankly said that whenever Great Britain 
should acknowledge our Independence, there would be an End of Dispute 
between her and us, and it would not be the Inclination as it was not the 
Interest of France to continue the War.* 

Nothing can equal the barefaced Falsehood of the Quakers and Tories 
in this City, unless perhaps their Folly, in giving out that M. Gerard does 
not come in the Character of a publick IMinister, but only to obtain Pay for 
the Stores we have received from that Country 

461. Samuel Chase to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philada. Augst. II. 1778. 
Dear Sir. 

Your Letter to Congress was delivered and is referred to the Marine 
Committee.- It will be difficult and a Work of Time to procure the 
different Resolves of Congress relative to Captures. I have seen only one 
of the Marine Board, the only pretence he knows of is, that Capt Hawker 
says he struck to the United States. As to the Jurisdiction, it unquestion- 
ably belongs to our Court of admiralty.® .... For news I beg Leave to 
refer you to my Letter of yes[ter]day to Colo. Lloyd." .... 

462. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

nth August [1778.] 
.... In my last Letter I suggested some apprehensions of receiving 
shortly a ratification of the Convention of Saratoga. Last night a paper 
pretended to be a Ratification signed by four of the British Commissioners 

3 See no. 449, note 2, a7itc. Cf. nos. 409, 410. 421, airic. 

* This paragraph stands erased in the draft, and is not printed in Adams's 
Writings. 

[461]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 59; Arch, of Md., XXI. 181. 

- A letter of Aug. 5 from Governor Johnson was referred to the marine com- 
mittee Aug. 10. That letter, which concerns the sale of the sloop Molly, and letters of 
the same date on the same subject to the delegates and to Capt. Daniel Deshon, are in 
Arch, of Md., XXI. 176, 177. See also ibid., pp. 82, 84, 93, 94, 96, 186, 188, 189, 260, and 
no. 473, post. 

" Chase is evidently replying here to a letter of Johnson to himself which is 
not found in Arch, of Md. It pertains to the captured British frigate Mermaid, 
Capt. James Hawker. See the Journals, Aug. 3, 4, 18, 26, Sept. 8, 16, 29, Nov. 9, 
Arch, of Md., XXI. 162, 172, 176, 178, and no. 464, post. 

* The letter of Aug. 10 to Edward Lloyd, pertaining to the military situation, 
is in Paris, Aff. Etr., E. U. 4: 143. A facsimile is in Stevens, no. 1935. 

[462]! S. Q Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, IMar.-Sept., 1778, p. 255. The letter- 
book bears the notation, " by Jones to Baltimore, there to be deliver'd Capt. Pyne ". 



August, I//8 369 

and usher'd by a Letter of the 7th from Mr. Ferguson their Secretary was 
sent to me by General Maxwell, the General had received it as he writes 
by a Flag which had come by an indirect and prohibited road. The whole 
affair it is to be presumed, is calculated for insulting Congress by a retort 
on their late resolution that " No Answer be given to the Commissioners 
letter of the nth" published by Charles Thomson, Secretary of Con- 
gress.- In this view it appears trifling with serious matters, admitting their 
Character to come within that description — and in what otlier light can 
it be viewed, the Commissioners knew that Congress had resolved that 
the embarkation of the troops of the Convention should be suspended 
*' till a distinct and explicit Ratification of the Convention of Saratoga 
shall be properly notified by the Court of Great Britain to Congress ".^ 
And those gentlemen have ground for believing that Congress will not 
hastily depart from important Resolutions. Possibly they may now pretend 
that their powers from their Court are tantamount, admitting this they 
ought to have been " distinct and explicit." 

What the determination of Congress will be after I shall have presented 
this paper is uncertain, in the mean time my fears are, that the motion and 
Resolve which I have so anxiously wish'd will not be effected, or, not with 
that grace and perspicuity which would have been produced by a deliberate 
consideration antecedently to the receipt of this outrer [sic] illegitimate 
Remonstrance and requisition.* 

Yesterday I again repeated to the Chief Justice, " you will by this 
unaccountable procrastination Slip an opportunity of doing justice and 
honor to your Country." ^ 

Among other papers which will accompany this Your Excellency will 
receive Copy of the Remonstrance and the Secretary's letter; these Papers 
contain nothing like a distinct explicit Ratification properly notified by 
the Court of Great Britain to Congress, and therefore I estimate the 
correspondence and the mode, a calculated Insult; and were I to direct, 
probably it is best I should not, I wou'd immediately return the whole, 
accompanied by a few proper lines from Charles Thomson to Adam 
Ferguson. Nothing has happen'd during the present Contest so em- 
barrassing to the Court of Great Britain as the Resolve of Congress on 
the suspension.'^ A conformity with the terms will amount to an acknowl- 
edgment of our capacity to treat as a Nation, any thing below this will be 
to retain her claim upon us as Subjects in Rebellion, with whom faith is 
not to be held but for the benefit of the Sovereign, as in the exchange of 
Prisoners ; and even in that communication there have been many attempts 
on the part of our Enemy to exercise arbitrary and cruel impositions. 

- That is, the answer to the letter of July 11 from the British commissioners. See 
the Journals, July 18, and nos. 419-422, 424, 443, ante. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 8, 13. 

* The remonstrance and requisition of the British commissioners, together 
with a letter from Adam Ferguson, Aug. 7, were sent to Congress by General Maxwell 
and were read Aug. 12. The letter and remonstrance may be found in Almon's Remem- 
brancer, 1778-1779, p. 13. For further action of Congress see the Journals, Aug. 31, 
Sept. 3, 4. Cf. ibid., Sept. 10, Oct. 15, 16. See also no. 469, post. 

■"■ See note 9, below. 

"^ The suspension of the embarkation of Burgoyne. 



370 Continental Congress 

Your Excellency will recollect a recent instance which occasioned the 
seperation of Commissioners at Germantown who had met for establishing 
a Cartel.^ 

If the Court shall, from necessity, find her interest in ratifying the Con- 
vention in the terms prescribed by Congress, it will then be for us to 
consider the Articles and to enquire whether the whole have been strictly 
comply 'd with by the contracting powers, and thus, according to strict 
justice and sound Policy, which are inseperable the work will be to begin. 

Admitting these Ideas to be just 'tis not to be doubted, that the Court of 
Great Britain perceives the dilemma to which she is reduced by a few 
deeply designing words of her Marionnette, Lieutenant General Burgoyne, 
who has acknowledged in Parliament that he penned every Syllable of his 
infamous Proclamation and, at the same time declared he had no intention 
to carry the severe threats contained in it, into execution, she must con- 
sequently view the troops of Saratoga as prisoners of War, unless she 
will engage in a tacit concession of our Independence, and for which, 
She will be in the judgement of all her European Neighbors. No wonder 
therefore, that in this entangled situation her Ministers are persevering 
in practices of ambi-dexterity, and as little that I continue anxiously 
wishing for the attestations of Captain SenfT.® 

I am now at the i6th. Mr. Martin has been detained by bad weather 
and sickness. 

Your Excellency will read in the Penna. Packet of the 13th the dec- 
laration of Congress of the nth. this is the Paper Mr. Drayton has kept 
so long in his Pocket and which I had so often solicited should be brought 
forward.® I now regret that some previous corrections had not been 
apply'd to it and that the house was hurried in its passage without such 
amendments as at first view Your Excellency will see it stood in need 
of. be this as it may, it contains matters of fact, and such as it is, the 
Commissioners may criticize words and Phrases but the whole group will 
not be able to explain away our meaning, nor do I believe that even a 
Man of Governor Johnstone's command of features will have Art enough 
smoothly to laugh off his feelings whenever this Act of Abnegation shall 
be brought on the Carpet in his presence on either side of the Water. I 
put it in motion thg 13th and it is probable the Governor has receiv'd his 
first shock this Morning. He has been severely lampoon'd in New York 
as will be seen in another paper to be inclosed with this. The Declaration 
and other unavoidable business fill'd up the Session of the nth and barr'd 
the delivery of the Remonstrance and Requisition before the 12th. it was 
then committed to a special Committee a compliment which, in my humble 
opinion it did not merit 

Mr. Deane late one of our Commissioners at the Court of Versailles, 
has already been two Mornings before Congress reporting from Notes 

"^ See no. 202, ante. 

^ See nos. 287, 379, 383, ante, and the Journals, Sept. 23. 

^ It does not appear from the Journals that any committee was appointed to 
draw the declaration of Aug. 11. Drayton was, however, a member of committees 
appointed on other matters connected with the conduct of the British commissioners. 
See, for example, the Journals, June 16, 17, Aug. 12. 



August, I//8 371 

and Memory his own transactions seperately as well as conjunctly with 
his Colleagues and the state of our Affairs at different periods at that and 
other Courts in Europe, how many Mornings more the whole Narrative 
will consume is extremely uncertain ; hitherto he has been very little im- 
peded by questions, when these Commence, the progress will be slow, 
above two hours were employed some days ago in debate upon a motion 
that Mr. Deane should report to Congress in writing, and the motion lost, 
verv'- much loss of time I foresee will be the consequence ; in this debate I 
clearly discovered that my fellow labourers had as absolutely taken sides as 
it can be supposed Gentlemen are capable of in a pure unbiased Assembly. 
Were I to say as ever Attornies had taken at a Bar I might be charged in 
the modern term with aberation, nevertheless I have taken the liberty to 
recommend the fillet and scales of Justice to one of my worthy Colleagues 
who appears strongly attached to one of the parties, no doubt from con- 
viction that that side is right adding the reply which I had made to Mr. D. 
after he had related to me in a private conversation his state of the case. 
" Your Account Sir, appears to have been very candidly deliver'd, but I 
dare not flatter you with promises ; when I shall have heard the other side 
I will give my voice as reason and conscience shall dictate." Mr. Deane 
thank'd me. I remark'd further to my Colleague that nothing short of a 
written and correct narrative ought to have been accepted by Congress, 
that if Mr. Deane had acted, which I made no doubt he had, with that 
accuracy and perspicuity which is the duty of a Gentleman in the Great 
trust of a Plenipotentiary, nothing could be easier than to render a detail 
in writing. 

As it was incumbent on Mr. Deane to transmit from time to time to 
Congress advices of all his proceedings, discoveries and observations, and 
as I could not entertain so degrading a sentiment as a belief of the contrary 
would involve, vtry little more than a fair transcript of his letters and 
Journals would be necessary for satisfying the fullest enquiry, without 
assuming to myself any superiour knowledge I cannot help regretting 
that the Chair was a bar to the delivery of that opinion in public which 
arrived too late in friendly conversation after the question had been 
detennined by a majority of nine of thirteen States, thirty two Members 
present. 

Gentlemen had reasoned upon the immense labour of reducing to 
writing occurrences in three whole Years, that the work would procrasti- 
nate the business several months, that all that should be deliver'd in 
writing might in less time and with equal accuracy be related viva voce, 
those who had not been much accustomed to business, and who lament the 
waste of time in almost all our proceedings, were captivated, but the 
most curious objection, considering it was started by Mr Deane's friends, 
was, that should a narrative in writing be demanded, that Gentleman 
might avail himself of the advantage of representing glossing etc etc. as 
he pleas'd. every unbias'd Man now, after reflection sees that the mode 
we have adopted will extend debates and often lead disputants into warm 
contests, wandering from the point. 

28 



372 Continental Congress 

Whose memory will retain all that has been and shall be related on 
different days at distant times ? Whose notes will quadrate with those of a 
friend on the other side of the question? Who will acknowledge the 
accuracy and precision of the memory or minutes of his opponent ? Will 
you call on Mr. Deane to recollect what he had said and to decide ? here 
is a field without limits for Oratory and wrangle and finally for mutual 
dissatisfaction/" .... 

immediately after we had repossessed this City, General Washington 
in the spirit of a watchful and wise Commander in Chief, sent General 
Duportail with a letter to Congress recommending the immediate securing 
the River against insults from the Enemy, and for that purpose gave the 
General who is principal Engineer ample instructions, we have been here 
upwards of seven weeks, I have repeatedly urged Congress to hear the 
instructions read, yet to this moment no step is taken." we are in danger 
of being routed again whenever two or three English ships of War shall 
be ordered up this River, and should Count d'Estaing be over power'd or 
block'd up at Rhode Island, Cong-ress will again be shamefully exiled, 
possibly in the absence of our Army, captured and all our prisoners re- 
taken, all these things Your Excellency and the state I have the honor of 
representing should know with proper reservations, there are a thousand 
other things you are entitled to be informed of, which time and political 
propriety forbid in the present moment 

Concerning the present Embargo, Congress have recommended to this 
State and New Jersey to take Measures for ensuring a strict observance, 
and for preventing infractions by evil minded Men on this extensive 
unguarded Coast and upon the numerous Creeks Bays and Inlets, the 
Commercial Committee have recommended to their Agent in Charlestown 
to dispatch two Vessels w^ith Rice from that Port. I wont affront Your 
Excellency by intimating that this is no authority, the motive for the 
Order is good, to save a faithful Confederal Agent at Hispaniola from 
absolute ruin by paying protested Bills drawn on our Account, but who 
brought the unhappy Gentleman into this dilemma? I will not say a 
faithless Secret Committee, but I have no doubt of proving the fact when 
I get home. Thank God this is the 19th August and that I have strength 
enough to write on without dinner at 6 o'clock P. M. a report from the 
Committee recommending a relaxation of the Embargo in the particular 
case above mentioned was offer'd two days ago and remains unconsidered, 
break one link, the gap will be thirteen wide, maugre any and all par- 
ticular considerations.^- 

20th August 

.... Three hours of this Morning passed in debate whether Governor 
Franklin should be given in Exchange for Governor McKinly, the previ- 

10 See the Journals, Aug. 13, 15, I7, I9, 21, etc. (index). Cf. no. 658, post. 
A copy of all this part of the letter which relates to Silas Deane, in the writing of 
Moses Young, is found separately among the Laurens Papers (vol. XXVIII. , no. 43). 

11 The instructions to Duportail, dated June 30, are in the Washington Papers. 
See Washington to Arnold June 30 {Writings, ed. Sparks, V. 421). 

12 The report bearing date Aug. 19 is printed in the Jotinuils (Library of Congress 
edition) under that date. See the Journals, June 4, 8, 10, Aug. 14, 19, Sept. 2, Oct. 2, 
Nov. 10; also nos. 47-2, 492, 511, 517, 520, 521, 534, 547, 552, 556, post. 



August, ijjS 373 

ous question by aye and nay, an Oration by S. C/^ Esquire on the improve- 
ment of time with the life and characters of EHzabeth and Mary Qu. of 
Scots, the comparative beauty of black Eyes and blue Eyes — adjourned. 
Seldom a question upon a Million of Dollars, seldom an unquestionable 
demand for an hundred. 

The Confederation is now signed by Delegates from ten States as Your 
Excellency will see in a paper inclosed. Deleware and New Jersey will 
probably be instructed when their respective Assemblies meet. Maryland 
'tis said will not come in without she receives a doceur of Land. New 
York is not bound unless the whole confederate, the decimal is therefore 
equal to a o 

The conduct of the Committee under which Mr. Dorsius acted is 
misterious. I can say nothing of his own, but from them we can obtain 
no Accounts, upwards of twelve months since Accounts of their proceed- 
ings were order'd by Congress have elapsed, about ten since Mr. Robert 
Morris desired to take the books into his own custody in order to settle 
them in a six Months leave of absence which he said he had obtained from 
his State, and eight Months he threatned to send them back to Congress, 
which they by no means forbid, yet to this hour we are without books and 
remain in total ignorance of the expenditure of 2^ Million of Dollars 
except that we know a very large sum has been shamefully squandered by 
a brother of Mr. Morris', supported by him after being fully informed of 
the infamous practices of his brother by the Commissioners at Paris. ^* 
This, my dear Sir, is another circumstance leading the Minds of Men who 
have devoted their time and their fortunes to the public service into deep 
and melancholly reflections 

463. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[August 12, 13, 1778.] 
12. Went and paid a visit to Monsr. Gerard but he was not at home, 

left my name on a Card." 

ij. The following Gentlemen dined with the Delegates of Mass'a Bay 

at their invitation, vizt. Monsr. Gerard, his Nephew and Secretar}^ The 

^3 Samuel Chase. Concerning the exchange of McKinly, see nos. 90, 180, ante, 
662, 680, 695, post. 

1* Concerning the affair of the books of the commercial committee, see no. 74, 
note 3, ante. Benjamin Harrison wrote to Robert Morris, June 8: " Penn gave me a 
hint of the evil intended you by a certain great man ; but that when he came away, it 
only appear'd by now and then an inuendo, and a promise of what he intended to do 
when you were present. If he ever makes the attack, I am sure it will end in his own 
confusion and prove him to be, what I from a very short acquaintance suspected he 

was, an empty, envious, conceited ." (N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Rev. Papers, 

I. 436; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 607.) 
[462V Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 169. 

2 The Journals record, Aug. 12, a letter from Gen. Thomas Nelson, and an 
order that the vote of thanks to him Aug. 8 be published. The letter does not appear 
to be among the Papers of Congress, but the resolve of Congress and Nelson's letter 
were printed in the Pennsylvania Packet of Aug. 15. The item is also found in Almon's 
Remembrancer, 1778- 1779, p. 302. The Packet of Aug. 6 notes the appearance "yesterday " 
of General Nelson with a body of Virginia gentlemen elegantly mounted as volunteer 
light horse. 



374 Continental Congress 

President of Congress, Hon. Silas Deane, Esqr., Hon. R. H. Lee, Esqr., 
Hon. Genl. Read, Genl. Putnam, Gen. Arnold, Baron Steuben and his aid. 
We dined at 4 o'Clock and had a grand elegant dinner and I think it was 
conducted with good decorum. We drank coffee before we rose from 
Table. 

464. Samuel Chase to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philada. Fryday Morning. 
[August 14, 1778.] 
Dear Sir, 

We have this Moment a Letter from Gen. Sullivan — dated Providence 
Augt. 6. 1778.^ .... 

I have not been able to get further Information respecting the Mermaid, 
than the enclosed will give you. I intend to mention the matter to Con- 
gress, but I believe it would be adviseable for you to maintain the Juris- 
diction of our Court of Admiralty.^ .... 

465. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[August 14, 15, 1778.] 

14. Congress sit late, we dined at four. I walked out with Mr. Gerry 
and visited the Gentlemen from Connecticut and the Revd. Mr, Duffel, 
our Chaplain. 

15. An express arrived in five days from New Port and informed that 
our army was on the Island and that 2 sail of vessels was off the harbour 
and Count d'Estaign's fleet had sailed in quest of them. 

466. Henry Laurens to John Sullivan.^ 

Philadelphia Aug. 16. 1778. 
Dear General, 

.... When you can find half an hours leisure, you will much oblige 
me by a general or detailed account as time may permit of the proceedings 
of the Allied Fleet and Armies at or near Rhode Island although I must 
confess I have now some apprehensions that the late separation was the 
period of our hopes of subduing the enemy in that quarter until quite 
new measures shall be taken 

If you are so good as to communicate intelligence of public transactions 
for my private use I entreat you, sir, to mark each cover private, this will 
enable me to make acceptable offerings to my friends in the state I came 
from, and on my part besides the obligation which I shall feel, I will 
endeavour to make suitable retaliation 

[464]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 61, 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 14. Chase's letter is endorsed " 13 Augt. 1778 ", but 
Friday was the 14th. 

3 See no. 461, ante. 

[/[e^]'^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 169. 

[466] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Sullivan, p. 92. 



August, lyyS 375 

467. Joseph Reed to Mrs. Reed/ 

Philad. Aug-t. 16. 1778. 
Sunday. 
My dear Hetty 

As I expected to have spent this Day with you I feel no small Dis- 
appointment in being obliged to substitute Pen and Ink in Place of the 
more substantial Pleasure of a personal Intennew. but the Weather has 
turnd out so bad and some Events have happened in Congress that would 
have deprived one of the Satisfaction of meeting you if the Weather and 
other Circumstances had been favourable 

About 8 Days ago the Committee of Arrangement was ordered to 
proceed to Camp, at that Time I was confined and immediately afterward 
the Business of Congress led to Inquiry into the Conduct of our Commis- 
sioner abroad when mutual Recrimination brought out the Charge made 
by Dr. Lee against jMr. Langdon and myself as holding a treacherous 
Correspondence with the British Ministry. It seems Dr. Lee transmitted 
it to Paris to be forwarded to America somehow concealed in the blank 
Leaves of Entick's Dictionary — The Gentlemen at Paris on examining it 
fearing it would have fatal Effects on our Characters kept it back, after 
a little Time Mr. Lee having joined them as a Fellow Commissioner and 
soon falling out with them he endeavoured to get the Dictionary from 
them which was refused, and last spring it was sent over to Mr. R. Morris 
who seeing only a Dictionary^ and no Explanation could not tell what to 
make of it but laid it by and it being at IManheim we have not yet seen the 
Contents.^ The story having now taken Wind and a strong Party formed 
in Congress against the Lee Connection they are resolved to avail them- 
selves of this indiscreet and imprudent Measure to turn him out of Em- 
ploy if they can — or at least that it shall be a Make Weight in the Scale.^ 
For my own Part, my Opinion of Dr. Lee is not altered by the Trans- 
action — I shall vote just in the same Manner as I should have done if 
another Person had been the Object of this Charge, and am really sorry 
that the Talent he unquestionably possesses should be useless to himself 

[467]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, MSS. of Joseph Reed, IV.; Library of Congress, Force 
Trans., Reed (extract). 

2 The letter of Arthur Lee here referred to is that of June 3, 1776, in Force, 
Am. Arch., fourth ser., VL 685; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IL 95. It was written on 
the blank leaves of a copy of Entick's New Spelling Dictionary, and two of the leaves, 
containing the latter part of the letter, still exist. They are in the Library of Congress 
(Papers Cont. Cong., no. 83, vol. I., f. 21). On the back of the last of these leaves is 
a memorandum by James Lovell : " 1778 Sepr. 4 Reed, in Congress from Mr. Morris 
Deer. 7 delivered to the Com'tee of foreign affairs Attest James Lovell." A copy of part 
of the letter, found at the same place, bears this memorandum by Lovell : " Copy of 
A. Lee's Letter to the Com'tee of Secret Correspondence date June 3d and taken from 
the Original in the Cover of a Dictionary wch was delivered to the Secretary of Congress 
by Mr. Robt. Morris on the 4th Sepr. 1778 and delivered to the Com'tee of foreign 
affairs Deer. 7th following Attest James Lovell." Following this is a further 
memorandum, "with Feb. 13, 13, 14, Mar. 19, Apr. 15, 1776." Cf. no. 635, post. The 
dictionary was intended as a basis of cipher correspondence between Lee and the com- 
mittee of secret correspondence, and copies of it were actually used for that purpose 
in the correspondence between the Lees. See no. 268, ante. 

3 With regard to the Deane controversy, see no. 401, note 2, ante, and nos. 468, 
472, 487, 524, post. 



376 Continental Congress 



&' 



and dangerous to others for Want of a little Portion of Candour and 
common ordinary Sense to mingle with them. And at all Events we ought 
to be thankful that while Rocks and Precipices were all round me, Provi- 
dence so ordered Matters that I have not only not fallen but possess a 
greater share of publick Confidence than I ever did.'* .... 

468. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO JOHN JaY.^ 

Philadelphia 16 Augt: 1778 
Dea?' Jay 

.... We are at length fairly setting about our finances and our 
foreign affairs. For the latter particularly, I much wish you were here. 
Many persons whom you know are very liberal of illiberality. Your 
friend Deane who hath rendered the most essential services, stands as 
one accused. The Storm increases, and I think some one of the tall 
trees, must be torn up by the roots. ^ .... 

469. GoUVERNEUR MORRIS TO RoBERT R. LIVINGSTON.^ 

Philadelphia 17th Augt. 1778. 

.... A variety of those little incidents which postpone great affairs 
especially in a body so constituted as the Congress, together with a want 
of that providence and arrangment of business which I have labored to 
inoculate and establish ever since I have been here have produced the 
evil you complain of in your loan offices. It is now in a train for speedy 
redress." 

The Vermont business doth indeed press and daily with additional 
weight. Let our situation be considered. The attention of the members of 
Congress to this affair must be entreated not forced.^ At present three 
days in the week are set apart for the treasury and finances, two more for 
the consideration of foreign affairs * add to this that Congress is also an 
executive body. I do not mean to apologize. I know I shall be charged by 
my enemies. Let not my friends pretend to excuse. If the State have not 
a confidence that their delegates are willing and able to serve them it is 
time they were recalled. Justice shall be done to us. I am sorry that the 
unavoidable delays render it almost injustice. 

You tell me that I must be w4th you at the opening of the Session but 
you do not let me know when the session is. Let me paint my situation. 
I am on a Committee to arrange the Treasury and Finances. I am of the 
medical committee and have to prepare the arrangments of that depart- 

4 See the Journals, Aug. 11, and nos. 373, 429. ante. 
[468] 1 Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. III., p. 22 (extract). 

2 Deane was called into Congress Aug. 15 for examination. Cf. no. 467, ante, and 
nos. 472, 487, 498, 502, 524, post. 

[469]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, IL 137 (copy of part). 

2 Morris probably alludes to the plan for the reorganization of the treasury de- 
partment, which appears to have been, in the main, prepared by him. It is found in the 
Journals under Aug. 13. Cf. nos. 470, 471, 533, 567, post. 

^ Concerning Vermont, see nos. 237, 381, 426-428, ante, 507, 543, 544, 597, post. 

■* See the Journals, Aug. 12, 13, and no. 470, post. 



August, I//8 377 

ment. I have the same thing to go through with relative ^ to the Com- 
missary's Quarter Master and Clothier General's departments. I am to 
prepare a Manifesto on the cruelties of the British.*^ I have drawn and 
expect to draw, almost if not all the publications of Congress of any 
importance.^ These are leading things; but the every day minutia are 
infinite. From Sunday morning to Saturday night I have no exercise 
unless to walk from where I now sit about fifty yards to Congress and 
to return. My constitution sinks under this and the heat of this pestiferous 
Climate. Duer talks daily of going hence, we have nobody else here so 
that, if I quit, the state will be unrepresented.^ .... 

470. Andrew Adams to Samuel Lyman. ^ 

Philadelphia: 17th: August 1778 
Dr: Sir 

I have this Day the happiness of receiveing your Favr: of the 14th: 
ulto : trust you have before this reed, a Line from me 

5 The Bancroft transcript has " relation ", but it seems more probable that Morris 
wrote " relative ", the preceding verbal phrase being " go through with ", not " go 
through ". 

** The Journals do not record the appointment of a committee at this time to 
prepare a manifesto on British cruelties, but there is a reference to such a committee 
Sept. 12, in language identical with that of the resolve of Jan. 21. See nos. 41, 44, 47, 56, 
83, ante. Apparently therefore the idea of issuing this manifesto had been allowed to 
sleep during all these months and was only stirred to life again, probably, by the 
remonstrance of the British commissioners Aug. 7, relative to the detention of the con- 
vention prisoners (see no. 462, ante), receiving, no doubt, an additional stimulus from 
the declarations of Aug. 26 (see the Journals, Aug. 31, Sept. 3, 4, 10, and nos. 491, 514, 
post). Probably also the recent representations concerning the conditions of prisoners in 
the hands of the enemy contributed largely to that end. Gouverneur Morris was a 
member of the committee of Jan. 21, and he was also a member of the committee of 
Aug. 12 on the British remonstrance. No specific report from the latter committee is 
found in the Journals, and it may very well be that Congress presently accepted the view 
expressed by Laurens in his letter to Lowndes (no. 462, ante), that the remonstrance did 
not merit a special committee, particularly after the adoption of the somewhat belated 
"Declaration" of Aug. 11 (see Laurens's letter above mentioned). At all events, the 
idea of sending forth a manifesto on the subject was brought to fruition by the appear- 
ance of the British manifesto of Oct. 3 (see the Journals, Oct. 15, 16, and no. 562, note 2, 
post). Morris was chairman of the committee appointed upon that document, which after 
making a report Oct. 16 had leave to sit again. It seems unquestionable therefore that 
the long-contemplated manifesto is that which is found in the Journals under Oct. 30, 
without any explanation of its origin, and it would seem altogether probable that Gouver- 
neur Morris was its author. See no. 596, post. 

'' The Journals contain a good deal of evidence to show that this is not quite such 
an exaggeration as it might at first blush seem to be. A statement made by Morris in later 
years concerning his services in Congress is pertinent here : " Not to mention the at- 
tendance from II to 4 in the house, which was common to all, and the appointments to 
committees, of which I had a full share, I was at the same time Chairman, and of course 
did the business, of the Standing Committees ; viz., on the commissary's, quartermaster's, 
and medical Departments. You must not imagine that the members of these committees 
took any share or burden of the afi'airs. Necessity, preserving the democratical forms, 
assumed the monarchical substance of business. The Chairman received and answered 
all letters and other applications, took every step which he deemed essential, prepared 
reports, gave orders, and the like, and merely took the members of a committee into 
a chamber and for form's sake made the needful communications, and received their 
approbation which was given of course" (Diary and Letters, I. 12). 

^ The New York delegation included at this time Francis Lewis as well as 
Morris and Duer. 

[470]! Harvard Univ. Lib.. Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. IIL, p. 38 (original) ; Letters to 
Washington (ed. Sparks), IL 196 n. (extract). 



378 Continental Congress 

I have as you observed taken a Seat in Congress, and mixd among the 
great States-Men of America among whose shining Talents you may 
well imagine my feable Genious is lost in Obscurity 

You Reason perfectly Just in my Oppinion in regard to our Currency, 
so far as I can Judge there is not the least Idea in Congress to let the 
Money die as to one particular Member we had some Conversation about 
I beleave Nothing is further from his thoughts, he is extreamly urgent 
to have something effectual done to appretiate the Currency ; this indeed 
seems to be the full Determination of Congress and accordingly three 
dcLjs in each Week (except some necessary Business such as attending to 
the Publick Letter [s] etc.) are now sett apart to attend to our Finances." 
this subject is very extensive and will take up much time. The Money 
in my Oppinion can and must be appretiated, tis of infinite Importance, 
but this must not be done suddenly, as that would greatly injure the poor 
and Virtuous Part of the Community and throw a prodigious Advantage 
into the hands of the present Money holders, a great part of whom are 
some of the greatest Rascals that ever disgraced .humanity and deserve 
infinitly greater punishment than is in the Power of any State to inflict. 

All the News we have here comes from the eastward which you have 
before it reaches us. I dont know that I can better gratify your Curiosity 
at present than by giveing a general Account of the Proceedings of Con- 
gress : according to order we should meet at Nine and adjourn at two: 
but in fact we Meet about ten and sit till three four and five before we 
adjourn; this you will say is very inconvenient but leaves us much leasure; 
but you will consider that much of the Business is transacted by special 
Committees in the Recess of Congress, besides these there is a Marine 
Board, a Navy Board, a Treasury Board, a Commercial Board and 
Com'tee : of foreign Affairs who have no other time to do their Business 
but in the Recess of Congress, these Boards are at present almost wholly 
composed of Members of Congress, some of them meet at six in the 
Morning and sit till eight constantly every day others meet at five in the 
afternoon or immediately after they Dine and sit till Night and some times 
till late. I beleave there are but very few Members but what are employed 
in some of these Ways, so that those who do their duty have not much 
Leasure to spare. The Debates in the House are similar to those in the 
british House of Commons, there are here as in most other Assemblys 
some very Sensable Speakers, and some very loud Talkers, you may make 
one Exception and then conceive a house composed of very able and 
sensable Gentlemen: but belonging to different states, whose Laws, 
Manners, Genious and Inhabitants and indeed almost every thing else 
very different. .... 

I have now Just returnd from a Visit to the f rench Minister which every 
Member of Congress is obliged to receive and give in a formal Manner, 
he appears to be very Sensable and a Man of Business. Mr: Dean has 
Just began to give us a full Acct : of all Matters relative to his Business : 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 12, 13, and no. 469, ante. 



August, 1178 379 

etc. this you would esteam entertaining, more I may not say at present 
upon this head.^ 

471. JosiAH Bartlett to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia August i8th. 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

Your favor of the 2d inst. is come to hand and I have communicated to 
the Commercial Committee what you wrote me concerning the French 
Ship Duchess of Grammont and find they have rec'd your letter to them 
on that subject. I have urged their immediately taking up the matter and 
sending you directions as soon as possible. I am sorry to say our Treasury, 
Marine and Commercial Affairs are in a very bad situation owing to their 
being conducted by members of Congress who can spare but little of their 
time to transact them, and are so constantly changing that before they 
get acquainted with the business they leave Congress and new members 
totally ignorant of the past transactions are appointed in their stead. This 
gives me great uneasiness and I wish I could see any prospect of a speedy 
remedy, but the multiplicit}' of business that is daily crowding on Con- 
gress and the time it takes to transact matters in so large an Assembly 
filled with lawyers and other gentlemen who love to talk as much as they 
will not allow me to hope that our affairs will be very soon properly 
arranged.^ .... 



472. JosiAH Bartlett to William Whipple.^ 

Philadelphia, August 18, 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

.... While affairs remain as they are at present I believe it will be 
difficult to obtain from Congress a permission to load vessels with pro- 
visions for New Hampshire, least they should supply the enemy instead 
of the Inhabitants of New Hampshire. I am very sorry to hear bread is 
so scarce with you, and am persuaded it is not owing to the natural 
scarcity but to other causes among which the fluctuating state of our 
money is the principal. The Congress are this day to take up that matter 
and try to provide a remedy. But the affair is so embarrassed, I have but 
little faith, and fear we shall not be able to effect much during the war, 
such amazing sums being necessary for the supply of the Army and 
Navy.^ 

3 " Congress sit late, hearing Mr. Deane " (Samuel HoUen, Diary, Essex Inst. 
Hist. Colls., hV. 170). 

[471]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 533; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. IL, f . 2i5j/$ ; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Langdon-Elwyn 
Papers (copy of part). 

2 Cf. nos. 533, 602, 603, post. The question of placing the executive business of 
Congress in the hands of others than members had long been agitated, but had only to 
a minor extent been effected. See vol. II., pp. x-xii, 196, 210 n. 

[472]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 535; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. II., p. 216. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 19. Cf. no. 462, note 12, ante. 



380 Continental Congress 

Mr Wentvvorth is in town but does not attend public business. 

Mr Deane has been called in before Congress to give an account of our 
affairs in Europe and of his Conduct there, this has taken up some time 
and is not yet finished 

473. George Plater to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Sir 

Your last Favor is now before us, and we shall pay all due Attention 
to the Contents. The Consideration of your last relative to the Vessel sold 
by Mr. Harrison ^ is before the marine Committee, but it does not appear 
that Mr. Bingham purchased her for the Continent, perhaps for his own 
private use.^ .... 

Philadelphia Aug: i8th 1778. 

474. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[August 19-21, 1778.] 
ip. Dined at Mr. R. Morris's, about 2^ miles out of the city. I hear 
there is a Ball at the City Tavern this evening. I am sorry for it.^ 

20. I walked out with Mr Gerry. A number of the members of Con- 
gress spent the evening with us.^ 

21. By a letter from Gen. Sullivan dat'd 17th inst. we understand that 
he was almost ready to attack the enemy at Rhode Island. 

475. Henry Laurens to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

2 1 St Augt. [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

.... We have nothing new from Spain, I mean new to me. Gentle- 
men not only smiled, but laughed at my Ideas expressed while we were 
reading the Treaties with France, that the Spaniard had his Eye upon 
the Floridas and Providence, in order to secure the streights of the 
Gulph. My conjecture was founded on seeing the bauble of Bermuda 
thrown in to us, and not a word said of Bahama.^ I have lately received 
strong confirmation of my Suspicions, the Post of St. Marks having been 
withdrawn by the English, a Spanish Guard I suppose from Pansacola 
succeeded them, these had a conference lately with our friendly Creek 
Indians, and in the course of their Talks intimated to the Savages that 

[473]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 71 ; Arch, of Md., XXI. 188. 
- Richard Harrison of Martinique. 

3 The vessel referred to was the sloop Molly. See no. 461, ante. No report ap- 
pears to have been made to Congress covering the matter. 
[474]i£,?iT.r Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 170. 
~ Cf. no. 674, post. 

3 Holten habitually records not only with whom he dined or drank coffee or 
tea, and who with him or his colleagues, but also with whom he walked or rode. 
[475]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 272. 

2 See article V. of the treaty of alliance, in the Journals under May 4. 



August, I//8 381 

Spain would soon be reposses'd of that Port and adjacent Country, a 
venerable Don who lately din'd with me let the Cat a little further out. 
speaking of the late abortive expedition against St. Augustine, a Gentle- 
man observ'd in French that East Florida would be a great acquisition 
to South Carolina and Georgia, my good friend Don Juan, either un- 
warily or suppossing I did not understand, replied with much gravity, 
" and also for Spain ". I drank a glass of Ale with the Don.^ .... 

[P. S.] I have been long out of humour with the too comprehensive 
term " Continental ", and have a strong inclination to coin " Confederal ". 
if Your Excellency has no objection, it shall pass. 

476. The New York Delegates to the Governor of 

New York (George Clinton).^ 

In Congress Philadelphia 21st Augt. 1778. 
Sir 

Just now a Letter was read from the Governor of Virginia to Congress 
in which his Excellency (in polite Language) informs Congress that 
having in vain endeavoured to get their Accounts adjusted and the United 
States being indebted to it, the State of Virginia have determined not to 
pay any proportion of their Quota untill the Accounts are settled.- We 
think it our Duty to inform your Excellency of this Circumstance. 
Whether the State we have the Honor to represent will imitate this 

Example it is in their wisdom to determine 

We have the Honor to be With deep Respect Your Excellency's most 
obedient and humble Servants 

F. Lewis 
GouvR. Morris 

477. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 

TO THE Chevalier de Laneuville.^ 

23d Augt. [1778.] 
Sir 

Your Servant called on me twice at the times you had directed him, and 
I have since been twice reminded by Notes from yourself of the expected 
Brevet for Rank of Brigadier General. I have as often addressed Mr. Duer 
on the subject and as often received promises from him that he would 
make the necessary report to Congress, but the multiplicity and hurry of 
business in which that Gentleman is engaged has hitherto kept it back. 

As soon as the Report shall be made and a Resolve fonned thereon, you 
may be assured Sir, of being properly inform'd in the course of my duty." 

3 Don Juan de Miralles. See no. 587, post. 
[476]! N. Y. State Lib., George Clinton Papers, no. 1684 (in Morris's writing); 
Clinton Papers, IlL 676. 

2 See the report of the treasury committee in the Journals, Aug. 21. Cf. Morris 
to Qinton, Sept. 6, Clinton Papers, III. 740. 

[477]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, II. 53. 

2 See nos. 265, 266, 284, 285, 443, 445, ante, and the Journals, July 28, 29, Oct. 14, 
Dec. 3, 4. 



382 Continental Congress 

478. Henry Laurens to James Graham/ 

23d Augnst [1778.] 
Sir 

This moment your favor of the loth together with letters for Mr. John- 
ston and Mr. Houston ^ were deHvered to me. These shall go forward 
in the course of the present week. 

Were it as inoffensive Sir, without further enquiry to grant a free 
passage to yourself, I would with great pleasure remove the difficulties 
you complain of, and add every means in my power for the happy prose- 
cution of )^our wishes, but your application is met by a question which you 
have not enabled me to determine ; Is the Gentleman a Citizen of any of 
these States ? 

If Sir, you are a Subject of His Britannic Majesty, the moment you 
pass the line of usurpation, you will consider yourself and be considered, 
as in an Enemy's Country, liable to penalties common in such cases, unless 
you are guarded by a special licence from the Representatives of the good 
People of the Union. All therefore that I can at present contribute towards 
your relief, is to lay your Letter before Congress — and you shall be 
presently advised of the result. 

I write now because I have an immediate opportunity and because as 
I perceive your Letter has been long on the road I would not hold you in 
more than unavoidable suspense. 

P. S.— 

Having since writing the above intimated to Mr. Telfair the receipt 
and contents of your letter that Gentleman observed there were circum- 
stances in your favor which he should urge to Congress.^ 

479. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[August 24, 25, 1778.] 
24. Congress sit late. Dined at four. A hot evening and I am much 

worried with writing. 

^5. Congress dined with the French Minister at his invitation and 

about 40 other Gentlemen. The dinner was Grand and Elegant and the 

band of musick was very agreeable. 

480. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia, August 27th, 1778. 
Sir: 

.... I must now beg leave to call your Excellency's attention to some 
matters which particularly concern the State which I have the honor to 
represent. 

[478]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, p. 280. The address entered in the 
letter-book is, "Jas. Graham Esq. at the house of Rich'd Yates Esqr. New York". 

2 Mr. Johnston has not been identified. Mr. Houston was probably John Hous- 
toun of Georgia. 

3 Graham's letter was referred, Aug. 24, to the delegates of South Carolina and 
Georgia. 

[^^g]'^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 170. 
[480]! A^. C. St. Recs., XHL 211, XXH. 977. 



August, i/y8 383 

I cannot find as yet that Congress have reduced the number of Super- 
numerary officers in the several BattaHons of the dififerent States in the 
manner they have done to our officers, if so, the States have not been 
equahy dealt by. 

Our troops of Light Horse have been shamefully neglected, having 
been long in want of accoutrements, v^hile other new-raised Corps have 
been completely accoutred. 

No general officer from our State has been as yet appointed, altho' the 
General Assembly recommended two gentlemen to be nominated by their 
Delegates which was done in the most pressing manner in December last.^ 

The requisition of the State for 500,000 dollars for Bounty pay etc. 
of the men raised to complete the 6th Regiment as the quota of our State, 
agreeable to the new arrangement has been refused by Congress without 
assigning any reason as I find on their Journal, only a very short resolve 
to send 100,000 Dollars in lieu of 500,000 required, and that resolve 
enclosed to your Excellency without a letter from the President mentioning 
the motives which induced the measure.^ 

I am informed it has been asserted in Congress in the absence of our 
Members, that the State of No. Carolina had received from the Continental 
Treasury more than their proportion of money, and until their account 
against the United States should be properly liquidated, no farther sums • 
should be advanced. This will convince you Sir, of the absolute necessity 
of sending on the accounts and vouchers, not only those relative to the 
supplies to the Continental Troops but also those relative to the Insurrec- 
tion, the Indian Expedition, the Militia sent to Virginia and those called 
out on several other occasions, as I find all the other States are endeavour- 
ing to do the same. I am very well convinced that No. Carolina is largely 
in advance to the Continent, much more I expect, than will pay the late 
requisition, which if I remember right was 250.000 dollars. I have been 
exceedingly hurt when called upon to produce the demand our State has 
against the United States, and must repeat to your Excellency my earnest 
desire that you will be pleased to send on the accounts and vouchers, stated 
by Gentlemen well acquainted with accounts as every matter of this sort 
will be very strictly scrutinized by Commissioners of Claims appointed 
for that purpose. 

I wish we could have been represented in Congress, at the time the 
requisition for 500,000 dollars was made. I flatter myself the State would 
not have been affronted in so gross a manner. I stayed at York Town until 
the very last day to which I was appointed, being resolved to travel home 

at my own expense, rather than leave the State unrepresented Had 

either of my associates or even myself been present, the credit of the 

2 The resolution of the North Carolina assembly (Dec. 15, 1777) was laid before 
Congress Feb. 10, by the delegates of that state, who nominated Colonels Jethro Sumner 
and Thomas Clark for election as brigadier-generals. The nominations were renewed 
Dec. 29, but on Jan. 9, 1779, Col. James Hogan was nominated in place of Colonel 
Clark and thereupon Congress chose Sumner and Hogan brigadier-generals. See Burke 
to Caswell, Jan. 10, 1779, in vol. IV. 

3 See the Journals, May 25, 29, Sept. 5, and no. 505, post. Concerning the requisi- 
tion see Caswell's letters to the President of Congress May 2 and 6, and to Penn, Aug. 13, 
A''. C. St. Recs., XIII, in, 122, 207. 



384 Continental Congress 

State of No. Carolina would not have been so wantonly sported with. 
Myself and Colleagues intend as soon as we can find an opening to intro- 
duce this subject, for my own part, I can't be easy, until Congress explain 
to the State, the reasons of their conduct. They have been so taken up 
since my arrival with business of very great importance to the public, that 
we have not had it in our power as yet to bring this matter on, but are 
determined to do it as soon as possible. I could have wished that Congress 
had appointed a Deputy Pay Master General in our State, and had taken 
care to have supplied a Military Chest with money necessary for the pay 
and subsistence of their Troops, this measure has taken place in almost 
every one of the other States 

481. Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke.^ 

Philadelphia 27th August 1778. 
Dear Sir: 

Upon my arrival here, I met with the Inclosed Letter. Congress seems 
to go on in the old way, some times disputing upon trifles, and neglecting 
the greater matters of the Law 

When the Assembly meets I beg you will endeavour to get their account 
of the expenditures for Continental Services sent on in which ought to 
be included the expense of the Armament to quell the Insurrection, the 
Expedition against the Indians, the Militia sent to Virginia, and those 
raised on several Other Occasions. I am finnly of opinion these matters 
ought to be made a Continental Charge, as you know such charges are 
made, and allowed to other states daily. I hope you, Mr. Hooper, Maclain, 
etc., will exert yourselves on this occasion." .... 

482. Henry Laurens to the Governor of Georgia 
(John Houstoun).^ 

27th Augt. [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

I should not have remained so long in arrear for Your Excellency's 
obliging Letter of the 9th June, had I not flatter'd myself with hopes that 
long before this day the circumstances of Georgia would have been intro- 
duced as a subject demanding the consideration of Congress, but it has 
happen'd otherwise." 

To account for the probable reasons would be extremely unpleasant, and 
perhaps at this time equally improper; nevertheless, 'tis my duty Sir, as 
a fellow Citizen to suggest to you in that, as well as in the character of 
Supreme Magistrate of a State that in my humble opinion we cannot fairly 

[481]! ,v. C. St. Rccs., XIII. 470. 

- Harnett reiterates this request in his letters to Caswell Sept. 26 and Oct. 24, 
ibid., XIII. 224, 249. 

[482]! s. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 284; ibid., vol. XXI. 
(copy in Laurens's writing) ; Library of Congress, Stevens Trans., from P. R. O., 
C. O. 5: 182; A^. Y. Royal Gazette, May 5, 1779; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane 
Papers, III. 449; Hist. Magazine, second ser., I. 66. 

- See no. 417, ante; also the Journals, Sept. 21, 25, Oct. 17, 20. 



August, lyjS 385 

ascribe the dormancy of this and of very many other momentus concerns, 
to want of leisure. 

I see with grief the return of our troops from East Florida without that 
success which Your Excellency had hoped for. this unhappy circumstance 
will add to the distress of Georgia and increase her cries for relief. 

While St. Augustine remains in possession of the Enemy, Georgia will 
be unhappy, and her existance as a free and Independent State rendered 
very doubtful. South Carolina too will be continually galled by Rovers 
and Cruizers from that Pestiferous nest, another Expedition must there- 
fore be undertaken at a season of the Year which will not out-vie the 
bullets and bayonets of the Enemy in the distruction of our Men. 

I have before me a Plan for reducing East Florida which I will have 
the honor of communicating to Your Excellency very soon : ^ in the mean 
time I am constrained to say that unless the several States will keep their 
representation in Congress fill'd by men of competent abilities, unshaken 
integrity, and unremitting diligence, a Plan which I very much fear is 
laid for the subduction of our Confederal Independence will, by the 
operations of Mask'd Enemies be completely executed, so far I mean as 
relates to all the Sea Coast and possibly to the present Generation. Were 
I to unfold to you Sir, scenes of venality, peculation and fraud which I 
have discovered, the disclosure would astonish you, nor would you Sir, 
be less astonished, were I by a detail which the occasion would require, 
prove to you, that he must be a pitiful rogue indeed, who, when detected, or 
suspected, meets not with powerful advocates among those, who in the 
present corrupt time, ought to exert all their powers in defence and support 
of these friend-plundered, much injured, and I was almost going to say, 
sinking States, dont' apprehend Sir, that I colour too highly, or that any 
part of these intimations are the effect of rash judgment or despondency. 
I am warranted to say, they are not ; my opinion, my sentiments, are 
supported every day by the declaration of Individuals ; the difficulty lies in 
bringing Men collectivily to attack with vigour a proper object. I have 
said so much to you Sir, as Governor of a State, not intended for public 
conversation, which sound policy forbids ; and at the same time commands 
deep thinking in every Man appointed a Guardian of the fortunes and 
honor of these Orphan States. 

Colonel McClean * who will do me the honor to bear this address to 
Your Excellency is well acquainted with the present State of our Arms. 
Copies of two letters from General Sullivan, which will accompany this, 
will shew that of his particular and important department as it stood 8 
days ago. every hour I expect further intelligence, had he been success- 
ful and as expeditiously so, as his sanguine hopes had mark'd out I should 
have received the important tidings the day before yesterday.^ 

^ Presumably the plan of the Alarquis de Bretigney, presented to Congress Aug. 
26. Cf. nos. 317, ante, 608, 618, 627, post. 

* The Colonel AlcClean here mentioned has not been identified. 

5 The letters of General Sullivan to which Laurens refers were doubtless those 
of Aug. 17 (to General Washington) and 19, read in Congress Aug. 21 and 25, respec- 
tively. A letter from Sullivan to Washington Aug. 13, one Aug. 21, and another Aug. 23, 
relative to the Rhode Island situation, were read in Congress Aug. 19, 27, and 28, re- 
spectively. Those of Aug. 13 and 22, are in Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), II. 175, 
178. Sec also nos. 485, 486, 490, 510, 511, post. 



386 Continental Congress 

Not a word that has been said or printed respecting Count d'Estaing-'s 
and Lord Howe's fleets, merits confidence, an engagement, and a smart 
one too, there has undoubtedly been, but who was victorious and what 
losses each party sustained are unknown in this City, this fact only, that 
the British fleet had greatly suffer'd and had carried in no prizes four days 
ago, is ascertained ; and from the following paragraph in General Wash- 
ington's letter of the 21st there is ground to hope that many of Lord 
Howe's original shew of ships at Rhode Island have been detained by his 
rival or lost in the late storm. By advices from an Officer of Rank and 
intelligence who is stationed in view of the Sea I am inform'd that 16 ships 
enter'd the Hook on the 17th, one having a flag, and that on that and the 
preceding day a heavy cannonade was heard at Sea. This days Packet 
may afiford Your Excellency more intelligence. I will trouble you Sir, 
no further at present, but to repeat that I am with very great 

Regard and Esteem etc.^ 

483. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[August 27, 28, 1778.] 
2/. The consul of France ^ and 10 other Gentlemen of distinction dined 
with us by invitation. We had a grand, elegant dinner. 

28. News from Rhode Island not agreeable. Count d'Estaign's ships 
being so damaged by the late storm, he is going to Boston to repair. I 
expect the expedition will fail. I wrote to Miss* Holten by Mr. Jones,' 

484. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.^ 

28 Augt. [1778.] 
Sir 

.... The proceedings of the General Court Martial for the trial of 
Major General Lee had been made an Order of the day for Wednesday the 
26th. Congress then ordered the whole to be printed. The work is large, 
and I do not expect it from the Press before the 5th of September 

485. Henry Laurens to George Washington,^ 

28th Augt. [1778,] 
Dear Sir 

I am indebted for Your Excellency's favors of the 20th and 25th, the 
former receiv'd three days since, and the latter while I was in Congress 

6 This letter was obtained by the British when Georgia was conquered and was 
published in Rivington's New York Royal Gazette, May 5, 1779. See the Journals, May 
14, 15, 18, 1779, and Lauren's remarks, under May 15, 1779, in vol. IV. See also Wallace, 
Life of Laurens, p. 289, and a letter of Candour, in N. Y. Hist. Soc.: Deane Papers, 
III. 452. 

[483]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 170. 

2 John Holker. 

3 Possibly the express of that name who was the bearer of Laurens's letters to 
Washington Aug. 28 (see no. 491, post). 

[484] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, II. 55. 

[485] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar. Sept., 1778, p. 287. 



August, 1778 387 

this Morning ; this takes my immediate attention. I feel convinc'd that had 
Your Excellency named a sum in Gold and apply'd for it to Congress, an 
order for the Amount would have pass'd without hesitation, but from cir- 
cumstances which I have more than a few times observed to attend 
Motions made from private Letters by Gentlemen of Merit and influence 
transcending far, any that I presume to claim I feared on your account 
Sir, to hazard a question in the present case, there is a jealousy in the 
]\Iinds of Men as unaccountable and unreasonable, as it is unnecessary to 
add a word more upon the subject; to contribute, however, towards for- 
warding Your Excellency's labours for public good, and from a melan- 
choly conviction of the policy and necessity for constantly prosecuting the 
measures for which gold in the present critical moment is wanted, I have 
pack'd up a few pieces, the particulars noted below, which had been lying 
by me altogether useless and which do not comprehend my whole stock ; 
these may possibly be of immediate Service and I may be reimburs'd when 
Congress shall order a supply, which I am persuaded will be in the instant 
of Your Excellency's demand ; be this as it may. I intreat Your Excellency 
will permit me to insist upon the receipt and application of this mite. I do 
not presume to offer it to General Washington but as a loan to our Country 
who will repay me amply even by permitting my endeavour to serv^e her. 
I do not remember that ever an application was made by the Camp Com- 
mittee of Congress. I am more inclined to believe those Gentlemen relied 
on each other and that neither of them attempted the business, but I may 
be mistaken. I shall without waiting for a dispatch from Your Excellency 
to Congress which I would wish to receive seperately from all other busi- 
ness, and with permission to deliver or return it as occasion may require, 
consult a few friends on the point, and if they approve the measure prevail 
on one of them to move under a proper introduction for 2 or 300 Guineas 
to be remitted to Your Excellency for public service. If more hundreds 
are necessary Your Excellency will be pleas'd to signify it, and even 
thousands.^ .... 

486. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO John Sullivan.^ 

4 o'clock P. M. 28th August 1778 
Sir 

The Letter of the present date which will accompany this, was written 
this Morning and waiting for the Messenger when I attended Congress.^ 

2 Washington's letter of Aug. 20 is in Writings (ed. Ford), VII. 155; that of 
Aug. 25, excepting a few lines, is ibid., p. 163 n. ; both are in Writings (ed. Sparks), 
VI. 31. 39- Washington's reply to this letter, Sept. 4, is in Writings (ed. Ford), VII. 175, 
(ed. Sparks), VI. 52. In another letter of the same date {ibid., p. 51) he states that he 
is returning the gold which Laurens had sent him from his private stock. Cf. Wallace, 
Life of Laurens, p. 295. See, further, no. 491, post. 

[486] 1 Library of Congress, U. S. Revolution; ibid.. President's Letter-Book, II. 56. 

2 The earlier letter of Aug. 28 (Letter-Book, II. 55) mentions the presentation 
to Congress of Sullivan's letters of Sept. i, 10, 19, 21, with copies of his letters to 
General Washington, and adds : " Congress are sensible of your diligence, spirit and 
good conduct, and entertain strong assurances of the Completion of the Enterprize you 
are engaged in to your own Glory and the honor and Interest of the United States of 
America." 

29 



388 Continental Congress 

while I was there, a Letter from General Washington of the 25th was 
brought and usher'd a Copy of yours to His Excellency of the 25th. 
Gen. Green's sensible and spirited Remonstrance to Count d'Estaing ; the 
Count's Letter of the 21st to you, the Protest of Officers at Camp before 
New Port of the same date, and your questions to the General Officers and 
Commandants of Brigades, these papers having been read and considered, 
the House adopted two Resolutions, i for requesting Baron Stiiben to 
repair to Your Head Quarters in order to contribute his advice and assis- 
tance, and 2 for preventing the publication of the Protest.^ 

I flatter myself with hopes that before the Act in which these Resolves 
are included and which will be hereinclosed shall have reached you, a 
Glorious conquest or a safe and honorable retreat will have been effected. 

487. Richard Henry Lee to William Maxwell.^ 

Philadelphia August 29th 1778. 
Sir, 

I was yesterday favored with your letter of the 25th instant, for which 
be pleased to accept my thanks. I do recollect that when my brother 
practised physick in Virginia about ten or eleven years ago, I then heard 
him sometimes mention a Doctor Berkenhout who had written a phar- 
macopea which he esteemed, and that he had an acquaintance with and 
regard for the Doctor. Beyond this my knowledge of Doctor Berkenhout 
or his concerns extends not; having never had a word concerning him 
from my brother since that time, nor did I ever see the Doctor that I 
remember. 

I have laid your letter before Congress, and their sense seems to be, 
that you use your discretion in cases similar to that of Doctor Berkenhout, 
governing yourself by the nature of the circumstances.^ 
I have the honor to be, with regards. 

Sir your most obedient and very hble Ser\'t 

Richard Henry Lee 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 28 ; cf. no. 485, ante, and nos. 489, 490, note 3, post. 
Washington's letters to Sullivan, Heath, Greene,' Lafayette, and Comte d' Estaing in this 
period, as well as those to the President of Congress, relate to the Rhode Island episode 
and the action of D'Estaing. See his Writings (ed. Ford), VII. 153, 163, 165, 167, 170, 
173, 175, 181, (ed. Sparks), VI. 28, 30, 40, 44, 47, 49, 51, 52, 57. Letters of Sullivan, 
Greene, Lafaj'ette D'Estaing, and John Laurens, concerning the affair, are in Letters to 
Washington (ed. Sparks), II. 169-210. With regard to Steuben, see no. 527, post. 

[487]! Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), I. 432. 

2 There is no mention in the Journals of the reading of the letter from Maxwell 
to Lee. In a reply to Deane which Lee wrote, Dec. 16, for the Virginia Gazette (printed 
Jan. I, 1779) and the Pennsylvania Packet (reprinted, from the Virginia Gazette, Jan. 
19) is a statement concerning Maxwell's letter, as follows: 

"The truth is that I was a total stranger to him [Berkenhout]. And wheni received 
a letter from Gen. Maxwell informing me that such a person had been with him, it 
was some moments before I could recollect the name, having only beared Dr. Lee say 
ten years ago that he was the author of a good pharmacopea, a person with whom he was 
acquainted, and who was a man of parts. I then immediately read the letter to Congress 
and informed them what I knew of Dr. Berkenhout, which is as above related. Soon 
after this he arrived in town and sent me a ticket to know when he should wait on me. 
Being at dinner, when we arose from Table, I asked an honorable member of Congress 
(Colo. Scudder of New Jersey) to walk with me to see him. We went and after some 
general conversation, he asked me if I had received any letter from Dr. Lee concerning 



August, 1778 389 

488. Andrew Adams to Horatio Gates/ 

Philadelphia 29th August 1778 
Sir 

I do myself the honor to write you tho I have not the happiness of your 
Acquaintance : On Acct. particularly of Major Bigelow's being so long 
detaind at Congress : as the Reasons of his Deley in my Oppinion really 
Nead an Excuse : at least I wish to show my full Disapprobation of the 
Measure : On Major Bigelow presenting your and Genl. Parson's Letter 
to Congress and makeing known his Business : ^ I perceived an Opposition 
against granting the Money proposed and of such a Nature as not to be 
agreable to me : The first Attact seamd to be levelld agt. the State of 
Connecticut in general and at Govr : Trumbull and Genl : Parsons in 
particular: But this being so fully obviated by one of my worthy Col- 
leagues : that it subsided : The Matter was committed and a Report 
brought in stateing a Number of facts and proposing sundry Resolves : 
one of which was designd as a Censure upon you : this appeard to some 
Gentlemen so ill founded and unjust that they were lead to exaimin into 
the facts stated : I have not the Report before me : and cannot pretend 
to be very exact : but it was said that you had no Right to order the 

him, I answered no, he appeared concerned, and imputed it, as my memory serves me, to 
his having left England too soon after requesting such introductory letter. . . . The next 
day, I think, he came to my lodgings and informed me that his intention in coming to 
America was to provide a settlement for his family in a land of liberty, and to find a 
place where he could practice physick to advantage, on which subjects he asked my 
advice." 

This communication is found in Lee's Letters (ed. Ballagh), I. 457, and, with varia- 
tions, in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, III. 239. In a letter to Henry 
Laurens Dec. 26 (Long Island Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers; Letters, I. 462) he wrote: 
" In ten minutes after I received Gen. Maxwells letter informing me of Berkenhouts 
arrival, I read it openly in Congress. Told them the Man was a perfect stranger to me. 
He apphed to me as the brother of a person he had formerly been acquainted with. 
He told me a very plain story, and seeemingly a very honest one concerning the causes 
of his coming here ; which I have sent to the Philadelphia and Virginia Presses. . . . 
The morning of the day that Dunlaps paper came out, mentioning from an English paper 
that Mr. Temple and Berkenhout were in Ministerial employment, the latter came into 
a public breakfasting room where I was, and I never saw him since." Cf. nos. 401, note 2, 
439, 467, 468, ante, 498, 500, 502, 503, 524, post. For an account of Dr. Berkenhout, see 
Wharton, Rez'. Dipl. Corr., I. 541, 654; cf. ibid., III. 7, 8, 14-16. The extract of a letter 
of Richard Henry Lee quoted by Wharton, I. 655, is given a wrong date. It will be 
found under its proper date, Feb. 11, 1779, in vol. IV. of these Letters. 

[488]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIII. 

2 Maj. John Bigelow appears to have been appointed clothier for Connecticut 
and to have had a contract for furnishing clothing to the troops. Accordingly he came 
to Congress to obtain money to enable him to carry out his contract, bringing letters 
from General Parsons and General Gates, which were presented to Congress July 27 and 
referred to a committee. Bigelow waited at Philadelphia until Aug. 18, when he wrote 
to President Laurens, mentioning the presentation of Gates's letter and the appointment 
of a committee " to take the same into consideration, which has been done, and the 
Report laid on the table some time since ". He adds that the state of his health will not 
admit of his staying longer and requests that the report may be considered and an 
answer given him (see the Journals, Aug. 18). From Bigelow's statement it appears 
that the report of the committee had been made and laid on the table prior to the time 
of his writing this letter, but this fact is not recorded in the Journals. The report, which 
is without date, is found in the Journals under Aug. 27, at which time a resolution and 
order in his favor were adopted. Two paragraphs, containing censures of Gates and 
Measam, stand erased in the report. 



390 Continental Congress 

purchase by Major Bigelow as there was a Clothier with the Army (vizt.) 
Major Measom : that the Resolution of Congress under which you acted 
Directed the Clothier Genl : to send a Deputy or Assistant to the Army 
on the North River and that in the Mean Time the Commanding Officer 
take such Order etc : (the Words of the Resolve I pretend not to repeat). 
The Argument was that as you had a Clothier with you, your Power in 
that respect ceasd. this lead some Gentlemen to examin into Mr. Measom, 
and Col : Hews's ^ Appointment as it was represented that Mr Measom 
succeeded Col : Hews : and for my own part I considered them only in the 
light of Issuing Commissary. The Report however was in favour of 
granting the Money notwithstand[ing] you had no power to appoint 
Major Bigelow This Matter was fully discussd and it was urged that 
the Resolve negat[iv]ing your power and so passing a Censure on you 
should not pass : as there appeard no kind of Necessity for such a step and 
it rather appeard like seeking an Occation agt: you 2dly that it was 
unconstitutional to censure any Gentlemen much less a high Officer in his 
publick Conduct unheard. 3dly : that the proposed resolve was ill founded 
etc. Many other Arguments were made use off : and on the whole the 
Matter passd in the Negative and the Money was ordered. 

I am sorry to Observe that in the whole progress of this Affair: it 
appeard to me that every Obsticle was thrown in the way by one Gentle- 
man : from a State which is under the highest Obligation to you : The 
Gentleman I refer to Major Bigelow well knows :*.... 

489. Andrew Adams to Oliver Wolcott.^ 

Philadelphia 29th August 1778 
Sir 

I have the pleasure of acknowledging the Rect. of your Favour of the 
14th Instant by Mr. Sheldon : and am happy to find you have none of 
those fears which my Timidity and want of Experience as well as want 
of Knowledge in Politicks suggested.^ 

Had Great Britain acknowledged our Independence (which I am con- 
vinced she must and will do) before actual Hostilities had been com- 
menced between her and France: I conceive we should have had no 
Occation of Consulting France in making peace with Britain: which 
perhaps we must now do as both France and we have acknowledged those 
eventual Ingagements contained in the Treaty have become positive? 
in this View not the AUience itself so much as the arival of their Fleet in 
Consiquence of which those acknowledgements between us have been 
made is what gave me some Apprehensions : for should a simular Treaty 
take place between us and Spain (which perhaps may already be the Case) 
and should France think of possessing the West-India Islands : and 

3 Peter Hughes, called in the report " Major ". 

*The allusion is doubtless to William Duer of New York, a member of the 
committee, and the author, it appears, of the committee's report. Cf. no. 490, post. 
[489] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, I. 45. 

2 VVolcott's letter to Adams, Aug. 14, which discusses the French alliance, is in 
George C. Thomas, Autographs, but with the erroneous date 1776. 



August, I//-8 391 

■Spain the two Florida's (which in my Oppinion is not altogather chimeri- 
cal) and then both unite in the Idia of totally extirpateing England: a 
Quere would arise whether they would not expect our Assistance : Besides 
the Inconvenience of their possessing those places : However I confess 
this is looking forward some Ways : I fully agree with you that we are 
not blindly to trust the Justice : much less the Generosity of any Nation 
unconnected with their Interest. 

An Instance on which to ground our Caution I think we have before 
us in the f rench : fleet leaveing R : Island in the midst of an Expedition 
Jointly undertaken and going to Boston in order to refit when they might 
as well refitted there and at the same time Co-opperated with our forces : 
and also in Carr}'ing off their Land as well [as] sea forces: However 
this ^Matter requires some further Explanation; I feal anxious tor the 
Event of that Expedition : and am in hourly expectation of further Intelli- 
gence: we receive constant Official Accounts by Expresses.^ 

.... Our foreign Intelligence gives us Reason to expect that a Treaty 
of Neutrality and Commerce with Holland will soon take place : and con- 
tinues to assure us of the favorable Regards of most of the great Powers 
of Europe : 

Three Days in each Week are set apart for considering the Subject of 
our finances : and a lengthy complex plan for organizing a New board of 
Treasury has been laid before Congress : * Genl. Mackentosh is now at 
Fort Pitt is to be reinforced with 1500 Men from Virginia in Order to 
make an Attack upon the Nearest Settlements of the hostile Tribes of 
indians.^ 

A flood of small Business from every Quarter continues to crowd out 
the great important Matters. 

The great Neglect in Congress, I think unpardonable. I can more 
properly express (orally) than write my Sentiments upon some particular 
Members. 

490. James Lovell to Horatio Gates. ^ 

Augt. 29th 1778 
Philadelphia 
Dear General, 

.... Major Bigelows Delay in this Place was founded on the Con- 
quest of Burgoyne, poor Major Bigelow, how has he suffered for the Sins 
of another ! ! - You are also sometimes in Hair breadth Escapes by the hon- 
est ill directed Zeal of your Friends. What could you do at Rh Island on 
the 3d and 4th of Sepr. 1778 but meet with Chagrin? ^ Who would there 

3 Cf. no. 486, ante, and no. 490, post. 

* See the Journals, Aug. 13; cf. no. 469, note 2, ante The Connecticut delegates, 
Hosmer and Adams, writing to Governor Trumbull the same day, add that the plan " is 
to be taken into consideration this day" (Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., 
11. 257). 

^ See the Journals, July 25. 
[490J1N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XHI. 

- See no. 488, ante. 

3 Gates had probably been proposed for the mission to Rhode Island which, in 
the end, was assigned to Steuben. See the Journals, Aug. 28, 29. 



392 Continental Congress 

be under you that would not undermine your Fame ? Sullivan Green and 
Fayette might devote themselves to support it. In the Name of America ! 
what Plan is to be pursued? Is Ld. Howe at Liberty to go and come as he 
pleases ? Is not his Fleet essential to the Safety of Clinton ? May he cover 
N-Yk. and Rh Island alternately, as he pleases? 

Notwithstanding the most unpromising State of Things at this Moment 
let us nurse the new born Alliance, Stiffle the Sentiments of the Protest 
however just they are in themselves, they should not be spoken at Noon 
Day without the most absolute and fatal Necessity. The Printers should be 
warned at the Eastward.* And however chagrined we may be now, 
Perseverance or the Blunders of the Enemy will produce a favorable Turn. 
A good Cause under the Direction [of] united honest and brave Men will 
prosper, Disunion alone open the Door of Fear 

491. Henry Laurens to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 29 Augt 1778 
Dear Sir, 

I did myself the honor of writing to Your Excellency yesterday by 
Jones to which I beg leave to refer. 

This Morning upon inquiry I was confirmed in my belief that the former 
Camp Committee had made no application to Congress for Gold or Silver 
to be deposited in Your Excellency's Hands for public uses, where- 
fore I suggested to two or three Members the necessity and utility of 
establishing such a fund and prevailed upon one of the Gentlemen to move 
the House for that purpose, the motion was accepted, and without a 
pause, the sum of five hundred Guineas voted, these I shall presently 
receive and if possible convey them to your Excellency under the pro- 
tection of Capt. Josiah Stoddard of the Light Dragoons.^ 

I have just received new addresses to Congress from the British Com- 
missioners at New York — Govr Johnstone, in graceless and almost scur- 
rilous terms without exonerating himself from the charges alleged against 
him submits to the Decree of Interdiction lately pronounced by Congress. 
Nor do the Gentlemen, late his Co-ad jutors so highly resent the Proceed- 
ings on our part as to refuse to treat without the support of the Governor's 
name. 

Your Excellency will judge best from their respective performances on 
the present occasion. Copies of which shall accompany this Letter.^ .... 

* The " Protest " to which Lovell alludes was that of the general officers, Aug. 22, 
against the departure of D'Estaing. The correspondence on the subject between Wash- 
ington, on the one side, and Heath, Sullivan, D'Estaing, Lafayette, Greene, John Laurens, 
and the President, on the other, is largely found in Washington's Writings (ed. Ford), 
VIL 153-181, (ed. Sparks), VL 22-64, passim, and Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
IL 169-210, passim. Cf. nos. 485, 486, 489, ante. 491, 504, 506, 510, 511, 515, 518, 519, 532, 
578, post. 

[491]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXV. 276; S. C. Hist. Soc, 
Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 289; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 

IL 194- 

2 See no. 485, ante, and the Journals, Aug. 29. 

3 See the Journals, Aug. 31, Sept. 3, 4, 10, and no. 514, post. Cf. no. 469, note 6, 
ante. 



August, 1778 393 

Monsr. Gerard is exceedingly affected by the late determinations on the 
Water near Rhode Island and has communicated his sentiments to me 
with great candor/ .... 

492. John Mathews to Thomas Bee/ 

Philadelphia Augt. 30th 1778. 
My Dear Sir 

.... It is true I did not oppose the Embargo act, as I shall uniformly 
do. every act of Congress, where I perceive an attempt to step over that 
constitutional line which has been chaulked out to them, even independent 
of the Confederation, for if they can exceed their powers in one instance, 
they may claim an equal right to do it in any, and which was the case in 
this affair, for the favourers of the measure, claimed a right to do it, 
because they had done it before, and surely said they if we had a right 
to do it once we have a right to do it again. This proves to what danger- 
ous lengths Precedents may be carryed, for which reason, I think every, 
the least attempt in Congress to go beyond the bounds of their Consti- 
tution should be immediately checked. Never suffer the plea of necessity 
to justify the Act, for a specious pretext, can never be wanted, by artful 
men. cover even the most arbitrar}- measures, under the guise of necessity 
and if such a doctrine is once admitted, what is to hinder them from at 
last totally subverting the Liberties of America, examples of this are 
within the knowledge of every Man of reading and because the people of 
America have a very high Opinion of and a very extensive confidence in, 
the present Congress (I mean previous to our being Confederated) I 
would for that very reason be doubly watchful of their Conduct, as the 
precedents they now make will hereafter be exercised, by a set of Men less 
virtuous to the worst purposes. I'll assure you, I don't remember any 
thing that has come within my knowledge since the beginning of these 
troubles, that has given me more uneasiness, than the eager disposition 
that appears in Congress to have that Embargo carr^'ed into execution, 
they even suspended taking up the Confederation, untill this measure 
could be carryed, which I think was taking a very uncandid, and unjustify- 
able advantage of the unlimited powers they conceeded to be, prior to the 
ratification of the Confederation, lodged in their hands, but which was, 
not withstanding, in my humble opinion, a very gross mistake, for I 
must ever deny they had at any time this power, for if this is conceded to 
them, then they have indisputably a right to legislate for the whole when 
ever they see fit and which acts of legislation must be binding, whether 
approved by the States or not. the contrary position, I have always under 
stood to be the true one. If they ever had the right or if it had been deemed 
eligible, they ought to have had it. Why was it not made an article in 
the Confederation? That this right was never given up to Congress, is 
already proven by the acts of the different legislatures and which speak 
their sense of the matter, for you find them lodging the power of laying 

* See no. 490, note 3, ante. 
[492]'- Charleston Lib. Soc, Miscellaneous Letters, p. 115. 



394: Continental Congress 

Embargoes, in their Executive branches for a certain limited time. This 
evidently is productive of a confused clashing of the Acts of Congress, 
with those of the different States. 

The same Arguments that may be made use of, for the propriety of 
lodging this power with Congress, may be adduced, for giving them 
several other important powers, they at present have not.^ .... 

493. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO GeORGE WASHINGTON.^ 

Congress 31st August 1778 
Dear General 

I wrote you a Letter long since which went backwards and whether 
it hath ever yet got so far forwards as to reach you I am utterly incapaci- 
tated even to guess, trusting however that you have got or will get it I shall 
not from Memory repeat what if there at all is at best but faintly traced.^ 

At present I trouble you on the subject of recruiting your Amiy which 
is at this Moment in Debate before the House. It hath been proposed to 
give ten Dollars in Specie and ten square Dollars to Recruits which I have 
opposed and it is determined in the Negative.^ I will not fatigue you with 
the Reasons opperating on my Mind they derived not inconsiderably from 
the probable Consequences of the Measure even upon the Army. Among 
others I fear to inflame the Rapacity of Soldiers with the Love by the 
Possession of a Metal of which we have such a plentiful Lack. However 
let me have your Sentiments for I can promise you a Mind open to 
Conviction, if you differ in opinion, desirous of Information in all Cases 
and willing to urge your good Reasons should the Matter be again 
opened 

494. Titus Hosmer to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia Augt. 31st 1778 
i^ir 

.... I wish I could with truth assure Your Excellency that in my 
view our affairs are in a happy train, and that Congress has adopted wise 
and effectual measures to restore our wounded public credit and to estab- 
lish the United States their liberty, union, and happiness upon a solid 
and permanent foundation. I dare not do it, while my heart is over- 
whelmed with the most melancholy presages. The idleness and captious- 
ness of some gentlemen, maugre the wishes and endeavours of an honest 
and industrious majority, in my apprehension, threaten the worst con- 
sequences. 

The Southern States are fixed against holding Congress more than once 
a day ; our hours are fixed from nine in the forenoon to two in the after- 

- Cf. nos. 462, 472, ante, 511, 520, 534, 556, post. 

[493]^ Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXV. 311. 

- The reference is probably to the letter of Aug. 2, no. 445, ante. 
^ See the Journals, Aug. 31, Sept. 8. 

[494]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 264; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), II. 197 n. (extract). 



August, I//8 395 

noon. If these were punctually attended it would be perhaps as much as 
could be spared from committees, other business which must be done out of 
Congress hours. Nine States make a Congress, some States have delegates 
so very negligent, so much immersed in the pursuit of pleasure or business, 
that it is very rare we can make a Congress before near eleven o'clock, 
and this evil seems incapable of a remedy as Congress has no mean to 
compel gentlemen's attendance, and those who occasion the delay are 
callous to admonition and reproof, which have been often tried in vain. 
When we are assembled several gentlemen have such a knack at starting 
questions of order, raising debates upon critical, captious, and trifling 
amendments, protracting them by long speeches, by postponing, calling 
for the previous question, and other arts, that it is almost impossible to 
get an important question decided at one sitting; and if it is put over to 
another day, the field is open to be gone over again, precious time is lost, 
and the public business left undone " 

I am sorry to add that the opposition between the States, and the old 
prejudices of North against South, and South against North, seem to be 
reviving, and are industriously heightened by some, who, I fear, would 
be but too well pleased to see our union blasted and our independence 
broken and destroyed 

I wish what I have wrote may not seem too much like complaining of 
Congress; but besides that, I am sure it is a just picture of our present 
situation. When I look back and see how little has iDcen done since I came 
here, and consider how much there was to do, and the vast importance 
that it should be done without loss of time, I feel myself under an obli- 
gation to account for my own conduct among others, and can think of no 
better way to do it, than by telling the truth, which I do the more freely 

- Cf. no. 132, note 2, ante. The practice of holding morning and afternoon 
sessions (10 to i and 4 to adjournment) was adopted by resolution at York Town Oct. i. 
The rule was rescinded Nov. 19, but returned to on Dec. 16 (the adjournment to be from i 
to 3). An effort, Jan. 24, 1778, to restore the practice of one session a day failed, but suc- 
ceeded Alar. 24, the hours established being 9 to 2, though occasionally varied from in 
practice. Apr. 29 a rule was adopted, " for the space of ten days ", fixing the hours at 
10 to I and 3 to 6 " precisely ". At the end of the ten days Congress returned to the 
one-session practice, and four days later began to make the hour of assembling nine 
o'clock instead of ten (although no special vote to this effect is found recorded). May 30 
tAA'o sessions were once more adopted " for the space of one month " (10 to i and 3 to 6, 
except Wednesdays and Saturdays), the hours of adjournment being fixed, "if any one 
State insists on adjourning". The rule had lapsed of course when Congress reassembled 
at Philadelphia in July, and the one-session practice was resumed, the hour of as- 
sembling being at nine o'clock (with an occasional exception), the adjournment (pre- 
sumably) at two. Aug. 12, in connection with a resolve to set apart certain days for 
the consideration of the treasury and finance, a motion that Congress meet twice a day 
was defeated, and Aug. 27 a similar motion was postponed. Hosmer, writing on the 31st, 
had evidently not recovered from some bitterness engendered by the discussion on the 
27th. Sept. 3 the subject was stirred again, and there appears to have been much wran- 
gling. There was even a motion to have Congress meet at five o'clock in the morning, 
which had nine affirmative votes out of a total of thirty and carried three states (New 
York, Pennsylvania, and North Carolina). The outcome was a resolution setting the ses- 
sions " till the first of November next " at 9 to i and 3 to 6, with certain provisos, and ex- 
cepting Wednesdays and Saturdays. Sept. 17 the duration of the session on Wednesdays 
and Saturdays was fixed at 10 to 3. Oct. 20 it was once again resolved to meet only 
once a day (10 to 3), and this was the prevailing practice thereafter. There were, how- 
ever, during the last few weeks of the 3'ear 1778, frequent evening sessions at six o'clock. 



396 Continental Congress 

because I can appeal to every gentleman in Congress whether any blame 
lies upon Connecticut, whether she hath ever been an hour unrepresented, 
or whether any time hath been lost by the remissness or captiousness or 
long windedness of her delegates; besides, tho' while hopes of a speedy 
reform prevailed I thought it prudent to be silent, now those hopes have 
vanished I thought it best, and my duty, to state our real, though unhappy 
situation to Your Excellency, that we might have the benefit of your 
wisdom and advice in concerting proper measures to retrieve us from the 
unhappy lethargy (shall I call it phrenzy?) into which we have fallen. 
Major Adams hath seen what I have wrote above, as far as it respects 
Congress and their mode of doing business, and pennits me to fortify my 
narration with his concurrent testimony.^ I have not taken the liberty to 
hint anything of the above to any friends, except to Colo. Dyer in a 
letter of this date, as I hope yet some measures may be fallen upon to 
remedy the evil, and it may not be so proper to throw out anything that 
may become public to lessen Congress in the general estimation, at a time 
when the British Commissioners are preparing to appeal from them to the 
people at large, and would be pleased to lay hold of anything which might 
affect their character in the minds of their constituents, in hopes to derive 
an advantage from it 



495. John Penn to [William Woodford?].^ 

[August ? 1778.]^ 

Dear Sir 

I send you a copy of the Resolve you desired. General Weedon was not 
well pleased with the determination of Congress, indeed he was quite the 
reverse as I have been informed. 

If he is not employed soon, I do not expect he will, as no Gentn. can 
think of permitting any officer to return to the line, a little before the end 
of the war to entitle him to receive half pay. 

It never was intended by Congress that General Weedon should have 
any other rank than what was given him in March should he be employed 
again. I shall take pleasure in obliging you in any thing I can you will 
therefore inclose me your letters and I will forward them and also send 
those directed to you by express for this purpose 

3 In a letter to Governor Trumbull Sept. 5 (Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh 
sen, II. 268) Adams expressed his "full approbation" of what Hosmer had written, 
adding that he most sincerely lamented "the disagreeable truths" contained in the 
letter. He also remarks, " Yesterday we began to meet twice a day, which is to continue 
till the first of November, — a measure this, extremely disagreeable to many members, 
but it has been long urged by the New England States ". 
[495] 1 Library of Congress, U. S. Revolution. 

2 This letter is without date, but was probably written shortly after Aug. 18, for 
the resolve mentioned in the beginning of the letter, a copy of which was enclosed, was 
of that date. Maj. John Taylor wrote to Woodford Oct. 9 (see no. 586, note 3, post) : 
" I have heard that Genl. Weedon's friends have been lately attempting to scrape up 
that old determined affair of his and yours tho' without success." Concerning the cases 
of Woodford and Weedon, see no. 178, note 2, ante; also Joseph Jones to Washington, 
May 23, 1780, in the next volume of these Letters. 



September, 1778 397 

496. Samuel Adams to James Warren.* 

My dear Friend, 

.... My Enemies in Boston are exceedingly mistaken if they think I 
have condescended to become a Party Man in their unimportant Disputes 
about Manly and McNiel ; neither of whom, in my opinion, derivd much 
Honor from the Decisions of the late Courts Martial. I wonder that 
Manly should attribute his Disappointment to me." At my Request he 
calld to see me. I found him to be one of those Men who stand in Need 
of Advice, and gave him the best I could. I told him what Questions I 
thought would be put to him, that he might be prepared to answer them. 
In short I said every thing to him as a Friend which was proper for me to 
say. Perhaps I was too candid to be thought a Friend. I intended to have 
been present at the Committee but was unavoidably hinderd. He left the 
City without calling on me a second time. McNeil is still here. He has called 
on me twice or thrice. I know not in what Part of the City he lives. His 
Friends and his Enemies may be assured that I shall give my Voice upon 
the Subject Matter of his Petition according to my best Skill and Judg- 
ment. In this I am sure to be justified by those to whose good opinion 
alone I pay the least Regard, the candid and impartial.^ .... 

Philada. Sept. I, 1778. 



497. Samuel Holten, Diary.* 

[September 1-4, 1778.] 
Sept. I. Congress sit late. By invitation the Delegates from Mass'a 

dined with Mr. Duer, Mr. Dean and Genl. Arnold at their lodgings. 
2. By invitation I dined at the City Tavern with the Delegates from 

South Carolina, Congress and a number of other Gentlemen dined with us. 
J. Congress resolved to meet twice a day for 2 months.^ 
4. Congress received a letter from General Sullivan informing of a 

Battle at Rhode Island and our army took possession of the ground. 

[496]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS. ; Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 52. 

2 Adams is replying to a letter of Aug. 18 {Warren- Adams Letters, II. 41), in 
which Warren says : " Manley has returned here greatly Chagrined, and full of Bitter- 
ness and resentment against you, who he Considers as the principle Occasion of his 
disappointment, it is Circulated with Industry that you are the patron of McNeil and 
Intend to have the decision of the Court Martial set aside." Warren's reply to this 
letter and that of Sept. 12 (no. 518, post) is ibid., II. 47, dated Sept. 30. 

3 In a letter to John Bradford, entirely pertaining to AIcNeill, Adams wrote, 
Sept. 8 : "I suppose he is preparing to meet the Marine Committee to whom his Petition 
is referrd. When it may be proper for me to give my Opinion, I intend to do it, with 
Freedom and Impartiality, not feeling my self interested in the Party Disputes which I 
perceive there are in Boston between the two Men, neither of whom in my opinion has 
derivd much Honor from the Decisions of the Courts Martial respecting them" {Writ- 
ings, IV. 57). See, further, no. 532, post, also the letter to Warren Sept. 12, and that to 
S. P. Savage Sept. 14 {Writings, IV. 58, 61). Cf. no. 440, ante. 

[^'JlV Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 171. 
- See no. 494, note 2, ante. 



398 Continental Congress 

498. Samuel Adams to James Bowdoin/ 

Dear Sir, 

A few days ago I received a letter from your son in law Mr Temple 
dated New York, August 23d, requesting me by the first opportunity to 
inform you of his and Mrs Temple's arrival there, and that, for par- 
ticular reasons he should be exceedingly happy if your affairs would per- 
mit you to meet them at Philadelphia, or as near it as might be convenient 
to you. He requested this of me, because excepting that letter and 
another to Mr President Laurens, he had not written a line since his 
arrival at N. Y., and he had still weighty reasons for declining it. He also 
desired me to cause it to be made as convenient as might be (at his ex- 
pence) for Mrs Temple and her little boy, who had not been well since 
their arrival, to get to Philadelphia. His baggage which is both hea\y 
and bulkey, he intended to get transported in a Flag, if any should be 
suffered to pass, to Boston, or some port as near it as might be, and hoped 
to see me soon in this city. His letter to the President was read in Con- 
gress. It was short and contained little more than to sollicit leave to come 
to Philada to pay his respects to Congress. This was refus'd upon the 
idea that he might be a secret emissary from the British Court. I think 
it is best for him that his request is not granted ; for the jealousy of the 
people at large would, I believe, render his residence here very uncom- 
fortable. A certain Doctor Burkenhout, who came from London in the 

same packett with Mr T , is now in prison in this city, committed 

by the authority of this State, under the same suspicion. I took occasion to 
inform Congress from my own knowledge of Mr Temple, that although he 
had been formerly an officer of the Crown of Great Britain, and in the 
Customs, yet he had constantly given great offence to his brother Com- 
missioners and other friends of that government, particularly Bernard 
and Hutchinson, by his attachment to those who espoused the liberties 
of America; that he went to England seven years ago, where, I understood, 
he had since lived the greater part of the time, entirely out of favor at 
Court and in private life ; and that I had reason to think his connexions in 
Boston had long expected his return to spend his days there. Congress 
afterwards orderd the Secretary to inform Mr Temple, that if it was his 
intention to reside in any one of the United States, the same should be 
signified by him to the State in which he intends to reside, and the appro- 
bation of that State obtaind before a passport could be granted to him. 
Thus the matter stands in all its particulars, a view of which I thought 
it proper you should be acquainted with. I wish Mr Temple had turned 
his attention first to Boston. It is probable he will now do it, and that 
you will receive a letter from him." 

Philadelphia, Septr. 3, 1778. 

[498]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, sixth ser., IX. 423; Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 54. 
2 See the Journals, Sept. i; cf. ibid., Dec. 3, 8. See also nos. 671, 672, 685, 689, 
698, 699, post. Concerning Dr. Berkenhout, see no. 487, ante, and nos. 500, 502, 564, 566, 
635, 671, 697, post. 



September, i-j-jS 399 



499. John Witherspoon to 



Philadelphia, Sept. 3, 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

Your very acceptable letter of the 21st of IMarch, I received about the 
middle of June, and would have answered it long ago, if there had been 
any encouraging prospect of conveying it safely. .... 

Your letter came to me sealed, and apparently never opened, in a packet 
from the British commissioners, which arrived at York-town while the 

Congress was sitting ; and consequently it, as well as one from Air. F , 

was delivered to me in presence of the whole members. As the same 
packet, besides the public message, contained some private letters ad- 
dressed to particular members, some of them from Governor Johnstone, 
one of the commissioners, a proposal was made by a member, who read 
publicly one received by himself, that every gentleman who had received 
private letters from any person with the enemy, should deliver them to 
Congress, that they might be read. This would have been attended with 

no difficulty as to me; except some family affairs in Mr. F 's letter 

very improper to be publicly read, and some expressions in his letter a 
little offensive speaking of Congress. However, it was not done at that 
time ; and afterwards, in a diet at many days distance, every member who 
had received any such letters, was called upon to read from them what 
related to public affairs, which was done." .... 



500. Richard Henry Lee to the Vice-President of 
Pennsylvania (George Bryan). ^ 

Philadelphia Septr. 4. 1778. 

Mr. President Laurens having this day infonned Congress that your 
honorable board desired he would write to Gen. Maxwell concerning 
Doctor Berkenhout, it was desired by Congress that I should furnish you 
with the Generals letter to me upon the subject, which I have now the 
honor of doing.^ 

I must do Dr. Berkenhout the justice to say, that when I informed him 
General Maxwell had written me that he, the Doctor, said he had " intelli- 
gence of much import for Congress " he replied it was a mistake, and that 
he attributed it to the General being at the time engaged in business with 
many people, and to his having said his business was to see a Member of 
Congress, meaning myself. He has further, in conversation told me, that 
his plan in coming to America was, to find a proper place to fix himself 
and his family in a Country of freedom, and where he might advanta- 
geously practise physick which is his profession. For this he assigned 
many reasons that appeared to me very forcible ones. 

[499]! Works (Edinburgh, 1815), IX. 166. 

2 See the Journals, June 17, July 9, 16. Cf. nos. 340, 355, 358, 373, a«^t'- 
[500] 1 Library of Congress, Portfolio 104. 

2 See no. 487, ante, and no. 502, post. 



400 Continental Congress 

Be pleased Sir to return me the letter of Gen. Maxwell when you have 
done with it. 

I am, with due regard. Sir 

Your most obedient and very humble Ser\1:. 

Richard Henry Lee. 

501. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO John Beatty.^ 

4th Sept. [1778.] 
Sir 

.... This will be conducted by Josiah Tatnell Esqr. a Gentleman late 
of the State of Georgia decended from an Ancient and very respectable 
family in South Carolina, and himself no less respected in both those 
States, his political determinations excepted. 

Mr. Tatnal was lately made Prisoner of War by the Count d'Estaing's 
Squadron; the Honorable the Minister Plenipotentiai*y of France has 
permitted him by a writing of his hand subscribed and sealed to go into 
New York in order to work his discharge by the releasment from thence of 
a Subject of His Most Christian Majesty in Exchange, this paper and 
also a Copy of his parole Mr. Tatnal will produce for your inspection. 
Congress have directed me to give this Gentleman a Pass through Jersey, 
which he will also shew you, and as Mrs. Tatnal with a little family are 
under his charge I request you Sir, to do me the favor of facilitating their 
passage. 

Congress have also permitted Captain William Nicholls late Com- 
mander of the British Packet Eagle to go into New York for the like 
purpose of effecting a proper Exchange which you will prescribe and 
determine upon, and will also take Captain Nicholl's Parole and restrict 
the term for his absence in failure of his attempt, in which I would wish 
you to be very pointed, because from my particular application this in- 
dulgence has been obtain'd. 

Your Predecessor in Office the Honorable Mr. Boudinot will say much 
in favor of Captain Nicholls' conduct during his parole confinement within 
this State. I have known the Captain some five or six years, and have from 
thence a regard for him." 

502. Henry Laurens to William Maxwell.^ 

5th Septr. [1778.] 
<Sir 

I had the honor of paying my respects to you the 26th Ulto. in a private 
address, this is intended also as a private, having received no Commands 
from Congress respecting your late Letter." 

[501 ]i Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, II. 61. Addressed, "Colo. John 
Beaty Com. Genl. of Prisoners Princetown ". 

2 The Journals contain no mention of the cases of Tatnall and Nichols. 
[502]! s. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 295. Addressed to 
General Maxwell at Elizabeth (New Jersey), "by Mr. Tatnall ". 

- The letter referred to is probably the letter of Aug. 25 to Richard Henry Lee 
(see no. 487, ante), which Lee says was laid before Congress. 



September, ijyS 401 

The Executive Council of this State lately ordered Doctor Berkenhout 
\vho came from within the Enemie's Lines at New York thro' your Head 
Quarters into this City where he had remained some days without explain- 
ing himself or the nature of his errand to the Vice President of the State, 
the President of Congress, or to any Magistrate, to be apprehended and 
committed to Goal, where he now lies, under suspicion of being a Spy. 
from the contents of a Paper found in his custody it appears he had a 
design of offering himself to Congress as a private negociator for terms 
of peace consistent with Independence between these United States and 
Great Britain, and 'tis certain that upon his journey hither, he in conver- 
sation with a Gentleman in Jersey assum'd the Character of Agent or 
Commissioner from the Court of Great Britain to Congress. 

In a letter to Congress written since he has been in confinement, in 
terms which appear to be extremely equivocal he claims no public Char- 
acter, says " he came hither under the sanction of a Pass from an American 
General ", complains of the hardship of being imprisoned " in a Country 
which he had been taught to revere as the asylum of liberty " and requests 
to be permitted to return from whence he came.^ 

Congress have declined interfering in this business, but I am particu- 
larly requested by a Gentleman of the Council to enquire of You, Sir, 
what were Dr. Berkenhout's pretensions of business or Character when 
he apply'd to you for a pass and under what authority or permission he 
gained access to you. 

I have also to request you to infomi me if you can possibly learn how 
many ships of the Line which lately went out of the Hook under the 
command of Lord Howe in order to divert our attack [under?] Count 
d'Estaing returned after the Storm into New York, a very sensible Man, 
a deserter from the Enemy, assures me, the Eagle and 3 or 4 more capital 
Ships were driven on shore on Long Island and totally lost, that Lord 
Howe returned in a frigate which bore his flag, and hitherto I have 
seen no other names in the New York Papers of his Lordships squadron 
but the Isis, Renown, and Prescott, which gives an air of truth to the 
deserters narrative. This is an interesting subject if you will make the 
necessary enquiry and communicate the result together with every par- 
ticular information you can collect of the State of the British Fleet you 
will thereby render a favor which will oblige me very much, and of which 
I will embrace all opportunities for making proper acknowledgements.* 

Memo. 

Sent the Secretarys Letter to \Vm. [John] Temple Esq. under cover to 
Genl. Maxwell 

3 Berkenhout's letter was read in Congress Sept. 5. See nos. 487, 498, 500, ante, 
and nos. 564, 566, 635, 671, 697, post. See also Pa. Col. Recs., XI. 567, 568, 576; Pa. Arch., 
VI, 742. 

■* Cf. Henry Marchant to Governor Greene, Sept. 6, in Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 199. 



402 Continental Con caress 



^' 



503. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee.'^ 

Philadelphia Sept. 6, 1778 
My dear Brother 

.... Congress has not yet taken up the consideration of foreign 
affairs, but they soon will, I expect in a few days, when I will write you 
more fully." We are very anxious here to know that Spain has acceded 
to our Alliance, and it would be very pleasing that Holland had deter- 
mined to open Trade with us 

504. Samuel Holteist, Diary.^ 

[September 7, 1778.] 
7. Congress sit late. We received intelligence from Genl. Sullivan 
respecting the battle and retreat from Rhode Island. I think Gen. Sullivan 
conducted as well as could be expected. 

505. John Penn to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia, Sept. 7th 1778. 
Dear Sir: 

When I was at New Bern last and was infomied that several Gentlemen 
of the Assembly proposed to ask more money for the purpose of raising 
Troops for the Grand Army, I was against it and gave my advice that 
application should be made to Congress for whatever money was necessary 
for public use, giving them as a reason that I thought it more for the inter- 
est of North Carolina to be indebted to the United States, than the reverse 
that all the other States were occasionally supplied with money, and I was 
authorized to say (to the Treasury Board) that they would have money by 
the loth of May; besides what money was made in our State was con- 
fined there. I also knew that no Governor or State when I left Congress 
was treated with more respect than your Excellency and those you presided 
over. I therefore had no doubt you would have received whatever money 
was necessary for marching the Troops without delay. Judge then Sir, 
of my surprise and chagrin when I found by your letter, which I got a 
few days ago which I most sensibly felt the indignity offered the State, 
I belonged to, by the little respect that was paid to her first Magistrate, 
and loudly complained of it in Congress. The members seem much con- 
cerned and resolved to grant us the sum you wrote for, indeed they 
appeared willing to do every thing that tends to our interest.^ 

[503]^ Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), L 433. 

~ See the Journals, Aug. 13, 14, 15, Sept. 11 to Oct. 22, passim. 
[504]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 171. 
[505]! A^. C. St. Recs., XIIL 214. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 31, Sept. 5; also the letter of Penn, Harnett, and 
Williams to Caswell, Sept. 8, in A''. C. State Recs., XIII. 216. Cf. no. 480, ante, and nos. 
523, 542, 546, 552, post. The letter of Caswell to which Penn refers is in A'^. C. State 
Recs., XIIL 207, dated Aug. 13. 



September, i/yS 403 

W'e shall send ofif the money as soon as we can, which will I expect be 
in a short time. Congress are obliged to meet twice a day, business still 
increases, in short unless persons are appointed not members to do some 
of it we must all be ruined.^ .... 

If the Assembly did not discharge the soldiers it is the wish of Con- 
gress that they may be kept in Carolina, under the officers until your 
Excellency can hear from them.* .... 

506. William Henry Drayton to John Laurens.^ 

Philadelphia, September 7th, 1778. 
Dear Sir: 

.... W'e have had but little information with respect to the operations 
of the French fleet during their expedition against Lord Howe. General 
Sullivan forgot to inclose a copy of D'Estaing's letter to him immediately 
upon his return to Rhode Island. We have no account of the names of the 
officers who signed the protest, nor of the answer of the general officers to 
General Sullivan's third proposition to them, immediately upon the de- 
parture of the French fleet for Boston ; nor of the precise time when the 
fleet sailed for and arrived at Boston. These, you know, are of importance 
to me. The stationary nature of the camp at White Plains may enable you 
to inform me on this point, and on those relative to Monmouth.^ 

507. Josiah Bartlett to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia Septr 8th 1778 
Hon'd Sir 

I have Received your favors of the 8th and 19th ulto and must inform 
you that I can see no prospect at present of my being able to procure money 
to be advanced and sent to our State by Congress and for the reasons I 
mentioned to you and to Colo. Nicholas Gilman in my letters of the 3d 
and 4th of last month, when I Receive answers to those letters I shall 
Conduct my Self in that matter according to your Directions. The Dele- 
gates of Massachusetts Bay took an order on their own Treasury for 
300,000 Dollars to be advanced to them out of the money they were to 
raise for the use of the Continent, but as I was Doubtful whither a 
Similar order on our Treasury would answer your end, I Did not move 
for it, as I make no Doubt you will make use of the money raised by taxes 
in our State if necessary for the public Service.^ 

3 Cf. nos. 109, 199, 274, 471, ante, 602, 603, post. 

* No record of such a decision by Congress is found in the Journals. 
[506]! Moore, Materials for History, first ser. {Correspondence of Henry Laurens), 
p. 124. 

- See the Journals, Aug. 28, and nos. 485, 486, 490, ante, 510, 511, 518, 519, 578, 
post. 

[507]! Copied from the orginial, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. In the Dartmouth College Library, Bartlett Correspondence, vol. I., is a 
draft of this letter, endorsed by Bartlett, " Substance of a Letter to President Weare 
Sept. 8th 1778 ". 

- See no. 447, ante, and no. 560, post. 

30 



404 Continental Congress 

I have Communicated to Several of the N : E : Delegates what Relates 
to some of the Towns of our State Joining themselves to the State of 
Vermont (as they are pleased to Call themselves) my present opinion 
is, that it will be best to lay the matter before Congress for their Direction, 
but I shall Consider more of it, and take further advice before I proceed. 
Those Delegates to whom I have Communicated the affair, seem surprised 
at the ungenerous and impolite Conduct of Vermont, and I have reason 
to Believe they will find few or none in Congress that will Justify their 
Conduct or Espouse their Cause.^ 

I have Reced a Copy of the appointment of Delegates to attend Con- 
gress the first of November next, and I must beg leave inform you That 
I can by no means attend Congress after the last of October next. By 
reason of Mr. Wentworth's Sickness I have not Reed, the least assistance 
from him, and am obliged to attend so Closely to public business without 
any interval of Relaxation, that it will be necessary for my Constitution 
of body and mind to be relieved then, if I am able to hold out till that time. 
I hope Sir you will give Mr. Whipple and Frost notice and that they will 
be here Seasonable as the State will not be Represented after that time 
till they arrive. 

Mr. Wentworth left this place the 21st ulto and is by this time I hope 
nearly arrived home 

I am Sir, with great Respect 

Your most obedient Servant 

JosiAH Bartlett, 

508. Robert Morris to James Duane.^ 

Philada. Septr. 8th. 1778 
My Dear Sir 

.... Many important Scenes have occurred since we parted, often 
have I wished for opportunities of Consulting you on whose judgement 
and Friendship I cou'd safely rest my self. Duer in many instances 
supplied your place and a Worthy honest Fellow he is, that Man deserves 
the Esteem and Confidence of his constituents in the highest degree, for 
his only fault is an over zeal and anxiety in their affairs. They have an 
able advocate in my namesake ^ and really the representation in Congress 
from N York does honour to the State. You called on me to give my 
feeble Voice in support of your representation of the Indian affairs and in 
bringing forward the Tryal of General Schuyler and had I attended Con- 
gress, I certainly shou'd have promoted the points you wished all in my 
power because I did then as I do now think them just and reasonable, the 
first have not produced all the evils you expected especially to N York and 
the latter is I hope brought about by this time. I make no doubt our Friend 
Genl. Schuyler will be acquitted with honour and I shall rejoice very 
sincerely with you whenever it happens 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 16, and nos. 543, 597, 644, 646, 660, 672, post. Cf. no. 469, 
ante. ^ ,, 

[508]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, VIII. 208; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., 
American Papers, III. 261 (copy). 

- Gouverneur Morris. 



September, ly/S 405 

I did not join Congress seriously iintill since they came down here, 
now and then I paid them a visit of a few days in York Town during 
the Winter and Spring, notwithstanding this a great part of my time 
was employed in Public business for people were perpetually coming 
after me about it the recess I obtained from my State was of real Service 
to my own affairs and enabled me to arrange and bring them again into 
some order.^ I find also that this recess has caused the strongest desire to 
take place in my mind to get back into my private station again. 

Ambition had no share in bringing me forward into Public life nor has 
it any charms to keep me there, the time I have spent in it has been the 
severest Tax of my life and really I think those who have had so much, 
shou'd now be relieved and let some fresh hands take the Helm, these 
notions prompt me to get out of Congress at the next appointment of 
Delegates, but my Namesake swears I shall not depart 

The alliance with France certainly secures our Independance and has 
procured us temporary advantages but I wish these may be properly 
followed up and the most made of them, our Money is at present the only 
stumbling block. I wish you was here to assist on that Subject it is as 
Intricate as important and w^e really want light and help 

509. Samuel Holten, Diary,^ 

[September 9, 1778.] 
p. Congress sit but half the day. In the evening I met a Number of 
Gentlemen of Congress upon Business at the City Tavern. 

510. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 

TO COMTE D'EsTAING.^ 

loth September [1778.] 
Sir 

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that your Letters to me of 
the 8th July and 26th of August have been laid before Congress.^ 

The trust reposed in Your Excellency by His Most Christian Majesty 
in your present Command, is so high an Evidence of Your Excellency's 
proved abilities, zeal and bravery, as to secure your reputation against 
those injuries which the ill success of the best laid Plans sometimes brings 
upon less establish'd Characters. 

I am to assure you Sir, that Congress, not admitting a doubt of Your 
Excellency's attachment to the joint interests of Your Sovereign and of 

3 See nos. 254, 348, ante. 

[SoqY Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 171. 

[510]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 73; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens 
Letter-Book, Alar.-Sept., 1778, p. 310; Paris, Arch. Marine, 146: 202 (L. S.). Addressed, 
" His Excellency the Count d'Estaing, Lieut. General of the Armies of His Most 
Christian Majestj% Vice Admiral of his Fleets, and Knight of his Orders Boston". 
The letter-book notes also, " delivered Monsr. Girard ". 

2 See the Journals, July 11, Sept. 9, 10. Concerning the episode of the Rhode 
Island expedition, see nos. 485, 486, 489, 490, 504, 506, ante, 511, 515, 518, 519, 532, 578, 
post. 



406 Continental Congress 

these United States, have readily concluded that Your Excellency has been 
influenced in all your aims for the general good since Your Excellency's 
arrival in America by a strict attention to Your Orders, and to the 
peculiar state of your Squadron under the varying circumstances of time 
and place. 

The People of America must indeed regret the failure of the late 
Expedition against Rhode Island ; but certainly they will not omit to do 
just Credit to the Martial zeal of their Naval Allies, which, in pursuit 
of an hostile fleet was overborne by the power of a sudden and severe 
Tempest. From such an unfavorable Casualty they will look forward, in 
hope of Events more consonant to the wise intentions of His Most 
Christian Majesty, the Glory of his Fleets, and the security and Interest 
of the United States. 

You may be confidant Sir, that every possible aid will be afforded to 
Your Excellency for the repair of Your Ships. The most immediate and 
active Measures were taken to furnish Your Squadron with all the supplies 
which Congress was at first informed were wanted. The true cause why 
you did not earlier receive them, was the difference between that facility 
with which ships move from one place to another, and the Embarrassments 
of a distant land Carriage. The Plan for furnishing Your Excellency's 
Squadron at Sandy Hook was rendered abortive by its removal to Rhode 
Island ; and the Provisions ordered for this latter place, were afterwards 
to be transported by land to Boston. 

The public Officers are now diligently employed in forwarding to that 
Capital such supplies as Congress have been informed will suffice for the 
Squadron thirty days, and if more is required to be sent thither. Congress 
will continue in the exertion of every practicable means to comply with 
Your Excellency's future Requisitions : but it is to be wished that the 
delay and expence of so long a land Carriage in victualling the Squadron 
could be prevented by its change of Harbour as speedily as possible to 
Chesapeak Bay or that of Delaware. 

511. Henry L.\urens to Rawlins Lowndes.^ 

loth Septr. [1778.] 
.... General Sullivan writes the 3d Inst, that a perfect harmony sub- 
sisted between the Count d'Estaing and himself, this points at certain 
Circumstances which had happened upon the Count's determination to go 
into Boston the knowledge of which Congress had engaged to keep within 
doors, therefore I have not spoke of them to Your Excellency or any other 

friend and I think myself not yet releas'd 

I shall inclose certain Resolves of Congress approving the late conduct at 
Rhode Island, and two of Dunlaps" Advertisers the Resolves may be 
published.^ I intimated to the House a Resolve of November last ^ for 

[511]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept, 1778, p. 306. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 9. The resolves were printed in the Pennsylvania 
Packet (Dunlap's "Advertiser"), Sept. 10. Cf. no. 510, a>ite, and no. 515, post. 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 28, 1777. 



September, i/y8 407 

enquiring into the causes of miscarriage of every Expedition etc as a bar 
to hasty approbation and thanks but my sentiments were lost. I have not 
time to expatiate on a subject which seems to require attention. 

On the 5th Inst, a Member of Congress Mr. R. Alorris declared in the 
House in a fonnal Address to the Chair that the Embargo was not re- 
garded in Maryland, that flour was daily exported thence under, or under 
the Idea of. Tobacco. The Delegates of Maryland were present. No Con- 
tradiction was intimated. No doubts of the facts suggested, and the matter 
passed over without notice. This is a simple relation of a fact which duty 
to my Country has prompted.* .... 

512. The Committee of Arrangement to Theoderick Bland.^ 

Head Quarters, September nth 1778. 
Dear Sir 

The Committee of Arrangement " request you would transmit to Head 
Quarters either to the Commander in Chief or them an exact Return of 
your Regiment, or if possible an arrangement of it pursuant to the new 
Regulation of Congress ; specifying in the Return the particular state 
from which each Recruit was raised. If any disputes subsist among the 
Captains or subalterns they are to be settled by a Board to be appointed 
for that Purpose, and if any such prevail among the Field officers you 
will please to make a State* and Report thereof to this Committee, and as 
no Claims not represented before the Committee make their Report can be 
admitted without an application to Congress they wish the utmost dispatch. 
With a Return of the officers Names send the dates of their Commissions. 
I am in Behalf of the Committee your mo. obed Servant 

J. Banister. 

inclosed is a Copy of the new Arrangement, prescribed by Congress, 
for your direction.^ 

513. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[September 12, 1778.] 
12. The Delegates from Mass'a dined with the minister of France and 
a number of other members of Congress, the dinner was grand and elegant 
and in the French taste. 

* See the Journals, Sept. 11; also nos. 517, 520, 521, 534, 547, 552, 556, post. Cf. 
nos. 462, 472, 492, ante. 

[512]! Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722 (addressed to "Col. Theok. Bland or 
in his absence to the Commanding Officer of his Regimt. of Horse") ; Bland Papers (ed. 
Charles Campbell), I. 102. 

2 The committee of arrangement, as first constituted, consisted of two members, 
Joseph Reed and Francis Dana (see no. 336, ante). Dana obtained leave of absence 
Aug. 7 and took his departure about Aug. 12. On Aug. 10 Sherman and Banister were 
added to the committee, and all three (Reed, Banister, and Sherman) were at this 
time at Washington's headquarters. They probably left Congress Aug. 17, as they are 
last recorded as voting Aug. 16. Cf. no. 467, ante, and no. 548, post. 

^ The arrangement transmitted was presumably that recorded in the Journals 
under May 27. Letters from the committee to Congress were read Sept. 7, 10, 17; a 
report was brought in Oct. 9, considered Oct. 12, and adopted Nov. 24. 
[513P Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 171. 



408 Continental Congress 

514. JosiAH Bartlett to William Whipple.^ 

Philadelphia Sept 12th. 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The enclosed paper will inform you what the British Com- 
missioners have been sending to Congress and that we have not thought 
proper to make them any other answer than the Resolve concerning re- 
leasing the convention prisioners. The letter to them signed W. H. D. 
was wrote I suppose by Chief Justice Drayton member from So. Carolina 
as were the former letters under that signature.' .... 

515. Henry Marchant to John Sullivan.^ 

Philadelphia Sept. 12th, 1778 
Sir, 

I have to congratulate you upon the acknowledged Generalship which 

you displayed in the late Expedition against Rhode Island I did 

myself the Honor of bringing into Congress such Resolutions upon that 
Occasion as I thought were due from the Publick, to Your Zeal, Bravery 
and good Conduct, and that Display of Fortitude and Spirit which ani- 
mated the Officers and Troops. Those Resolutions with some small 
alterations were passed, they are contained in the Paper inclosed.^ .... 

516. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
John Cadwalader.^ 

Philadelphia 
1 2th Septr. 1778. 
Sir, 

His Excellency General Washington having recommended to Congress 
the appointment of a General of Horse, the House took that subject under 
consideration the loth Inst, when you were unanimously elected Brigadier 
and Commander of the Cavalry in the service of the United States. 

From the general voice abovementioned you will perceive Sir, the 
earnest desire of the House, that you will accept a Commission and enter 
as early as your convenience will admit of upon the duties of the Office 
and I flatter my self with hopes of congratulating you in a few days, upon 
this occasion.^ 

[514]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 555. 

- See the Journals, Aug. 12, 31, Sept. 3 (p. 876), 4, 10. Cf. nos. 469, note 6, 491. 
ante. The letter of Ferguson, the declaration of Johnstone, and the declaration of 
Carlisle, Clinton, and Eden, Aug. 26, together with William Henry Drayton's address 
to the commissioners dated Sept. 4, were printed in the Pennsylvania Packet of Sept. 12. 
The letters and declarations are in Almon's Remembrancer, lyjS-iyyg, pp. 15-18, Dray- 
ton's address at pp. 55-64. Concerning Drayton's earlier addresses to the commissioners, 
see nos. 411, 421, 462, ante. 

[515]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Sullivan Papers, I. 

- See the Journals, Sept. 9. Cf. nos. 504, 510, 511, ante, and nos. 518, 519, post. See 
also Marchant to Governor Greene, Sept. 6, and to the Rhode Island assembly, Sept. 12, 
in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., pp. 198, 200. 

[516]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Cadwalader Papers, I.; Library of Congress, President's 
Letter-Book, II. 76. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 10, 22 ; cf. ibid., Nov. 24. 



September, lyyS 409 

517. Henry Laurens to William Smith/ 

1 2th Septr. [i77cS.] 
Dear Sir 

.... It has been acknowledged that a Member of Congress did give 
the Information respecting exportation of flour to the Eastern States, 
Intending it only for private information of your Governor and Council 
but that you my good friend opened the Letter and let the contents pass 
under the Eye of several Merchants and others, pray, between you and I, 
how stands this Mystery ? ^ . . . . 

518, Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philade. Sept. 12 1778 
My dear Sir 

.... Last Evening a Letter from Governor Trumbull was read in 
Committee, strongly recommending a Captain for the Ship at Norwich, 
who, added to great Qualifications, can readily get Men for her.- I 
mentiond Manly as having the Character of a brave and very popular 
officer ; and read those Parts in your Letter to me that related to him ; ^ 
but I am convinced he need not impute his being overlookd to any other 
Cause than the Decree of the Court Martial, which acquitted him with 
Honor 

The Rhode Island Expedition is at length finishd. Our Cause is not 
dishonord though we have not succeeded to our Wishes. Congress have 
approvd of the Retreat, thanked General Sullivan and his brave Troops 
and applauded the Patriotick Exertions of New England. Major General 
Hancock was unluckily at Boston and missed the Laurel.* In my opinion 
it would be in a great Degree impolitick at this Juncture to suffer an 
Odium to be cast on the Count D'Estaing. If there should be a Dispo- 
sition to do it, I am perswaded Men of Discretion and Influence will 

[517]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 312. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 2, 11, Oct. 2; also nos. 492, 511, ante, nos. 520, 521, 534, 
547. 552, 556, post. Cf. Arch, of Md., XXL 195, 196, 197, 199, 202, 205, 206. 

[518]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. HL; Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 58; 
N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (draft). 

2 The ship was the Confederacy and the captain recommended by Governor 
Trumbull was Seth Harding, who received the appointment Sept. 25. See the Journals 
(pp. 949, 951), and nos. 537, 539, 540, post. 

3 Adams is replying particularly to Warren's letter of Aug. 25 {Warren- Adams 
Letters, H. 43), and it was a passage from that letter which he read in committee (the 
draft of Adams's letter reads, "those Parts of your last Letter"). There is much more 
in Adams's letter concerning Gaptain Manley (see nos. 440, 496, ante, no. 532, post), and 
also a passage concerning Gaptain Landais (see nos. 314, 316, 317, 362, 366, ante). 

* In his letter of Aug. 18 Warren remarks : " Mr. Hancock is returned, seems 
to be in pretty good Health, is gone on the Expedition against R. Island ", etc. {Warren^ 
Adams Letters, II. 41; see Adams's reply, Sept. i. Writings, IV. 52). In a postscript 
of Aug. 27 to his letter of Aug. 25 Warren says : " General Hancock returned last Even- 
ing to this Town. It is reported and believed, I suppose, that he is come to order back 
the French Squadron ", etc. {Warren- Adams Letters, II. 43). Cf. nos. 396, 409, 410, ante. 



410 Continental Congress 

check it. The Tories will try their utmost to discredit our new Alliance.'^ 
And he who not long ago expressed his Opinion, that " a Connection wuth 
France would ruin America," will not fail to promote a Jealousy if he 
can thereby establish his Popularity. Such men should be critically watchd 
on this Occasion.® 



519. Samuel Adams to Samuel Phillips Savage.^ 

Phile. Sept 14 — 78 ^ 
D'r S'r 

.... I am sorry to hear there is a Disposition in some persons in 
Boston to cast an odium on the french Admiral for his leaving Rhode 
Island. In my Opinion it is at this Juncture impolitick in the Extreme. 
Even if his Conduct was thought to be blameworthy Prudence I think 
would dictate Silence to us. Men of Discretion and Influence will surely by 
all means check such a Disposition. 

The Tories will try their utmost to discredit our new Alliance. You 
know how much depends upon our cultivating mutual Confidence. It is 
not in the Power of undisguisd Tories to hurt our Cause. Injudicious tho 
honest Whigs may and too often do injure it. Those whose chief aim is 
to establish a Popularity in order to obtain the Emoluments of places or 
the Breath of Applause will think they may serve themselves by declaiming 
on this Subject, or prompting others to do it; and they will not fail doing 
it though they essentially wound their Country. 

s In a letter Sept. 2 Warren wrote to Adams : " we have a foolish Spirit pre- 
vailing with rancour against the French for leaving Rhode Island. I call it a foolish 
one because in my Opinion, if the Conduct of the French has been bad, Common dis- 
cretion would dictate silence to us, and that the only thing was to make the best of it 
at present, this is the doctrine I preach and practise" {Warren- Adams Letters, II. 46). 
It is questionable whether Adams had yet received this letter of Sept. 12, but a phrase 
in the letter to S. P. Savage, Sept. 14 (no. 519, post), " Prudence I think would dictate 
Silence to us ", suggests that he had at that time received Warren's letter. Cf. nos. 486, 
489, 490, 510, 511, 515, ante, 519, 530, 532, 578, post. A letter from Samuel Cooper to 
Franklin Jan. 4, 1779 (Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XIII. 14; Franklin's Works, 
ed. Sparks, VIII. 305), relates principally to the prejudice against D'Estaing because of 
his action at Rhode Island. 

^ The draft has " Such a Man ". The allusion is doubtless to Hancock. Cf. 
Adams to S. P. Savage, Sept. 14 {Writings, IV. 61), and to [John Bradford?], Sept. 21 
(no. 532, post). In a letter to Adams May 10 {Warren-Adams Letters, II. 9) Warren 
mentions an entertainment given to the French officers at Marston, and says : " the 
Representatives of your Town were all present Except Genl. Hancock who did not 
honour us with his Company why he did not is a Subject of Conjecture for you and 
others without being able to assign a reason in any other way." And farther on he re- 
marks : " but what will you think of a member of Congress who for the sake of Estab- 
lishing his own popularity or for any other reason should Express his Apprehensions 
or rather his Opinion that this Connection will ruin America, when such an Opinion 
was given in the hearing of one Tory Lady you may easily Conceive it is told to others 
and quoted by the great Numbers with which your dear Town abounds." For other 
comments on the conduct of Hancock, see Warren to John Adams, Oct. 7, 1778, and 
June 13, 1779, in Warren-Adams Letters, II. 50, 103. 

[519]^ Writings (ed. Cushing), IV. 61; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; 
Wells, Life of Adavis, III. 40 (extract). 

2 " Congress sit till after 8 in the evening" (Samuel Holten, Diarj^, Essex Inst. 
Hist. Colls., LV. 172). 



September, ijyS 411 

If there be any of my virtuous and puhlick spirited fellow Citizens who 
pay the least Regard to my opinions I wish they would particularly regard 
what I say on this Occasion.^ 

I have written in haste and must break off abruptly. 



520. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes)/ 

15th September [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

I had the honor of addressing Your Excellency on the loth Instant by 
Mr. Frisch. on that or the next day Congress framed a Resolve earnestly 
recommending to the Government of Maryland to take Measures for 
preventing infractions on the General Embargo," but yesterday we re- 
ceived repeated Intelligence of illicit exportations of Provisions from 
that State, it appears to be an indubitable truth, that refraining on our 
part from Exportation of Provisions would be a more sure means of 
driving the Enemy from our Coast, than all our troops. If we export 
freely the Enemy will be supported and our Army starved 



521. Francis Lewis to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Sir 

.... Various complaints have been lately made to Congress, purport- 
ing that some Traders at Baltimore are engrossing the flour and other 
provision, and shipping off the same in direct violation of the Embargo, 
which if not immediately remedy'd will tend to ruin our Armies and the 
Fleet of our Allies.^ .... 

Phila 15th Septmr. 1778 

522. John Harvie to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Septr. the 15th 1778. 
Dear Sir 

.... I intended to have been at the Octo. General Court early in the 
Session, but there is such a remissness in our Delegates if I leave Congress 
now our State will be Unrepresented at a time two [.yfc] when Business 
of the Utmost Consequence to us particularly is in Agitation. I must 

3 See no. 518, ante. 
[520]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 317. 

2 The resolution in the Journals under Sept. ii. Cf. nos. 492, 511, note 4, 517, 
ante. According to the Letter-Book, the bearer of Laurens's letter of Sept. 10 was 
Charles Frisch. This letter was " by Lebbeaus Whitney ". 
[521]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIL 

2 Cf. nos. 511, 517, ante. 
[522]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second sen, XL. 83. 



412 Continental Congress 

therefore Sacrifice my own private Interests to a publick Duty. The 
Moment F. Lee or M. Smith arrive I quit this place I hope for Good.^ 
Adieu 

523. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell)/ 

Philadelphia Septr. 15 1778 

Sir: 

The Deligates of the State wrote you a few days ago, that they had at 
last Obtained a grant of the rema[i]ning- 400,000 Dollars to compleat your 

2 See no. 561, post. The Virginia delegates in actual attendance at this time 
were Harvie, Richard Henry Lee, and Cyrus Griffin. Banister was on a committee at 
headquarters. Meriwether Smith took his seat Sept. 28, Francis Lightfoot Lee Nov. 9. 
Harvie appears to have left Congress Oct. 19 (see no. 586, note 3, post). As an ex- 
ample of a delegate's account of attendance, Harvie's itemized bill, rendered to his 
state May 28, 1779 (Va. State Lib., Executive Papers), is here given: 
The Commonwealth of Virginia 

To John Harvey Dr. 

Dollars 

To attendance in Congress from 1st Septr. 1777 till the 20th Octr. at 8 dollars 

per day 400 

To attendance in Do. from 20th Octr. 1777 till the loth Apl. 1778 - - at 10 dol- 
lars per day • 1720 

To expences travelling from Albemarle to Philadelphia at 1/3 per mile - - 300 

miles • 622 

To expences in returning from Philadelphia at 2 s. per mile 100 

To attendance in Congress from ist June 1778 till the 5th Octr. following - - at 

10 dollars per day • 1270 

To Do. from 5th to 25th Octo'r at 15 Dollars per day 300 

To expences travelling to and from Philadelphia 600 Miles. 300 miles going at 

2 s. per mile 300 miles returning at 3 s. per mile 250 

Dollars • 4i02i 

Cr. 

Dollars 

By Cash of the continental Treasurer 1500 

By Do. of Meriwether Smith esq. who kept the accts. of the Delegation from 

this state Soo 

Ballance due to J. H 2102^ 

Dollars 4102^ 

Sworn to before 

Thos. Everard Jno. Harvie 

28 May 1779. 

2102^ 

3_ 

630. 

Francis Lightfoot Lee's account for i775-i779 (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll.), ren- 
dered about the same time, shows the same per diem and mileage allowances, but he 
also includes charges for ferriages. Lee's per diem account includes only the period of 
actual attendance, whereas Harvie appears to reckon from the time of his departure 
for the seat of Congress to his return home. Furthermore, Lee renders his account in 
pounds, shillings, and pence. 

Richard Henry Lee rendered. Mar. 18, 1780, an account for the years 1778 and I779 
(Va. State Lib., Exec. Papers). He does not give the dates between which he attended, 
but merely sets down the total number of days for each year, which in 1778 was 186 
and is figured at ten dollars per day. He also includes an item for ferriages. His 
account is rendered in dollars, but the corresponding amounts in pounds, shillings, and 
pence are given in a parallel column. ^.^.,.,. „ ,r,rTT n 

[523]! N. C. Hist. Comm., Caswell Papers; N. C. St. Recs., XHL 218, XXH. 980. 



September, i//'8 413 

draught for 500,000. This was an Object which on my Arrival I had 
much at heart to accompHsh ; fearing the General Assembly might have 
been induced to have disbanded the New raised Troops for want of 
money — Or Emitted Procl. money for the purpose of paying them ofT, 
neither of which was, I hope, done. Had Our State been represented in 
Congress at the time of Mr. Blounts arrival, I am well convinced the 
money would have been sent. I am happy to find Mr. Burke and Mr. Hill 
are appointed for a Year by that means I hope the State will not again 
meet with such usage. 

Should your Excellency think proper to Instruct your Deligates on 
matters relative to the State, especially such as may not Occur to us; I 
should be happy. I find when Governors recommend any Measure to the 
Deligates of their States, it generally has greater weight with Congress, 
than when propositions are made by them, without any Letter of Instruc- 
tion for such purpose. 

As soon as the 400,000 Dollars can be procured from the Treasurer, 
I shall in Conjunction with my Collegues, send it forward by some safe 
Conveyance in the most expeditious manner.' 

I must take the Liberty Once more to press Your Excellency to forward 
as speedily as possible the States Account and vouchers ; I am daily told 
that No. Carolina has recieved more Money from the Continental Treasury 
in Proportion, than any Other State in the Union. In vain do I tell them 
that we never had a Military Chest Established in our State, or a Pay- 
master; that the expence of Drawing Out a Considerable part of Our 
Militia to quell a very dangerous Insurrection in the very heart of Our 
Country ; another very expensive Expedition against the Cherokees ; The 
raising, paying, clothing and subsisting Ten Continental Batalions for a 
considerable space of time ; has been defrayed Out of the Treasury of Our 
State. To this they Only Answer, why don't you produce your Accounts ? 
I wish this may be done, as I am confident the Continental Treasury must 
be largely indebted to us 

If I can persuade Mr. Burke or Mr. Hill to relieve me, my intention is 
to return home before the winter sets in too severe.^ 

P. S. A very great Noise has been made in Congress by the Virginia 
Deligates relative to a Cap Harper driven into Currituck by Goutrage, 
and an Attempt is now making to reccommend to the State to make restitu- 
tion to Virginia this matter has been pushed much by the Virginia Deli- 
gates, and altho they have been Assisted by the Gentl'n from New York 
etc they have hitherto failed in their Attempt. I hope your Excelly will 
inquire into the Matter and see that the persons Who took the Vessel Out 
of the Inlet be brought to Punishment. The Bill of Costs of the Court of 
Admiralty is exhorbitant. More of this in my next^ .... 

2 See nos. 480, 505, ante, 542, 54*5, 552, post. 

3 See nos. 531, 606, 642, post. 

*Cf. no. 542, post, and see the Journals, Aug. 26, Sept. 11, 12, Oct. 31, 1778, 
Jan. 15 (" Godridge "), Aug. 10, 1779- The Goodriches were a Loyalist family of Vir- 
ginia, three members of which, John, Bartlett, and John, jr., had achieved notoriety as 
privateersmen. Some account of them is found in Eckenrode, Revolution in I'irginia 
(see pp. 138, 149, 177), and in Allen, Naval History of the Revolution (pp. 139, 397, 



414 Continental Congress 

524. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee/ 

Philadela. 1 6th Septr. 1778. 
My dear Brother, 

.... You were not mistaken in the union you supposed would be 
formed here between Carmichael and [Deane].^ They go hand in hand 
and are closely allied in forming- [factions]. Nor have they been unsuc- 
cessful in their wicked labors. But I trust, not in a manner to avail them 
much, or to [injure] you. The [scheme] is not yet completely opened, 
but before we part with [Deane], we shall endeavor to get as much truth 
out, as will save the public from injury. I wish we had all the evidence on 
your side. But Mr. Stephenson ^ is alone here, and we must call for his 
evidence to fix Carmichaels charges against [Deane] when the former 
was at Nantes.* The necessity of immediately appointing a [plenipo- 
tentiary] for our [ally] has occasioned a vote for the [Doctor]^ and his 
credentials and instructions will soon be sent. In a few days the other 
[courts] will be determined on. [You] and our [brother] ^ I think will not 
be [shaken], but I assure you that envy, selfishness, and [Deane's] arts 
have created a strange spirit among many, and will require on your parts 
great wisdom and much [caution] in all your [conduct] and [correspon- 
dence]. The [Doctor] is as I always thought him. I am not in the least 
disappointed or informed by anything [immoral]^ that I hear of him. We 
do not know that he has [written] anything against [you] but I strongly 
[suspect] it from the conduct of some men. However, virtue will prevail 

398). They are frequently mentioned in N. C. St. Recs. (see the index to the series), 
often under corruptions of the name " Goodrich ", such as " Goutrage ", " Gutteridge ", 
etc. In the Letters of Richard Hcnrv Lee (I. 253, 455, H- 75. 77, 81, 85) the name is 
"Gutridge", " Guthridge ", etc. In Arch, of Md., XXI. 89, it is " Gutnch " (c/. ibid., 
XVI. 268). See also Paullin, Out-Letters of the Marine Committee, I. 287, II. 2, 28, 2,7, 
and Peter Timothy to Henry Laurens, Aug. 17, 1778, in Correspondence of Laurens, p. 123. 
[524]! Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. This letter, with the exception of the passage 
here printed, is in Letters (ed. Ballagh), I. 435. 

2 The words in square brackets in this letter are written in cipher. See nos. 268, 
295, 439, ante, 590, post. Earlier in this letter Lee remarks, " I must here repeat my 
former advice, not to use the book cypher you have hitherto done, unless where you have 
reason to suppose the Bearer of the letter will deliver it himself ". 

3 William Stevenson. In a letter to the committee of foreign affairs Jan. 5 
(Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 466) Arthur Lee says : " Mr. Stevenson, who will 
have the honor of delivering you this, was a merchant in Bristol, whom I have long 
known to be zealously attached to the cause of his country." In a letter of the same 
date to Richard Henry Lee {Life of Arthur Lee, II. 126) he says: " Let me recommend 
Mr. Stephenson as highly worthy of your protection. Pie will give you a particular 
account of things here." A letter to Franklin Jan. 7 (Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, 
VIII. 21) complains that the despatches had instead been sent by Carmichael. A letter 
from Capt. Samuel Nicholson to Deane, dated at Quiberon Bay, Feb. 12 {ibid., VIII. 
108), mentions that Stevenson is on board, by order of Arthur Lee, and warns Deane 
against him. Lovell mentions in a letter to Franklin June 20 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., II. 626) that Stevenson arrived June 10. See also Letters of Richard Henry Lee, 
I- 375, 465, and the Journals, Mar. 24, 1779. Stevenson was a native of Maryland and 
on June 16 subscribed to the oath required by that state. See Arch, of Md., XXI. 136. 
Oct. 31 he was nominated by Samuel Adams for the office of commissioner of accounts. 

* See the Journals, Sept. 18, and nos. 528, 529, post. Cf. nos. 545, 549, 554, 564, 
584, 635, post. See also no. 401, note 2, ante. 
5 Benjamin Franklin. 
^ William Lee. 
^ The word may be " immoderate ". 



September, 1//8 415 

over vice in the end if tolerable prudence support the fonner. The 
[Doctor] is [old] and must soon be [called] to [account] for his [mis- 
deeds] ; therefore [bear] with him, if possible. In order to provide for 
[Deane] I suppose, it has been proposed to have a [consul general] in 
France, but this I think will never prevail. [One] in each [port] of conse- 
quence, and appointed by [Congress] the public good demands, and this 
will probably be done.^ 

But [Deane's] pride nor avarice will let him in here 

P. S 

525. John" Witherspoon to William Churchill Houston.^ 

Philadelphia, Septr 16, 1778 
D Sir 

Receive inclosed an Extract of the Minutes of Congress relating to the 
Representation from New Jersey. We have not copied the Representation 
itself as you must have it. I believe there is not another State which has 
its sense in its own words on the Records of Congress, the rest having 
generally had only Instructions to their members." I have no news.^ .... 

^ Cf. no. 561, post. Although Gerard was consul general as well as minister 
plenipotentiary to the United States, and from time to time appointed consuls and vice- 
consuls of France for several of the states and ports, it was not until Oct. 25, 1780, that 
Congress came to a decision to send a consul to reside in France. Nov. 4 following 
William Palfrey was elected to this office and shortly afterward sailed for France, but 
was lost at sea. 

[525] 1 Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722. 

2 The reference is doubtless to the representation of New Jersey relative to the 
Confederation, which is found recorded in e.rtoiso in the Journals under June 25. 

^ The Journals of Sept. 16 record the appointment of a committee (Duer, Wither- 
spoon, and Richard Henry Lee) on letters from the Massachusetts council relative to 
the monument to General Warren. The letter of Sept. 3 was, in fact, the presentation to 
Congress of an account for the education of General Warren's eldest son, the expenses 
of which Congress had given pledge (Apr. 8, 1777) to defray. An undated report of this 
committee, inserted at this point in the Journals, proposes that Congress also undertake 
the education of General W'arren's younger children. When, if ever, this particular 
report was presented to Congress is uncertain, for it was not until July i, 1780, that 
Congress took action on the matter. Light is thrown, however, on the report and its 
history by a letter from Benedict Arnold to Miss Mercy Scollay, Feb. 19, 1779 (Sparks 
MSS., no. 49, vol. I., f. 265). Arnold had written to Miss Scollay July 15, 1778, that he 
would use his interest with Congress in behalf of the Warren children and that if he 
were unsuccessful he would then take a private subscription for the purpose. Again, 
Aug. 5, he wrote to her that he would apply to Congress soon, and if they should 
decline, he made no doubt of a handsome subscription. In the letter of Feb. 19 referred 
to he wrote : 

" In my last letter I mentioned applying to Congress in their behalf, on my applica- 
tion a committee was appointed to consider of the matter and report to Congress, one 
of the members going out of town soon after, prevented the reports being made, which 
was agreed to by two of them, ' that the three youngest children of the late General 
Warren should be provided for and educated agreeable to his rank in life at the public 
expense, and that when of age, the sum of one thousand pounds should be given as a 
portion to each.' 

" This report has never been made to Congress, by reason of some one of the Com- 
mittees being out of town. I hope soon to have it done. If I am disappointed in my ex- 
pectation, I intend making a collection for them by private subscription, which I have 
no doubt will be very considerable. In the meantime I shall esteem and provide for 
them as miy own." 

Of the members of the committee, Lee had left Congress at the beginning of Novem- 
ber, Duer about the middle of the month, and at the time Arnold was writing Wither- 



416 Continental Congress 

It begins to be believed that the Enemy are to leave New York and it is 
thought to be with a view of going to the Westindies — The Arrival of the 
August Packet alone will make that definitively certain. My Compliments 
to Mrs Houston. 

526. Samuel Holten, Diary,^ 

[September 16, 1778.] 
16. I met a number of Gentlemen of Congress at evening at the City 
Tavern on business." 



527. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Baron Steuben.^ 

Philadelphia 17th September 1778, 
Dear Sir, 

.... The Commander in Chief having returned to Congress the 
report of the Committee on the Inspectorate with His Excellency's re- 
marks and observations the whole is recommitted and will probably be 
soon reported on, but the House is so overcharged with business as renders 
it impossible even to guess at a time when it will be taken under con- 
sideration and concluded." .... 

spoon alone of the three was in Congress, and he had but just returned after an absence 
of some six weeks. Miss Scollay had written to Samuel Adams as well as to Arnold 
on the subject, and Adams had replied, Feb. 27 (Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. I., f. 164), 
that he had called upon General Arnold and learned what he had written, adding, " He 
mentioned them with so much tenderness that I am led to think they will reap still 
further benefit from his generosity ". 

Whatever the obstacles encountered in persuading Congress to adopt the measure, 
Arnold started the private subscription, as intimated in his letter to Miss Scollay. It is 
this paper doubtless that is found in Samuel Adams's IVritings (ed. Cushing), IV. 171, 
which appears to have been sent in November, 1779, to Adams and Hancock in Boston 
by the Massachusetts delegates, Gerry and Lovell. Two letters of Adams to Gerry and 
Lovell, in December, 1779 {ibid., pp. 167, 169), throw much light on the subject (see also 
Adams's letter to John Scollay, Dec. 30, 1780, ibid., p. 2:^6). In a letter to Miss Scollay 
Aug. 3, 1780 (replying to her letter of July 7, transmitting an account of expenses), 
Arnold relates the subsequent history of the matter, particularly of the resolution of 
July I, 1780 (see the next volume of these Letters), with further comment Aug. 19. 
(The Scollay letter and drafts of the Arnold letters are in the Washington Manu- 
scripts.) An account of the matter may be found in Frothingham, Life of Joseph 
Warren, pp. 542-546; I. N. Arnold, Life of Arnold, pp. 216-221; and Sparks, Life of 
Arnold, pp. 127-129. 

{S26Y Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 172. 

- Probably the committee on enemy property in Philadelphia. See no. 454, ante. 
[527]! N, Y. Hist. Soc, Steuben Papers, I. 

- See Washington's letters to the President of Congress July 24 and 26, in 
IVritings (ed. Ford), VII. 119, 124, (ed. Sparks), VI. 16, 20. The latter (mentioned in 
the Journals as of July 25), brought to Congress by Steuben, was read in Congress 
Aug. I, and referred to a committee. This committee reported Aug. 20 a plan for the 
inspectorship, and its report was referred to the commander-in-chief for his opinion. 
With Washington's observations upon it, the report was again taken into consideration 
Sept. 15 and was referred to the committee on arrangement of the army. The matter 
was finally taken up Jan. 23, 1779, ^rid on Feb. 18 a plan for the department of inspector- 
general was adopted. Meanwhile Steuben had been sent to assist General Sullivan. See 
the Journals, Aug. 28, 29. Cf. nos. 443, 445, ante. 



September, i/y8 417 

Nothing, I am extremely sorry to say it, is yet reported respecting 
Mr. Ternant. I am grieved to see this meritorious Officer kept in sus- 
pense.^ .... 

528. Henry Laurens, Memorandum.^ 

18 Sept. [1778.] 
Mr. G. Morris's amendmt. (Mr. Duer's withdrawn 18 Sept) on 
Dr. Witherspoon's Motion respecting Mr. D's accounts, debated A M 
I 8th adjrd. 

P. M. Called for interrupt'd by report on Carmichl and Mr. Lee's 
informa. Ent'd Jour'l. 

Amendment 
Congress being informed by a Letter of Arthur Lee Esqr. Commissioner 
of the United States at the Court of Madrid and one of the Comm'rs of 
the said States at the Court of Versailles dated Paris the 4 Day of April 
last that the Papers left in France by the Hon'le Silas Deane Esqr. late 
one of said Comm'rs at the Court of Versailles were not sufficient for the 
Purpose of setling the Amounts of public Monies received and expended 
in Europe. And being further informed by the said Silas Deane that the 
time between the Receipt of the Letters to recall him and his Embarkation 
was so short as to render it impossible to adjust the said Accounts which 
were from their nature both various and extensive wherefore he had left 
his Papers and Vouchers in the Hands of a Friend in France lest by 
Accidents of the Sea or Enemy they might have been destroyed. Resolved 
that the sd. Silas Deane be directed to lay before Congress the most 
accurate Accounts which the Materials now in his Possession will admit 
of and all monies by him received or expended on acct. of the united 
States of America ^ 



529. Henry Laurens, Proposed Resolve.^ 

[September 18? 1778.] 
A Paper was delivered from the honorable Richard Henry Lee Esqr. 
in the words following viz. (insert it) thereupon Resolved that William 
Carmichael Esqr. be directed to attend at the Bar of the House on Monday 
next to be examined on Oath touching the charges exhibited against the 
honorable Silas Deane Esqr. for Misapplication of the Public Money, for 
Misconduct in his public and private character and for pursuing a repre- 

3 Steuben's letter concerning Ternant, dated Sept. 5, was read in Congress 
Sept. II. See, further, the Journals, Sept. 25, 29, Oct. 2, and no. 556, post. 

[528]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. I., no. 29. 

2 This motion respecting Silas Deane, which Laurens sets down as an amend- 
ment offered by Gouverneur Morris, is no doubt that mentioned in the erased entry in 
the Journals Sept. 18 (p. 927). Laurens's memorandum further indicates that the motion 
of Sept. 16 was made by Witherspoon, and that a motion by Duer had been withdrawn. 
See no. 524, ante, and no. 529, post; also the Journals, Sept. 14, 16, 18, 22, 25, 26, 28-30, 
Oct. 5, 14- 

[529]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XXVH. 



418 Continental Congress 



is' 



hensible System and Measures in his public character — contained in the 
said Paper ^ 

530. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.'- 

Sepr. 1 8th 1778 
Dear Sir, 

Your Favor of the nth brought by Col. Hazen was a Confirmation of 
my former good Opinion of our late Alliance. As I always make the 
best of every Mishap, I think we ought to conclude that the Events at 
Newport will prevent too much of our Independence being attributed to 
the Arrival of the allied-Fleet on our Coasts.^ It is reported here that 
War is declared in the West Indies by the French. The Print of Tomor- 
row will have the account, if it is authentic. I own I wish we could have 
settled our Quarrel with Britain without a general War. Our Ally seems 
to see an Advantage in the Declaration, and therefore, for the present, I 
repose myself on the old Skill of France in such matters 

There must be a great Change of Men in a certain assembly before 
you can fail of many Friends there, or, a much less probable Circumstance, 
you yourself must be reversed in Character 

531. Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke.^ 

Philadelphia, 19 Sep. 1778. 
Sir: 

Your agreeable favour of the 22nd only came to my hands last night. 
Believe me when I assure you that I have heartfelt Satisfaction in finding 
Our General Assembly have shewn a proper resentment at the unprece- 
dented treatment you met with at York Town. They could not have given 
you a more convincing proof of their approbation of your Conduct in 
Congress, than by appointing you again in the very face of their ridiculous 
resolves, to represent them in that Body." 

I have Consulted my Associates in regard to the time of returning 
home; Mr. Penn seems content to remain and Mr. Williams and myself 
have concluded to stay until the ist of December and to return immediately 
on your or Mr. Hill's arrival. The appointment of Mr. Flill with yourself 
has given me great pleasure. Our Assembly have been wise in determining 
that three of their Delegates shall always be present in Congress.^ I only 

2 The wording of this resolution indicates that it was offered or intended to be 
offered immediately after the reading of Richard Henry Lee's statement Sept. 18. At 
the beginning of the memorandum the words " That Mr. Carmichael be, etc.", and at 
the end, the words " Information exhibited by the Honble R. H. Lee to Congress ", are 
erased. Cf. the Journals, Sept. 22, 26. See also nos. 524, 528, ante. 

[530]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XHL 

- See nos. 518, 519, ante, 532, post. 
[531]! A^. C. State Rccs., XHL 483. 

- See nos. 220, 225, 226, 233, 235, 236, ante. The action of the North Carolina 
assembly, Aug. 12, 14, 15, relative to the controversy between Burke and Congress is 
found in N. C. State Recs., XH. 769. 792, 825, 843-845, XHL 208. 

3 The assembly's action relative to the delegation in Congress, Aug 12, is ibid., 
XHL 467. Cf. no. 523', ante. 



September, lyyS 419 

wish they had appointed six, which would have made it more convenient 
for the Gentlemen to attend. 

I send News papers. As to the business of Congress, it goes on in the 
old way, doing more in three hours, at one time than they do at another in 
three days 

532, Samuel Adams to [John Bradford ?].^ 

Philade. Sept 21, 1778 
My dear sir,- 

I beg you not to impute my omitting hitherto to acknowledge your 
Favor of the 4th of July to Negligence. I have frequently thought of its 
Contents; and although I was not able to obtain what you wishd for, 
I think you will not doubt my Sincerity when I assure you that whenever 
it shall be in my Power to render you substantial Sen-ice I shall do it with 
the utmost Cheerfulness. It is the Opinion of Gentlemen here that the 
Appointments of Auctioneers to make Sale of such Prize goods as fall 
to the Share of the Continent should be made by the Authority of the 
particular States where such Goods may be forfeited. 

Your Letter was deliverd to me by Capt. Manly. I am informd by some 
of my Boston Friends that he speaks of me with a Degree of Bitterness, 
supposing that I prevented his having another Ship. This gives me not 
the least Disquietude. He may have been taught to believe it, by Persons 
who care but little for him and less for the Honor of our Navy or the 
great Cause we are contending for. Neither he nor his Friends could be 
at a loss for the true Cause of his Disappointment, if they would advert 
to the Judgment of the Court IMartial which acquitted him zvith Honor. 
What a strange Inconsistency was there in that Court, in recommending 
Cap Manly for another Ship, and at the same Time holding up so great 
a Deficiency in his Conduct as the neglecting to prepare Signals for a 
Fleet under his Direction, and in general his Want of Experience. This 
was said by many; and it ought to be satisfactory to Cap Manly, that 
though I clearly saw the Justice of the Remark, I was silent. In this, it 
is possible, I was not altogether blameless. I have never felt my self dis- 
posd to take a Side in the Disputes which I understand have run high 
between Partizans of Manly and McNiel. I think Neither of them can 
derive much Honor from the Decisions of their respective Courts Martial. 
I wish for the Credit of our Country that both had behavd more to the 
Satisfaction of the Publick. One of them is still here. I suppose he is 
preparing to meet the Committee to whom his Petition is referrd. When 
it may be proper for me to speak my Mind his Friends and his Enemies 
may be assured I shall do it with Candor and Freedom. In doing this I 
expect to be justified, by sensible and honest Men. If I stand fair with 
them, you well know, how unsolicitous I am whether others are pleasd 
or not.^ 

[SZ^]''- Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 63; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 From a comparison of this leUer with that of Sept. 8 to John Bradford, Conti- 
nental agent at Boston (Adams's Writings, IV. 57), it is inferred that this letter is to 
Bradford. 

" See nos. 440, 496, 518, ante, 614, post. 

31 



420 Continental Congress 

There is another Matter of greater Consequence which I wish to men- 
tion to you. I am informd there are Persons in Boston disposd to make 
a popular Clamor against the french Admiral for leaving Rhode Island. 
I cannot help remonstrating to my Friends against it as in a great Degree 
impolitick. Even if it should be thought he had taken a wrong step, it is 
our Wisdom at this Juncture to forbear criminating him. The Tories 
will try their utmost to discredit our new Alliance. They cannot succeed 
but by making injudicious Whigs their Instruments. There are two 
things from which I am more apprehensive than I am from the joynt 
Efforts of all our Enemies, viz the intemperate and misplacd Zeal of our 
honest Friends, and an insatiable Desire in others who are called Friends 
to establish a Popularity in order to obtain the Splendor or Emoluments of 
Places, or that vanity of vanities the Breath of Applause.* 

533- JosiAH Bartlett to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia Septr. 21st, 1778.^ 
Dear Sir 

.... Our commercial, marine and treasury affairs are in a very bad 
situation and will never be otherwise while they are managed by Com- 
mittees of Congress who are many of them unacquainted with the business 
and are continually changing and by the time they begin to be acquainted 
with the business they quit, others come in who know nothing that has 
been done : thus we go on from time to time to the great loss of the 
public. But you will ask why don't you put those affairs into other hands 
to be conducted who may give their whole time to the business. There 
are several reasons — first we have not time to make the proper arrange- 
ments and form proper systems for conducting the business : above six 
weeks ago we ordered that Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays in every 
week should be set apart for arranging the Treasury Board and for the 
affairs of Finances and nothing is yet completed : ^ so much business is 
daily, crowding on Congress, and so much time taken up in doing business 
in so large a body of men a great number of whom are lawyers and who 
think proper to make a long speech or two on every question however 
trifling etc. etc. etc. etc. that I fear it will be a long time before proper 
systems will be formed.' .... 

534. John Mathews to Thomas Bee.^ 

Philadelphia Septr. 226. 1778 
Dear Sir 

.... Oh ! my w^orthy friend, never was Child more sick of a school, 
than I am, of this same business, I am sent here upon. I have frequently 

* Cf. nos. 518, 519, 530, ante, 578, post. 
[533]''^ Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 559. 

2 « Congress sit late. I dined at M[r.] Stephen Collins's with the Delegates of 
our State and Gen. Arnold, Mesrs. Deane, Marchent and Colo. Bartlett" (Samuel 
Holten, Diary, Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 172). 

3 See the Journals, Aug. 12, 13, Sept. 26, and nos. 469-471, ante, 567, post. 
•* Cf. no. 534, post. 

[534]-'^ Charleston Lib. Soc, Miscellaneous Letters, p. 113. 



September, 1778 421 

heard heavy complaints in our Assembly, of the tedious progress of busi- 
ness, but I will venture to say, you do more business in one day, than we 

do, in three I fully intended when I came into Congress, to have 

accustomed myself to deliver my sentiments upon every important Ques- 
tion, but I have found the thirst for Chattering so extremely prevalent, 
that it absolutely disgusts me, and frequently Seals my lips, least my 
conscience should upraid [i-fc] me with the commission of that very 
sin against our righteous cause, that I see daily committed by others, vizt. 
the loss of so much precious irretrieviable time, and I am afraid the day 
will shortly arrive when some men, will be made sensible, that all the 
future services they can render their Countr}-, can never compensate for 
the invaluable moments, nay hours, days, and months they have trifled 
away, in idle debate. For my own part, I seldom speak except it is a 
subject in which the State I belong to, is particularly interested, for I 
most commonly find some member or other, speak my sentiments, then 
where is the necessity of a repetition? I thank God, I am not Coxcomb 
enough to conceive, that my cloathing the same Sentiments, in a different 
garb, can have greater influence over the minds of men, than the picture 
that has already been exhibited by my Neighbour. If anything has been 
left unsaid by others, that has struck my mind, and which I think material 
why I throw it out, in as few words as possible. If every member would 
observe this line of conduct, the business of the Great Public may be done 
but whilst every member is so tenacious, and so cursedly conceited of his 
own rhetorics it never can." .... 

It is now a month ago since I moved the inclosed resolution, but it has 
been postpon'd from time to time, and as I see the disposition of the house 
is decidedly not to comply with it I bear it with patience. I have done 
my duty.^ 

I wait with anxious expectation for your answer to my request for 
leave to return home. I hope you will be kind enough to forward it to 
me, as soon as possible 

535. GouvERXEUR Morris to Robert R. Livingston.^ 

Philadelphia 22d Septr 1778 . 

.... Duer means to send his resignation — who will be chosen I know 
not. I think I shall, because it will answer the small politicks of some 
men better to keep me here than to let me be at home 

I return to politicks. We want as a proper melange to our present 
Arrangements an intriguing industrious Body, a Duane. If Schuyler and 
Duane should spend the Winter here with me I am convinced the most 
beneficial Effects would flow from it. Schuyler I believe would be made 
President and certainly the best President Congress ever had. His Wife 
would be worth the Gold of Ophir Yea the purest Gold — she would out 
intrigue Adams 

- Cf. nos. 210, 394, 533, ante, and no. 561, post. 

3 It is not known what the resolution offered by Mathews was, but it is probable 
that the resolution offered by the commercial committee Aug. 19 relative to the embargo 
on rice is the one to which he here alludes. Cf. nos. 492, 511, ante. 

[535]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, IL 157 (extract). 



422 Continental Congress 

536. Henry Laurens to George Washington/ 

23 Septem [1778.] 

Mr. Richard Beresford, a native of South Carolina young Gentleman 
of family, fortune and good Character who left New York on the 20th 
Inst, called on me at a late hour last night and delivered a verbal message 
from Robert Williams Esquire, another native of that State, a very 
sensible man, long a Practitioner in the Law, a respectable Character in 
general but not well affected to the Independence of the United States, 
more than coolly attached to his own private Interests, and I believe held 
by the British Ministry to be a fast prudent friend to their Government. 

In the last Conversation Mr. Williams held with Governor Johnstone 
at New York he discovered, as he presumed, the design of the Enemy to 
detach part of their Squadron together with ten thousand troops im- 
mediately after the hurricane Season to South Carolina, to land either 
at or near Charlestown, or at Beaufort Port Royal about 70 miles from 
Charlestown, or at both. The conquest Governor Johnstone appre- 
hended would be easily made and the acquisition extremely beneficial by 
annexing South Carolina and Georgia to the Floridas — Mr. Williams 
requests me to avoid as much as possible intimating from whom I have 
derived my Intelligence, hence Mr. Beresford with great form shut the 
Parlour door, before he would enter upon the disclosure. 

The Idea that I could conceal his name was a little ridiculous, this 
Gentleman with a Mr. Hopton, not so good a general character as his 
own and several other disaffected Persons are to embark in a few days 
under a flag for Charlestown. 

The Enterprize is the most likely to succeed so far as to create a favor- 
able diversion of any I can think of at this juncture of time and circum- 
stances, it is a favorite Plan of General Grant's, nor is it improbable that 
Sir Henry Clinton will be anxious to recover the honor he lost upon the 
Sands of Long Island. 

Is it likely that Governor Johnstone would have communicated a design 
of such importance to Mr. Williams ? it is possible he might for valuable 
considerations, and also to Mr. Hopton. how shall I account for 
Mr. Williams' betraying to me the confidence reposed in him. he is a 
wiley Man, does not give a word in writing, may have in view ultimately 
to secure his own Estate, for his attachment to the Enemy if their attempts 
prosper, for the faithful and timely notice given to his Countrymen should 
they from thence defeat the meditated attack — this he may think will also 
secure to himself and his present Companions admission into Charlestown 
which otherwise would be extremely doubtful. 

I asked Mr. Beresford upon what principle, Sir Henr}^ Clinton permitted 
Mr. Williams and the rest to proceed to Charlestown, he replied with a 
smile " a mark of extraordinary favor certainly." 

[536]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Mar.-Sept., 1778, p. 324. 



September, ijjS 423 

All that Governor Johnstone has said to Mr. Williams may have been 
calculated for amusement, or, merely for obtaining a safe re-entrance upon 
his Estate to a friend of British Government.^ 

Upon the whole, my Idea is to give immediate notice to South Carolina, 
preparations will be made for guarding against the effects of the menace, 
proper steps will be taken for stopping the Flag ship far below the town, 
and after a proper detention, for returning her and her whole Cargo to 
the Ocean, if a stroke is really intended she may contain skilful Engineers 
in frocks and trowsers, and many other dangerous instruments in disguise, 
if the Vessel shall be ahead of my intelligence, and shall not have left the 
Port when that arrives, means may be devised for detaining her according 
to circumstances, upon her return to New York on meeting the fleet, the 
mode of operations may be decided — the Voyage and return will be 
completed within October, the next will be the best month for carrying the 
Project into Execution. 

I therefore admit the possibility of the design, and will recommend to 
my Countrymen to act as they ought if there was no ground for doubt. 

Your Excellency may possibly derive some advantage by a comparison 
of this with other Accounts from New York. I have from this reflection 
and from considering that all public important intelligence is due to Your 
Excellency, made the present communication without delay.^ 

I request Your Excellency to order forward the several Letters for 
Boston etc. The acquisition of Rice and other provisions for the West 
India Islands, of Negroes and the destruction of our Navigation, are 
objects with the Enemy for an Expedition. This instant I learn that 
Rhode Island is abandoned by the Enemy. I am etc. 

537. The ]\Iarine Committee to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Marine Committee 

Philadelphia Septr. 25th. 1778. 
Sir 

The Marine Committee have been honored with Your Excellency's 
letters of the 2nd April and 5th of May last. The regard due to your 

- John Laurens wrote to his father Sept. 29 : " I have received your kind favor 
alluding to the verbal demonstration by which my friend Beresford was bamboozled — 
and was indulged with the perusal of your Letter to the General in which you treat the 
matter in its proper light" {S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VL 108). Richard Beresford 
was subsequently (1783-1784) a member of the Continental Congress, having previously 
been for a brief period lieutenant governor of South Carolina. Mr. Hopton was prob- 
ably John Hppton (see 5". C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VL 27, 28, VIL 29). Robert 
Williams and John Hopton were executors in England of the will of Governor William 
Bull {ibid., VIL 149, 150). Concerning Robert Williams, see also ibid., VL 27, VIIL 189. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 23-25, and nos. 541, 542, 572, 574, post. Washington's 
reply to this letter, Oct. 3, is in Writings (ed. Sparks), VL yy, (ed. Ford), VII. 205 
(extract). See also Laurens to Washington Oct. 10, Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), 
II. 221. 

[537P Library of Congress, Force Trans., Trumbull, Misc., 1776-1779; Mass. Hist. 
Soc, C 51-26, p. 91 (copy). 



424 Continental Congress 

recommendations induced the Committee to move in Congress the appoint- 
ment of Captn. Seth Harding for the command of the Continental Ship 
of War building at Norwich in Connecticut, and I have the pleasure to 
acquaint you that he had the unanimous vote accordingly ' 
The Ship is named The Confederacy ^ 



538. Samuel Holten, Diary/ 

[September 25, 1778.] 
2j. I dined with the President, Congress Resolved to send 3,000 troops 
into the States of South Carolina and Georgia. 

539. Andrew Adams to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia 26th Sept 1778 
Sir 

Your favor of the 31st ulto. with its enclosures has been duly received, 
and laid before Congress. 

In obedience to your Excellency's Orders, I have done myself the 
honor to use my little influence in favor of Capt. Harding. He has been 
waiting some time on this business, but was last evening unanimously 
elected to the command of the Ship Confederacy now building at Norwich, 
notwithstanding considerable opposition was made against it by individ- 
uals, the ostensible reason for which was the number of Continental 
Officers now out of employ. But the reasons assigned by your Excellency 
were so strong as to prevail with all the States against the opposition 
made by individuals." .... 



540. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Governor of Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

26th September [1778.] 
Honorable Sir 

.... Yesterday Congress took under consideration a Report from the 
Marine Committee, and thereupon Resolved that the new frigate at Nor- 
wich be called the Confederacy, and that Seth Harding Esquire be ap- 
pointed to the Command of the said frigate, the vote for Captain Harding 

- See the Joiirjials, Sept. 15, 25. Cf. no. 518, ante, and nos. 539, 540, post. 
3 The letter is signed " Richard Henry Lee, Chairman ". 

[SZ^Y Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 172. 

1 539 P Library of Congress, Force Trans., Trumbull Letter-Book, IL 92; Mass. Hist. 
Soc, C 51-26, p. 92 (copy). 

- Cf. nos. 518, 537, ante, and no. 540, post. Trumbull's letter of Aug. 31 was 
read in Congress Sept. 10. 

[540]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, H. 85; Mass. Hist. Soc, C 51- 
26, p. 94 (copy). 



September, lyyS 425 

was unanimous. I declared it accordingly, but I perceive the Secretary has 
omitted to insert it in the Act of Congress which your Honor will find 
within this Cover. Captain Harding is a Man of more dispatch than 
vanity, and will not wait the necessary time which an amendment will 
require. I commend him.- 

541. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Governor of Virginia (Patrick Henry ).^ 

Philadelphia, 26th Sept. 1778. 
Sir. 

I had the honor of addressing Your Excellency under the 5th Instant. 
This will convey an Act of Congress of the 25th for the immediate defence 
of South Carolina and Georgia to which I beg leave to refer. 

The apprehension which gave rise to this Act springs from a private 
verbal iMessage sent to me by Robert Williams Esq. a Native of South 
Carolina, a Practitioner in the Law, a Man of good understanding and of 
a very respectable general Character possessor of a large Estate in that 
Country, but more attached to his private interests than zealous for the 
establishment of our Independence, and held to be a friend and favorite of 
the Ministers of Great Britain. This Gentleman's communication which I 
received three days ago imported that he had, on or about the 19th Instant 
learned from Governor Johnstone that an attack by an Army of ten 
thousand troops and a sufficient number of the ships of the Line was 
intended upon South Carolina at Charles town or Beaufort, Port Royal, 
or both; That Governor Johnstone obtained permission for him and 
several other unstaunch Carolinians to proceed to Charlestown under a 
flag of Truce. Mr. Williams anxiously pressed a very ridiculous request 
that I would not give him up as the Author of this important discovery, 
which strongly implies a degree of treachery, and no less a degree of 
artifice. 

Is it likely that Governor Johnstone would have informed Mr. Williams 
the Plans intended by the Commanders of the British Land and Sea 
forces? It is possible he may have entrusted him with the secret for 
valuable considerations, the flag V^essel may contain skilful Engineers in 
the habit of Mariners, and she may return with such intelligence as may 
greatly facilitate the meditated execution, how shall we account for 
Mr. Williams' breach of confidence only by supposing that in any event 
he means to secure his own Estate, and wishes to meet a more hospitable 
reception in Charlestown than his fears had indicated without this 
harbinger.- .... 



-Cf. nos. 518, 537, 539, ante. The Letter-Book shows that Captain Harding was 
the bearer of this letter. 

[541 ]i Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 88. The same letter, addressed 
to Richard Caswell, is in A". C. St. Recs., XIIL 234; one of similar purport, to Governor 
Houstoun of Georgia, is in Letter-Book, IL 86. 

- See no. 536, ante, and no. 542, post; also the Journals, Sept. 23, 24, 25. Cf. ibid., 
Oct. 17, 20, Nov. 2, and nos. 572, 574, post. 



426 Continental Congress 

542. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia 26 Sepr. 1778 
Dear Sir 

.... By the resolve of Congress Inclosed to Your Excellency By the 
President, you will find, it is the desire of So. Carolin[a] that you should 
take the Command of the No. Carolina Troops with the Rank and pay of a 
Major General in the Continental Service.^ I am informed the New Levies 
are let out on furlough until march next ; could those men be collected and 
sent forward to So. Carolina it might save a good deal of expence and 
trouble in Calling out the Militia. The President of Congress will mention 
to Your Excellency, some Other Matters relative to this Movement, which 
I am not at present at Liberty to communicate, indeed, they are not yet 
fully determined upon. You may be assured that a Supply of money will 
be sent on immediately to defray the expence of Our Troops now to be 
drawn out exclusive of the 400,000 dollars mentioned above.^ I should be 
sorry to hear of any more Troops raised or Militia embodied in Our State, 
unless provision is first made by Congress for their Bounty pay and Sub- 
sistance etc by sending money forward for that purpose 

The So. Carolina and Georgia Deligates are [so] Incensed against 
General Rob. Howe that he is directed immediately to Join Genl. Washing- 
ton at head-quarters and Genl. Lincoln is to Command in the Southern 
Department : This Gentleman is a Valuable and experienced Officer, he is 
Ordered immediately to repair to Charlestown.* .... 

I have not had the pleasure of a line from Your Excellency since my 
return to Congress. I hope I have not given you Offence; I am sure I 
have not, intentionally — I mentioned in my last that it was the wish of 
myself and collegues that Your Excellency would give us Instructions on 
any matter to be brought before Congress relative to Our State, we find it 
the Practice of the Governors or Assemblies of the Other States ; requests 
thus made, are seldom if ever refused. 

The affair of the Virginia Vessel secured from the Enemy by our 
Militia at Currituck, has made a great noise in Congress ; as she was taken 
away by persons supposed, (by the Virginians), to be some of Our People. 
I hope Your Excellency has taken care to have this matter inquired into, 
and the parties brought to Punishment if any proof appears against them. 
It has been with great difficulty that Your Deligates could prevent a 
reccommendation to the State to make restitution, the Affair is Postponed 
at Present, whether it will again be taken up I know not.^ 

[542]! N. c. Hist. Comm., Caswell Papers; A^. C. St. Recs., XIII. 224, XXII. 982; 
Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXVI. 488. 

~ The resolves referred to are those of Sept. 25. See nos. 536, 541, ante. 

3 The passage alluded to is here omitted. See nos. 505, 523, ante, 546, 552, post. 

* See the Journals, Sept. 25 ; also no. 642, post. 

s See no. 523, ante. 



September, 1778 427 

543. JOSIAH BaRTLETT to THE PRESIDENT OF NeW HAMPSHIRE 

(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia Septr. 26th, 1778 
Hond Sir 

Soon after I Reed your letter of loth Augt with the Inclosures Relative 
to a number of Towns on the Eastern side of Connecticut River Joining 
themselves to and being Reed by the Nominal State of Vermont I Com- 
municated the matter to the New England Delegates and to some others 
all of whom seemed much surprized at their Conduct after some time 
for Consideration they advised me to lay the Letter and papers before 
Congress and Request their advice in the matter which I accordingly Did 
and had the satisfaction to find that every person who spoke on the subject 
severely Condemned the Conduct of the Revolted Towns and of Vermont ; 
what was proper to be done was all the Difficulty after some little time 
spent as it appeared to be a matter of Consequence the Congress Resolved 
that on friday the i8th Inst; the Congress would go into a Committee of 
the whole House to take into Consideration the said letter and papers The 
Delegates of New York moved that sundry letters and papers from their 
state, which had been presented and some others that they had further to 
lay before Congress Relative to the Conduct of said Vermont might be 
taken into Consideration at the same time and tho it was opposed by 
some members as a Distinct and seperate matter it was nevertheless agreed 
to On the 18th matters of a very pressing nature laying before Congress 
the affair was ordered to be postponed on the 19th Colo Ethan Allen 
Came to this City from said Vermont and understanding in what Situation 
the affair was and that their Conduct with Regard to the said Towns was 
Lmiversally condemned ^ He earnestly Requested me not to press Congress 
to take up the matter till he had an oppertunity to Return to Vermont and 
lay the matter before their Assembly who are to meet the 9th of October 
and he says he is persuaded they will Resind their vote for Receiving those 
Towns and Disclaim any pretensions to the East side of Connecticut River 
He informs me the vote was past by a small majority ^ Soon after his 
Return home from his Long Captivity and that agreable to a promise 
he made me when I see him in the Jersies as I went to Congress and he 
was returning home he had opposed the Measure and that if Vermont 
Does not Rescind the vote He with a very Considerable number who he is 
sure will Join him will petition Congress against it and that he will himself 
present the petition to Congress and will use Every other means in his 
[power] to procure New hampshire Redress against so unjust and impoli- 
tic a measure He had also promised that he will immediately write to 
you and inform you what the assembly shall Do in the matter whither they 
Rescind it or not and will also write to our Delegates here or Come himself 
in case their assembly Does not Renounce their Connection with those 
Towns According to his Desire and the Desire of a number of the Dele- 

[543]^ Collection of D. McN. Stauffer, New York (draft) ; Hist. Mag., IV. 2Z2,- 

2 Bartlett first wrote, " condemned by every member of Congress ". 

3 The words " and that he had opposed it " are here erased. 



428 Continental Congress 

gates here, who think it much best to have it settled in that way at this 
Critical Time I have agreed not [to] move for its being taken up by Con- 
gress till I hear further from him or Receive further orders from our 

State 

I believe it is the Desire of the major part of the members of Congress 
(if possible) to keep of [f] the final Decision of the old Dispute Concern- 
ing the New Hampshire Grants to some future time when it may be 
setled without any danger to the Common Cause/ 

544. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO THE GOVERNOR OF New YoRK 

(George Clinton)/ 

Phila: 27th Sepr. 1778. 
Sir 

I write this short note to your Excellency to suggest the Hint of sending 
a Committee to confer with the Legislature of New Hampshire on the 
Affairs of Vermont. You are not to learn that these new States men 
have debauched some of the Western Townships of New Hampshire. The 
Temper of Congress in this Business from what passed lately, seems to be 
if possible to keep matters quiet untill the Enemy leave us, when the 
Forces of the whole Continent may be turned to reduce them if refractory 
to the Resolutions of that Body. 

Application was made for a Commission of Colo, to Ethan Allen which 
I opposed. When he was redeemed I moved a Brevet Rank for him which 
was granted, and he would certainly have had the Commission if I had not 
learnt that he hath lately interfered in Opposition to the Authority of the 
State of New York." 

[P. S.] .... I have the Pleasure to tell you that at Length with 
infinite Pains and many Disappointments we have got an arrangement 
for our Treasury which promises the best Consequences. We are now to 
be employed in Finance. A proper System is before Congress. But will 
they adopt it? 

545. Examination of William Carmichael.^ 

[September 28, 1778.] 
Mr. Carmichael having before taking the Oath [to give true answers, 
to speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, touching 
such questions as shall be asked,] ^ intimated that as he might be em- 
barrassed by the Novelty of his Situation he wished to ha\'e the Questions 
propounded to him in Writing and that his Answers might be received 

■* See no. 507, ante; and the Journals, Sept. 16. Cf. nos. 544, 597, 644, 646, 660, 
673, post. 
[544]! N. Y. State Lib., George Clinton Papers, no. 1803; Clinton Papers, IV. 100. 

- See the Journals, Sept. 24. Cf. no. 543, ante. 
[545]^ Papers Cont. Cong., no. 54, vol. II., f. 173 (in the writing of Charles Thomson, 
except the two introductory paragraphs) ; Seventy-Six Society, Papers in Kelation to the 
Case of Silas Deane, p. 141 ; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Dcane Papers, II. 491. 

2 The words in square brackets are not in the manuscript, but are found in the 
Seventy-Six Society Papers. 



September, lyyS 429 

in Writing that he might answer with that Clearness and Precision which 
he would wish. 

Ordered, That ]\Ir. Carmichael be informed that the Questions will be 
propounded to him by the Chair and that he is to answer vvva voce but 
that if he should find himself embarrassed Time will be given him in the 
House for Recollection,^ 

Septr. 28, 1778. Mr. Carmichael called in and sworn.^ 

Q. At what time did you become acquainted wth. ]\Ir. Deane 

A. In the month of July or Aug. 1776 

Q. Did I\Ir. D acquaint you with the nature of his mission to France, 
and at w't time 

[A.] I was introduced to Mr. D by Mr. Rogers of Maryland \vho 
informed him I w^as zealously attachd to the int. of Am., and some time 
after Mr. Deane acquainted me with the nature of his Mission. 

[Q.] How long after being introduced to Mr. D. were you acquainted 
wath the Nature of his Mission? 

[_A.'\ I cannot recollect precisely 

[Q.] Did you assist Mr. D in his public business 

\A.] On knowing the nature of his mission I offered to assist Mr. D 
in any w^ay in my power while I was in France 

[Q.] Did Mr. D accept your offer 

[A.] He did. 

[Q.] In what respect did you assist Mr. Deane? 

A. In various respects; I assisted him [in] copying letters and in con- 
versations. 

Q. During the time you assisted Mr. D, were you acquainted with the 
rec. and expenditure of public monies w'ch passed through his hand ? 

A. I knew Mr. D. reed, money and made purchases and contracts on 
the public account but as I never washed to charge myself or make myself 
responsible where I co'd have no merit, I did not pay sufficient attention to 
answer with precision 

Q. Do you know whether Mr. Deane misapplied the public money, or 
converted any of it to his owm use 

A. My answer to the former qu. will shew that I am not an adequate 
judge of the application of public money and can't answer with precision; 
at the same time wd. entreat that the House wd. not put an interpretation 
on my silence to the prejudice of any person whatever 

Q. From the knowledge you had of Mr. Deane's transaction^, do you 
recollect any instance which you apprehended to be a misapplication of 
the public money 

3 These two introductory paragraphs, which are on a separate sheet, appear to 
be in the writing of Gouverneur Morris, except the three words " in the House ", which 
were inserted by Henry Laurens. At the top of the sheet, in pencil, is a variant of the 
second paragraph, which reads as follows: "That Mr. Carmichael be informed that 
the Questions to be answered will be propounded to him by the House and that he 
answer viva voce but if on any Question he should find himself embarrassed he will 
Have [full erased] Time allowed him for Recollection." 



A. I beg to know whether I am to answer from my knowledge or sup- 
positions or opinions in my own mind. 

Ordered That Mr. C. withdraw. 

On the question whether the last be a proper Question the yeas and nays 
being required by Mr. Marchant 
So it was resolved in the 


affinnative. 




Ordered That Mr. Carmichael attend at the [bai 


•] on Wednesday next 


at ten oclock to be farther examined.' 









546. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Richard Caswell).^ 

^. Philadelphia, Sept. 29th, 1778. 

We are sorry to inform your Excellency, that we have not been able to 
send forward the money granted for the use of North Carolina. The very 
great demands on the Treasury previous to our Grant, have been the 
cause; however we are assured that it will be ready in a day or two at 

'•> See the Journals, Sept. 29, 30, and no. 549, post. 
[546]! iV. C. St. Recs., XIII. 237, XXII. 984. 



September, 1778 431 

farthest/ Congress have been alarmed that our enemy were about evacu- 
ating Rhode Island and New York, and that another attempt would be 
made on Charles Town by them. To prevent their getting possession of 
that place — so important to our neighbors — it has been recommended to 
Virginia and North Carolina, to send some of their Militia to assist in the 
defence of So. Carolina. The high opinion entertained of your Excellency 
here, and the xtvy great desire the IDelegates of that State had, that you 
would accept the command, was the reason of the resolve relative to you, 
but in this you will no doubt consider the interest of North Carolina and 
the propriety of being absent from your Government. Gen'l Howe is 
directed to repair to Head Quarters and Gen'l Lincoln goes to South 
Carolina." .... 

Your Excellency's mo. Ob. humb. Servts., 

John Penn, 
Corns. Harnett, 
Jno. Williams. 
P. S. France has certainly declared war against Great Britain. 

547. Samuel Chase to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philada. 29 Septr. 1778. 
12 oClock 
Dear Sir, 

Immediately on the Receipt of your Letter of the I7th.^ to the Delegates 
of Maryland, I communicated the contents to Congress, and laid two 
Resolutions on the Table, one for a Permission for such Persons as you 
approve to export to the Eastern States, and another to extend the Em- 
bargo. The first seemed to meet with the general approbation of the 
House. The second was approved by some and doubted by others. The 
two Resolves were referred to the consideration of a special Com- 
mittee 

548. The Committee of Arrangement to George Washington.^ 
Sir 

When the Committee of Arrangement had the Honour of conferring 
wath you on the Affairs of the Army it appeared to them that it was your 
Excellys. Opinion that no Prisoners or Deserters should be inlisted, and 
farther that such as had been inlisted should not join the Army: The 
Treachery of Armand's Corps about that Time having too fatally demon- 

2 See nos. 505, 523, 542, ante, 552, post. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 25. Cf. Caswell to Ashe, Oct. 28, in A^ C. St. Recs., 
XIII. 255. 

[547]VHist. Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., Signers, p. 16; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 75 
(copy). 

2 The letter of the Maryland council to the delegates Sept. 17 is in Arch, of Md., 
XXI. 206. A letter of the same date to the President of Congress, read in Congress 
Sept. 24, is ibid., p. 205. See nos. 511, 517, 520, 521, ante, 552, 553, 556, post. No record 
is found in the Journals of the reference of the Maryland letter to a committee, but it is 
probable that it was referred to the committee on the memorial of Ephraim Blaine, etc. 
See the resolution of Oct. 2, and cf. the Journals, Sept. 8, 10-14, 24, 28, 29. 

[548]^ Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXVII. 79. 



432 Continental Congress 

strated how little Dependance could be placed on such Characters. In 
Consequence of which the Committee whose Sentiments perfectly corre- 
sponded with what they supposed to be yours wrote to Congress repre- 
senting the Necessity of putting an immediate Stop to such Inlistments 
and also of purging such Corps as were proceeding to join the Army 
under your Excellencys Command. In this Representation they did not 
expressly point out the Count Pulaski's Corps, but as it comprehends a 
considerable Number of those exceptionable Characters we fully intended 
to include it in the Reform we then recommended. 

This Letter the Committee forwarded to Congress about 2 Weeks after 
their Arrival at Camp having first shown it to your Excelly. and received 
your Approbation of its Contents. Upon their Return to This City they 
found nothing had been done with Pulaskis Corps, but our Letter had 
inadvertently been referr'd to the Board of War who also mistaking the 
Nature of the Reference had wrote to your Excelly. for your farther 
Opinion on this subject. This Letter your Excelly. has answered so as to 
leave it doubtful whether for some Reasons not expressed you do not 
mean that Count Pulaski's Corps should go forward as it is, one half of 
which at least is composed of Deserters and Prisoners, and We are inclined 
to think that upon a strict Scrutiny there will be found a much greater 
Proportion. If this is the Case we presume your Excelly. has altered 
your Opinion at least with Respect to this Corps, either upon farther Con- 
sideration or upon some particular Circumstances not attended to when 
we had the Honour of conversing with you on this Subject. Your Excelly. 
will see by this State that the Committee find themselves in an aukward 
Situation as having represented the Necessity of a Measure founded upon 
your Opinion, in which some Gentlemen who favour the Employment of 
Prisoners and Deserters think we were not sufficiently warranted. And of 
Course the proposed Scrutiny of this Corps has been delayed and will in 
all Probability finally fail, unless some farther Advice is received from 
your Excelly. on this Head. 

We must observe that in all Probability if the Corps should be purged 
there will remain sufficient to compose the original Establishment of 68 
Horse and 200 Foot, As the Count has extended his Numbers far beyond 
it, by adding what he calls supernumerary Troops and Companies. 

The Committee are sensible of the Value of your Excellys. Time but as 
the Determination of this Matter will probably lead to the Settlement of 
other Corps of like Character, and they are attended with a very heavy 
Expence, we trust you will not think a few Moment's unusefully employed 
on the Subject." 

With the most respectful Sentiments and very sincere Regard We are 

Your Excellys. most Obed. Hbbl Servt, 

Jos : Reed 

^ o . o Chairman 

Philad. Septr. 30, 1778 

- The letter from the committee of arrangement to Congress referred to in this 
letter to Washington was doubtless that of Sept. 3, read in Congress Sept. 7, and re- 
ferred to the board of war. Concerning the purging of Pulaski's corps, see the Journals, 
Sept. 21, 29. Washington's reply to this letter, Oct. 6. is in Writings (ed. Sparks), VI. 85. 
See also no. 177, note 2, anie. For the constitution of the committee see no. 512, ante. 



September, ijjS 433 

549. Examination of William Carmichael.^ 

[September 30, 1778.] 
W ednesda\^y'\ The last question proposed^ 

Although I think the house by their determination has put me into a 
very delicate and to me disagreeable situation, as I am desirous of giving 
the house every information, I am ready to answer the question, provided 
the question relates to apprehensions that may have arisen on \v[ha]t I 
conceived to be fact at the time. 

A. I do. 

Q. What were the instances 

A. The instance I allude to particularly was the equipping a vessel of 
war where I apprehended the public money had been appropriated to 
private uses 

Q. What vessel was it you allude to 

A. It was a vessel intended to be equipped in the Mediterranean partly 
at the expence of the public, and partly of individuals 

Q. The name of the Capt and of the vessel 

A. The name of the capt intended to be employed was Bell. As there 
were vessels bought which were afterwards obliged to be given up there 
was no name given any of them that I recollect 

Q. From w[ha]t circumstances do you apprehend that there was a 
misap [plication?] 

A. From this circumstance that ^Ir. D. having reed. ]Money from 
M. Beaumarchais which I conceived to be public money did appropriate it 
to private uses, that is in the purchase of those vessels as far as regarded 
individuals 

Q. Why did you suppose that to be public Money 

A. Because M. Beaumarchais, having as I apprehended advanced 
before to the public to a large amount, I thought it w^as likewise on the 
public credit he advanced this sum 

Q. Are you clear there were more vessels than one bought in the 
Mediter [ranean ?] 

A. There was but one intended to be bought but the person employed 
bought two as I understood. 

Q. Who compelled the giving up of the vessels 

A. I understood the State of Genoa had interposed and compelled the 
purchaser to restore them to the orig[inal] proprietors 

Q. What were the names of private persons that were to have been 
concerned w[it]h the public ^ in those vessels 

y4. I do not recollect all the private names 

[Q.] Do you recollect any 

A. I understood M. Beaumarchais was to have been concerned 

Q. Do you recollect any other 

[54?]-'^ Papers Cont. Cong., no. 54, vol. II., f. 178; Seventy-Six Society, Papers in 
Relation to the Case of Silas Deane, p. 144; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, 
II. 493- 

- See no. 545, ante. 

^ These three words were substituted for " in the purchase of ", erased. 



434 Continental Congress 

A. I understood that Mr. Thomas Morris was to have been concerned 
for others, but who those others were I cannot positively say 

Q. Was Mr. Deane to have been concerned in his private capacity 

A. 1 do not know that he was 

[Q.] Did you understand or were you informed that Mr. D. was to 
have been concerned in his private capacity 

A. I did not receive such information as to induce me to beHeve he was 
concerned 

[Q.] If you did not beHeve that Mr. D. was concerned in his private 
capacity in those vessels what did you mean when you said that you 
apprehended the public money was applied to private purposes in that 
instance 

\_A.'] I meant that I thought Mr. D. had applied the public money to 
supply the deficiencies of the money that others were to have advanced 
but did not towards the purpose of fitting out these vessels 

[Q.] On what grounds did you think that Mr. D. meant to supply 
those deficiencies 

\_A.'\ From conversations with diverse persons and other occurrences 
at that period 

The question being read, On what grounds etc., and the answer thereto, 
Mr. C. gave this explanation 

The idea I meant to convey to the house was this — I apprehended 
Mr. Deane had applied the money which I conceived to be public to a 
private use. I judge that I had my information of Mr. Dean's rect. of 
the money from Mr. Beaumarcha[i]s, Mr. Deane himself and others. 
But that this information was merely of the fact that he received it, not 
whether it was public or private money which he had received and so 
applied.* 

[Q.] What persons 

A. I apprehend Mr. D. and Mr. Beaumarchais were two of the persons 
that informed me at that time 

[Q.] Were the other Commissioners or either of them acquainted with 
this transaction 

[y^.] I apprehend Dr. Franklin was acquainted with the fitting out 
these vessels. I cannot charge my memory whether Mr. A. Lee was then 
at Paris or not 

[Q.] Are you sure that Mr. D. and Mr. B. were two of the persons 
with whom you had the conversations you before mentioned. 

The house having agreed that I should answer from my apprehensions 
I have answered so, not that I am certain as to the fact. I know from 
conversations with Mr. B. that he advanced sums of Money. I knew from 
Mr. D. that he had red. sums and from these and other circumstances I 
apprehended there was to be a misapplication of public money, but I am 
not certain.^ 

•* These two paragraphs are written on the back of the preceding- sheet without 
indication of the place of insertion, but they properly belong at this point. In the printed 
text the preliminary sentence is, " The last question and answer being read, Mr. C. gave 
this explanation ". 

s This paragraph in the Thomson minutes is crossed out as if stricken from the 
record, but as it is a part of the actual record it is here retained. 



October, 1778 435 

[^.] I apprehend from the nature of the transaction it must have been 
these persons but I cannot be sure 

[O.] Had you reason to believe from conversations with other persons 
or other occurrences that Mr. Deane appHed pubhc money to supply the 
deficienc[i]es of those who were to have advanced but did not towards 
the purpose of fitting out those vessels in the Mediterranean. 

[/i.] I cannot at present absolutely recollect, but probably there might 
have been other occurrences at the time which I do not now recollect that 
induced me to apprehend an application of the money to supply of those 
deficiencies 

[Q.] Do you know whether the particular sum you allude to was 
charged by Mr. Beaumarchais to the united States 

\_A.'\ Since my arrival in this country I have understood from Mr. de 
Francy the agent of Mr. Beaumarchais that this particular sum was lent 
by Mr. B. to Mr. Deane on his private account 

Mr. Francy is in this country and he can give more full information ® 

[Q, By Mr. Adams. Whether from conversation with other persons or 
from other occurrences, he had reason to believe Mr. Deane had advanced 
or was to have advanced moneys to make up these deficiencies ? 

A. I cannot at present absolutely charge my recollection with what I 
had reason to believe at that time — probably there might have been other 
occurrences which may have induced me to apprehend a misapplication of 
the money upon that occasion. 

Q. By Mr. Duer. Do you know that the particular sum you allude to 
was charged by M. Beaumarchais to the United States ? 

A. Since my arrival in this country, by conversation with the agent of 
M. Beaumarchais, I have reason to believe the particular sum was charged 
by M. Beaumarchais to Mr. Deane's private account. M. Francis is now 
in the country and can answer the question.] 

[Q.] Did you know or believe that Mr. D. applied the public money to 
the paymt. of such parts of those vessels as were to have been the property 
of the public 

\_A.'\ I do not know, I believe that Mr. D. wd. have applied the public 
money to that purpose but cannot say that he did 

Ordered to withdraw 

To have notice at what hour to attend on friday after noon ^ 

550. Henry Laurens to the Governor of New Jersey 
( William Livingston ) } 

I St October [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

.... I don't know any thing more troublesome than the conversation 
of those people who are eternally pestering one with recitals of their dreams 

^ In the printed text these last two questions and answers vary somewhat from 
the Thomson minutes, particularly in showing that the questions were by Adams and 
Duer, respectively, and are therefore given below as they there appear. 

■^ See the Journals, Sept. 30, Oct. 5 (pp. 983, 984), and no. 554, post. 
[550P S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, Misc., 1777-1782, p. 313. 



436 Continental Congress 

this does not however aim a blow against all dreams, within this exception 
I trust that a dream of my own which will appear in Dunlaps next Packet 
will be viewed by your excellency." I mentioned this because New Jersey 
is the grand subject and you may be surprised at the presumption of any 
Man the Governor excepted in dreaming about New Jersey the im- 
pressions of the visions alluded to were twice strongly made on my mind. 
I regarded the second as an high command and determined it my duty to 
reveal the whole to that part of the world for whose benefit it seemed 
principally designed but I have given strict orders to my Herald to con- 
ceal the dreamers name, after this intimation your Excellency will be in 
that part of the Secret which I mean to go no further. 

Inclosed with this your Excellency will receive a Copy of a New address 
from one of the Gentry at New York and of a sort no answer which Con- 
gress thought proper to return, look Sir at the date of the extract from 
Lord George Germain's letter, compare it with the dates of the late 
requisitions and remonstrances from Messrs Carlisle and Company on 
the same subject. Is it not highly probable when those papers were 
fabricated the letter from whence this extract was made was in the hands 
of that Company Is it not therefore to be presumed they are now in 
possession of " a distinct and explicit ratification by the Court of Great 
Britain " under special orders prohibiting the '* due notification to Con- 
gress " until every Stratagem shall have failed.^ If it be true as I believe 
it is that the French forces are scouring the British West India Islands 
and that Admiral Keppell has not beat the Brest Squadron our troublesome 
inmates on this Continent must soon leave us in more quiet possession of 
our own beds. 

551. Robert Morris to William Bingham.^ 

Philada. Octr. ist 1778 
William Bingham Esqr. 
Sir. 

.... The other parts of your Letter of 20th April are 1 think 
answered by what I have already wrote therefore proceed to the next 

- Laurens's dream, signed " An Old Man ", appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet 
Oct. 3, and was reprinted in the New Jersey Gazette Oct. 14. Livingston had written to 
Laurens Sept. 17, enclosing what he characterized as a dream of his own (Sedgwick, 
Life of Livingston, p. 305). The dream was in fact a comparison of the conduct of the 
New England troops under Sullivan in the Rhode Island expedition with that of the 
New Jersey militia in the recent campaign under Washington, closing with a complaint 
that while Congress had (Sept. 10) passed a resolve expressing their high sense of the 
patriotic exertions of the New Englanders, who had actually gone off in the midst of 
the campaign, they had not manifested any such sense of the patriotic exertions of the 
New Jersey troops, who had fought the campaign to a successful completion. Laurens's 
dream was merely Livingston's in an amended form, of which Livingston wrote, Oct. 9, 
" I am much more pleased with the old man's dream am-cndcd, than I was with the 
original, and the conclusion I like extremely" {ibid., p. 308). 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 28. Clinton's letter to Laurens, Sept. 19, is in Almon's 
Remembrancer, 1778-1779, p. 150, together with Thomson's answer, as prescribed by 
Congress. Copies of these letters were transmitted by Clinton to Germain Oct. 2 {ibid., 

P- 49)- 

[551P Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 

Philadelphia. 



October, ijjS 437 

which is dated 6th Alay and proposes a plan for making our Loan Office 
Certificates negotiable in foreign Countries. In their present form this 
is not practicable and as there is only one Certificate for each sum and 
that payable to the Bearer, you will be sensible the Exportation of them 
would be attended with as much Risque as Merchandise, it may probably 
surprise when I tell you, that, forseeing the advantage which would result 
to Commerce and to this Country from such Certificates as you mention, I 
proposed them above a Year ago in Congress when the plan met a most 
violent Opposition and was finally rejected ' therefore that Scheme will 
not do at present altho' I believe it might be brought to bear some little 
time hence as the Sentiments of Certain Gentn. on these Subjects seem to 
be a good deal changed 



552. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia 4th Oct. 1778. 
Sir: 

By this express your Excellency will receive the 400,000 dollars men- 
tioned in my last. Should there be a necessity for a further supply for 
marching the 3000 Militia to South Carolina, I could wish you would be 
pleased to mention it to your Delegates, and unless the Temper of Con- 
gress should suddenly change, I believe it may be procured.^ 

Congress have found it absolutely necessary to continue the embargo, 
until the last day of January, finding it almost impossible to supply the 
army and French fleet with bread, unless it can be taken out of the hands 
of Engrossers and Monopolizers. A request is accordingly made to the 
States for this purpose, which the President sends on by Express, how 
far this may affect our State I know not. no supply of bread is however 
expected from that Quarter.^ .... The circumstances of the Enemy 
still in the opinion of Congress seem to indicate an evacuation of their 
Ports on the Continent. 'Tis imagined some of their Troops will go to the 
West Indies, some to Europe, some to Halifax, and some to Quebec. That 
the French are already in possession of the Island of Dominica, we have 
pretty good authority for 

2 Probably in connection with the report brought in June 11, 1777, by the com- 
mittee of the treasury and the committee of ways and means, proposing the drawing of 
bills of exchange on the commissioners in Paris. 
[552]!^. C. State Recs., XIII. 239, XXII. 985. 

2 See nos. 505, 523. 542, 546, ante. Cf. nos. 572, 574, 577, 579, post ; also the 
Journals, Oct. 20. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 2. Cf. no. 547, note 2, ante, and nos. 553, 556, post. 
Among the Laurens Papers in the South Carolina Historical Society is a transcript of 
the record of proceedings Oct. 2 relative to the embargo, on the back of which Laurens 
has made this memorandum : " Votes ay and no on the power of Congress to lay a gen : 
Embargo — 2d Octob actually taken the 3d late afternoon." 



438 Continental Congress 

553. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia October 5 1778 
Dear Sir, 

.... I have a very high opinion of the republican principles and of 
the ability of Mr. Mazzie. And I think that if Mr. Maddison were sent to 
Genoa with him for Secretary we might have a good chance to succeed in 
borrowing there one of the millions, five of which are absolutely necessary 
to sustain, and restore our falling currency. To cultivate a good under- 
standing with the nations in the south of Europe is undoubtedly wise 
policy, and may produce the most profitable consequences. These affairs 
will come presently under the consideration of Congress, when I shall not 
forget the useful possessions of Mr. Mazzie." .... There is nothing 
that threatens so much injury to ou[r] cause at present as the evil 
operation of Engrossers. If something decisive is not quickly done by 
the Legislatures to stop the progress of Engrossing, and to make these 
Miscreants deliver up their ill gotten collections, the American Army must 
disband, and the fleet of our Allies remain in Boston Harbor. I know the 
root of this evil is in the redundance of money, but until the latter can 
be reduced some measures are indispensable to be taken with the En- 
grossers. You will see the expedients devised by us.^ A more radical 
cure will follow shortly, in a proposition of Finance now under con- 
sideration 

554. Examination of William Carmichael.^ 

Monday, Octr. 5, 1778.^ 

[Q.] Are you sure that the public had any share in those two vessels 
wch were purchased in the Mediterranean 

[A.] I apprehended at the time that they had and my reason for appre- 
hending was that the captain had a continental Commission, I thought 
they were on the same footing as those fitted out at Dunkirk 

[Q.] Were you any wise concerned in equipping Capt. Cunningham 
from Dunkirk 

[A.] I was no ways concerned in the equipmt. I was sent by Mr. Frank- 
lin and Mr. Deane to facil[it]ate the departure of that vessel from the port. 

[Q.] Was Capt. Cunninghams vessel fitted out at Dunkirk more than 
once 

[A.] Capt C. commanded two vessels from that port, one a Lugger, 
the other a cutter. 

[Q.] Were they fitted at the same time 

[A.] At different times 

IQ-] Were they or either of them public or private property 

[553]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second ser., LI. 24; Letters (ed. 
Ballagh), L 437- 

2 Philip Mazzei. A sketch of him is in Appleton, Cyclo. Am. Biog. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 2 ; cf. nos. 547, 552, ante, 556, post. 

[554]^ Papers Cent. Cong., no. 54, vol. II., f. 184; Seventy-Six Society, Papers in 
Relation to the Case of Silas Deane, p. 147 ; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, 
II. 497- 

- See no. 549, ante. 



October, 1778 439 

[A."] I apprehended that each of them were part public and part private 
but I do not certainly know 

[Q.] When you were sent to dispatch these vessels did you consider 
yourself as acting for the public or for private persons 

\_A.'] Every serv'ice I performed for the commissioners I considered 
as done for the public, and so I considered in this instance 

[Q.] What reason had you to consider these vessels as part private 
property 

\_A.'\ From conversations I had at the time particularly with Mr. Hodge 
I had reason to apprehend he was concerned 

[Q.] Had you reason to suppose that Mr. Deane was concerned or any 
of the Commrs. 

[A.'\ I did apprehend at that time that Mr. Deane was concerned in the 
first equipment 

[Q.] What reasons induced you to apprehend that Mr. Deane was 
concerned in the first equipmt. 

\_A.'\ I cannot recollect the reasons that induced that belief but I know 
that I did at the time'apprehend he was concerned. 

[Q.] At what time was the first equipment made, what year and 
w't month 

[^.] At present I cannot precisely recollect. I think it was in the 
spring 1777. The capture of the Harwich packet will nearly point out 
the time of the sailing 

[Q.] Do you know if any and what instructions were given to Capt 
Cunningham respecting that cruise 

\_A.'\ I think there were instructions given but I cannot be particular 
what those instructions were 

[Q.] Do you recollect whether those vessels or either of them were 
ordered to cruise on the coast of England 

[_A.'\ I do not know particularly the instructions given to the capt of the 
two vessels. I believe the object of the cruise was for one of the Harwich 
packets " 

[Q. By ]\Ir. Lee. Do you know that the vessels or either of them, were 
ordered to cruise on the coast of England ? 

A. I speak to the first vessel, I believe the object was to cruise for one 
of the Harwich packets. I myself gave directions.] 

[Q.] Was this equipmt. at Dunkirk made with or w [ithou]t the knowl- 
edge of the French ministry 

[A.'\ I cannot answer as to the knowledge of the french Ministry 

[Q.] Did you ever hear that the french Ministry objected to it. 

\_A/\ I know they gave proofs that it did not appear to be agreeable, 
for the capt was imprisoned upon his return to Dunkirk 

[Q.] Did you hear that the french Ministry objected previous to the 
sailing 

\_A.'\ I do not know that they knew of the first vessel previous to her 
sailing, therefore they could not object to the equipmt. 

3 This question and answer, as they appear in the printed text, vary somewhat in 
substance as well as in form, and are accordingly added in square brackets. The 
" Mr. Lee " who asked the question was Richard Henry Lee. 



440 Continental Congress 

[Q.] Did you ever hear that the french Ministry offered to pay the 
expence of equipping those vessels or either of them to prevent their 
saiHng 

[A.] Of the first vessel I never heard that they did, of the second I 
heard after she had sailed that they had given orders to pay the expence 
to prevent her sailing 

[Q.] Did you understand that much diligence was used to push these 
vessels or either of them out of Dunkirk to prevent the effect of the 
measures the fr. Ministry had taken to stop their sailing 

[A.] With respect to the last I believe all possible diligence was used 
to accelerate her departure to prevent measures from being taken by the 
Ministry to stop her sailing 

[Q.] Did you ever see or hear of a letter or letters written by the 
Count de Vergennes to Mr. Grand or the Commrs. complaining of this 
measure 

[A.] I have heard that there was such a letter but I do not know 
whether to Mr. Grand or the Commrs. 

[Q.] Do you know whether the Comrs. had reed, any order from 
Congress or the Secret Com'ee relative to the fitting out of these two 
vessels 

[A.] I do not know whether they had red. orders relative to the fitting 
out of these two vessels 

[Q.] Did you ever hear that they had 

[A.] I never heard that they had reed, orders to fit out these two 
vessels particularly. I heard that they had general orders to fit out vessels. 

[Q.] Do you mean vessels of force to cruise agt. the enemy 

[A.] I do ; because they reed Continental commissions for the captains.* 

555. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[October 5, 1778.] 
5. Congress were informed that the enemy were endeavoring to distroy 
the vessels and stores at little egg harbour in the State of the Jerseys. 

. 556. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 

(Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

6th October. [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

I beg leave to refer to my last private of the 20th Ulto by Millet. 
This will be delivered by Lieut. Colonel Ternant who is ordered by 
Congress to Act as Inspector of the Troops of the United States in South 
Carolina and Georgia.-' .... 

■* Oct. 14 Carmichael was directed to attend again on Monday, Oct. 19, for further 
examination, but the Journals contain no record of such examination. A month later 
(Nov. 19) Carmichael took his seat in Congress as a delegate from Maryland, having 
been elected Nov. 13 (see the Journals, Nov. 18). In a letter to Franklin Oct. 30 (Am. 
Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XII. 95; Franklin's Works, ed. Sparks, VIII. 306 n.), which 
he sent by the hand of Lafayette, he wrote particularly of the dangerous parties in Con- 
gress and in the army. 

[555]! Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 173. 

[556P S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1777-1782, p. 217. 
2 See the Journals, Sept. 25 ; cf. no. 527, ante. 



October, i-j-jS 441 

In a Letter which I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency the 
5th Instant as President of Congress is contained a late Act for continu- 
ing the present Embargo, and for preventing engrossing Provision.^ I 
shall not trouble you Sir with my opinions on the several branches of 
this Act but barely remark that when the power of Congress to lay an 
Embargo was made a question and the voices of each Member called 
upon, there appeared fourteen in the negative, twelve affirmative — six 
States affirmative five negative ; Of those six affirmative, there were three 
States represented by Units. I am persuaded my Countrymen will Act on 
this great occasion as shall appear to be for the general good of these 
United States. If I may offer my sentiments Congress is not vested with 
sufficient power to lay a general Embargo and it would be dangerous to 
vest them with such power in our present system, the recent Act I humbly 
conceive marks incompetency, nevertheless I think it will promote the 
public good to restrain the exportation of Provision until January, and 
therefore I wish there could be a general restraint excepting of such 
quantities as should be found sufficient for re-equipping the fleet of Count 
d'Estaing, and a necessary supply to our fellow Citizens in the Eastern 
States under these indulgences and thro the artifices of cunning Men I 
fear the honest Citizen and fair trader will bear a heavy burthen. So far 
as respects my own interest altho' I am persuaded the intended prohibition 
will in several States be evaded, and have doubts whether any regard will 
be paid to it in Pennsylvania and Deleware I am willing to submit articles 
of which the Enemy stand more in need than of either flour or Rice. I 
mean Tar, Pitch and Turpentine remain unrestrained. I offer'd on this 
head as many intimations as my situation in the Chair would permit, but 
without effect 

557. Henry Laurens, Memorandum.^ 

[Note of Gerard:] 

It is reported that the State of South Carolina in sending some 
Gentlemen to France has instructed them ist to purchase a certain 
number of Vessels, 2nd to raise a certain number of troops to be in 
the pay and immediate service of that State. 

It is apprehended that this step executed by a single State in contra- 
diction with the plan of Confederation, could hurt in Europe the Idea 
of the uniformity of the Governments to rely on Congress for the exer- 
tion and application of the common forces and it might be misunder- 
stood or misrepresented to the prejudice of the confidence and the con- 
sideration Congress has so justly acquired. 

If the concern for all what is conducible to the honor and Credit of 
the United States may apologize for a reflection oft'ered on that subject, 
I should venture to say that the best method to prevent any incon- 
veniences is perhaps to send immediate Orders to the Minister of the 
United States in France, to countenance the demands of South Carolina." 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 2; cf. nos. 462, 492, 511, 517, 520, 521, 534, 547, 552, 553, 
ante. 

[557P S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XXVI. 

- This note of Gerard was evidently designed for the attention of the South 
Carolina delegates only, and it does not appear from the Journals whether Laurens ever 



442 Continental Congress 

Monsr. Girard having received information as above communicated his 
sentiments. I think it improper to apply to Congress before I am informed 
of the facts from authority in South Carohna. I shah nevertheless consult 
my Colleagues, and Act by their advice. Monsr. Girard treats the subject 
with great seriousness. 

Henry Laurens 
Philada. 6th October 1778 

558. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Governor of New Jersey (William Livingston).^ 

6th October [1778.] 
Sir 

.... Inclosed is a Resolve of Congress requesting Your Excellency 
to obtain information of the Enemy's treatment of the late Lieutenant 
Colonel Baylor and his Party, who were cut off in New Jersey. It has been 
represented that the unhappy Colonel, several of his Officers, and many of 
his Troops were Bayonetted in cold blood, should this be proved, I appre- 
hend suitable retalliation will immediately follow a refusal of satisfaction." 

559. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Octo. 6, 1778. 
Sir, 

I have been absent about six weeks on the business of arranging the 
army, which, so far as it is accompished, has occasioned less dissatisfaction 
than I feared it would. Some good officers are excluded for want of room 
which are recommended to Congress for such notice and provision as 
shall be thought reasonable." Major Wells did not apply untill the 
arrangement of the Connecticut officers was made, so that he could not 
be admitted. It is customary in other States not to fill the places of officers 
in captivity, but to promote them according to their rank as if present.^ I 

brought the matter before Congress. It probably pertained to the mission of Alexander 
Gillon. See the Journals, Mar. 30, 31 ; also Lowndes to Franklin, July 18, Franklin's 
Works (ed. Sparks), VIII. 287; D. E. Huger Smith, "Commodore Gillon and the 
Frigate South Carolina", in 6^. C. Hist, and Gcneal. Mag., IX. 189; and McCrady, 
South Carolina in the Revolution, 1775-1780, pp. 217-219. 

[558]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, II. 99. 

~ See the Journals, Oct. 6, 8, 26, and no. 577, post. The repeal, Oct. 8, of that 
part of the resolution of Oct. 6 relative to the exchange of the survivors of Baylor's 
party, appears to have been in consequence of a letter from Washington, Oct. 3, read 
in Congress Oct. 7 (IVritings, ed. Ford, VII. 203, ed. Sparks, VI. 75). In transmitting 
this act of repeal to Col. John Beatt}^ commissary-general of prisoners, at Princeton, 
Laurens wrote : " Congress having received further information respecting the number 
of survivors of the late Colonel Baylor's Party have judged it necessary to repeal their 
Act of the 6th Instant for an immediate exchange" (President's Letter-Book, II. 102). 
An account of the affair w-as given to Washington by Col. Otho H. Williams in a 
letter of Sept. 28 (Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, I'l. 211, with the date Sept. 26), 
and Colonel Baylor himself, who was only wounded, wrote Washington an account of it 
Oct. 19 (ibid., p. 222). Col. John Beatty was the bearer of this letter. 
[559P iMass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 284. 

- Cf. nos. 565, 586, post. 

3 Cf. no. 631, post. 



October, 1778 443 

shall take the first opportunity to transmit to your Excellency a copy of 
the arrangement of the Connecticut officers. 

I returned here last Wednesday evening, and Majr. Adams being unwell 
set out to go home last Saturday. Colo. Dyer and Mr. Elsworth are not 
yet arrived ; I hope they are on their way, for it is of importance to have a 
full representation. Business goes on slow. The important matters of the 
currency, cloathing department, and treasury arrangement are not yet 
finished, though believe the last is compleated, except appointing the 
officers.* Cloathing the army will doubtless be referred to the particular 
States to supply their own troops. The Continental cloathing on hand, 
and what may hereafter arrive, will be distributed in some just proportion.^ 

There is a report lately made on the subject of finance, not acted upon, 
which I think will not be an adequate remedy for the evils. I think a 
reasonable time ought to be fixed for sinking all the outstanding bills, 
and sufficient funds by annual taxes provided for bringing them in. That 
would fix their credit by letting the possessors know when and how they 
are to be redeemed, and would in some good measure do justice to the 
public, as the bills would be collected in at about the same value they were 
issued out. The first part of the time the people would obtain them at a 
cheap rate to pay their taxes, and they would gradually appreciate till 
restored to their original value. But some provision ought to be im- 
mediately made for doing justice to creditors in payment of old debts and 
salaries stated in lawful money. The law making the bills a tender when 
the same nominal sum was of equal value to lawful money was reasonable 
and necessary, but now is become the source of great injustice. I think 
lawful money should be the standard, but an equivalent in bills should be 
accepted in payment. The committee of commerce do make a discount in 
payment of sterling debts. I hope public faith will be inviolably observed 
in the redemption of the bills at their full value, at the period fixed for that 
purpose, but that will not prevent their depreciation in currency in the 
mean time while so great a quantity is in circulation.^ 

560. JOSIAH BaRTLETT to THE PRESIDENT OF NeW HAMPSHIRE 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia October 6th 1778 
Sir 

By the vote of the Legislature of our State of the 19th of August last, 
I find it will Require two Delegates to Represent the state after the first 
of November next. The reason of which I suppose was that the[y] 
Expected (as I Did) that the Confideration would be Ratified by all the 

-* See the Journals, Sept. 26, Oct. 13, 29, 31, Nov. 3. Cf. nos. 567, 589, 617, post. 

^ See the committee's report in the Journals, Oct. 9. An ordinance for regulating 
the clothing department was passed Mar. 23, 1779. Cf. the Journals, Jan. i, Aug. 19, 
1778. 

^ Cf. Sherman's remarks on the subject of finance in a letter to Benjamin Trum- 
bull, Aug. 18, an extract of which is found in Boutell, Life of Sherman, p. 106. The 
report at this time under consideration is found in the Journals under Sept. 19. 

[560] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 



444 Continental Congress 

states so as to take place at that time. But as neither Jersey, Deleware nor 
Maryland have yet agreed to it, and as we have been informed within a 
few Days that the Legislature of Maryland is adjourned to December, it 
is now Certain it Cannot take place so soon as was Expected and there is 
a probability at least that it may not take place for a Considerable time to 
Come ; " I would therefore Earnestly Recommend it to the General Court 
as soon as they meet, to pass a vote authorising any one of their Delegates 
to Represent the state in Congress until the Confideration is Ratified by 
all the States ; and that the vote may be forwarded to your Delegates here 
as soon as possible The utillity (if not necessity) of such a vote is so 
obvious that I need not say anything in favor of it, and only Request that 
it may be attended to.^ 

Your Letter to the President of the Congress of the i8th of September, 
was handed me by Colo Samuel Folsom who arrived here the 4th Inst: 
and was yesterday Read in Congress. I have obtained a Grant for the 
State of one Hundred and fifty Thousand Dollars to be sent you out of the 
Treasury here, also an order on the Loan office in New Hampshire for 
fifty Thousand Dollars and am in hopes I shall procure the money so as to 
Dispatch Colo Folsom in a few Days * 

Your letter to me by Col : Folsom I have also Receivd 
You will find in the inclosed newspaper an additional act of Congress 
Relative to wounded and Disabled officers and soldiers ^ 

I am Sir with the greatest Respect your most obedient Servant 

JosiAH Bartlett 

561. Cyrus Griffin to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

You will be good enough my dear Sir, to excuse this Letter. There are 
but few Men indeed with whom I could wish to be thus candid. It 
appears to me that Congress will shortly be dissolved. If the large Emis- 
sions of Money, and visionary Expeditions do not bring forth our des- 
truction, I greatly fear that Party will complete the matter. Congress 
exhibit not more than two or three Members actuated by Patriotism. 
Great questions are carried every day in favor of the Eastward, and to the 
prejudice of the southern states. Great questions are now upon the Carpet 
and if determined in the affirmative will do excessive damage to Virginia 
and Maryland particularly " — at present we are under secrecy — perhaps 
in a little time I shall think myself obliged to quit Congress. I will not 
sit in a house whose proceedings I cannot assent to with honor, nor is it 

2 Cf. nos. 424, note 4, 456, ante, 567, 599, 630, 638, post. 

2 Cf. nos. 423, 507, ante, 644, post. 

* See the Journals, Oct. 5. Cf. no. 507, ante. In a letter of Oct. 10 Bartlett men- 
tions sending the money by Colonel Folsom. A draft or autograph copy of the letter is 
in Dartmouth College, Bartlett Corr., and another, with variations, is in Mass. Hist. Soc, 
C 81 A 45- 

^ See the Journals, Sept. 25. 
[561]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 

2 The principal question at this time on the carpet was that of finance. The 
report of a committee on the subject is found in the Journals under Sept. 19, and some 
parts of it were agreed to the day this letter was written. See no. 559, ante. 



October, 1778 445 

in my abilities to oppose them with success. I value most what our great 
Politicians value least. Congress are at present a Government of Men. 
It would astonish you 'to think how all affairs proceed upon the interested 
Principle : IMembers prostituting their votes in expectation of mutual 
assistance upon favorite Points. I am apprehensive that in get[t]ing free 
from oppression in one quarter we are likely to establish it in another; 
by avoiding one set of Plunderers we are certain to fall into the clutches 
of a still more dangerous set. I am sorry our good Friend Harvey is 
about to leave Congress; he is a valuable man in times like the present, a 
man of great Virtue and boldness of Spirit.^ If the Land office should be 
established, put him at the head of it; his abilities and honesty will be 

highly necessary in that Employment 

As yet Spain have taken no part to our advantage, indeed Arthur Lee 
still remains at Paris. The court of Berlin have refused William Lee, the 
Commissioner of Congress to that quarter : He is now gone to Vienna, 
the most accomplished Metropolis in the World. We are plagued to death 
with quarrels and recriminations relative to our Commissioners abroad ; 
these men will involve the Continent in perdition. It is absolutely neces- 
sary that Deane should be sent over to Europe for the most valuable 
purpose in the world, but some Gentlemen are determined to ruin an 
innocent Character, notwithstanding he alone has the great merit of con- 
cluding that valuable Treaty with the Minister of France." .... 

Philadelphia Octo. 6th 78 

562. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.^ 

gthOctr. [1778.] 
Sir 

.... I have communicated the Extract from Count d'Estaing's letter, 
to Monsr. Girard.^ Congress have no objection to granting leave of 
absence to the Marquis of Vienne.^ .... 

563. Henry Laurens to William Heath. ^ 

loth October [1778.] 
Sir, 

.... Captain Gilbert of Massachusetts and Captain Holmes of New 
Hampshire, having inform'd me that during their late captivity at New 
York several Officers of the Convention troops had come into that City 

3 See no. 522, ante. 

4 Cf. no. 564, post. 

[562]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 103. 
- See the Journals, Aug. 28. 

2 The Jounials contain no record of such action at this time, but Congress did 
vote the leave Oct. 27, on request of Lafayette. 

Laurens wrote to Washington Oct. 13, " My last trouble to Your Excellency was 
dated the 9th by Messenger Dodd who was detained by bad weather and a little manage- 
ment of his own until yesterday" (President's Letter-Book, IL 108). 

[563]^ President's Letter-Book, IL 103; Alass. Hist. Soc, Heath Papers, XI. i6r. 



446 Continental Congress 

upon Parole, some on furloughs for no less than six months obtained by 
such Officers from the Commissary of Prisoners or from some other 
Person pretending to have authority at Boston, and that Gold had been 
paid in Boston for these illicit Permits; Congress have directed me to 
give you this intimation and to request you will immediately make a 
strict enquiry into the fact, that you will also make a Return of all the 
Convention troops under your charge, Officers and Men, and account for 
Absentees.^ 



564. Samuel Adams to James Warren/ 

Philadelphia Octobr. 11, 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

In the inclosd News paper you will see certain Queries calculated to 
impress on the Minds of the People the Idea of Dr. Lee's having held a 
criminal Correspondence with a Person known to be at the same Time in 
the Service and under the Direction of the British Ministry." I hope it 
will not be in the Power of this Querist to do essential Injury to so 
eminent a Patriot ; who took the earliest and most decisive Part in Oppo- 
sition to the Measures of the British Court, and whose invariable Attach- 
ment to the Liberties of our Country, never was, and I think cannot be 
justly suspected. Yet it may be necessary to guard against it; for I 
plainly tho' silently saw, when I was last in Boston, a malevolent Dispo- 
sition towards Dr. Lee, in a certain Gentleman,^ who, till he is better 
known, will have a great Influence in the Massachusetts State. The 
Instance you may recollect, as you were knowing to it in the Time of it. 
I then supposd it to proceed from his having strongly attachd himself, and 
for a Length of Time to a Circle of Men, and imbibd their Prejudices, 
who are far remote from the political Connections of Dr. Lee, and who 
differ widely from them in the Adoption of publick Measures regarding 
either Politicks or Morals. You may remember that some time ago, in a 
Letter I informd you, I should have much to say to you about Mr. D,'* of 
whom I had long formd my opinion and had not seen Reason to alter it. 
I have hitherto said nothing to you about him ; because I knew it would 
lead me to Subjects of great Delicacy, which by being exposd to the 
Enemy, as they would be if my Letters should fall into their hands, might 
disgrace or otherwise be prejudicial to our publick Affairs. This Caution 
prevents my communicating to you many things, of which I wish to 

- Cf. the Journals, Oct. 5, and see no. 593, post. 
[564]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS.; Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 68; N. Y. Pub. 
Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 In the Pennsylvania Packet of Oct. 10 appeared a communication, signed 
" Querist ", asking six questions concerning the connections between Dr. Berkenhout 
and Arthur Lee. The item is reproduced in the N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane 
Papers, III. 2. In his "Address", pubHshed in the Packet Dec. 5 (see no. 635, post), 
Silas Deane states that he was the author of the queries. Cf. nos. 487, 498, 500, 502, ante, 
566, 658, 662, 669, 671, 697, post. 

3 The allusion may be to Hancock, though it seems doubtful. 

* Silas Deane. See no. 421, ante. Cf. nos. 401, 439, 524, 528, 529, ante, 566, 584, 
635, post. 



October, iy'/8 447 

unburthen my Mind. IMr D was originally taken up by a secret Com- 
mittee of Congress appointed to procure from France the necessary Sup- 
plys for carrying on the War. By them he was sent to that Country in 
the Character of a mere IMerchant. About that Time another Committee 
was appointed whose Business was to form a Correspondence abroad, and 
particularly to feel the political Pulse of France, in Hopes of fonning a 
Connection with that powerful Nation. This Committee also took up 
Mr. D ; and he carried Letters from Dr. F to some Men of Eminence, 
which might enable him in some Measure to penetrate into the Dispo- 
sition of the Court of France towards America. With these Views 
Mr. D was sent to France. He was to be an Agent to the secret Committee 
of Commerce. To the secret Committee of Correspondence he was to be 
the Inquisitive Man or Intelligencer. He had no political Powers what- 
ever; '" and yet he sent us over Majors, Colonels, Brigadiers and Majors 
General in Abundance and more than we knew what to do with, of his 
own creating, till at length INlr. Du Coudray arrivd, with the Commis- 
sion (or an Agreement signd by Mr. D in Behalf of the United States 
that he should have one) of a Major General with the Command of our 
Artillery ; together with his Suite of about seventy Gentlemen of different 
Ranks. All this was done, as I said before, without any Authority. Con- 
gress was exceedingly embarrassd ; being loth to discredit their Commis- 
sioner (for before the Arrival of M. Du Coudray he was commissiond 
joyntly with Messrs Franklin and Lee). I say being loth to discredit him 
by disannulling the Convention, and at the same time judging it dis- 
honorable as well as unsafe for America to ratify it. This however was 
agreed to in a Committee of the whole House. Not having the records 
before me, I do not recollect whether it was confirmd in the House ; but 
Du Coudray soon after died, his Suite or most of them returnd with 
Gratifications, and Mr. D was recalled. After which he was directed to 
return speedily and give an Account of the State of our Afifairs in Europe. 
This has given an Occasion to his Friends to hide the real Reason for his 
being recalled, and to hold up in the publick News Papers an ostensible 
one, supposing it to be more for his Reputation.^ 

Our Affairs even in France wore a gloomy Aspect during last year, 
until they receivd the News of our Army at the Northward being com- 
pletely victorious. This was the decisive Language which commanded 
our Success in the Cabinet of France. To this we are indebted for the 
Acknowledgment of our Independence, the Treaty and the french Fleet. 
Mr. D is complimented with having procurd this Fleet, and his " spirited 
Exertions " like those of other Great Men, have been puffd off in the News 
Papers. Unthinking Men may be amusd with a Golden Snuff Box, etc. 
etc ; after all they are mere Things of Course, especially in the honey Moon 
of National Matrimony. 

Since Mr. D's Return, as well as before, there have been suggestions 
of his Misconduct in France, and among other Things of his misappli- 

^ See vol. I., nos. 532, 534, 535, vol. II., nos. 178-180. 
^ See vol. II., nos. 768, 769. 



448 Continental Congress 

cation of publick Moneys. I cannot say whether these Suggestions are 
well grounded or not. Congress is devoting every Hour to an Enquiry 
into the Grounds of them which can be spared from an Attention to other 
great Affairs, particularly the Finances. The Conduct of an honest Man 
will bear the strictest Scrutiny. If the Friends of Mr. D have any Sus- 
picions of his being tardy, I am inclind to think they will be more appre- 
hensive of a Detection from the Vigilance and Integrity of Dr. Lee than 
any thing else. On such Occasions it is not unusual for the most unblem- 
ishd Characters and sometimes even the Lives of the best of Men have 
been sacrificd, in order to prevent " Transactions dark and mysterious " 
from being brought into open Light. 

I have written this Letter in Confidence and shall continue the Subject 
when I can find Leisure. '^ 

Your last was dated the 2d of Septr.* 

Adieu. 

565. Joseph Reed, Motion.^ 

[October 12? 1778.] 
Resolved — 

That Congress have, and of Right ought to have a Power to dismiss any 
Officer from their Service whenever they shall deem his Continuance 
therein incompatible with the publick Intrests and that this Right being 
expressed on the Face of the Commission which is granted during the 
Pleasure of Congress excludes any reasonable Complaint of Injustice and 
Hardships whenever this Right is exercised. 

[Endorsed :] Mr. Reeds Motion on the right of Congress to dismiss their 
officers at pleasure.^ 

566. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philada. Oct. 14, 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

In my last ^ I inclosd a News Paper containing certain Queries calcu- 
lated, as I conceive, to blast the Reputation of a truly virtuous Man. 
Dr. Lee and Dr. Berkenhout, mentiond by the Querist, were formerly 
fellow Students at Edinburg; and as both were esteemd learned in their 
Profession, it is not improbable that on that Account they kept up their 

■^ See no. 635, post. 

s See no. 518, note 5, ante. 
[565]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Congressional, 1779, XXVII. 

~ There is no indication on the manuscript of the date of this motion, nor has 
any record of it been found in the Journals, but it was doubtless made in connection with 
the consideration of the report of the committee of arrangement (of which Reed was 
a member), which was brought in Oct. 9, taken into consideration Oct. 12, and adopted, 
with modifications, Nov. 24. The fact that Reed left Congress in the latter part of 
October is evidence that the motion must have been made in the earlier stages of the 
discussion. It may possibly have been offered at the time of the presentation of the 
memorial of the officers, Oct. 20. See no. 586, post ; cf. no. 559, ante. 

[566]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 225; Writings (ed. Cushing), IV. 72 
(with variations). 

- No. 564, ante. See also no. 635, post. 



October, ly/S 449 

Acquaintance while both continued in Great Britain. Dr. Lee, you know 
was requested by Congress to go over to France, where he was made 
a joynt Commissioner with Messrs. Franklin and Dean. It is possible 
that a Correspondence m't afterwards have been carried on between them ; 
but from the Knowledge I have of Dr. Lee, I will venture to pledge my 
self it was not a criminal one as the Querist would seem to insinuate, and 
if Dr. Berkenhout was in the Service and under the Direction of the 
British Ministry, which by the way is but bare Suspicion here, it must 
have been utterly unknown to Dr. Lee. I am rather inclind to think it 
is a Creature of the Querist's own Fancy, or an artful Suggestion thrown 
out to the Publick, to serve the Cause of our Enemies. America should 
beware how she suffers the Character of one of the most able and vigilant 
Supporters of her Rights to be injurd by Questions designd to impute 
■Slander without any Reasons offerd why such Questions should be made. 
It is the old Game of mischievous Men to strike at the Characters of the 
Good and the Great, in order to lessen the Weight of their Example and 
Influence. Such Patriots as Lord Russell and Algernon Sydney of the 
last Age, have been of late falsely and audaciously chargd, by a Scotch 
Tool of the most nefarious Court in Europe, as having receivd Bribes 
from the Ministers of France ; ^ and it is not strange that a Gentleman 
whom the leading American Whigs have placed high in their List of 
Patriots, who has renderd the most laborious and important Services to 
our Country in England, France and other Parts of Europe, who has so 
often and so seasonably developed the secret Intrigues and Practices of 
wicked Men, and who at this Time stands high in the Esteem and Confi- 
dence of the Congress, and when it is considerd in Addition to this, that 
there are too many disaffected and insidious Men still lurking among us, 
it is by no Means a strange thing to hear it insinuated by an anonimous 
Writer, that Dr. Lee also is chargeable with a criminal Correspondence 
with the Enemy, without even the Shadow of Reason. 

You may publish this if you think proper. I receivd your favor of 
Sept. 30th. It contains very interesting Matter which shall have my 
Attention at a more leisure Hour than the present.^ In the mean time 

Adieu my F[rien]d. 
S A 

567. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Octo. 15th, 1778. 
Sir, 

We were honored with your Excellency's letter of the 5th instant. Your 
letter to Congress and the memorial accompanying it are referred to 

3 The allusion is to Sir John Dalrymple's Memoirs of Great Britain and Ireland 
(three vols., Edinburgh, 1771, 1773, 1778). The matter here referred to is in the second 
volume, which contains numerous documents from French sources. See the preface to 
that volume, also the notes in Allibone, Dictionary of Authors. 
* See no. 571, post. 
[567]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 290; Boutell, Life of Roger 
Sherman, p. 107. 



450 Continental Congress 

Messrs. R. H. Lee, Samuel Adams, Josiah Bartlet, and Oliver Elsworth, 
who have not yet made report; hope such determination will be made 
thereon as will be reasonable and satisfactory, of which we will give your 
Excellency the earliest notice by the post.^ The affair of finance is yet 
unfinished ; the arrangement of the board of treasury is determined on, 
but the officers are not yet appointed. To-morrow is assigned for their 
nomination.^ The members of Congress are united in the great object of 
securing the liberties and independence of the States, but are sometimes 
divided in opinion about particular measures. 

The Assembly of New Jersey in their late session did not ratify the 
Confederation ; nor has it been done by Maryland and Delaware States. 
These and some other of the States are dissatisfied that the western un- 
granted lands should be claimed by particular States, which, they think, 
ought to be the common interest of the United States, they being defended 
at the common expense. They further say that if some provision is not 
now made for securing lands for the troops who serve during the war, 
they shall have to pay large sums to the States w^ho claim the vacant lands 
to supply their quota of the troops."* .... 
We are. Sir, with great respect. 

Your Excellency's most obedient and most humble servants, 

Roger Sherman. 

Oliver Elsworth.^ 

568. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[October 15, 16, 1778.] 
15. A Manifesto or Proclamation from the Com'rs of the British King 
appeared in the pap'r of this day offering a General Pardon, but I believe 
there is but few people here w^ant their pardon.^ 

2 Governor Trumbull's letter to the Connecticut delegates Oct. 5 is in Mass. 
Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh sen, II. 274. See also his letters of the same date to 
Laurens, Samuel Adams, and Lovell, and a letter to Laurens Oct. 6, embodying his 
memorial to Congress, ibid., pp. 273, 276, 277, 279. The settlement of the accounts of 
Joseph Trumbull, sometime commissary of purchases, who died July 23, 1778, dragged 
through more than four years. See the Journals, Aug. 31, Oct. 15, Nov. 2, 1778; Mar. 9, 
31, Apr. 5, May 5, July 8, 1779; Jan. 8, Apr. 17, 27, June 25, 1781 ; Jan. 23, July 22, 23, 
Aug. 13, Oct. I, 28, 1782. Cf. no. 457, ante, and nos. 569, 589, 601, 616, 617, 639, post. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 15, Aug. 13, Sept. 26, Oct. 13, 29, 31, Nov. 3, and no. 
603, post. See also vol. II., p. 211 n. 

* Cf. no. 560, ante, and nos. 599, 612, 630, 638, post. 

•' It should be observed that this and other letters from the Connecticut delegates 
are printed from copies in the Trumbull Letter-Book and that Ellsworth's name is often 
incorrectly spelled. 

[568V Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 173. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 15, 16. The "Manifesto and Proclamation" of the 
British commissioners, dated Oct. 3, appeared in the Pennsylvania Pact:ct of Oct. 15. 
It is found in Almon's Remembrancer, 177?>-I77g, p. 127. Samuel Adams wrote to 
Timothy Matlack Oct. 16 that he understood General Clinton designed to send to each 
of the states " an insulting Paper, called a Manifesto or Proclamation, calculated to 
promote a Rebellion ", and suggested that the vessel bri:iging that for Pennsylvania be 
seized and the men be brought up blindfold, "to be dealt with according to the Laws of 
Nature and Nations" {Writings, IV. 75; Pa. Arch., tirst ser., VII. 14). See nos. 574, 
576, 588,_ 595, 599, 618, 643, post. 

Washington wrote to President Laurens, Oct. 22 : " With respect to seditious papers, 
calculated to excite dissensions and mislead the people. Congress may be assured, that 



October, lyyS 451 

i6. The articles respecting the surrender of the Island of Dominic to 
his most christian Majesty came to hand this day.^ 

569. Samuel Adams to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

Philad Oct 16 — 78 
Sir 

I had the Honor of receiving your Excys Letter of the 5th Instant, and 
sincerely condole with you on the heavy Loss your Family and the publick 
sustain by the Death of your eldest Son. His Services in my opinion 
merited great Consideration, and it now behoves the Publick to render 
the Settlement of his Affairs as easy to his surviving Friends as possible. 
I have communicated the Contents of your Letter to my Colleagues and 
the other Alembers of Congress, and you may be assured Sir that we 
shall interest ourselves in obtaining with all possible Speed the Attention 
and Decision of Congress on the Matters set forth in your Representation." 

Mr Sherman was so obliging as to give me the perusal of your Letter 
to him, and I am happy that Congress as a Body concurs with you in the 
(Sentiment therein containd ; having passd a Resolution by a great Ma- 
jority expressing their Sense that true Religion and good Morals are 
the only solid Foundations of publick Liberty and Happiness.^ .... 

570. Samuel Adams to Samuel Phillips Savage.^ 

Philada. October 17, 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

I suppose you will have seen before this reaches you the Pennsylvania 
Packett of tuesday last, which contains a Resolution of Congress express- 
ing their Sense that true Religion and good Morals are the only Foun- 
dation, of Publick Liberty and Happiness ; and earnestly recommending to 
the several States to take the most effectual Measures for the Encourage- 
ment thereof, and to prevent Stage playing and such kinds of Diversions, 
as are productive of Vice, Idleness, Dissipation, and a general Depravity 
of Principles and Manners. Also enjoyning on all Officers of the Army 
to see that the Rules prescribed for the Encouragement of Virtue and the 
discountenancing of Prophaness and Vice are duly executed." You must 

whenever they may be sent from the enemy by a flag, and they come to my hands, I 
shall not fail to suppress them. I fear, however, the avenues and channels in which they 
may be conveyed are so various and so numerous, that no exertions will be found suffi- 
cient entirely to prevent the evil" (IVritings, ed. Ford, VII. 223, ed. Sparks, VI. 96). 

There were numerous responses to this manifesto. One by " Common Sense " ap- 
peared in the Pennsylvania Packet of Oct. 24, one by William Henry Drayton in the 
issue of Oct. 29. They are found in Almon's Remembrancer, 1778-1779, pp. 304, 22i2- See 
also nos. 588, 596, post. 

3 See Almon's Remembrancer, 1778-1779, pp. 82-85. 
[569]^ IVritings (ed. Gushing), IV. 74; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

- Trumbull's letter to Adams is in Mass Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh sen, II. 
276. See no. 567, ante. 

^ See no. 570, post. 
[570P Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, XLIII. 334. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 12. 

33 



452 Continental Congress 

know that in humble Imitation, as it would seem, of the Example of the 
British Army, some of the Officers of ours have condescended to act on 
the Stage; while others, and one of superior Rank,^ were pleased to 
countenance them with their Presence. This with some other Appearances 
as disagreeable to the sober Inhabitants of this City as to Congress, gave 
Occasion for the Resolution. I am sorry that by a Repetition of a theatric- 
al Performance, which at least appeared to be done in Contempt of the 
Sense of Congress, another Resolution became necessary. You will see it 
in the enclosed Paper.^ The young french Marquiss has discovered the 
Dignity of the Citizen in the Regard he so readily paid to the sentiments 
of those in Civil Authority on this occasion. I hope that other Gentlemen 
" of the first Rank and Fortune who deny themselves the Pleasures of 
domestick life and expose themselves to the Hardships of a Camp in the 
glorious Cause of Freedom," show as much good sense and Attention to 
the Cause of Virtue. Adieu 



571. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philada. Octob. 17, 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

.... Confiscation, you tell me labors. " It labors very hard " ! ^ I 
have heard objections made against it, not in this Country, but my own. 
But I thought the objections were made by interested Men. Shall those 
Traitors who first conspired the Ruin of our Liberties, those who basely 
forsook their Country in her Distress, and sought Protection from the 
Enemy when they thought them in the Plenitude of Power, who have ever 
since been stimulating, and doing all they were able which it must be 
confessd was little indeed, to aid and comfort them while they were 
exerting their utmost to enslave and ruin us ! Shall these Wretches have 
their Estates reservd for them and restord at the Conclusion of this 
glorious Struggle, in which some of the riches and Blood of America 
has been spilled, for the sake of a few who may have Money in England, 
and for this Reason have maintaind a dastardly and criminal Neutrality. 
It cannot be. I venturd to speak my Mind in a Place where I could claim 
no Right to speak. I spoke zvith Leave which I should have disdaind to 
have done, had I not felt the Importance of the Subject to our Country, 
I will tell you my opinion. If you do not act a decisive Part ; if you suffer 
those Traitors to return and enjoy their Estates, the World will say that 
you have no Sense of publick Injury and have lost all your Understanding. 

Adieu my dear Friend 

^ A note in Mass. Hist. Soc, Proceedings, suggests that Arnold was probably the 
officer alluded to. See an article by F. D. Stone, " Philadelphia Society One Hundred 
Years Ago", in Pa. Mag. Hist, and Biog., III. 364 (1879). 

■* See the Journals, Oct. 16. Cf. no. 569, ante, also Adams to Savage Oct. 6, 1778, 
and to Warren Feb. 12, 1779, Writings, IV. 67, 123. 

[571 ]i Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 226; Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 75. 

2 Adams is replying to Warren's letter of Sept. 30 (Warren- A dams Letters, II. 
47). To other parts of the same letter he replied Oct. 20 and Nov. 3 (nos. 578, 602, 
post). 



October, 1778 453 

572. John Mathews to Thomas Bee.^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 17th 1778 
My Dear Bee 

I am set down with a heavy and an aking- heart to write to you. To you 
I can communicate my sentiments without reserve, as I am sure you will 
never betray that confidence, I repose in you. I will now speak more freely 
to you than I have yet done. They are the dictates of an honest heart, that 
means well, and is deeply impressed with the most poignant grief, in 
contemplating the ruin that impends over this unhappy country. Since I 

have come into C ^ I have viewed the progress of its business, 

with a curious, and a watchful eye. I have for some time past, thought this 
body by no means competent to do the great public business intrusted to 
them. I am now thoroughly convinced of the Justice of this observation. 
I do not think it would be prudent to trust my reasons to paper, I will 
reserve them untill we meet. Do not think me actuated by an over jealous 
disposition. Indeed I am not. I have refrained from saying thus much, 
untill I was satisfied there was no room left whereon to hang a doubt. A 
change of Men, or measures, must be speedily effected, or we are lost. 
It is a melancholy truth, and as I think it high time it was known, I must 
tell you, that the American cause never stood so near the pinnacle of 
destruction as it at this day does, and is daily approaching- nearer to its 
downfall. Whence arises this dangerous alarm? I may be asked. From 
men in whom you repose an implicit confidence, and who are not worthy 
of it. Tliease are serious matters, and require no less serious consideration. 
They are meant to operate so far on your mind, as to produce something, 
for the benefit of that virtuous cause in which you took so early and 
decided a part, and the same noble Patriotism, which first fired your 
boosom to step forth in its support, will, I make not the least doubt, again 
engage your exertions of mind, to devise some means, for conducting it to 
a final and happy Issue. I would wish to see one State at least in the 
union have fortitude and honesty enough to instruct their Delegates to 
remonstrate in pointed and severe terms, against the abuse, and waste of 
time that daily is committed in that body. The Great public concerns are 
left to shift for themselves, whilst almost our whole time is ingroced by 

the private interest of individuals. Alas! C is not what it has 

been. Your own good sence will at once dictate to you that this must be, 
inter nos. It is a delicate affair, and ought to be handled with extream 
tenderness, for if these things were once to get abroad, the consequences 

you must at once perceive. I intend when I am about to leave C 

to speak my mind very freely to them on this subject, and shall conclude 
with telling them, I am abundantly satisfied, they are not calculated to 
conduct the business intrusted to them, and if the States do not fall upon 
some other mode, by which the concerns of the American States, are to be 
managed, we must inevitably fall to pieces, and that I intend to tell the 
State so I belong to, as soon as I go home, and will too. 

[572]! Charleston Lib. Soc, Miscellaneous Letters, p. iii. 
2 Congress. 



454 Continental Congress 

Octr. i8. For particulars of the intelligence we received yesterday, of 
the expedition against you I must refer you to Hall.^ We set untill past 
ten oClock last night on this business, and at last carried our point for 
2000 men more to be sent you from No. Carolina. This will make 6000 
in the whole, which with our own force, will pretty effectually secure us, 
against this cruel enemy, provided they are with you in time. We have 
taken every step we possibly could, that they should be, and hope they 
will, at least the first 4000.* You know my hand writing therefore shall 
not put mv name to this. I am mv Dr Sir Yours Most Sincerely 

J. M. 

573. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Joseph Reed.^ 

Sunday i8th Octr. [1778.] 
Sir, 

In obedience to the Order of Congress laid on me last evening, I have 
written the Letter to Lord Stirling respecting Mrs. Yard, without post- 
poning the matter on Account of the day. 

When I reflect that on the 13th Instant I transmitted to General W^ash- 
ington an Order of Congress " to take elYectual measures for preventing 
an illicit commerce between the inhabitants of these States and the Enemy 
in the garrison at New York ", and take into consideration the present 
Permit to pass Trunks and Baggage from that place without examination, 
I feel a deep apprehension for the honor of Congress which will probably 
be called in question by the Amiy in the first instance, and possibly by 
the good people at large in these States eventually ; nor am I without some 
concern on your account Sir, should it hereafter appear that such Trunks 
and Baggage had contained Merchandize and had not been fully explained 
to Congress when the Pennit for free passage was applied for. Pardon 
me Sir, for these suggestions, they flow from the purest motives. You will 
detennine in a moment whether they contain any degree of propriety and 
will act as you shall judge proper. I therefore submit the Letter to you 
under a flying Seal to be sent forward immediately or detained for further 
reflection on the subject matter. If you shall detennine the former be 
pleased to close the Letter by a wafer." 

3 Possibly George Abbott Hall, a kinsman. 

* See the Journals, Oct. 17 ; cf. ibid., Sept. 23, 24, 25 ; also nos. 536, 541, 542, anie, 
and nos. 574, 577, 579. 582, post. 

[573]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 122. 

2 The resolve of Oct. 17 relative to ^Irs. Yard stands recorded in the Journals 
without indication of its origin: neither has any explanation been discovered of the 
part which Joseph Reed had in obtaining the special favor to Mrs. Yard. The letter to 
Stirling, Oct. 18, transmitting the resolution, is in the Letter-Book, p. 117, and bears 
a notation in the writing of Moses Young, "delivered General Reed by M. Young". 
Stirling replied from Elizabeth Town Oct. 21 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 162, f. 539) : 
" I presume Congress is uninformed that there is in force a Law of this State prohibit- 
ing all Intercourse and Commerce with the Enemy, but under Certain regulations, and 
impowering any person whatever to Seize and Secure any goods wares or merchandize 
brought from within the lines of the Enemy, directs a process at Law for their Con- 
demnation and orders them to be sold for the benefit of the Captors. I could not there- 
fore with any propriety Interfere in the Execution of the Law of the State; But I have 



October, 1778 455 

574. John Penn to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell)/ 

Philadelphia, i8th Oct., 1778. 
Dear Sir: 

Congress were yesterday informed by what is said to be good authority, 
that several thousand of the Enemy are about embarking from New York 
for Charles Town, in hopes of being able to surprise the Inhabitants 
and to get much plunder." Your Excellency will observe from the 
proclamation published by the British Commissioners that they intended 
to destroy everything they can, alleging by way of excuse that America 
was mortgaged to France, their natural Enemy and it was now the intent 
of Britain to ruin the estate, to prevent them from getting any advantages 
from our connection.^ 

I wrote you the situation Genl. Lee was in. Congress have been so 
engaged in business that we have not had as much time as to take up the 
proceedings of the Court. However, that will be the business of 
to-morrow.* 

Genls. Schuyler and St. Clair are honorably acquitted by the Court 
Martial. We shall examine their trials soon.^ My compliments to your son. 



575. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[October 18-20, 1778.] 
18. Sabbath day. Gen. Lincoln and his aid dined with us. The French 

minister and Gen. Lee paid us an evening visit.^ 

ic). Congress received accounts from Lord Sterling that the enemy 

were preparing for a grand movement from New York, but where is 

uncertain. 

20. Genl. Lincoln and his aid dined with us. 



prevailed on the Captors to sell the whole without examination to Mrs. Yard for Six 
pence, altho' there is good reason to believe they would Sell for twenty thousand pounds. 
This the Captors do, out of the Respect they have for Congress, and from their great 
desire to Comply with every wish of that Honorable Body." Stirling's letter was read 
in Congress Oct. 26, but if any notice w^as taken of this part of it, is is not recorded. 
Meanwhile Laurens had replied on the 25th (Sunday), "I cannot refrain from express- 
ing my admiration of the liberality and obedience displayed in the conduct of those 
persons who captured Mrs. Yard's Merchandize, by their gentle surrender of them " 
(Letter-Book, IL 130). 
[574]' A'. C. St. Recs., XIIL 242. 

2 See no. 572, ante, and nos. 577. 579, 582, post. President Laurens, in transmit- 
ting to Governor Caswell Oct. 18 the resolve of Oct. 17, added, " I am also directed to 
assure your Excellency that the necessary remittance of money for the payment of these 
Troops will be made in a few days" (A''. C. State Recs., XIIL 242). The money was 
voted Oct. 20. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 15, 16, and no. 568, note 2, ante. 
* See the Journals, Oct. 9, 20. 2t„ and nos. 586, 656, post. 
5 See the Journals, Oct. 7, 8, 12, Nov. 30, Dec. 3, 5, 16. 

[ilSV Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 173. 

2 Under Oct. 17 Holten records: "I dined with Dr. Shippen. Genls. Lee and 
Lincoln dined at the Doctor's." 



456 Continental Congress 

576. John Henry to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 

Philadela. Oct. the 20th 1778. 
Dear Sir: 

I had the Honor of writing to you yesterday in the morning. Since 
that Time the following Intelligence reed, from Lord Sterling has changed 
the opinions of most Gentlemen with respect to the immediate operations 
of the Enemy.^ .... 

The Flag that was coming to this City with the Manifesto and procla- 
mation from the Commissioners is cast away on the Jersey shore. Two 
officers and ten men were saved. They had three packets which were 
lossed.^ .... 

I am at present alone and from the important Business before Congress, 
respecting our finances and foreign affairs, earnestly desire a repre- 
sentation as soon as any of my Colleagues can possibly attend. 

577. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

Williamsburg Oct. 20th 1778. 
Dr Sir: 

.... I suppose you have received the resolutions relative to sending 
Troops to South Carolina.^ Here it is considered as a matter altogether 
visionary, and nothing is done except giving power to the Executive in 
case of any invasion shall happen or appear imminent to send the force 
required. For my own part I am of opinion it has arisen from the credulity 
of some Southern Gentlemen in Congress, and from the high idea of the 
importance of their Country. It is not very probable that the Enemy will 
divide a force already unable to keep the open field, or that they will 
forego their present possessions for the purpose of making an attempt on 
one much less important to them. To do the first would be to make a 
certain sacrifice of a part of their army, and to do the latter would be 
egregious folly. In short Sir, I believe it will end in mere smoke ^ We 

[576]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 75; Arch, of Md., XXI. 219. 

- See, however, nos. 577, 582, post. Stirling's letter, Oct. 17, was read in Con- 
gress Oct. 19. 

^ Cf. no. 568, note 2, ante, and nos. 595, 599, post. The " flag " \vas the sloop 
Hotham. One of the officers was Lieut. Christopher Hele (concerning him see no. 643, 
post, and the note under Fell's Diary Jan. 12, 1779, in vol. IV.). The other was probably 
the pilot, as the Journals of Nov. 9 speak only of "the pilot, lieutenant and crew". In 
a letter from James Dick, secretary to Admiral Gambier, to Commissary-General John 
Beatty, Oct. 27, 1778 (Almon's Remembrancer, 1778-1779, p. 178), he is mentioned as 
"a pilot of the name of Welbank ", and in the Journals, Sept. 17, 1779. his name is 
given as "Wellbank". In Arch. of_ Md., XXI. 220, is found his "Declaration", a copy 
of which John Henry had transmitted to Governor Johnson Oct. 21, with the remark 
that he had that moment received it from the President of Congress. In this declaration 
(dated Oct. 20) he is set down as " Abraham Whiltbank of Lewistown pilot ". 
[577]! N. C. St. Recs., XIII. 245. 

2 Burke refers no doubt only to the resolution of Sept. 25. He probably had not 
yet learned of those of Oct. 17. See nos. 536, 541, 542, 572, 574, ante, 579, 582, post. 

^Cf. Gen. Allen Jones to Caswell, Oct. 21, 28, Caswell to Gen. John Ashe, 
Oct. 28, and to Jones Nov. 7, N. C. St. Recs., XIII. 245, 254, 255, 265. 



October, 1778 457 

have here the very disagreeable news that Col. Baylor's Reg-iment of Light 
Horse was surprised near Hackensack, forty of them put to the sword and 
the most taken. The Col. himself and most of his officers are supposed to be 
among the slain.* .... 

578. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philadelphia, Oct. 20th, 1778. 
My dear Sir: 

I am much pleasd with the Respect lately shown to the Count D'Estaing 
and his Officers,^ but not with the Etiquet of your publick Entertainment.^ 
The Arrangement of the Toasts was not perfectly agreable to my Idea of 
Propriety. This may be thought unworthy of Notice. But there is no 
Appearance made by the Publick but, like that of a private Individual, 
adds more or less to its Honor or Disgrace. Besides, Things which de- 
tachd and by themselves are justly considerd as Trifles light as Air, when 
they are connected with and made Parts of a great Machine, become 
important and do good or Hurt. The Monarch and Kingdom of France 
preceeded the Congress; and the Army and Navy of France that of 
America. Nations and independent sovereign States do not compli- 
ment after the Manner of Belles and Beaus. The superior Respect 

4 The rumor of Colonel Baylor's death proved to be incorrect. See no. 558, ante. 
Affidavits concerning the affair, requested by Congress in a resolution of Oct. 6, were 
transmitted by Lord Stirling vf'iih a letter of Oct. 21, read in Congress Oct. 26, and were 
referred to the committee of intelligence for publication. They were printed in the 
Pennsylvania Packet of Oct. 29, and may be found in Almon's Remembrancer, 1778- 
1779, pp. 292-299. 

On the extract of Stirling's letter prepared for the press (by Richard Henry Lee), 
besides directions to the printer by Drayton and Charles Thomson, is found this note to 
the printer in Thomson's writing : " Please to send me the papers back when you have 
done with them and also Col. Hartley's letter which you printed some time ago I pray 
you not to neglect sending me back the originals immediately, otherwise I shall not 
send you any more originals." The letter of Col. Thomas Hartley Oct. 8 (see the 
Journals, Oct. 13) was printed in the Packet Oct. 17. 

[578]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 227; Warren-Adams Letters, IL 57. 

2 See nos. 518, 519, 532, ante; cf. Samuel Adams to John Adams, Oct. 25, in 
Writings, IV. 79. A letter of Abigail Adams to her husband, undated, but of this period, 
tells something of the visits to and from the French officers {Familiar Letters, p. 342). 
See also Mercy Warren to John Adams, Oct. 15, in Warren-Adams Letters, II. 53. 

3 In his letter of Sept. 30 (see no. 571, note 2, ante) Warren wrote: "The 
disposition that at first appeared to Cast an Odium on the Count and to discredit our 
New Allies seems to have intirely subsided and has been succeeded by the most perfect 
good humour and respect Shewn them. Genl. Hancock has made most Magnificent En- 
tertainments for the Count and his Officers both at his own and the public Houses, and 
last Week the Genl. Court Entertained them at Dinner in Faneuil Hall with much mili- 
tary Parade, on this occasion the General had an oppy. of Exhibiting a Specimen of his 
Military Talents, etc." He then gives a list of some of the toasts : 

" I. The United States. The A.D.C. was directed to give the Signal for 13 Cannon 
to fire. 

" 2. The Monarch and Kingdom of France. Ditto. 

" 3. The Congress, the A.D.C. lookd wishfully the Genl. Shook his Head, no Can- 
non fired. 

" 4. The Army and Navy of France. Ditto. 

" 5. Genl. W and the Army, the Genl. waved the Signal to the aid with great Earnest- 
ness, another aid by his Side waved his hand over his head. 13 Cannon. A General 
Shout and Gap. no Cannon fired after this Toast. 

" I ventured afterwards to ask the Genl. how it came to pass that Congress were not 
treated with the highest marks of Respect and distinction, and told him I was sorry to 



458 Continental Congress 

paid to the General and Army of America to that shown to the Congress, 
viz. by the Addition of a feu du joie, I suppose was conformable to the 
Practice of all wise States in giving a just Preference to the Military 
above the civil Power. It must be confessed it is grounded on Principles 
truly and altogether Republican. Yet the old fashiond Whiggs murmur 
at it ; and with a Mixture of Pleasure and Indignation contrast the present 
with past Times when it was made a Capital Point, to keep the fonner 
under the Controul of the latter. Men are prone to Idolatry ; and some 
who seem to scorn the worshiping Gods of other Nations, will bow down 
to graven Images of Gold and Silver, and, strange Infatuation ! of Wood 
in the form of an Ass an Ape or a Calf, no matter what, if it be the Work 
of their own Hands. In Truth, my Friend, the Congress appears to be in 
an awkward Situation. While they are exerting their utmost Influence, 
on all proper Occasions, to support the civil Authority of the several 
States over the military, there are some Men, even in that State which my 
Partiality had almost led me to pronounce the most respectable in the 
Union who would have less Respect shown to them than to the Creatures 
which they have made. Tyrants have been the Scourges and Plagues of 
Mankind, and Armies their Instruments. These have been said by ignorant 
Flatterers and Sycophants to be the Vicegerents of the Almighty to 
punish Men for their Sins, and therefore not to be resisted or contrould. 
The Time may come when the Sins of America may be punishd by a 
standing Army; and that Time will surely come when the Body of the 
People, shall be so lost to the Exercise of common Understanding and 
Caution, as to suffer the Civil to stoop to the Military Power. 

I will finish this Scrawl with an Anecdote. Not many Days ago a 
Sherrifif of the County of Philadelphia attempted to serve a Writ on the 
Person of the Count Pulaski. He was at the Head of his Legion and 
resisted the Officer. A Representation of it was made to Congress by the 
Chief Justice who well understands his Duty and is a Gentleman of 
Spirit. The Count was immediately orderd to submit to the Magistrate, 
and informd that Congress was detemiind to resent any Opposition made 
to the civil Authority by any of their officers. The Count acted upon the 
Principle of Honor. The Debt was for the Support of his Legion, and 
he thought the Charge unreasonable as it probably was. He was ignorant 

see the day when they were not. he said he had his orders, and they were Included in 
the United States. I told him I thought Genl. W and the Army were, that I had as great 
a Respect for Genl. W and the Army as any Man. but if they were not Included also in 
the United States I wish they were disbanded." (Warren MSS.) 

The following account of this entertainment appeared in the Independent Chronicle, 
Oct. I : 

" On Friday last, at the invitation of the Government of this State, the Count D'Estaing 
and his officers dined at Faneuil Hall, with the Honourable Council and House of Repre- 
sentatives, the Continental military officers in the land and sea service, the gentlemen of 
the civil and ecclesiastical order, and a great number of other gentlemen — it is thought 
not less than 400, were seated at once at the several tables in the Hall. The entertain- 
ment was splendid. The genuine joy was never observed to rise higher upon any public 
occasion ; and the toasts, and every circumstance thro' the day, express'd it in the most 
lively manner ; the great and mutual pleasure diffused by the present happy Union 
between France and these States ; which British tyranny has now rendered so important 
to the interest of both nations." 



October, 1778 ' 459 

of the Law of the Land and made the Amend honorable. The Board of 
War afterwards adjusted the Account and the Creditor was satisfied.'* 

Adieu. 
S A— 
I intreat you not to resign your Seat at the Navy Board. ^ 

579. Richard Henry Lee to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry ).^ 

Philadelphia 21st Oct 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

This will be delivered to you by Major General Lincoln, a brave and 
able Officer, who goes to command the Troops that are to oppose any 
attempt of the enemy upon Charles Town in South Carolina. As the 
General can give you the news of this place I should not have troubled 
you with this letter, were it not for the following purpose. It was pro- 
posed to send 50,000 dollars to the paymaster in Virginia for the purpose 
of forwarding the thousand men designed to assist South Carolina. 
Whereupon I reminded the Congress of a motion long since laid upon 
their table, in consequence of letters from yourself and Mr. Page inform- 
ing that arrears were due to the continental soldiers in Virginia and the 
militia that had been called into continental service.^ And I proposed 
making the 50, an hundred thousand dollars, and to word the resolve for 
the purposes " of paying the arrears due to the continental soldiers in 
Virginia, and to the militia of that state which had been the last year in 
continental service," as well as for forwarding the thousand men to 
S. Carolina. This was readily agreed to, and the money ( 100,000 dollars) 
is ordered forward.^ Now Sir, I presume that Gen. Lincoln will, on your 
application, and showing him the resolve, take measures, by ordering the 
payment himself if the accounts of arrear are ready, and if not, by 
authorizing you to call on the paymaster for the money when these 
accounts are prepared. I beg leave to refer you to the General for our 
news being in great haste. I subscribe myself with much esteem and 
affection yours. 

P. S. — Since I wrote the letter on the other side, I find upon conver- 
sation with Gen Lincoln that if the pay rolls of the militia should not 
happen to be ready when he passed through Williamsburgh, that it would 
not be in his power to order payment, as he could not delegate his authority. 

■* See the Journals, Oct. 2, 3. 

5 See nos. 602, 614, 615, post. Warren's reply to this letter and to that of Oct. 17, 
no. 571, ante, is dated Nov. 5 {Warren- Adams Letters, II. 63). 

[579P Henry, Patrick Henry, III. 196; Letters (ed. Ballagh), I. 443. 

- The reference is to the letter from Governor Henry May 23, transmitting a 
resolution of the assembly dated May 18, read in Congress June 15, and the considera- 
tion postponed. The governor, in accordance with the instructions of the assembly, 
explained the obstacles that had prevented the adjustment of the state's accounts and 
asked the delegates to endeavor to procure such further action as v^^ould produce a 
settlement 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 20. 



460 Continental Congress 

Therefore, I proposed the inclosed resolve which I hope will remove all 
difficulty.* 

farewell 

580. Henry Marchant to the Rhode Island Assembly.^ 

Philadelphia, Oct. 21st, 1778. 
Gentlemen, 

In Consequence of a Letter of the nth of June from the Councill of 
War, the same was laid before Congress, and a Committee appointed 
upon it. But notwithstanding- my utmost Exertions to get a Report as 
soon as possible, that Committee never did any Thing upon it, one member 
of it left Congress, and I at Length got a New Committee, and thro 
perseverance I have procured a Report and Resolution of Congress, which 
I herewith enclose your Honors.^ It is such as I apprehend will afford 
entire Satisfaction ; especially when it is considered that the furnishing of 
Cloathing to the officers of the State troops upon the same principles as the 
Cloathing furnished the officers of the Continental troops is approved of 
by Congress. I felt myself not a little happy that I was able to establish 
that Point, and I cannot but reflect with some degree of Satisfaction, that 
I have never failed in obtaining every Request which I have ever had the 
Honor to make of Congress, in Behalf of the State I represent ; and, in 
some Instances I flatter myself I have anticipated their wishes. This 
Observation does not arise from Vanity, but from that heart-felt Pleasure 
I take in the discharge of my Duty to a State who have conferred upon 
me repeated Honors, and given to me the Strongest Testimonials of their 
confidence. Of all which no one hath a more grateful Sense, nor shall 
strive more ardently to evince it, than your Honors' 

most obedient and very humble Servant, 

Hy Marchant. 

581. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.^ 

23d October [1778.] 
Sir 

I had the honor of addressing Your Excellency Yesterday by Jones and 
also of receiving and presenting to Congress Your Excellency's favor of 
the 1 8th with the Refugee Petition to the British Commissioners. This, 
I understand will appear in print tomorrow, and be prefaced by a private 
hand. Congress heard it read and paid no other attention to it.^ 

* See the Journals, Oct. 22. 
[580]^ R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779, p. 40; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 204. 

2 See the Journals, June 25, Sept. 4, Oct. 13. The letter of the Rhode Island 
council of war, with the date June 10, is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 185. 
[581]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 127. 

~ The Journals record merely that the letter was read. The petition to the British 
commissioners from " the Loyal Refugees from dififerent Provinces " was printed in 
the Pennsylvania Packet Oct. 24, with an unsigned introduction. The statement is made 
that it had been printed in New York. A note at the end says, " It is probable this peti- 
tion will be only signed by the three remaining commissioners and the honest Colonel 
Kirkland ". Cf. no. 588, post. 



October, 1778 461 

582. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell)/ 

Philadelphia Oct 24th 1778. 
Sir: 

A fleet from New York, consisting- of 16 ships of the line and upwards 
of 100 transports, sailed a few days ago, with Troops and many cannon on 
board. Their destination is at present a secret. Congress are much 
alarmed, fearing they may intend for the southward, (Charles Town) 
which has induced them to call upon No. Carolina for a greater body of 
men than I suppose can be raised in time to prevent the Enemy's designs. 
Your Excellency will perceive it to be the desire of Congress that you 
should put yourself at the head of the Troops from your State, and 
should you be inclined to do so, have given you the rank and pay, etc., of a 
Major Genl in the Continental Army. Genl. Howe is ordered to head 
quarters, and Gen'l Lincoln, an officer of great military merit, is appointed 
to the command in the Southern Department.^ .... 



583. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[October 22-24, I778-] 
22. Genl. Lincoln dined with us and we rode out with the General. 
2j. Genl. Lincoln spent the evening and supped with us. 
24. Genl. Lincoln sit out from this city to take the command of the 
southern army. I met a Com* at 5 o' Clock. 



584. James Lovell to John Adams.^ 

Philada. 24th Octr 1778 
Dear Sir 

.... Congress have the Papers of the Committee for foreign Affairs 
on their Table, and are taking their own Time to execute any Thing 
material for you to know ; therefore I would not take upon myself to give 
you any Detail of those matters, further than to say that the Presence of 
Mr. Deane and Mr. Carmichael seems rather to perplex than clear our 
Views. Those Gentlemen having been at Variance for a Season and now 
cordially reconciled, there is a sort of a Task in accommodating the 
Meaning of Expressions used at different Periods under the Influence of 
different Passions The only Result of Interrogatories I forsee must there- 
fore be the Loss of that Time which had better be spent in attending 
to our Finances." .... 

[582]! A^. c. St. Recs.. XIII. 249; XXII. 986. 

2 Cf. nos. 546, 552, 572, 576, 577, 579, ante; also Penn to Caswell, Oct. 22, N. C. 
St. Recs., XIII. 247. 

[583]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 174. 
[584]! Adams MSS., Boston. 

2 Cf. nos. 401, 524, 528, 529, 545, 549, 554, 564, 566, ante, and nos. 590, 635, post. 



462 Continental Congress 

585. Samuel Adams to John Adams.^ 

Philada Octob 25, 1778 
My dear Sir, 

.... I suppose you have been fully and officially informd of the 
State of our military Affairs since the Enemy evacuated this City and met 
with a Drubbing at Monmouth. And as publick Letters will doubtless be 
forwarded by this Conveyance,^ it is needless for me to give you a par- 
ticular Detail of what has happend since. By those Letters you will be 
informd that Dr Franklin is appointed Minister Plenipotentiary at Ver- 
sailes.^ It is not yet determind how you will be disposd of ; but as Con- 
gress entertain great Expectations from your Services, you may depend 
upon Employment being allotted for you somewhere.* The critical Situ- 
ation of the Powers of Europe in general, renders it somewhat difficult 
for us to determine, to which of them to make our Addresses at present. 
Every Cabinet I suppose is busily engagd in making the necessary 
Arrangements and preparing for the opening of a Campaign, if War 
should take place. In this Case, I should think France must be our Pole 
Star, while it continues, and our Connections must be formd with hers. In 
the mean time however, Holland, whose Policy is always to be at Peace, 
may be open for a Negociation ; and in my opinion, we ought to take the 
earliest opportunity to tempt her 

586. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO GeORGE WASHINGTON.^ 

Philadelphia, October 26th, 1778. 
Dear General, 

.... My Ideas as to our Power of carrying on the War differ in 
some Respects from those whose Opinions I respect. The Resources of 
the Country may be drawn forth by our Paper at the same Time it must 
be confessed that this Paper will thereby be less valuable. After all the 
Debt does not increase for a certain Sterling Sum. which would have paid 
it one Year ago will pay it now. The Depreciation in the Interim has 
operated as a Tax. 

I very sincerely lament that this Tax hath fallen heavy on those who 
have served and continue to serve their Country. It is a peculiar Hard- 
ship upon us that fully to relieve the Evils they labor under is not in our 

[585]! IVritings (ed. Gushing), IV. 79. 

~ At the close of the letter Adams says : " The Marquiss De la Fayette whose 
extraordinary Merit is fully known to yon, does me the Honor of taking Care of this 
Letter, and will deliver it to you." 

3 See the Journals. Sept. 14, Oct. 13, 21, 22, 24, 26; also Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., II. 807. Cf. nos. 592, 594, 602, post. 

* The committee of foreign affairs wrote to John Adams, Oct. 28 ; " Congress 
must and will speedily determine upon the arrangement of their foreign affairs. This 
is become, so far as regards you, peculiarly necessary upon a new commission being 
sent to Dr. Franklin." Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 814. See John Adams to Lovell, 
Nov. 27, 1778, in Works, IX. 473; and Adams to Gerry, Dec. 5, 1778, in Wharton, Rev. 
Dipl. Corr., II. 848. John Adams's reply to this letter of Samuel Adams is dated Feb. 14, 
1779, and is found ibid., III. 47. 

[586] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXVIII. 85; Sparks, Life of 
Gouverneur Morris, I. 174. 



October, I//8 463 

Power.^ This leads me to the Petition you mention or Representation 
which I have not yet seen and never wish to see.^ I cannot easily express 
to you how much I was hurt at being informed of it. Not indeed as to 
the Matter for that I really am a Stranger to but as to the Manner in 
which it was procured. For in the first Place it gave my Enemies (and 
who were so in some Degree for my earnest Support of the Claims of 
the Army heretofore) no small Cause of Triumph. This say they is the 
Consequence of your Zeal for an Establishment. Besides this I con- 
sidered myself in some Degree as an Advocate for the x\rmy. I loved 
them from my Acquaintance with some Individuals and for the Suffer- 

~ See the " Observations on the Finances of America ", embodied in the instruc- 
tions to Franklin, which are found in the Journals, Oct. 22. These " Observations " were 
drawn by Morris, as were also the instructions proper. The latter, with the date Oct. 26 
(for an explanation of the date see the Journals, p. 1064 n.), are in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., II. 807. Some account of Morris's consultation of Gerard with respect to the 
instructions are found ibid., and also in Sparks, Life of Morris, I. 188-195. 

3 In a letter to Morris Oct. 4 {Writings, ed. Ford, VII. 208, ed. Sparks, VI. 80) 
Washington mentioned that the delay in settling questions concerning the army, together 
with other unfortunate influences, had " conspired to sour the temper of the army 
exceedingly; and have, I am told, been productive of a memorial or representation of 
some kind to Congress''. The memorial had some time before been prepared (it is 
dated Sept. 13), but it was not until Oct. 20 that it was presented to Congress (see the 
Journals). The letter of Sept. 22 from Colonels Daniel Morgan, Otho H. Williams, and 
William Davies, presenting the memorial, bears this endorsement by Laurens : " Cols. 
Morgan, Williams and Davies — Camp 22 Septr 1778 — Dd me with other Papers by 
Mr. Griffin as from Mr. Harvie who had left them in his hands — in Cong : 19 Octob. 
1778." Secretary Thomson's endorsement is: "Laid before Congress and read Octr. 20. 
Ordered to lie on the table." The letter and the four memorials (identical except the 
signatures) are in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 41, vol. VII., ff. 191-205. The first among 
the protests is : " That we humbly conceive the exclusion of officers from the Army, 
without the imputation of a crime, or regard to the Articles of War .... and without 
regard to their future prospects of acquiring an honest subsistence, has a dangerous 
tendency", etc. (Touching the question of dismissal, see nos. 559, 565, ante.) 

In the Maryland Historical Society (Gilmor Papers, III. 3) is the record of a meet- 
ing " At the New Dineing Room September 9th '78 " of a convention of officers from 
all the states except Rhode Island, South Carolina, and Georgia, which recommends 
that the several brigades and independent corps send representatives to " an assembly or 
a Convention of Officers at Coll. Putnams Marque on Saturday next at 10 o'Clock 
A. M. [Sept. 12] for the purpose of considering and representing to the Honorable 
Congress such circumstances as the Army at large conceive themselves aggrieved by 
and to petition for redress ". The document is signed, " Dan. Morgan, Prest., Otho H. 
Williams, clerk". With this document is also a draft of the address to Congress, in the 
writing of Colonel Williams, with a list of fourteen names appended (not autographic), 
including those of Colonels Morgan and Williams. 

Further light is thrown on the memorial by a letter from Major John Taylor to 
General Woodford, written from Philadelphia Oct. 9 (Library of Congress, U. S. R.). 
" On my arrival at Phia.", he says, " I found the Petition of the army had gotten the start 
of me, and was much canvassed in Conversation. It appears to be generally considered 
as rude, ill written, and dictatorial, and will in my opinion if presented, meet with a 
severe rebuff, and undergo a Scrutiny, which perhaps it is not calculated to bear. Should 
its prayer be granted, people say. Congress will have the imputation of being bullied into 
the matter, a circumstance which will of itself, bar its success effectually. It hath been 
read individually perhaps by most of the members, and hath pointed out the true temper 
of the army to them, by which means, if now stoped [sic], it may have a good effect; 
but should it be introduced officially, it must then be treated as a public paper, and must 
suffer the Judgment of a public tribunal, which Judgt. would be then decisive, and I 
fear unfavorable. From what I can observe. Congress appears to have very favorable 
Sentiments of the army, but if a sort of recriminating remonstrance is preferred to 
them, those Sentiments will be altered." 



464 Continental Congress 

ings which as a Body they had bravely and patiently endured ; and there- 
fore I could not but suffer when I found them taking Steps which in 
my Opinion cannot do them Honor and which incapacitated me from 
urging as I otherwise should have done every Redress in our Power to 
their Grievances. But what chiefly affected me was that this Meeting of 
Delegates from Brigades in a Mixture of civil and military Capacity 
carries with it the Air of deeper Design than I believe is in the Bosoms 
of those who were immediately concerned. It was by Procedures such 
as these that the good Fairfax made Way for a crafty Cromwell and that 
he dismissed a tedious Wrangling Parliament and established a military 
Despotism. It is a melancholy Truth that when once Faction takes Pos- 
session of the human Heart Men are hurried into Extremes which make 
considerate People tremble. I will not do your Army the Injustice even 
to permit a Thought that they wish to get Rid of their General. But Sir 
their and your and our Enemies do not want the Confidence to say so and 
indeed to say they can prove it and to attempt that Proof from the 
Manner of procuring (Agitating as they term it) the Petition in Ques- 
tion. Certainly could such Ideas be inculcated it would answer their Views. 
It would also answer their Views to instill into the Army a Distrust of 
Congress and therefore I doubt not but the Enemies of both are assiduous 
in this Business. I find also the british Commissioners are so barefaced 
as to hold out the Bait of Promotion in the royal Army to such as will 
fall in with their Designs and doubtless a peculiar Portion of their Bounty 
will be dispensed to those who shall sow the Seeds of Dissention in an 
Army which as they cannot conquer it is their only Resource to divide. 

Thinking on this Subject as I do it did and does appear to me my Duty 
as a good Citizen thoroughly to discountenance every Measure of this 
Kind particularly when it is ushered as the first Mention of this Affair was 
to me by an Observation that the Amiy had it in their Power to do them- 
selves Justice. It makes me unhappy to learn that such Discourse prevails. 
I am certain those who use it have no Design but they should consider 
that it affords Matter for the Design of others to work upon. It has not 
made any serious Impression I believe on the Mind of those whose 
Opinions have real Weight because it is considered as one of those light 
Expressions' which flow from the Luxuriance of the Imagination. Little 
do those who say such Things know the Difficulties of subsisting an Army. 

The Marquis will hand you a Plan etca. on which I shall say Nothing 
because I have already had a great Deal of Trouble with it and he can 
say more than I could write in a Week and you know more of the Subject 
than all of us together.* 

* The " Plan of an Attack upon Quebec ", in the Journals under Oct. 22. In 
accordance with instructions the committee of foreign affairs transmitted the plan to 
Washington Oct. 27 (Library of Congress, Washington Papers, signed by Richard Henry 
Lee and James Lovell) with the request, " Be pleased therefore, Sir, to enclose the 
Plan with your Observations to Doctor Franklin by the Marquis de la Fayette ". Wash- 
ington's observations, dated Nov. 11, were read in Congress Nov. 19. They are printed 
in Writings (ed. Ford), VIL 239. 



October, 1778 465 

We have no news. Let me then tell you what has the Merit of Truth 
if not the Charms of Novelty. That I am Dear General 

Very sincerely yours, 

GouvR Morris. 

[P. S.] General Lee's Affair hangs by the Eye Lids. We spent one Day 
upon it without even touching on the Merits.^ The Debate was in what 
Manner to proceed to a Decision. Some contended for the Propriety of 
resolving simply to approve or disapprove of the Sentence, others for 
entering into the Consideration of the Charges and the Evidence on them 
seperately without however making any Entry on the Minutes. A third 
for doing this and making the Entries. This as the most systematic 
Method I supported for truly I know not how to determine in the Lump. 
Granting him guilty of all the Charges it is too light a Punishment. And 
if he is not guilty, in the Opinion of Congress of any one there would be 
an Injustice in not declaring their Opinion. 

Conway has again applied for a Certificate of his good Services and I 
have again opposed the Grant of it. His Letter lies on the Table." Again, 
my friend, adieu. 

Pray Excuse me to Generals Greene and Schuyler for not writing by 
this Opportunity. Upon my Honor I have so many Things to do that 
I am much distrait. Tell Genl. Schuyler however that I shall build if 
possible the Decision of his Business on that of Genl. Lee 

587. The President of Congress to the Governor and 
Captain-General of Cuba.^ 

Philadelphia 27th October 1778 
Sir 

Your Excellency's Letter of the nth March last address'd to Congress 
in favor of Don Juan De Miralles, I had the honor of presenting to the 
House " — the particular Affection which you were pleased to express 

^ See the Journals, Oct. 20, 22,- Joseph Hewes wrote to Governor Caswell from 
Edenton Nov. 24 : "I returned home a few days ago from Philadelphia .... I left 
Genl. Lee at Philadelphia soliciting Congress to reverse the sentence of the Court Mar- 
tial respecting his behavior at the Battle of Monmouth I was told a large 

majorit}^ of Congress were for confirming it, but just as I was setting out, I was told 
the numbers were nearly equal, and I have no doubt by this time that General and his 
fast friend Rich'd H. Lee have prevailed on a majority to reverse it " (A^". C. St. Recs., 
Xin. 299). Cf. nos. 574, ante, 656, post. 

^ See the Journals, Oct. 17; also an extract of a letter from Conway to Gates, 
Oct. 28, in Sparks, Life of Morris, L 178. 

[587P Archives of the Indies, Papeles procedentes de la Isla de Cuba, leg. 1301 ; 
Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 135. 

~ The letter was read in Congress July 22,. The original has not been found 
among the Papers of the Continental Congress, but a translation is in no. 78, vol. XVIL, 
f. 47. It is addressed " To the Most Illustrious the Congress of Philadelphia ", and 
states that " Disagreeable contrarieties obliged Dn. Juan de Miralles to put into your 
Continent, where he informs me he was most gratiously and in the most Polite manner 
received and treated by the Governor of Charlestown ", and that he had " resolved to 
wait some time in that Country ". A letter of the same date and purport was written to 
General Washington, of which the original, a triplicate, and a translation are in the 
Washington Papers, under their date, March 11, 1778. Drafts both of the letter to 
Congress and of that to Washington are in Papeles procedentes de la Isla de Cuba, legajo 
1301. Cf. no. 475, ante. 



466 Continental Congress 

therein for Don Juan has been justified by his Honorable Deportment 
during his residence in these States. 

It cannot but be pleasing to your friendship to be told that the influence 
which Your Excellency's Recommendation naturally conveys, has, in this 
instance, been rendered little necessary by the Claims of the personal merit 
of Don Juan. 

The United States of North America desire Peace and harmony with 
other Nations and they particularly consider the prospect of a friendly 
intercourse between the Subjects of His Catholic Majesty and their 
own Inhabitants as a great Branch of their future felicity. 

The kind Prayer which you have made for our preservation we beg 
leave to retort in sentiments of the utmost cordiality.^ 

I have the honor to be with the highest Esteem and Respect Sir 
Your Excellency's Obedient and Most humble Servant 

Henry Laurens. 

President of Congress. 
His Excellency Don D. J. Navarro, 

Governor and Captain General of Cuba, etc. etc. etc. Havanna. 

588. JosiAH Bartlett to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia October 27th 1778 
Dear Sir 

In Reading the Several letters and other Publications of the Brittish 
Commis'rs, you will observe that they are Constantly Endeavouring to 
make people on both Sides the water, Believe, That Congress Have Ex- 
ceeded their powers in Rejecting their (the Commision'rs) offers of 
Reconcilliation and Entering into an alliance with France; and that in 
both of these instances The Congress had acted Contrary to the Sentiments 
of their Constituents.^ 

Whither they are really Deceived by the Tory accounts they Receive 
from the Several States, Or whither they mean to Deceive others, I am 
not Certain ; But of this / am Certain, that so long as Brittain has the 
smallest hope Remaining of these States submitting again to her Domina- 
tion, she will never Recognize our Independance and Consequently the 
war must Continue. It is therefore our interest to Convince Brittain and 
Every Body else, that the French Alliance and the Rejection of the Brittish 
Commis'rs offers of Reconcilliation are universally approved of by these 
States. For this purpose I should think it would be proper for the Legisla- 
tures of the Several States in this union (as of their own motion without 

3 The committee of foreign affairs was instructed Oct. 26 to prepare an answer 
to Governor Navarro's letter, and on Oct. 27 brought in a draft which was agreed to 
but was not spread upon the Journals. This is presumably the letter prepared by the 
committee. 

[588]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia, now in possession of the N. H. Historical Society, Weare Papers, V. 131 ; Hist. 
Mag., VI. 277 (with variations). 

2 Expressions to that effect are found in the letter from the commissioners 
July II (see nos. 419-421, ante), and were definitely reiterated in the manifesto of 
Oct. 3 (see no. 568, ante). 



October, 1778 467 

the advice of Congress) to pass Resolves signifying their approbation of 
Those Measures : And in order effectually to Cut off all their pretences 
for applying to individual States or persons, To Resolve that the Congress 
of the united States are solely vested with power on our part for Con- 
tracting foreign Alliances, for making and Conducting war and for 
Restoring peace, and that They and They only have full power for making 
peace with Brittain on the principles of our absolute Independence and not 
otherwise; and that these States Repose Entire Confidence in them for 
those purposes. 

If the several states would carefully Draw up and unanimously pass 
such Resolves, publish them to the world in the public newspapers and 
send attested Copies to their Delegates in Congress to be made use of as 
occasion might Require, I am perswaded that it would effectually cut off 
all the hopes our Enemies may still Entertain of their being able to Devide 
and flatter us into Submission. And as they are now Convinced that they 
are not able to Conquer us by force, I Doubt not such Resolves would 
greatly facillitate their acknowledging our Independance and offering 
us reasonable terms of peace. 

I Believe Such Resolves will be passed by several of the Legislatures, 
and as our assembly will likely be seting when you Receive this, I thought 
proper just to Hint the matter to you for your Consideration. In the 
Enclosed papers you will find the Remarks of Common sense on the Com- 
mision'rs IManifesto, also a Geneuine petition of the Refugees in New 
York to the Commis'rs. The petition appears so ridiculous that I should 
not have believed it Geneuine had we not had the best proof of its 
authenticity.* 

You have heard I Doubt not that Mr. Simpson * has the Command of 
the Ranger and that she together with the Boston and Providence may be 
hourly Expected at Boston. 

As my power of Representing the State will Expire next Saturday, 
I Expect to set out for Newhampshire the Begining of next week and 
hope proper Care will be taken to Keep up a Represen[ta]tion here.^ 
I am Sir with great Respect 

Your most obedient Servant 

JosiAH Bartlett 

3 The paper was the Pennsylvania Packet of Oct. 24. Concerning the " Refugee 
Petition", see no. 581, ante; with regard to the manifesto of the British commissioners, 
see nos. 568, 574, 576, ante, 595, 599- 618, 643, post. 

* Lieut. Thomas Simpson. Cf. the Journals, Sept. 17, 1779. 

5 Bartlett's account of his expenses during his period of service from May 25 
to Nov. 3 is of especial interest as one type of accounts rendered by delegates against 
their states. This account, which is found among the Bartlett Correspondence in the 
Dartmouth College Library, follows : 

Expenses at York Town 1778 

May 25th Board 4 Days at Stokes Tavern 9 : 5 : 3 

Shoeing Horses 3: 6: o 

Horse Keeping from 21st of may to 2nd July 6: 6: 

paid for my own and waiters Board to A : Hoffman 37 : 16 : 

paid for Drink while at Hoff mans o : 13 : o 

paid for washing Cloaths 3 : 10 : o 

60: 16: 3 
34 



468 Continental Congress 

589. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Octo 27th, 1778. 
Sir, 

The great affairs of finance and the cloathing department are yet 
unfinished. The delay of these important matters gives me great anxiety. 
I have used my utmost endeavours to forward them." I wish another 
Delegate might be immediately sent from Connecticut; was in hopes 
Colo. Dyer would have come before now. The committee appointed to 
consider your Excellency's letter respecting the late Commissary Trum- 
bull's affairs have not yet made report, tho' I understand they are ready 
when Congress can receive it. I don't know what their report will be.^ 
The affair of the currency is to be further considered today. The mem- 
bers in general seem to be at a loss what can be done to restore its credit. 
The plan that appears to me most probable to be adopted is to recommend 
to the legislatures of the several States immediately to pass acts to raise 
by taxes about five or six million dollars annually for eighteen or twenty 
years, as a sinking fund sufficient for the redemption of all the bills and 
Loan Office certificates, to take out of currency about fifty million dollars 
by loan, to lay a tax of about twelve or thirteen million dollars for the 
expence of the next year ; and if further emissions are necessary that addi- 
tional funds be provided for sinking them within the time limited for 

Expences at Philadelphia from the 4th. of July to the 3d of Novembr inclusive — 

paid at the George Tavern for 4 Days board 10 : 8 : o 

paid for nursing my waiter while Sick in Philada ii : 12 : 

paid his Doctors bill and for medicines 5 : 19 •' 

paid for his Expences in the Country to Recover his health 14 : 14 : 

paid my washer womans' bill 7:19: 

paid for Horse Keeping in Philadelphia etc 64 : 10 : 

paid for Shoeing horses 3:18: 

paid Mrs. Peart for victuals and Lodging 145 : 4 : 

paid for Drink at Mrs. Pearts 16 : 18 : o 

for Shaving 3 : 14 : 

for a Chest which I left for Colo. Whipple i : 14 : 

for medicines for my Self i : 15 : 

for paper, pens, Ink, Sealing wax etc 2: 0: 6 

paid for fruit bought for the table when I had company to Dine etc at Sundry 

times 2: 4: 

for a waiter when Mine was Sick etc • 1:17: 

to Expences which My waiter was at in the Country more than his board 

would have been in the City i : 10 : 



295 

Expenses to York Town 37 

Do. from York Town to Philadelphia 8 

Do. from Philadelphia Home 48 

Do. at York Town 60 

Do. at Philadelphia 295 

Waiters wages 48 

Hire of Horses allowd 75 



16: 6 

14: 8 

0: II 

4: 3 

16: 3 

16: 3 

6: 



573:18: 4 
[sSgJ^Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., H. 298. 

2 See nos. 559, 567, ante, and no. 617, post. 

3 See no. 567, note 2, ante. 



October, 1778 469 

sinking those that are now outstanding, so that the possessors of the bills 
and lenders of money be able to make a just estimate of the value of their 
securities.* .... 



590. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee.^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 27th 1778. 
My dear Brother 

The Marquis Fayette left us today for Boston where he is to embark. 
This letter will follow him with our dispatches." I wish that a true friend- 
ship may take place between you and the Marquis because I discern in 
this young Nobleman those principles that I think cannot fail to render 
him a great Man. And his virtue is such as will make him superior to 
all those mean and selfish considerations which mark too many. The 
[disgusting artifice] ^ of our [enemies] is such as [requires] on our 
[part] the greatest [circumspection]. Even [virtue] will not do alone, 
the strictest [appearance?] must accompany this; where enemies are 
numerous, wicked, and inquisitive, and where the most laudable actions 
may be misinterpreted, and by the artful mixture of innocent truth with 
much falsehood, can impose on weak minds and such as are more than 
half willing to be imposed on, infinite care is necessary. I am much mis- 
taken if your honest zeal in your Countries cause concerning the [un- 
executed articles] of the [treaty] will not be diligently both from 

[hence] and with [you] used to [ruin] you with the [court] of F e. 

Will it not be well besides taking other wise precautions, to speak to the 
[minister] with the candor, firmness, and sincerity, on this subject that 
becomes a Man concerned in the welfare of his Country. The whole 
tribe of wicked ones at Passy and all the Co-ad jutors will be employed 
in this nefarious business. But a sensible and virtuous Minister will 
esteem the integrity of a Man who faithfully discharges his trust by 
seeing and pursuing the interest of his Country, in the Station you have 
been in. The wickedness of Deane and his party exceeds all belief, and 
must in the end fail them notwithstanding the Art with which they 
clothe themselves. The wicked and some weak can alone support them. 

P. S. I hope our affairs in Spain have ere this taken so favorable a turn 
that you will be presently repairing to that Court. The affairs of finance 
have with other adventitious business, so engrossed us, that we have not 
yet been able to take up our foreign affairs, which will presently be done 

•* See the Journals, Oct. 28 (committee report) ; also nos. 672, 679, 687, 688, 693, 
post. 

[590]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; Va. Hist. Soc. (transcript) ; Letters (ed. Ballagh), I. ^^ (with omissions). 

2 The principal of these despatches, dated Oct. 28, are in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., II. 812-816. A letter from the marine committee to Franklin Oct. 27, relative to 
the vessel which had been ordered to carry the despatches and also Lafayette and his 
suite, is in PauUin, Oiit-Letters, II. 22. See also no. 585, ante, and nos. 592, 594, post. 

^ The words in square brackets in this letter are written in cipher. See nos. 268, 
295, 439. 524, ante. 



470 Continental Congress 

upon a large Scale. I am going to Virginia in a few days, and expect our 
brother Frank here to take my place. 

farewell 

R. H. L. 

591. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[October 28, 1778.] 
28. Congress spent some time this day considering the State of our 
money and finances, which I find is very difficult to put upon a Just and 
respectable footing. 

592. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to William Lee.^ 

Philadelphia, 28 Octr. 1778. 
Sir: 

The enclosed Resolve it is hoped will be productive of singular advan- 
tage so far as relates to you, who must depend greatly for American 
intelligence on your connexions in Paris. Congress have been and are 
exceedingly loaded with Business ; and, of late, have met with some 
singular interruptions in the intended general arrangement of their foreign 
affairs; so that they have yet only decided in respect to Doctor Franklin 
their Minister Plenipotentiary at the Court of France.^ Our first and 
most pressing Business is the appreciation of our currency. This point 
accomplished our Enemies themselves will acknowledge their hopes of 
conquering us at an end. The British Commissioners sent on a foolish and 
wicked Errand to America are returning home completely disappointed ; 
and there is reason, from appearances, to think that the land forces of 
Britain are gradually withdrawing from these States. It is probable 
that the Marquis de la Fayette, by whom this Letter goes, will obtain in 
Boston further knowledge than we now have of the destination of a fleet 
lately departed from New York amounting to about one hundred and 
fifty Sail. We shall desire Mr. Adams to give you all possible information 
on the arrival of this packet; and shall soon dispatch other Letters from 
this port. With hearty prayers for your welfare, we are, sir, your 
affectionate friends, 

Rich'd Henry Lee. 

James Lovell. 

[591]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 174. 

[592]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. I., p. in (letter-book 
copy) ; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 815. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 22, and cf. the letters to Franklin, Adams, and Izard, 
Oct. 28, in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 814-816. In the letter to Franklin the com- 
mittee says, " Enclosed with other papers is a resolve of Congress of the 226., which 
we have officially sent to all the commissioners ". The letters appear to have been 
delivered to Franklin and Adams by an aide-de-camp of Lafayette Feb. 12, other letters 
by Lafayette himself on the following day. See Franklin to Jonathan Williams Feb. 13, 
to Vergennes Feb. 14, Adams to the committee Feb. 13, to Samuel Adams Feb. 14, to 
Vergennes Feb. 16, to Lovell Feb. 20, to the President of Congress Feb. 27, Izard to the 
committee Mar. 4, and Arthur Lee to the committee Mar. 7, ibid.. III. 44, 47, 50, 52, 69, 
73, 74- Cf. no. 585, ante, and nos. 594, 602, 632, 661, post. 



October, lyyS All 

593. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Horatio Gates.^ 

Philadelphia 29th October 1778. 
Sir 

Your favor of the 13th Inst, inclosing Letters from Lord Balcarras 
reach'd me the 27th and was immediately presented to Congress, the 
House had formerly heard with much concern that Officers of the Con- 
vention Troops had, contrary to orders, been permitted to go within the 
Enemy's Lines, and had ordered an enquiry respecting the Case, indeed 
it has been repeatedly said, that Gold had been given by several of those 
Officers in purchase of furloghs, particularly that Lord Balcarras paid 
to somebody One Thousand Guineas for the indulgence granted to him, 
however groundless or otherwise this information may be, it is alarming 
at present, and therefore a further and more particular investigation is 
ordered. 

The inclosed Act of Congress of the 27th Inst, and the Act of the 21st 
which is referred to will shew, in answer to Lord Balcarras's application 
.the determination of the House. ^ 



594. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to Arthur Lee.'- 

Philadelphia Octr. 29, 1778. 
Sir, 

Supposing it might import you to see the inclosed, it was proposed to, 
and agreed by Congress that the papers should be sent you.^ If you think 
it expedient you will furnish Mr. Izard with a copy of them. The News 
papers contain all the intelligence of this place. 

We are Sir your most humble servants, 

Richard Henry Lee 
James Lovell. 

P. S. We add two Resolves to the Papers before alluded to. Mr. Wm. Lee 
and Mr. Izard will greatly depend on you for American and other 
Intelligence. 

Honble Arthur Lee Esqr. 

[593PN. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIII.; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, II. 139. The letter is addressed to Gates at Danbury. 

2 See no. 563, ante, and the Journals, Oct. 21, 27. The letter from Lord Balcarres 
to Gates, Sept. 30, is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 154, vol. II., f. 19. Another letter to 
Gates, Dec. 23, relative to his exchange is in the Gates Papers, vol. XIII. For his history, 
see Diet. Nat. Biog. (Lindsay, Alexander, sixth earl of Balcarres). 

[594P Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, 
vol. I., p. 112 (letter-book copy). The body of the original is in the writing of Richard 
Henry Lee, the postscript in that of James Lovell. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 14. Cf. no. 592, ante. Arthur Lee's reply, Mar. 7, is in 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 74. 



472 C ontinental Congress 

595. Richard Henry Lee to John Adams/ 

Philadelphia Oct. 29 1778 
My dear Sir 

.... It may soon happen that you be desired to visit Holland, where 
I believe they yet retain much of that simplicity of manners which first 
raised that people to greatness. Our finances want the support of a Loan 
in Europe. 81,500,000 of dollars with increasing demands as deprecia- 
tion advances with emission, cannot be cured by the slow working of 

Taxes. The latter is I believe deeply gone into by all the States 

Never did Men cut a more ridiculous figure than the British Commis- 
sioners have done here. Their last effort is a formal application to each 
State, and to all the people in each, by a Manifesto sent in Flags of Truce. 
We consider this as a prostitution of the Flag, and have recommended 
the seizure and imprisonment of the people, and the publication of their 
Manifesto. In some instances the Sea has saved us the trouble by pre- 
viously swallowing up these silly Missives." .... 

596. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[October 30, 31, 1778.] 
50. This day Congress published a manifesto and ordered it to be sent 
to our enemies.^ 

J J. Congress received a packet of letters from France. 

597. Roger Sherman to Elisha Paine.^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 31, 1778 
Sir 

I take the liberty to address you on a Subject which to me appears to 
be of a very dangerous and alarming nature. I am informed that the 
Inhabitants of a number of Towns in the State of New Hampshire on 
the East side of Connecticut River, have with drawn from the Jurisdiction 
of that State, and joined with the people of the Grants, on the west Side 
of the River in forming a distinct State. The Strength of the united States 
lies in their union; they by their joint efforts under the Smiles of Divine 
Providence, have made a Successful resistance to the power of Great 

[sqc^Y Letters (ed. Ballagh). I. 447. 

2 See nos. 568, note 2, 576, 588, ante, 599, 643, post. 

[S9^Y Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 174. 

~ The manifesto is in the Journals under Oct. 30. Concerning its authorship and 
its probable iiistory, see no. 469, note 6, ante. It was printed in the Pennsylvania Packet 
Oct. 31, and is found in Almon's Remembrancer, 1778-1779, p. 132, followed b}' a response 
to the commissioners' manifesto of Oct. 3, taken from the Viryinia Gazette. Cf. no. 568, 
note 2, ante. The manifesto of Congress was reprinted in the Royal Gazette Nov. 14, 
accompanied by a long letter concerning it, addressed to Henry Laurens and signed 
" Modestus ". It was again printed in the issue of Nov. 18. accompanied by remarks from 
still another pen. In the issue of Nov. 21 appears " The Congress MANIFESTO trans- 
lated into TRUTH .... Done in Congress by order of Monsieur Gerard". See 
nos. 600, 602, post. 

[597]^ Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Correspondence, vol. I., 1774-1778 (copy); 
Boutell, Life of Sherman, p. 109. 



October, 1778 473 

Britain Aided by foreign mercenaries : but if Intestine divisions and con- 
tentions take place among them, will they not become an easy prey to a 
formidable enemy? 

Whether the State of New Hampshire or New York have a right of 
Jurisdiction over the New Hampshire Grants on the west Side of Con- 
necticut River or whether by the neglect of the former to Claim and Sup- 
port its Jurisdiction against the latter, the people have a right to form 
themselves into a distinct State, I Shall not give any opinion, those ques- 
tions will I suppose at a proper time be judicially decided : But for the 
people Inhabiting within the known and acknowledged boundaries of any 
of the united States, to Seperate without the consent of the State to which 
they belong, appears to me a very unjustifiable violation of the Social 
Compact, and pregnant with the most ruinous consequences. Sir I dont 
know whether you live in one of the revolted Towns, but as You are in 
that vicinity, I trust from my acquaintance with your love of Order, and 
regard for the welfare of Your Country, you will use Your influence to 
discourage every thing that in Your opinion may be injurious to the 
true interest of these States. If the present Constitutions of any of the 
States is not So perfect as could be wished, they may and probably will 
by common consent be amended ; but in the mean time and under present 
circumstances, it appears to me indispensibly necessary that civil Govern- 
ment Should be vigorously Supported. I hope you will excuse the freedom 
I have taken on this occasion, as my Sole motive is the public good.^ 

I am with Esteem and regard 

Your humble Servant,^ 



598. Continental Congress, Resolution.^ 

[October 31, 1778.] 
Resolution, containing the unanimous desire of Congress that the 
President continue in the Chair for some time longer." 

The president having reminded the house that one year is elapsed since 
he had the honour of being elected to fill the chair and expressed a strong 
desire to be relieved and that another be elected in his place; " the house 

2 See nos. 507, 543, ante, and nos. 644, 646, 660, 673, post. 

3 An endorsement on the back of the letter, in the writing of Josiah Bartlett, 
reads : " Copy of a letter from the Honble Roger Sherman of Connecticut to Col. Payne 
in N Hampshe." 

[598] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Congressional Letters, 1779. 

2 In his resignation, Dec. 9, Laurens speaks of such a resolution having been 
adopted Oct. 31, but it is not recorded in the Journals. The copy of the resolution found 
in the Laurens Papers is in the writing of Qiarles Thomson, with, the exception of one 
clause, as indicated in note 4, below. See nos. 663, 664, post. 

3 As first written the reading after the word " place " was, " and whereas the 
thinness of the house as well as sundry other considerations render it inconvenient to 
go into a new choice ". This sentence was erased and for it was substituted the phrase, 
" the house took the same into consideration and thereupon ", and subsequently the 
word " thereupon " was erased. 



474 Continental Congress 

took the same into consideration and the House being satisfied with the 
whole conduct of the President * Resolved that it is the unanimous desire 
of this house that H L Esqr continue for some time longer 

599. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
President of Delaware (Caesar Rodney)/ 

I St November [1778.] 
Sir 

I am just now honored with your favor of the 27th Inst, which shall 
be presented to Congress at their meeting tomorrow.^ 

A Budget of Manifestos, said to be from the British Commissioners 
was lately thrown up by the Sea on the Jersey shore it contained one 
Package mark'd Delaware supposed to have been intended for that State. 
Another marked Pennsylvania the whole number were brought to my 
house and by me laid before Congress. Congress would take no cognizance 
of the waif; the President of this State declined touching the Bundle 
marked Pennsylvania, if Your Excellency believes that which was pos- 
sibly intended for Delaware worth Carriage it shall be immediately trans- 
mitted.^ .... 

I am directed by Congress to recommend to the State of Delaware to 
supply immediately a proper number of Representatives in Congress, for 
some considerable time past the State has been almost wholly unrepre- 
sented. The Honorable Mr. Vandyke having retired on Account of the 
bad state of his health, and the Honorable Mr. Chief Justice McKean 
detained by unavoidable attendance on the duties of his Office : * also to 

* The clause " and the house being satisfied with the whole conduct of the Presi- 
dent " is in the writing of Laurens, and was evidently inserted by him after the document 
had left Thomson's hand. 

[599]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 144. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 2. 

3 See nos. 568, note 2, 576, 595, ante. Cf. no. 643, post. In his reply, Nov. 4 (read 
in Congress Nov. 6), Rodney declared that he would not be at the trouble of opening 
the package for its contents. Governor Livingston of New Jersey had evidently received 
his assignment of the proclamations some time before. For his reactions see his letter 
to Laurens, Oct. 9, in Sedgwick, Life of Livingston, p. 308. The Pennsylvania Packet 
of Nov. 3 contained the following item: 

"LIST of packets sent by Lieutenant Hale on board the Hotham tender, addressed as 
follows: ..„ , 

No. of 

"To the Assembly of such [each] of the States o'f Pennsylvania packets, 

and Delaware, instruments signed and sealed on vellum 2. 

" To his Excellency the Governor for the time being, in each o'f the States 

of Delaware and Pennsylvania 2. 

" To the Honourable the President for the time being 2. 

" To the Honourable the Speaker of the Assemblies 2. 

" To the Officer Commanding in Chief the Provincial Forces 2. 

" To the Reverend the Ministers of the Gospel 2. 

" To the Chief Justice and Judges of the Courts of Justice 2. 

" To the President of the Congress i-_ 

" To the Delegates of each State in Congress I3-" 

* There is no record in the Journals of the call upon Delaware for representa- 
tion. Van Dyke is last recorded as voting Sept. 16. He returned to Congress Nov. 24. 
McKean, who was also chief justice of Pennsylvania, appears to have been absent from 
Sept. 14 to Oct. 12. He was placed on a committee Oct. 13, appears to have been present 
Oct. 31 (see the Journals, p. 1086), and is recorded as voting Nov. 2. 



November, lyyS 475 

request the State to give Instructions to their Delegates to ratify the 
Articles of Confederation. New Jersey will accede in a few days as 
Congress is informed by her Delegates and we hope Marydand will no 
longer delay the accession of these three States will perfect the foun- 
dation on which the happiness of our general Union depends.^ 

Inclosed with this will be found six Manifestoes by Congress ^ will 
Your Excellency be pleas'd to distribute these by proper means to public 
view in your State. Copies are sent to all the Posts of the Enemy. 



600. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.^ 



Sir 



1st November [1778.] 



P. S. 

This instant the Printer has sent in a Packet of printed Manifestos by 
Congress, which Your Excellency is requested to distribute by proper 
means at the several Posts of the Enemy North and East of this place, 
within these States. Fifty of these Papers will be found under Cover with 
this.^' 



601. Richard Henry Lee to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia Novem'r 2nd 1778 
Sir 

I am no stranger to the great merit of your late worthy son, Mr. Com- 
missary General Trumbull, and my endeavours have not been wanting to 
procure for his family that justice, which is so eminently due to them. 
As Chairman of the Committee to whom your Letter and the Memorial 
of Mr. Hoskins were committed, I have made a Report, which appeared to 
the Committee, well fitted to do justice to the Representatives of Colonel 
Trumbull, and to produce as speedy a settlement of this business, as the 
nature of the thing will admit of. A short day is fixed for determining 
on this Report, and from the reasonableness- of it, I conclude it will be 
agreed to.- My family affairs calling me immediately away, I set out for 
Virginia to morrow, but there are not wanting many worthy gentlemen, 
who will press the report to a speedy determination. 

5 See nos. 612, 630, post. For the accession of New Jersey see the Journals, 
Nov. 25, 26 ; for that of Delaware, ibid., Feb. 8, 16, 1779. Maryland did not accede until 
Mar. I, 1781. Cf. nos. 396, 403, 424, 560, 567, ante, 628, 638, post. 
° See the Journals, Oct. 30, and nos. 600, 602, post. 
[600]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 143. 

^ See the Journals, Oct. 30, and nos. 596, ante, 602, post. 
[601 ]i Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), Letter-Book, II. 140 (copy). 
2 See nos. 567, 589, ante, 616, 617, 639, post. 



476 Continental Congress 

602. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

My dear Sir 

In your last ^ you ask me What we are doing? Many things indeed. 
And if you will grant that some things have been done well, I will frankly 
confess to you that others might have been done better. I think we do 
as well as we can, considering the Pile of Business every Morning laid 
on our Table. In order that the Afifairs of the Treasury may be better 
attended to than they possibly can be by Members of Congress, who are 
obligd to give their Attendance there in the Hours of Business, we have 
established a new Board, to consist of a Treasurer, Comptroler, Auditor 
and two Chambers of Accounts, of three each. All these officers are to 
be chosen from without Doors." Measures are taking for the Appretiation 
of the Currency. Every Adept in financiering is busily employd, and I 
hope we shall before long agree in an effectual Plan.^ We have appointed 
Dr. Franklin Minister Plenipo. at Versailes, and written a Letter of 
Credence to our good and great Ally.^ The Critical Situation of the 
Powers of Europe in general makes it some what difficult at present to 
determine to which of Them it is proper to make our Court. Every Cabinet 
I imagine will this Winter be deeply engagd in making Their Arrange- 
ments and preparing for the opening a Campaign in Case of a general 
War, which will more than probably happen. Our Friend A. L is in 
Spain. Our other Friend J. A will be employd some where.*' France must 
be our Pole Star, and our Connection must be fomid with hers. Holland, 
whose Policy is always to be at Peace, may be open to Negociation. The 
sooner she is tempted the better. Spain must joyn with France, but she is 

dilatory We must have a respectable xA.rmy in the Sprmg, to put 

a face upon our Negociations if not to fight. I hope we shall secure to the 
United States Canada, Nova Scotia and the Fishery by our Arms or by 
Treaty. Florida too is a tempting object at the South.'^ Perhaps if you 
were to show this Letter to some Folks it would be thought to confirm an 
opinion from whence an Objection was drawn against me on a late 
Occasion,^ that I am " averse to Reconciliation." We never shall be upon 
a solid Footing till Britain cedes to us what Nature designs we should 
have, or till we wrest it from her. 

[6o2]iMass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. III., p. 225; Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 
88; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 Warren's letter of Sept. 30 (see nos. 571, 578. ante). 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 26, 29, Oct. 13, 29, 31, Nov. 3. Cf. nos. 109, 199, 274, 471, 
505, 533, ante, 603, post. See also Jay to Washington, Apr. 26, 1779, in vol. IV. 

* A committee on money and finances was appointed Aug. 27 and brought in a 
report Sept. 19, which was printed (see Bibliographical Notes, Journals, p. 1287). This 
report, after some consideration, was referred to another committee, Oct. 13, whose 
report is found in the Journals under Oct. 28. The measure was not finished until Jan. 2, 

1779- 

5 See the Journals, Sept. 14, Oct. 13, 21, 22, 24, 26. Cf. no. 632, post. 

6 Arthur Lee and John Adams. See no. 585, a)ite. 

"^ Concerning Florida, see no. 627, post. Although the projected expedition against 
Canada was presently given up (see no. 632, post), the hope of ultimately acquiring not 
only Canada, but also Nova Scotia, and even Florida, long persisted. Whether fishing 
rights should be an ultimatum in the negotiations for a treaty of peace was one of the 
most agitated questions of the year 1779. 

® Cf. no. 305, note 5, ante. 



November, lyyS 477 

The Marine Committee have obtaind a Warrant for One hundred and 
fifty Thousand Dohars for your Department which will be forwarded 
speedily. Cong-ress has increased your Salaries to three thousand Dollars 
per Annum.® I had this in View when I intreated you in my last Letter not 
to resign your Seat. Nothing could reconcile me to this but your .having 
a Seat here. I am determind to make Room for you by a Resignation next 
Spring." I flatter my self I can yet be useful to my Country in a narrow 
Sphere. I wish for Retirement, and covet Leisure as a Miser does Money. 

I inclose the Manifesto on our part.^^ I am pleasd with the Act pro- 
hibiting the Return of Tories, but I am affraid the Words " without 
Liberty first had and obtaind from the General Court " will keep an open 
Door for perpetual Applications, and it may be unsafe to trust to future 
feelings. 

Philada. Novr. 3d, '78. 



603. James Lovell to Horatio Gates. ^ 

Novr. 3d 1778. 
Dear General 

.... You have had a Pack of cursed catalinarian Rascals plotting 
against you. I am not altogether without Suspicion that ^ some mean 
Practices may take Place in your present Quarters. Chagrin will occupy 
more Bosoms than one ^ upon your having the Direction of Matters East- 
ward just now. But I take it for Granted the People will see and know 
their true Literest."* .... 

We shall do great Things when we get President Schuyler here — Tace 
— I think that is one of the next Manoeuvres.^ But if our Money is 
mended I shall not longer be anxious ; nor care much who is here 

Col. Harison is chosen of the Board of War which will be managed by 
him Pickering and Peters with 2 Alembers of Congress to be chosen by 
nine States.*^ The Treasury also is put on a new Footing, so that I hope 
we shall do more deliberative Business and less executive than formerly 
in Congress wch has been an Event too long wanted.'^ .... 

^ See the Journals, Oct. 31 ; also no. 614, post. 

10 See Adams to Warren, Mar. 23, 1779, in vol. IV.; also Warren to Mrs. Warren, 
June 6, 1779, in Warren-Adams Letters, II. loi. 

11 The Manifesto found in the Journals, Oct. 30. It has been attributed to Adams 
and will be found in his Writings (ed. Gushing-), IV. 84. See, however, no. 469, ante. 
Cf. nos. 596, 600, ante. 

[603]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIII.; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Goll., Revolu- 
tionary Papers, III. 437. 

2 The word " that " is written three times. One repetition would normally be 
regarded as an accident, but a second suggests a purpose on Lovell's part, though what 
that purpose was is not so easy to divine. 

3 The allusion is evidently to Washington. 

•* Gates had been ordered to Boston to take command of the Continental forces 
in the Eastern district. See the Journals, Oct. 22. Cf. no. 624, post. 

^ Cf. no. 668, post, and Duane to Schuyler, Jan. 3, 1779, in vol. IV. 
6 See the Journals, Oct. 29, 31, Nov. 3, 4. 
■^ Cf. no. 602, ante. 



478 Continental Congress 

604. Henry Marchant to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene)/ 

Philadelphia, Nov. 3d, 1778, 
Dear Sir: 

.... The Attention of Congress is much bent upon puting a Check 
to the Depreciation of the Currency : The almost only Difficulty we are 
left to Struggle with, and hope this is not an insurmountable One. I expect 
to set out on my Return about the middle of this Month, when I may 
have an Opportunity of giving your Excellency such further Satisfaction 
as to publick Appearances, (which at present are very flattering to Our 
Wishes,) and also of our own Transactions as may be in my Power. 

P. S. I enclose the papers of the week. 



605. Richard Henry Lee to Sir James Jay.^ 

Philadelphia Novr 3, 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of October the 20th ^ is put into my hands just when I am 
upon the point of setting out for Virginia,^ and therefore you may sup- 
pose me not so well circumstanced for giving you such an answer as I 

could wish Such has been the variety and importance of the 

business before Congress that neither the affairs of Carm — 1 or of 
D — e are yet finished. The delay producing powers of some men, the 
destruction of time under pretext of order, and by long confident speeches, 
that I have never seen less business done in any Assembly than has been 
with us the last six or eight months. Mr. Izard has written to Congress 
complaining most heartily both of D — e and F — n.* There appears to me 
to have been great misconduct, but I hope time and attention will discover 
and rectify all. It is my sincere opinion that with your powers, and your 
knowledge of facts, you can cause such instructions to be given your 
Delegates to Congress as will more certainly and speedily effect this, 
than can by any other means be done. You wish to know how your 
Delegates have acted in this affair and whether they were for the viz'a voce 
narrative. Amidst the variety of questions that are propounded in Con- 
gress it is not easy to remember what part particular members take, nor 
do I recollect whether or not Mr. Lewis was present but as well as my 
memory serves me I think your State was against the written Narrative 
and for its being viva voce.^ That matter is a thing determined, and 

[604]^ R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779, p. 43; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 205. 

[6o5]iUniv. Va. Lib., Lee Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), L 449. 

- The letter of Sir James Jay is in Southern Literary Messenger, XXX. 267. 

3 In a letter to Arthur Lee, Feb. 11, 1779 (vol. IV.), he states that he left Phila- 
delphia Nov. 3, that is, the day on which this letter was written. See also no. 601, ante. 

* With regard to Izard's complaints against Deane and Franklin, see the Journals, 
Sept. 19, 25, Oct. 14, 15. Dec. 7. The correspondence is found at large in Wharton, Rev. 
Dipl. Corr., II.; see especially pp. 477-48i, 497, 522, 528, 529, 531, 537, 547, 558, 562, 570, 
618, 629, 661, 710; cf. ibid., I. 536-539, 589-593. 

^ See the Journals, Aug. 15 (pp. 799-801). 



November, ly/S 479 

therefore I am at liberty to answer your questions as well as I am able 
on that point, but many other subjects of your enquiry I could answer 
to your satisfaction if I were not restrained by the rules of the house 
respecting unfinished affairs.'^ .... 

606. Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke.^ 

Philadelphia Nov. 3rd 1778. 
Dear Sir: 

This is the fifth letter written to you since I received your favour, 
acquainting me that Mr. Hill and yourself were added to the Delegation 
from our State. I am in anxious Expectation of seeing you both here by 
the first of next month, as for our friend Hill, I have my fears that he 
will not proceed, but let me beg of you to come on and relieve me. I 
assure you without any Compliments Your presence in Congress is, 

I think, very necessary — but more of this when we m^et For 

God's sake come in time for me to return home — you know that I am 
older than you are and cannot stand Travelling after Christmas. I desire 
you will make it a point with Whitmel Hill to Accompany You. I shall 
have a pleasure in leaving him here to represent us." .... 

607. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

5th November [1778.] 
.... The Treasury Board have repeated that they are unable to make 
any arrangement of the Papers which you left implying a demand on the 
Public for Money advanced in the Northern department; they have 
requested my assistance which I think can add little to their own dis- 
coveries, and that their labors must end in presuming on some given 
amount which will be paid to your Order, and if it shall hereafter appear 
to have been less than is really due, Congress will immediately upon proper 
notification order the remaining Balance to be discharged.^ 

One thing still rests undetermined, a Nomination of a Person to whom 
you may apply in case of Doctor Franklin's death or other inability. I 
shall urge the House again this Morning on that point and shall have the 
honor, I trust, of informing you tomorrow of their Resolution.^ 

6 See no. 635, post. 
[606] 1 N. C. State Recs., XIII. 494. 

2 Cf. nos. 523, 531, ante, and no. 642, post. 
[607]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, II. 149. Addressed, "The Right 
Honorable The Marquis de la Fayette Major General in the Army of the United States 
Boston by Colonel Gimat ". 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 7. 

3 Laurens is referring here to an inquiry in one of Lafayette's letters. The letter 
is without date, but it is endorsed by Thomson : " Letter from Marquis de la Fayette 
read 27 Octr. 1778 Referred to the committee appointed to prepare instructions to 
Minister plenipotentiary to the court of France." Following is the passage alluded to : 
" My dispatches are all directed to doctor franklin — the adopted plan is built upon his 
applications to the court of Versailles — with him I am to confer — I understand nobody 
is appointed to act or under him or in his room — but if an ill state of health, if death 
itself, was to deprive his country of so valuable a citizen, and mankind at large of so 
Respectable a man, what am I to do with my dispatches, my plans, and all the commis- 
sions I am intrusted with" (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 156, f. 47). Another letter, dated 
Oct. 2-j, is ibid., f. 51. See the Journals, Oct. 27, 30, Nov. 3, 5. 



480 Continental Congress 

608. John Penn to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell)/ 

Dear Sir. Philada., Novr. 5th, 1778. 

.... Inclosed I send you a Copy of the alliance Between France and 
the United States; there are a considerable number to be printed for the 
use of the different States. I thought it my duty to inform you of the 
Treaty as soon as I was at liberty to do it; the reason why it was kept 
back was, that we have directed our Minister in France to apply to that 
Court to strike out the eleventh and twelfth articles." .... 

From General Washingon's letter this minute read it appears that the 
enemy intend to evacuate New York soon, a very large number of the 
Troops having gone on board Transports. 

The Delegates from No. Carolina intend to write to your Excellency 
soon, an official letter; they only wait the detemiination of Congress 
relative to a matter of a Publick nature, which I expect will be done in a 
day or two.^ 

609. A Committee of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

^^y Philadelphia 5th. Novr. 1778. 

Upon a Representation from the General the Commissary General and 
the Quarter Master General relating to the Distresses of the Army for 
Provisions and the Certainty of being obliged to leave the present seat 
of the War in Quest of them unless effectual Measures be taken to supply 
the Want, Congress have been induced to adopt the extraordinary Measure 
of appointing us a Committee to take such Steps as we shall think proper. 
We have to assure your Excellency that it is utterly impracticable to main- 
tain the Army without the assistance of every seperate state and even 
then there is but too much Reason to believe that the People as well as 
the Army will suffer for Want of Bread before the next Harvest 
especially if the Exportation or Monopoly of Provisions prevails. At 
present we have to intreat that the whole Authority of your State may be 
exerted to procure Vessels for the shipping of Flour to the Eastward. 
It is certainly unnecessary to add that as much secrecy should be observed 
as is consistent with the Nature of the Business." 

With the highest Respect we are 

Your Excellency's most obedient and humble Servants 

Gouv Morris 
Nath. Scudder 
Wm. Whipple 

[608] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; N. C. State Recs., XIII. 264. 

2 Cf. no. 642, post. 

3 Probably the proposed East Florida expedition is meant. See nos. 482, 618, 
627, post. 

[609]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 148. 

2 This committee (in the Journals the names appear in the order Scudder, 
Morris, Whipple) was appointed Nov. 5 on a letter of Washington of Oct. 29. The 
same members were appointed, Nov. 10, a committee on a letter of Nov. 6 from General 
Greene, and were given the same large powers. See nos. 619-623, post. 



November, lyyS 481 

6io. Henry Marchant to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene)/ 

Philadelphia Novr. 6th 1778 
Sir, 

I am to inform Your Excellency that Congress have lately arranged their 
Treasury, appointed a Comptroler and Auditor General of Accompts, and 
two Boards of Commissioners of Accounts, who are to settle and adjust all 
Accounts delivered to them by the Comptroler Genl. That those Com- 
missioners should be appointed from as many different States as possible 
was highly necessary, and I conceived it my Duty to nominate a Gentle- 
man from our State. I knew Mr. Peter Phillips had been long acquainted 
with the Nature of Army Accounts, I knew him to be a Man of Integrity, 
and tho' his Services might be wanted at Home, Yet I conceived he might 
be more beneficial here in that Department, and as he was a single Man, 
he might remove with more Ease than many others. I trust this Nomina- 
tion and appointmt will not be disagreeable to the State, nor to him. If 
your Excellency shall be of my Opinion, I hope you will see him your- 
self and Use your Influence with him, to accept. I need not suggest to 
You Sir that the settling of public Accounts is a matter of Great Conse- 
quence, and as there are but two Gentlemen appointed Commissioners 
from the Eastern States, I think it of Importance that those should serve ; 
as the Nature of the Accounts of the Different Parts of the Continent are 
very different in many Instances, it is highly necessary that Persons 
from those different Parts should be in Commission, that such Explana- 
tions may be made as that Justice may be done to the several States as well 
as to the whole." 



611. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[November 6, 7, 1778.] - 

6. The delegates from the Massa. Bay dined with the president. 

7. I received a number of Resolutions from our Court, one appointing 
me a delegate from our state and some instructions.^ 

[610] 1 R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779, p. 46; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 205. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 26, Oct. 29, 31, Nov. 3. 
[tiiY Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 174. 

2 William Ellery, who resumed his seat in Congress Nov. 11, records in a diary 

of his journey from Dighton to Philadelphia (Oct. 24-Nov. 8) : "Nov. 7th 

Lodged at Bensalem, Bucks County (William Rodman's). Spent the evening very pleas- 
antly. The next morning rode to Philadelphia and put up for a night or two at my 
friend Redwood's, from thence went to board with that open, generous Whig Stephen 
Collins, and had John Collins my fellow lodger " {Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., XIL 
194). Some letters from William Redwood to Ellery are ibid., XL 239. 

3 Under Oct. 26 Holten recorded in his Diary: "By the Boston papers I per- 
ceive I am again elected to a seat in Congress." Under Nov. 28 he recorded : " I wrote 
a letter to the Council of Massa. Bay signifying my acceptance to a seat in Congress for 
the year 1779, in answer to their request." 



482 Continental Congress 

612. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
President of Delaware (Caesar Rodney)/ 

Phila. Nov. 7. 1778. 
Sir 

I had yesterday the honor of presenting to Congress Your Excellencys 
favor of the 4th Inst, and received an Order from the House to request 
that Your Excellency will call the General Assembly together as early 
as possible, this will more fully appear by an Act of Congress herein 
transmitted. 

It is the earnest desire of Congress that the Assembly may attend to the 
Articles of Confederation immediately after their Meeting and be decided 
in their Instructions to their Delegates.^ 

613. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
William Malcom.'^ 

8th November [1778.] 
Sir 

Since my last of the 9th of August I had often urged Congress on the 
subject matter of yours of the ist of that Month meaning more particu- 
larly the appointment of a Garrison Chaplain, at length, after laying 
before the House your repeated applications in your Letter of the 7th 
October and your Message by Captain Powell, your first Letter was 
called for, and the Reverend Mr. John Mason appointed Chaplain to the 
Garrisons in the Posts on Hudsons River in the Highlands, with the pay 
and subsistence of a Brigade Chaplain as will appear more fully by an 
Act of Congress of the 2nd Instant which you will receive in company 
with this, and will be pleased to transmit it to the Chaplain with my 
Compliments. If Mr. Mason has officiated in the Character of Chaplain 
for any time antecedent to the present appointment I have no doubt but 
that a Memorial certified by you will induce Congress to make a proper 
retrospect.^ .... 

614. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren.^ 

Philadelphia, Novr. 8th, 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

I am a little apprehensive that some of my Friends will consider Silence 
to their Letters, which an indifferent State of Health and much Fatigue 
has for some Time rendered inevitable, as an abatement of Friendship, 
but conscious of the sincerest Esteem for my Friend General Warren 

[612] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 152. 
2 See no. 599, ante. 
[613]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 154. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 2. Col. William Malcom was chosen, June 2, deputy 
adjutant-general of the Northern department. This letter was addressed to him at Fort 
Clinton. 

[614]! Mass. Hist. Soa, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 229; Warren-Adams Letters, II. 64, 



November, 1778 483 

and having long experienced his Candour, I flatter myself he will con- 
sider such omissions, as they really are, the Effects of Necessity." I shall 
trouble You with little, in Answer to your several Favours of the 13th 
May, 7th July, 4th Augt. and 3d Sep. last, as their early Dates render it 
unnecessary. The marine Comm'ee I presume, have taken the proper 
Steps to do Justice to Capt. Manly; the bravery of this officer seems not 
to be questioned, but many appear to Want Confidence in his Abilities and 
Experience, and on that Ground oppose his being high in office : I pre- 
sume not to judge of their Motives and Designs on this Occasion, or 
without further Information, of his Character as an officer.^ I am much 
concerned to find, that You intend to quit the Business of the navy Board, 
as it will be soon an important and respectable Department.* Under the 
present State of Affairs it is impossible to do Justice to the Commissioners, 
but Congress have increased their Salary to 3000 Dollars Per Year. 
perhaps you consider the Levity of the Times as an Argument for Quit- 
ting the Service, if so, I will readily acknowledge that the Vices of some 
and Follies of others are very displeasing; but in a Revolution like the 
present, necessarily producing an entire Change of the Governments and 
Constitutions of thirteen States, the Suspension of Law and Justice, the 
Want of necessary Arrangements for preventing Frauds, and the .most 
favorable Oppertunities for Speculators and Ingrossers, it must reasonably 
be expected that the Morals of the people will be greatly injured, and for 
a while, present a gloomy prospect, but I trust, there is yet Wisdom and 
Vertue enough in America to recover her Citizens from their Errors, 
and lead a brave and deserving People into paths conducive to their 
Happiness, true it is the Work is arduous, And it is equally true, that it is 
necessary ; for should We exceed in Power and Wealth every Empire on 
Earth, and neglect the Morals of the People, is it not evident, that our In- 
dependance, instead of Freedom would produce a Slavery, far exceeding 
that of every other Nation ? If the best and ablest Friends of America, who 
under providence have opposed the corrupt Arts, not less than the powerful 
Arms of G. Britain, will unite in checking the Career of Vanity. Vice and 
Folly, the Leaders of this feeble Train will vanish at the Appearance of 
Opposition, and leave the Way clear to the promotion of the opposite 
Virtues; but if on the other Hand, those on whom We have principally 
relied, should suffer themselves to be disgusted at the natural appear- 
ance of Bubbles on the mighty Ocean of our affairs, and withdraw from 
the Service, I fear that our Liberties, like such short lived phacnomenons 
will burst, and leave not behind, a Trace of their former existence. 

I know that You have had much Fatigue and Tryal, and met with 
many Things that are very disagreable. I assure You that We have had 
a full Share of these in Congress ; I most ardently wish to return to my 
native Country, and co-operate with my Friends in their salutary 
Measures, pray confer with our Friend Mr. Dana, on these affairs, as I 

- In a letter to Samuel Adams Sept. 30 Warren says, " desire Mr. Gerry to let 
me know under his own hand why he has done writing to me " {W arren- Adams Letters, 
II. 47). Similar injunctions had been transmitted to Adams in several previous letters. 

3 Cf. nos. 440, 496, 518, 532, ante. 

* See nos. 578, 602, ante, and no. 615, post. 

35 



484 Continental Congress 

am persuaded he can inform You of many Things which will assist You 
in pursuing the necessary Measures. 

Adieu, my Dear Sir, after receiving my Warmest Wishes for the 
Health and Happiness of your Lady self and Family and believe me to 
be your sincere Friend and hum Sert. 

E. Gerry 

615. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

My dear Sir, 

I have receivd your favor of the 7 [25-27] ^ October by Mr. Dod. I 
cannot say that I am by any Means pleasd with the inclosd Letter to 
[Congress].^ I am glad however that you allowd me the Perusal of 
it before its Presentation. I consider the Confidence you place in me in 
this Instance as sufficient to warrant me in delaying to deliver it, till 
I shall hear further from you, which I will accordingly do in hopes that 
you will alter your Determination. 

We now begin to hope for Peace soon on our own Terms; or if the 
War should continue longer, that it will be conducted in such a Manner 
as will render a large Army less necessary, which will enable us to be at 
greater Expence for an American Navy; the building up of which is 
looked upon by all wise and good Men whom I converse with as necessary 
and highly important. General Whipple * is again returnd to Congress ; 
and as he is a Man of Sense and great Experience in Marine Affairs, 
and was formerly of the Marine Com'tee. I was sollicitous that he should 
again be of the Number. Congress have added him to the Committee, and 
I hope he will act as Chairman during the Absence of Colo. Lee who is 
gone to Virginia. From several Hints which Genl. W. has dropd to me, 
I am in Hopes that Measures will be come into which may add Weight to 
your Board and facilitate the Business of it. 

The Navy Boards, especially that in the Eastern Department where 
it is probable there will constantly be a great Resort of our Ships of War, 

[615] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 230; Warren-Adams Letters, II. 65. 

- The letter to which Adams refers is dated Oct. 25, with a postscript dated 
Oct. 27, and a further postscript probably written Oct. 28. It is in the N. Y. Pub. Lib., 
Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The enclosure was a letter from Warren to the President of Congress, bearing 
the date Oct. 28, resigning his office as one of the navy board of the Eastern department 
(Warren- Adams Letters, LI. 61). Warren mentions the enclosure under the date Oct. 25 
(see note 2, above), but if he had then written his resignation he must have rewritten 
it Oct. 28. In the second postscript to his letter he says, " Will you please to Seal the 
Inclosed before delivery ". The resignation was probably not presented to Congress, 
for in a letter to Adams, Dec. 8 (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers), he says: 
" I have wrote to the President relative to the money received from Coll Baldwin and 
agreeable to your desire suspended the matter of resignation for further Consideration." 
At some later time the following statement was appended to the letter of resignation : 
" This resignation was not accepted by Congress, but at their request and the urgency of 
many other Gentlemen the writer continued to serve in that department for 2 or 3 years 
longer." (Cf. nos. 578, 602, 614, ante.) 

* Whipple took his seat Nov. 5. Samuel Holten records in his Diary of that day : 
" Genl. Whipple came to board with us." Whipple himself wrote to Richard Henry Lee 
Nov. 8 that he arrived Nov. 4, and added, " I have taken up my quarters at Liberty Hall " 
(Memoir of Richard Henry Lee, I. 216). See nos. 388, note 2, ante, 671, post. 



November, lyjS 485 

will be standing Boards, and of the greatest Importance to the United 
States. The best ]\Ien must fill those Places. 

I will not, least you should think me indelicate, add more on this Sub- 
ject, than my earnest Request that you will for the present suspend your 
Resignation. 

I am glad that you have discoverd the Mistake you mention, and will 
communicate it.^ .... 
Philada., Novr. 9th, 1778. 

616. Henry Laurens to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).'- 

Philadelphia loth. Novr 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I have now my Eye on your favor of the 5th. October.^ I have 
learned enough of the ser\nces of our late friend in his Office of Com- 
missary to know that the Public are much indebted to him and you may 
rely on me Sir, for doing every thing in my power to obtain suitable 
acknowledgements for the benefit of his family. You have no doubt been 
informed by Mr. Ellsworth that a report had been lately made on your 
Representation to Congress, that exceptions were urged to certain parts 
and that therefore the whole was recommitted, the best influence on that 
occasion w-as to assure my friends who were unacquainted with the merits 
of the late Mr. Joseph Trumbull that he had been one of the best Servants 
of Congress, that I was persuaded, had he been continued in the Office of 
Commissary upon his own terms, the Public would have saved five 
Millions of Dollars or more and many hundreds of Soldiers, to prove 
this to the satisfaction of every reasonable person, will not be difficult 

^ At the close of Warren's letter above referred to he says : " I Beg Leave also 
to Inform Congress that by the Integrity and Honour of Coll. Laomi Baldwin (who 
Commanded a Regiment when I was Paymaster) I have discovered a considerable part 
of the deficiencies which I could not then account for. He has paid into my hands 576 
dollars which after long Enquiry he has been Able to Account for no other way than 
from his receiving it from my office by mistake. This Money waits for the disposition 
of the Honourable Congress. I shall be happy in being fortunate enough to discover 
the remainder." The matter was brought to the attention of Congress in a letter of 
Warren Dec. 2, read Jan. 14, 1779, and Congress took action upon it Jan. 16. See also 
the Journals, May 27, 1777. 

[616] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Papers of Jonathan Trumbull; Library of Congress, Force 
Trans., Trumbull, Misc., 1776-1779, II. 253; S. C. Hist. Soc, Copies of Letters mainly 
to Laurens, p. 275 ; Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 303. 

2 Trumbull's letter to Laurens, Oct. 5, is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh 
ser., II. 273. A letter to Laurens, embodying his memorial to Congress relative to the 
accounts of Joseph Trumbull, is ibid., p. 279. His letter to Congress was read Oct. 15, 
and the committee to which it was referred made a report Nov. 2. The report is marked 
as " Recommitted 5 Novr.", and it does not appear that the committee made any further 
report until Mar. 31, 1779. Meanwhile, on Mar. 9, Thomas Adams was added to the 
committee, which had consisted originally of Richard Henry Lee, Bartlett. Ellsworth, 
and Samuel Adams. A letter from Governor Trumbull Feb. 11, 1779 (see the Journals, 
Mar. 5), appears to have stirred Congress to action. See nos. 5^, ^89, 601, ante, 617, 
639, post. 

In connection with this matter the Journals occasionally mention a letter from Trum- 
bull of Oct. 8, but this is probably an error of the secretary. Trumbull's letter in Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 66, vol. I., f. 414, is dated Oct. 6. It is printed in Mass. Hist. Soc, 
Collections, seventh ser., II. 279. 



4SG Continental Congress 

to me. it requires only a retrospect to the circumstances of our Army at 
Valley forge during the last winter and to the amazing advance of every 
species of provision immediately after the Stores which he had amassed 
were consumed. 

I cannot on this occasion bound myself by five Millions, the want of 
forethought and Industry in his Successor occasioned an advance in the 
price of provision and every other article kept pace with that, the contrast 
of these Officers demonstrates the merit of the former, hence Sir, your 
requisitions and expectations on behalf of the surviving family do not 
appear to me to be ill grounded nor do I believe there would be any great 
opposition provided the Accounts were adjusted, or adjusted so far as 
circumstances will admit of. I shall make an opportunity to day for 
conversing with Mr Ellsworth on this subject and do myself the honor of 
writing to you again very soon 

nth I have conversed with Mr Ellsworth who informs me the Com- 
mittee have reconsidered their late report and are prepared to deliver 
another Report to the House. I hope this will be done tomorrow, and 
that the issue will afford you satisfaction.^ 

Congress seem to be now in earnest to proceed upon measures for 
realizing and appreciating our Paper Money, we may make of this a fine 
spun theorem, but unless we strike at the Root the cause of our immense 
emissions, the peculation of great public Officers, the practice of monopo- 
lizers etc., etc., we may drudge on, the Evil will remain and our Country 
will be reduced systematically to destruction, in a word Sir, that Patriot- 
ism which we affected to say had led us into the present contest, is out 
of fashion and unless we speedily revive it, we shall experience a violent 
convulsion which will go near to ruin us, and which will at least bring 
us into universal disgrace. I lament the prospect. 

P. S 

617. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Novr loth, 1778. 
Sir, 

We are honored with Your Excellency's Letter of the 2nd Inst, by 
messenger Brown. 

The treasury arrangement we herewith transmit your Excellency, and 
have the pleasure to inform that the choice of Colo Trumbull to the head 
of it was unanimous." 

The equally alarming and embarrassed subject of finances is yet under 
consideration. Congress we trust, however, are nearly ripe for Resolu- 
tions respecting them, which may be salutary, if not decisive. A foreign 
Loan, how eligible soever, in our present circumstances, we have yet no 

3 The Journals do not, however, indicate' that it was done. 
[617]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Trumbull Letter-Book (M. H. S.), vol. II., p. 141; Mass. 
Hist. Soc., Collections, seventh ser., II. 305. 

- See the Journals, Sept. 26, Oct. 29, 31, Nov. 3, and nos. 559, 567, 589, 603, ante. 



November, ijjS 487 

assurance can be obtained, and from the present warlike appearances in 
Europe, have less reason than heretofore to expect it. EstabHshing a Fund 
by taxes for sinking in process of time the capital debt, and by taxes and 
an internal Loan, taking out of circulation some of the past emissions to 
make way for future ones, is all, therefore, we are certain at present of 
being able to do. A rapid appreciation is not from hence to be expected, 
nor perhaps wished for. 

The Committee on Your Excellency's letter of the 8th of October 
reported in favor of a commission to be allowed of half pr cent. This 
mode of allowance some members objected to, as having been found 
pernicious and improper, in their opinion, to receive the farther counte- 
nance of Congress in any case whatever, though they wished ample justice 
to be done in this case, and seemed fully sensible it had not been 
heretofore. 

The Letter, on motion, was recommitted to the same Committee, who 
wait a favorable opportunity of reporting again in favor of a gross sum, 
which they hope will be accepted and do justice. The fate of their second 
report Your Excellency will be informed of the earliest opportunity.^ .... 

We are. Sir, with great respect. 

Your Excellency's most obedient and most humble servants, 

Roger Sherman 
Oliver Ellsworth 

6i8. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia, loth Nov. 1778. 
Dear Sir: 

.... Congress have much at heart the routing of that nest of Pirates 
at St. Augustine, and have great expectations from your Excellency's 
exertions.^ Flags of Truce are thought dangerous as they often bring 
seditious papers in order to distribute them amongst the people. You 
will no doubt Sir, endeavour to prevent the ill use which may be made 
of these kind of sanctions.^ 

619. Gouverneur Morris to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia nth Novr. 1778 
D'r General. 

As Congress have delegated to a Committee, of which I have the Honor 
to be a JMember, the superintendence of the Commissary and Quarter 

3 Governor Trumbull's letter here referred to as of Oct. 8 was dated Oct. 6. 
See nos. 567, note 2, 616, note 2, ante. 

[6i8]iA^. C. State Recs., XIII. 270; Potter's American Monthly, V. 648 (dated 
Nov. 19). 

- See nos. 482, 608, ante, 627, post. 
3 See no. 568, note 2, ante. 
[619]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXVIII. 310; Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. III., f. 306; Letters to Washington (ed. Sparks), II. 226. 



488 Continental Congress 

Masters Departments ; - this, together with our Finances which we have 
long been cobhng at, hath obliged me to consider in a more compleat view 
the State of our Affairs than my former detached Attention would permit, 
or indeed than my natural Indolence would have led to unsolicited by 
necessity. While I write to you you must read and interpret wuth the Eye 
and the Mind of Friendship, and suppose a greater modesty of Disposition 
than the Language may indicate. For tho I by no means beleive myself 
equal to the smallest of the Objects thrown upon me yet in speaking of 
them I must give a loose to my Imagination and my Pen nor can I find 
either Leizure or Inclination to attend to style. 

First then it is a Position clear that we must act according to our Powers 
and not our Inclinations. It is I am afraid as clear that your Army will 
want subsistence if kept together. Neither the Quarter Master nor Com- 
missary Departments can in the mercantile phrase do the needful while you 
are where you are. I take it the number of the Enemy and the Season are 
against active operations on their Part. Their situation the season our 
natural and political circumstances are equally against them on our Part. 
To ravage the Country and to cover it from being ravaged are then the two 
Objects. The first is base and beyond a certain Degree impracticable. 
The second is to a certain Degree dangerous and ideal. If it is reduced to a 
Question for instance whether the Counties of Bergen and Westchester 
shall be protected by our Arms or the Losses paid for I am ready to pur- 
chase the whole of both in Fee and lay them waste by way of saving money. 
The like I take it will hold good with Respect to the Environs of Rhode 
Island. 

I cannot therefore help being of Opinion that few very few Troops 
should remain in the Eastern Department, but that many of them if many 
there be and a part of your Army should be cantoned along thro the Towns 
about the middle of Connecticut River. The Post in the Highlands cannot 
indeed be neglected and perhaps for the better Support of it another Post 
may be necessary about Fredericksburgh. To supply them with Pro- 
visions etc. will be very difficult and whenever the frosts shall become 
severe these posts will require much fewer men and therefore it may be 
good Policy to place those whose times are near expiring on that Ground. 
The sick etc can perhaps be better and safer kept at Albany than elsewhere 
and then a part of your Force will be there to cover them mount the neces- 
sary Guards etc. At Aquaquenonck Newark and Elizabeth Town ad- 
vanced Parties may be posted to cover the interior Country and Communi- 
cation. A considerable Body at Morristown will be necessary to secure the 
Magazines which may there be drawn to a Point from all the Communi- 
cations and there most properly because perfectly secure and because 
naturally a good Forage Country. A small Body of Men will be necessary 
for the sake of Order etc. at Sussex Court House, Easton Coryell's Bruns- 
wick Princeton etc. Amboy will I imagine be too dangerous as by landing 
at the Blazing Star or in very cold weather on the meadows between that 
and Amboy they might be cut off. A Part of the Army might be quarterd 
at Trenton Bordentown and Burlington and a Part at the Valley Forge. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 5, lo; also no. 609, ante, and nos. 620-623, post. 



November, lyyS 489 

The Wagons of every kind and Horses should be sent away from those 
not exposed. The advanced posts will require a few good Horses but they 
should have very little Baggage and only light very light Artillery. A few 
good Cavalrv' also may be requisite for the videttes. I cannot conceive that 
any Danger can arise from such Dispersion of the Army and I am confi- 
dent they can in that way be much better fed. My principal view is I 
confess this that almost all the Horses of the Army may travel southward 
perhaps as far as beyond the Potowmack in the two Counties of Frederick 
and in Washington and Barclay Counties there to be boarded with the 
Farmers by which Means they will be fit for use as early as the Season will 
pennit. The Cavalry might be quartered in little Villages and if the 
Officers are good the Men as well as Horses might improve. This Peace 
and Ease would help recruiting but I have said too much already. How- 
ever as I have disposed of your Army Pray let me now dispose of their 
General. I think Philadelphia would be a very proper Place for him. In 
short Sir you must contrive to spend some time near Congress and I am 
confident you will do more good by establishing a good Understanding 
between them and the Army forwarding it's Business and the like than can 
easily be conceived. To all this I add that if the General the Quarter 
Master and the Commissary General are on this spot all the arrangements 
for the next Campaign will be properly made. One Thing more and I 
have done. It is that I wish most earnestly to see you. Adieu. I am yours 

GouvR Morris 

620. A Committee of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Philadelphia nth November 1778 
In Committee of Congress.^ 
Sir 

The great and increasing Difficulties in the Quarter Masters and Com- 
missary Generals Departments have induced Congress to adopt the Reso- 
lution of which we have the Honor to enclose you a Copy. Among the 
measures immediately necessary for placing these matters on a proper 
foundation is the accpiring a Knowledge of the proper Resources of these 
States. The Articles of consumption which we would most particularly be 

[62o]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 153; N. Y. State Lib., Assembly Papers, 
XXXII. 21 ; Mass. Arch., CC. 201 ; MSS. of W. D. Ely, Providence (to Rhode Island) ; 
N. J. State Library; N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 130; Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers 
(M. H. S.), vol. XXVII., p. 144 (letter-book copy) ; Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh 
sen, II. 309 (to Connecticut) ; Pa. Arch., first sen, VII. 84; A''. C. St. Recs., XIII. 272. 
(The original to North Carolina is listed in Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1074, pt. III., 
item 54.) 

2 Scudder, Morris, and Whipple were appointed, Nov. 5, a committee on a letter 
of General Washington, Oct. 29, and "empowered to take such steps thereon as they 
shall think proper ". Again, Nov. 10, in consequence of a letter of General Greene, 
Nov. 6, relative to the commissary's and quartermaster's departments, the same members 
were appointed a committee to superintend those departments and were " empowered 
to take such steps relating to the same as they shall think most [advantageous] for the 
public service". The committee was acting therefore under two appointments. Prior 
to Nov. II, that is, under their first appointment, only one letter of the committee has 
been found, namely, that of Nov. 5 (no. 609, ante). The series of letters of Nov. il 
indicate the principal activities of the committee as a self-directing body, but as a com- 
mittee having general supervision over the commissary's and quartermaster's depart- 
ments and to whom matters pertaining to those departments were frequently assigned 
it continued to function for somewhat more than a year, albeit with some changes of 



490 Continental Congress 

informed of are Flour, Wheat, Rye, Barley, Oats, Corn and Rice. Beef, 
Pork, Working Oxen and Horses. Cyder and Vinegar. The ignorance 
and the interests of mankind oppose so strongly our wishes in this respect, 
that after every Effort and every prudent precaution, our infonnation will 
perhaps be of far less importance than could be wished. It is however our 
Duty to aim at it and we have no reason to doubt your Excellency's Con- 
currence in the steps necessary to attain what we have in view, especially 
when it is considered how readily your own good Sence will dictate the 
impracticability of continuing the War, at least of continuing it to ad- 
vantage, while we remain supremely ignorant of the supplies our Country 
is capable of affording. We have to entreat that your Excellency from 
your knowledge of the productions of the several parts of your State, 
would appoint some proper persons in whose Industry and Secrecy you 
can confide to make proper lists through the Districts you shall severally 
allott to them of the Quantity and number of such of the Articles above 
named as are produced in it which may probably be over and above the 
necessary consumption of the Inhabitants, and also as nearly as possible 
the quantity etc. which they consume over and above their own production 
or of what they do not produce. We hope that these lists may be trans- 
mitted to us with all imaginable speed to the end that proper arrangements 
may immediately be made for the ensueing Campaign. Upon transmitting 
an Account of the Expenses which may accrue in this business, they shall 
immediately be paid. You will perceive Sir that every precaution should 
be taken to prevent this Object from transpiring, least as on many former 
Occasions the Devoted Adherents of Lucre should make a gain of the 
Publick Distresses. We are respectfully 

Your Excellency's Most Obedient and Humble Servts 

Nath. Scudder 
GouvR Morris 
Wm, Whipple. 

621. A Committee of Congress to the Several States.^ 

T ^ . , r /- " Philadelphia nth. November 1778 

In Committee of Congress " ' ' 

Sir 

The dangerous Practices of Engrossers have increased so rapidly with 

the Public Distresses, and have so accumulated them that every Friend to 

personnel. On Jan. 23, 1779, Francis Lightfoot Lee was added to the committee, pre- 
sumably in place of Nathaniel Scudder, who was then absent, and Apr. 22 John Arm- 
strong was put in place of Lee. Aug. 17 Scudder was again placed on the committee, 
together with Jesse Root; Sept. 26 Jenifer of Maryland and James Mercer of Virginia 
were added, one of them in place of Whipple, who was absent; while on Nov. 5 Wynkoop 
of Pennsylvania and Forbes of Maryland were assigned to the committee, doubtless to 
take the places of Armstrong and Jenifer, both of whom were absent. The committee 
was discharged Nov. 25, 1779. See the Journals, Nov. 5, 10, 11, 1778, Jan. 9, 13, 23, 
Feb. 2, 8, Apr. 22, 23, 28, May 11, 17, Aug. 17, Sept. 6, 15, 26, Oct. 4, 18, 22, Nov. 5, 16, 
25, 1779. Meanwhile another committee had been appointed Jan. 28, 1779, to take up the 
problem of remedying abuses in all the departments. 

[62i]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIL 152; N. Y. State Lib.. Assembly Papers, 
XXXIL 18; N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, vol. VL, p. 3 ; N. J. State Library; N. J. 
Rev. Corr., p. 132; Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), vol. XXVIL, p. 143 
(letter-book copy) ; Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., H. 308 (to Connecticut) ; 
Pa. Arch., first ser., VIL 85; A^. C. State Recs., XHL 272. 
- See nos. 619, 620, ante, 622, 623, post. 



November, ly/S 491 

this Country even to Humanity, cannot but wish to see some Remedy to 
an Evil, which threatens the Existence, not only of the several States, but 
of the poorer part of the Individuals which compose them. We are fully 
sensible that this Disease should be touched with a cautious and with a 
delicate hand, but at the same time, we confide in the wisdom of your 
Legislature, for this Delicacy and Caution. We do not pretend to mark 
out the means which they should adopt, but the Confidence reposed in us by 
Congress, demands, that we should at least hint what in our Idea may 
induce, to this Valuable purpose. The Articles necessary for the Con- 
sumption of the Army, are easily designated, And we trust there will not 
be much Difficulty in destinguishing between the Dealer in, or Manufact- 
uror, of those Articles, and the Engrosser, or as he would call hmiself, the 
Speculator. These two Objects being accomplished, it surely cannot be 
deemed inconsistant, either with Policy or Justice, that he should be 
obliged to part with them to the Public. The process necessary for this 
purpose, must depend on the Civil Institutions which may have been 
respectively adopted, but it should be as short and as simple, as is con- 
sistant with the Constitution of the State. One thing more is necessary 
to compleat the System, namely the price. If this is such as to leave the 
Speculator his Profit, nothing more is operated by the Law, than merely 
to sanctify his unrighteous Gains. If the price be fixed by Law, the 
Efforts now making to render our money Valuable, (and which we doubt 
not your Legislature will assist by heavy Taxes,) will only tend to realize 
what he hath already accumulated. Perhaps a power lodged somewhere to 
fix the Market Price monthly, by the name of assize, and a deduction from 
it of about Twenty per Cent, on Commodities in the hands of Engrossers, 
would be most effectual. This however and every thing else we have men- 
tioned, is submitted to your wiser Consideration. 
We have the Honor to be 

Your Excellency's Most Obedient and Humble Servants 

Nath. Scudder 
Gouv Morris 
Wm, Whipple 

622. A Committee of Congress to the Several States.^ 

Philadelphia nth. November 1778 
In Committee of Congress " 
Sir 

Among the many Objects which occupy your mind, permit us to call 
your Attention for a moment to one of the first magnitude. In the States 
of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia, the Distillery of 
Spirits from Grain hath become a very considerable and growing Manu- 
facture. Amid the prejudices which it is natural to suppose the Parties 
concerned have raised, and the Arguments which may be adduced in it's 
favor, let us be permitted to mention some objections. The Effect of it 
in a moral point of view is certainly deserving of the first attention. 

[622]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VII. 154; N. Y. State Lib., Assembly Papers, 
XXXII. 19. 

2 See nos. 619, 620, 621, ante, and no. 623, post. 



492 Continental Congress 

Drunkenness, at all times a Crime and in this Case almost Self Murder is 
not discouraged by bringing the means of it home to every Mans own 
Door. And certainly there is the Best Authority to say that no Laws can 
diminish the Vice when the temptation is encreased; to lead the People 
therefore into it or wink at their being led, is to say the least not very 
meritorious. An additional Weight is given to every Argument of this 
Kind, when it is considered that Malt Spirits of all others most effectually 
enervate both the mind and Body, rendering the unhappy Patient not 
only a stupid and useless but also wicked and for the most part a dangerous 
Member of Society. But as no Political considerations should or indeed 
can influence a good Government to become innattentive to the Health 
and the Morals of it's Citizens, so we cannot doubt but that your Legis- 
lature will be most feelingly alive, when not only the Health and the 
Morals, but the Liberty, nay the Existence of the Society depend, upon 
the total prohibition of a practice at all times dangerous, but at present 
fatal 

The scarcity which already begins to be felt may, for ought we know, 
become in the course of Providence a devouring famine. Pestilence, 
Famine and War but too naturally succeed each other, and tho' we have 
reasons to trust in the mercy of Heaven, to ward of these Evils, yet it is 
our Duty to take every precaution against them, which Providence can 
suggest. The foremost among these is certainly to prohibit the converting 
of that Bread, which was meant for the sustenance of Alan into a Liquid 
poison for his Destruction. We do therefore most earnestly entreat Your 
Excellency, to recommend it in the strongest manner to your Legislature, 
immediately to enact Laws for this Purpose. Perhaps the seizing of (for 
the use of the Army) all which shall be distilled after a certain Day, at a 
low price to be paid to Commissioners, and expended in the maintenance 
of the poor, and particularly for the Comfort of sick and wounded Soldiers 
would be as effectual as any other, at the same time it would be paying a 
proper attention to those Brave Unfortunate ]\Ien, who have every Claim 
upon us, which Patriotism, Religion and Humanity, can possibly Confer. 
We have the Honor to be 

Your Excellencys Most Obedient and Humble Servants 

Nath. Scudder 
GouvR. Morris 
Wm. Whipple 

623. A Committee of Congress to the Several States.^ 
In Committee of Congress " 

Philadelphia nth November 1778 
Sir 

Permit us to call your Attention for a moment to the detection and 
punishment of a Crime against the Public. Persons in Ofiice under the 

[623]! Library of J. Pierpont Morgan, Signers of the Articles of Confederation, 
p. 42 (addressed to the governor of North Carolina) ; N. Y. State Lib.. Assembly 
Papers, XXXII. 17; Conn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), vol. XXVII., p. 146 
(letter-book copy); N. C. State Rccs., XIII. 273; Pa. Arch., first ser., \'IL 88 (dated 
Nov. 14) ; A''. /. Rev. Corr., p. 133. 
- See nos. 619-622, ayitc. 



November, lyyS 493 

Continent have, as we are informed, used the monies entrusted to them 
in the engrossing of Articles upon the Public. This seething of the Kid 
in its Mothers milk, calls for the most exemplary- punishment. We pray 
that you will urge the Legislature of your State, to pass Laws for the 
prosecution and punishment of Offenders of this Kind in future, and that 
in the Interim your Excellency will cause any who may in your State be 
guilty of the like Crimes, to be secured for trial in safe and close Custody.^ 
We are respectfully 

Your Excellency's most obt. and Humble Servants, 

Nath. Scudder 
Gouv. Morris 
Wm. Whipple 

624. James LoV'Ell to Horatio Gates. ^ 

Novr. nth 1778 
Dear General 

Before I received your confidential Favor of I had thrown out 

to you some sentiments resembling your own as to the effect on little 
minds which would probably be consequential of your change of Post." 
I was sick at home when though [t]ful Yankies made the motion, founded 
in Regard to the real interest of the People at the eastward, and therefore 
honorable only by evident implication to you. 

As to your moving without any continental Troops, I think good 

Reasons have been oft'ered by Gl : W The Disposition which he had 

made prior to our sending the Direction for your going forward was as 
judicious as appearances and his acquired intelligence could prompt. But 
giving you a Ride was as little as we possibly could do in Compliment to 
those states who had always exerted themselves when their neighbours 
were threatned no more than they now- actually were. Your Reputation 
was judged sufficient to dispel any possible fear in our own citizens and 
even to divert a plan of our enemies 

625. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO John Sullivan.^ 

Philadelphia. 12th. November 1778 
Dear Sir, 

I have not had occasion to trouble you with a letter since the 2d. LHt. 
in the mean time your several favors of the 25th. Sept., i8th. 26th. and 
31st. October have reached me and have in due course been presented to 
Congress but at present I have no command from the House respecting 
their several contents." 

3 A further letter from the committee on the same subject, Jan. 19, 1779, will be 
found in vol. IV. 

[624]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIII. 

- See no. 603, ante. 

[625]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; Library of Congress. President's Letter-Book, II. 159. 

- See the Journals, Oct. 5, 26, Nov. 7, 9. 



494 Continental Congress 

A report from the Board of War on the article of forage lies for con- 
sideration, I shall endeavor to bring it forward this morning and you shall 
as early as possible be informed of the event. ^ 

Major Talbot's capture of the Pigot Armed Vessel afforded much 
satisfaction to Congress, his whole conduct in that affair is admired and 
applauded and I am persuaded that an occasion will be embraced for signi- 
fying the same to himself in terms of suitable honor.* 

626. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[November 13, 1778.] 
J J. I rode out in the morning with Mr. Adams and Mr. Ellsworth. 
Met a Com* at 5 o'Clock on a number of merchants' petitions.^ 

627. The South Carolina Delegates to the President 
OF South Carolina (Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

14th November [1778.] 
Sir 

Inclosed Your Excellency will find a Resolve of Congress ot the loth 
Instant relative to an Expedition against East Florida." In this Resolve 
there is a Clause which not being so clearly worded as we wished, makes 
it necessary for us to inform your Excellency of what was the sense of 
Congress upon it ; the Clause is as follows. " That if Major General Lincoln 
shall be of opinion that the Continental Battalions of the States of South 
Carolina and Georgia etc." We conceived that this expression of the 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 9, 30. 

* See the Journals, Nov. 7, 14. 
{t26Y Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 175. 

2 The committee was appointed July 22, and did not make a report until Dec. 8. 
See nos. 454, 5^6, ante. 

[627]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1777-1782, p. 219. 

- See the Journals, Nov. 2, 3, 10. The proposed expedition against East Florida 
appears to have had its immediate origin in a letter from Gen. Robert Howe, Sept. 22, 
read in Congress Nov. 2 (the second of the two letters mentioned in the Journals of 
that day, that in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 160, f. 483). A private letter from Howe to 
Laurens, of the same date {Correspondence of Henry Laurens, p. 126), emphasizes his 
official presentation of the matter, and indicates his personal concern to be assigned to 
the expedition in the event that it is undertaken. See also a letter of Peter Timothy to 
Laurens, Aug. 17, ibid., p. 123. Cf. the Journals, Feb. 13 (p. 163) ; also nos. 482, 602, 618, 
ante, 694, 706, post. Prior to the arrival of Howe's letter Congress had already had under 
consideration a plan of attack upon St. Augustine prepared by the Marquis de Bretigney 
(see the Journals, Aug. 26, Sept. 21, Nov. 6). A proposed attack upon West Florida, 
taken into consideration somewhat earlier (see the Journals, July 21, Aug. 10), had been 
rejected Oct. 31. The report of the board of war, dated Oct. 10, on the basis of which 
the action of Oct. 31 was taken, bears a memorandum (see the Journals, p. 1084 n.) con- 
cerning " Mr. Murray's report ". Among the Laurens Papers in the South Carolina 
Historical Society ("Miscellaneous Essays and Projects") is " E. Murray's Plan for an 
Attack upon West Florida", dated Oct. 3, 1778. This is no doubt the report referred to. 
The document includes, preliminary to Murray's suggestions relative to West Florida, 
a copy (translation) of the Marquis de Bretigney's plan of attack upon St. Augustine. 
In his report, which is addressed to the board of war, Murray mentions that Governor 
Galvez, in his letter of May 5, had " referred the Committee of Congress to whom he 
address'd his Letter for information from me respecting his critical situation with his 
neighbours in consequence of the protection and favors shown by him to Captain Willing 
and his Party ". 



November, lyyS 495 

Continental Battalions tended to destroy by implication the control of the 
President of South Carolina over two thirds of the effectives of the 
Battalions of that State as vested by the Resolution of Congress of the 
1 8th of June 1776 and an amendment was moved to clear up the ambiguity. 
But it being universally declared in Congress that the Resolution as it 
stood did not impair that control and that no part of the Resolution of 
the 1 8th June 1776 could be afifected by implication, or could be annulled 
but by expressions referring to that Resolution and annulling the whole 
or part of it the amendment was withdrawn as unnecessary : and we 
hereby inform your Excellency of the sense of Congress upon the subject. 
We are Sir with the highest Respect and Esteem 

Your Excellency's Most Obedt. and Most Humble Servts 

Henry Laurens 
W. H. Drayton 
Jno. Mathew^s 

RiCHD. HUTSON 



628. Richard Henry Lee to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry)/ 

Chantilly Novr. 15th 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

.... Division among ourselves, and the precipice on which we stand 
with our paper money, are, I verily believe, the sources of their [the 

enemy's] hope I hope Sir you will pardon my saying so much on 

this subject,^ but my anxiety arises from the clear conviction I have that 
the loss of our liberty seems at present more likely to be derived from the 
state of our currency than from all other causes. Congress is fully sensible 
of this, and I do suppose, that in order to detect forgeries and reduce the 
quantity, it will be requested of all the States to call into the Loan Offices 
the Continental emissions previous to april last, by compulsory laws. 
This is a bold stroke in finance, but necessity, and experience in the Eastern 
States, sanctify the measure.^ The next cause that threatens our infant 
republics, is, division among our selves. Three States yet refuse to Con- 
federate, Maryland Delaware, and Jersey. Indeed N. York can scarcely 
be said to have confederated since that State has signed with this con- 
dition, to be bound in case all the States confederate. Maryland, I fear 
will never come in whilst our claim remains so unlimited to the westward. 
They affect to fear our power, and they are certainly envious of the 
wealth they suppose may flow from this source. It is not improbable that 
the secret machinations of our enemies are at the bottom of this. Some of 
the most heated Opponents of our claims, say that if we would fix a 
reasonable limit, and agree that a new State should be established to the 

[628]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Distinguished Americans; Letters (ed. Ballagh), 
I. 451; Henry, Patrick Henry, II. lO. 

2 That is, excessive emissions of paper money and extensive forgeries. 

3 See the committee report in the Journals, Oct. 28, and the proceedings thereon 
(index, Finance). 



496 Continental Congress 

Westward of those limits, they would be content to confederate.* What 
do you think Sir of our proposing the Ohio as a boundary to the West- 
ward, and agreeing that the Country beyond shd. be settled for common 
good and treated a new State on condition that compensation reasonable 
should be made us for Dunmores, Colo. Christians, and our late expe- 
ditions. This might perhaps be agreed to and be taken well as coming 
freely from us. When we consider the difficulty of republican laws and 
government piercing so far from the seat of Government and the benefit 
in point of oeconomy from having a frontier State to guard us from Indian 
wars and the expence they create, I cannot help thinking that upon the 
whole this would be our wisest course. We should then probably unmask 
those who found their objection to Confederacy upon the extensiveness of 
our claim, and by having that bond of Union fixt foreclose for ever the 
hopes of our enemies 

629. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Lord Stirling.^ 

15th November [1778.] 
My Lord 

I had the honor of addressing Your Lordship the loth Instant by Dugan 
and last night of receiving your favor of the nth with two New York- 
Garrison Papers, such parts of Your Lordships intelligence as I know will 
be acceptable to Congress shall be communicated to the House tomorrow, 
accompanied by a necessary hint respecting publication.^ 

The false representations contained in the Newspapers of the several 
attempts made on the part of the Commissioners for treating with Con- 
gress, their account of the designs and desire of that body equally false, 
discover in those Commissioners and their Coadjutors a despair of Con- 
quest, their business is therefore to blind the understandings of the Nation 
whom they have reduced to the verge of ruin and overwhelmed with dis- 
grace. This subterfuge will not long screen them, the Nation will be 
better informed, and misfortunes will give an edge to their resent- 
ments 

630. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to the 
President of Delaware (Caesar Rodney).^ 

Philadelphia i6th November 1778.' 
Sir 

.... i/th You will likewise receive an Act of Congress for holding 
a general Thanks giving throughout these States on Wednesday the 30th 

4 See nos. 424, 456, 599, 612, ante, 630, 638, post. 
[629] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, II. 165. 

2 The Journals contain an erased entry under Nov. i6 recording the reading of 
letters from Stirling Nov. ii and 13. These letters, together with a number of other 
letters from Stirling to Laurens, are printed in Hist. Magadnc, II. 322. 

[630]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, II. 180. 

- Samuel Holten's record in his Diary for this day is : " Congress Resolved them- 
selves into a Com* of the whole house to consider the state of our money and finances." 



November, lyyS 497 

December next — and three Copies of the Treaty of Amity and Commerce 
and of Alliance eventual and defensive between his Most Christian Ma- 
jesty and these United States for the information and use of the State of 
Delaware.^ i8th Your Excellency's favor of the 15th this Morning 
presented to Congress afforded the House much satisfaction.* 

You Sir, and the pri\y Council have done your parts. Congress confide 
on the General Assembly to Co-operate with you for the benefit of the 
Union particularly by acceding to the Articles of Confederation. The 
State of Jersey have Resolved to Ratify, we trust that Maryland and 
Delaware will not much longer be delinquents. 



631. Joseph Reed to William Irvine.^ 

Philad., Nov. i6th. 1778. 
Dear Sir 

Tho I am very much engaged in other Business I cannot let Gen. Arm- 
strong go to Carlisle without acquainting you of the Steps I have taken 
upon your Claim. On my Return from Camp I made due Inquiry and 
found that Gen. Hand had been promoted in the Manner then suggested 
viz. upon the Nomination of North Carolina.- Being satisfied of this in 
making Report to Congress and recommending General Ofiicers in the 
Name of the Committee I stated the several Facts which the Delegates 
of North Carolina admitted were truly stated, but declared they could not 
consent to receive Gen. Hand as their Officer. I then stated Col. Magaw 
and yourself as standing next in order of rank. That Col. Magaw being a 
Prisoner, if a Brigadier was indispensably necessary at present as Gen. 
\\'ashington intimates you stood intitled, but in this case Col. IMagaws 
Right should be saved either by Agreement between yourselves or by 
express Reservation, as it would be a great Injustice that a good Officer 

3 Laurens wrote to each of the states Nov. 16, principally transmitting sundry- 
acts of Cong-ress. On the 17th, as here, he made an addition to each of these letters, 
mentioning the enclosure of copies of the treaties with France. Congress had passed 
an order Nov. 4 that 300 copies of the treaties be printed, and Harnett intimates (no. 642, 
post) that Laurens had distributed them too freely before the members of Congress were 
supplied. Cf. no. 657, post. 

■* There is no record of a letter of Nov. 15 from Rodney, but the Journals record 
that a letter from him dated Nov. 13 was read Nov. 19, and this is probably the letter 
referred to. It states that with the concurrence of the privy council he had called the 
assembly to meet Nov. 23. In a letter of Nov. 4 Rodney had explained that the assembly 
which had been called together principally for the purpose of taking action upon the 
Articles of Confederation had, by the dispersion of the members, become dissolved, and 
Congress had requested him to call the assembly together again " as soon as possible " 
(see the Journals, Nov. 6). The ratification by the Delaware assembly bears the date 
Feb. I, 1779 (see the Journals, Feb. 16), and the signatures of the delegates were ap- 
pended ^lay 5. See nos. 599, 612, 628, ante, 638, post. 
[631]! //u/. Magazine, VIII. 129. 

- Edward Hand was made a brigadier-general Apr. i, 1777, a promotion which 
was vigorously protested by the North Carolina officers (see vol. II., p. 325 n.). Just 
when the proceedings to which Reed next alludes took place is not certain, but pre- 
sumably about the middle of October, when the report of the committee of conference, 
of which Reed was a member, was under discussion. The report was brought in Oct. 9 
and taken into consideration Oct. 12. 



498 Continental Congress 

should lose his Right by the mere Fortune of War.^ The Generosity of 
your own Mind I am sure will lead you to approve this Rule of my 
Conduct. Thus the Matter stands — Carolina says she will not have 
Genl. Hand. Pennsylvania should say and I trust will, that having 
nominated him she must be bound by her Nomination or the Rights of 
others will be invaded. Gen. Hand's Merit as an Officer is not questioned, 
it is a Question more affecting to the States of Carolina and Pennsylvania, 
than a personal Question. 

I have not now the Honour of a Seat in Congress but as far as lays 
in my Power shall convey the Sentim'ts I have expressed to those who suc- 
ceed me and hope they will have their due Weight.* 

632. Henry Laurens to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 20th Novem 1778 
Dear Sir, 

I feel myself doubly honored by your favor of the 14th Inst, from 
the confidence of General Washington in the free communication of his 
sentiments and in the coincidence of his Ideas with my own, upon a 
question, on the wise decision of which the Inheritance, possibly the estab- 
lishment, of the freedom and Independence of these States, seems to 
depend. The respect Sir, which I owe you demands an immediate reply, 
and yet the variety of avocations in which I am engaged, do not afford me 
moments for arranging or expressing my thoughts suitably to the im- 
portance of the subject ; I am nevertheless encouraged to proceed without 
hesitation from a conviction, that, were I to deliver my opinions at full 
length I should be obliged to borrow Your Excellency's words, which I 
have the honor of assuring you Sir, are in more than one Instance, repeti- 
tions of my own, and that in every other, one excepted, our sentiments 
on this momentous discussion exactly accord. 

I believe and upon good ground, the scheme for an expedition into 
Canada in concert with the Arms of France originated in the breast of 
the Marquis de lafayette, encouraged probably by conferences with 
Count d'Estaing and I also believe it to be the offspring of the purest 
motives so far as respects that origin, but this is not sufficient to engage 
my concurrence in a measure big with eventual mischiefs. 

As deeply as my very limited time and faculties had suffered me to 
penetrate, I had often contemplated our delicate connection with France, 
and although it is painful to talk of ones own foresight, had viewed and 

3 Cf. no. 559, ante. According to the arrangement of Pennsj'lvania officers 
Nov. 12. 1777, Magaw preceded Irvine (see the Journals). 

* The matter was brought before Congress Jan. 26, 1779, in a letter from Reed, 
who had become president of Pennsylvania. The committee to whom the letter was 
referred made a report May 11, upon the question of Pennsylvania's right to additional 
brigadiers, and on May 12 Irvine was chosen a brigadier. There still remained a ques- 
tion of rank as between Irvine and Hand (see the Journals, Jan. 29, Feb. 29, 1780), 
which was not adjusted until July 4, 1780 (report of board of general officers, in Wash- 
ington Papers). Irvine's letter, read in Congress Jan. 29. 1780, and mentioned in pro- 
ceedings of Feb. 29, is in the Washington Papers under Jan. 23, 1779. 

[632]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXIX. 122; Letters to Wash- 
ington (ed. Sparks), II. 233. 



November, ly/S 499 

foretold fifteen IMonths ago the humiliating state to which our embrio 
independence would be reduced by courting from that Nation the loan 
of more Money than should be actually necessary for the support of 
the Army and of our unfortunate Navy. 

I was one of the six unsuccessful opponents to the resolution for 
borrowing Money from France for paying the Interest of our loan Office 
certificates. We have in this single article plunged the Union into a vast 
amount of debt, and from neglecting to exert our very small abilities or 
even to show a leading disposition to cancel any part of the former demand 
against us, our Bills for that Interest are now floating in im.minent danger 
of dishonor and disgrace. Fully persuaded of the true value of National 
honor I anxiously wished to support our own by a propriety and con- 
sistency of conduct and I dreaded the consequences of subjecting our 
happiness to the disposal of a powerful Creditor, who might upon any 
specious grounds, interpret National honor to our destruction. I warned 
my friends against the danger of Mortgaging these States to foreign 
powers. Every Million of livres you borrow implies a pledge of your 
Lands, and it is optional in your Creditor to be repaid at the Bank of 
England with an exorbitant Premium, or to collect the Money due to him 
in any of your Ports and according to his own mode whenever National 
Interest shall require the support of pretended National honor. Hence 
Your Excellency will perceive what were my feelings, when the proposi- 
tions for subduing Canada by the aid of a french fleet and Army were 
first broached to me. I demurred exceedingly to the Marquis's scheme 
and expressed some doubts of the concurrence of Congress, this was 
going as far as I dared consistently with my Office or considering him as 
a Gentleman of equal honor and tenacity. I trusted the issue of his applica- 
tion to the sagacity of Congress, the business was referred to a Committee 
who conferred with the Marquis, their Report was framed agreeable to 
his wishes, but the House very prudently determined to consult the 
Commander in Chief previously to a final determination, and although 
Your Excellency's observations are Committed, I am much mistaken if 
every Member in Congress is not decided in his opinion in favor of them. 
If the prosecution of so extensive a project is from the present state of 
our Army and funds impracticable on our part, it becomes altogether 
unnecessary to discuss the point in a Political view. And I trust the 
Marquis will be satisfied with such reasonings in apology for our desisting 
from the pursuit of his favorite enterprise as our circumstances will 
dictate." 

2 The " Plan of an Attack upon Quebec ", which is found in the Journals under 
Oct. 22, in connection with the instructions to FrankHn, was ordered by Congress to be 
submitted to General Washington for his observations upon it, and this was done by 
the committee of foreign affairs, Oct. 27 (letter signed by Richard Henry Lee and 
James Lovell, Library of Congress, Washington Papers). Washington submitted his 
observations at length in a letter of Nov. 11, and in a private letter to President Laurens, 
Nov 14 (that to which Laurens is here replying), he made further observations which 
he did not deem wise to include in his official letter. In a letter to Schuyler Nov. 20 
he also discussed the military aspects of the undertaking. (These letters are in Wash- 
ington's Writings, ed. Ford, VIL 239, 260, 265 ; the last two also in Writings, ed. Sparks, 
VI. 106, 114.) Washington's letter of Nov. 11 was read in Congress Nov. 19 and re- 
ferred to " the committee on the letters from the Marquis de la Fayette ", whose report 

36 



500 Continental Congress 

The immense debts which we are involved in abroad and at home 
demand the most serious attention and call for an exertion of the collected 
wisdom of all these States in order to secure what we have saved from 
the ravages of the Enemy. I am very short sighted, if there be at this 
time any incouragement for attempting distant conquests. 

I have been uniformly averse from every proposition wdiich tended to 
dissipate our strength and to accumulate our debt. Events have con- 
firmed my opinion, and at this Instant taking in view all circumstances 
I have doubts of the Policy and more of the success of the pending expedi- 
tion against East Florida. Congress will probably recommend to the 
States to raise a Tax of near 20 Millions the ensuing Year, this I hope 
will have a good effect, by returning many of us to first principles from 
which we have been too long wandering this almost intolerable burthen 
will rouse and animate our fellow Citizens, they will probably send Men 
of abilities to investigate Causes, to enquire into expenditures and to call 
delinquents for unaccounted Millions to severe reckonings, they will do 
what they have hitherto shamefully neglected, pass necessary Laws for 
this purpose. This heavy Tax and the prospect of increasing impositions 
will show our constituents the necessity for consolidating our strength, 
as well as the impropriety and danger of new extensive Military enter- 
prizes. Virtue and patriotism were the Motto of our Banners when we 
entered this Contest, where is virtue, where is Patriotism now? when 
almost every Man has turned his thoughts and attention to gain and 
pleasures, practising every artifice of Change Alley or Jonathan's, when 
Men of abilities disgracefully neglect the important duties for which 
they were sent to Congress, tempted by the pitiful Fees of practicing 
Attornies, when Members of that Body artfully start a point, succeed, 
and then avail themselves of the secrets of the House, commence monopo- 
lizers and accumulate the Public debt for their private emoluments ; I 
believe many such tricks have been acted, the particular instance which 
I allude to cost these States a large Sum of Money without putting the 
Criminal to the expence of a blush — When Men in almost every impor- 
tant public department are actually concerned in Commerce incompatible 
with the strict duties of their respective Offices, when the most egregious 
delinquents meet with support in Congress and escape examination — I 



was brought in Dec. 5 and was adopted. The committee originally appointed, Sept. 14. 
to prepare the instructions to Franklin consisted of Gouverneur Morris, Chase, Drayton, 
Samuel Adams, and Richard Henry Lee ; that first designated to report on the Lafayette 
letters, Oct. 13, consisted of Morris, Lee, Witherspoon, and Adams, to whom Drayton 
was immediately added, while Witherspoon was added to the committee on instructions. 
As Chase had left Congress, this made the two committees identical in personnel. When 
the instructions were under consideration some amendments were offered by William 
Duer, which brought it about that Duer was added to the committee on that subject 
(Oct. 24). It also thus came about that, while the instructions to Franklin are recorded 
in the Journals under Oct. 22, they were not finished until Oct. 26, and actually bear that 
date (see the Journals, pp. 1041 n., 1064 n.). The committee report of Dec. 5 was trans- 
mitted to Washington, and in consequence of a suggestion from him Dec. 13 (Writings, 
ed. Ford, VIL 285, ed. Sparks, YL 134) he was called to Philadelphia for a conference 
(see th& Journals, Dec. 17, 18, 24). An immediate outcome of the conference (Dec. 24- 
Jan. 31) was the adoption. Tan. i, 1779, of a report recommending the abandonment of 
the Canadian expedition. Cf. Sparks, Life of Gouverneur Morris, I. 189, and Jay, Life 
of Jay, I. 83. See also no. 602, ante, and no. 661, post. 



November, i^yS 501 

am tired and fear tiring you Sir with this horrible half finished picture. 
I will therefore leave it but not before I add that the United States of 
America are in most deplorable circumstances, that the acquisition of a 
Foreig-n Minister has fixed the eyes of Europe upon them ; that their weak- 
nesses and their wickednesses are no longer hidden, that the States respec- 
tively are much to blame, and that without speedy reformation their shame 
and ruin collectively will follow^ 

The disaster of Admiral Byron's fleet and the successful departure of 
Count d'Estaing's are events much in our favor, that is to say, if we are 
pleased to make a wise improvement of them but from experience fearing 
the contrary I am almost tempted to wish they had not happened these 
fortunate circumstances will lull us to sleep again, and while our Ally 
is gaining honor aggrandizement and the highest national advantages we 
shall be sinking into a State little better than tributary and dependent, be 
this as it may the World will ever honor by acknowledging the virtues 
of the Alan who from my inmost Soul I believe keeps us at this Moment 
from crumbling. 

633. Henry Laurens to Stephen Drayton.^ 

2ist November [1778.] 
Sir 

I have been near two Months in possession of your favor of the 5th of 
September without power to make a proper reply until the present oppor- 
tunity because Congress had not determin'd upon the appointment of a 
Deputy Quarter blaster General earlier than the 17th Instant. 

Within the present Inclosure you will receive an Act of Congress of 
that date, by which you will be informed that you were then unanimously 
elected to the Office abovementioned, and this Act will be your Warrant 
for proceeding in the execution of the Duties of your Appointment. 

I have had more than one conference with the Board of War respecting 
your Rank. The Board are of opinion that there is no Rank incidental 
to the Office, and therefore decline the insertion of Rank in a Commission. 
I have instanced the Commission of your Predecessor, to this I have been 
answered that there had been some management in that case unknown to 
Congress, and altogether improper. This opinion seems to be supported by 
referring to all the Deputy Quarter Masters in the other Departments, 
none of whom, as far as my knowledge extends have Rank in the Army 
as of right annex'd to the Office, altho' they are generally complimented 
with the title of Lieutenant Colonels. In the late Arrangement of the 
Quarter Master's Department, not a Commission has been issued from my 
Office, and I observe that the Commander in Chief directs to my Neigh- 
bour, commonly call'd Colonel ^Mitchell, " John IMitchell Esqr. Deputy 
Quarter Master General." You will naturally ask, have Congress estab- 
lished no Rule in this Case? This shall be my enquiry, and if I discover 
that you are entitled to Rank, by Rule or established precedent, you may 

[633]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 184. Addressed, "Stephen 
Drayton Esquire, Charlestown So. Carolina by Sharpe ". 



502 Continental Congress 

depend upon receiving a proper Commission by the next Messenger to 
Charlestown. in the mean time I will endeavour to prevail on my Honor- 
able Colleagues to move Congress for an appointment in your favor of 
Quarter Master General of the Southern Department. There appears 
at present an absurdity in the term of Deputy, when compared with the 
Appointment of Major General Greene, and his power of appointing all 
his Deputies, from whom you receive no instructions, nor are you in any 
respect accountable to him under an Appointment descending directly from 
Congress. I will not trouble you Sir, with further reasonings on this 
subject, you will perceive my inclination from what I have already said 
to obtain for you all that of right appertains to your Office. I know that 
heretofore Commissions have been shamefully prostituted, and I am 
informed that former Deputy Quarter Masters in several instances 
from favoritism and other vicious sources derived Rank; if this be true, 
I am too well acquainted with your Principles Sir, to suppose you would 
wish me to follow such examples, the Army cried aloud against them, 
and the late Arrangement was intended to prohibit and abolish the 
practice. 

P. S. 

Upon further investigation I find that the Officers under General 
Mifflin as Quarter Master General were entitled to Rank, and Colo. 
Mitchell informs me that none of the Deputies of Major Genl. Greene 
in the present Establishment have Commissions. As Commissions have 
f[ro]m necessity been lodg'd in the hands of Governors Presidents of 
States and General Officers and no returns made of the disposition of such 
Commissions, it has been hitherto impossible for the President of Congress 
or the Board of War to ascertain with precision an Army list, this has 
occasion d much clashing of Rank. We are now endeavouring to lessen 
the mischief, and if possible to remove it altogether.- 

634. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Francis Huger.^ 

2 1 St November [1778.] 
Sir 

I was honored with your favor of the 27th August and the 13th Instant. 
It was left at my house by some unknown hand. I presented it the next 
day to Congress, and was directed to lay it on the Table, from an opinion, 
as I conjecture, that the subject could not be taken under consideration 
consistently with the present Arrangement of the Quarter Master Generals 
Department nor the Brevet Commission granted in contravention of an 
Act of Congress declaring that such Commissions shall not entitle the 
parties to whom granted to any Pay." .... 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 29, Nov. 17. Cf. no. 634, post. 
[634] 1 Library o£ Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 186. Addressed, "Francis 
Huger Esquire So. Carolina by Sharpe". 

- Tlie act to which Laurens refers is that of Apr. 30, 177S. There is no record 
in the Journals of the presentation of Huger's letter. From a committee report in the 
Journals, Nov. 17, it appears that he had resigned his office as deputy quartermaster- 



November, ijyS 503 

635. Samuel Adams to James Warren. 

Philada. Novr. 23, 1778. 
My dear Sir, 

I have lately receive! a Letter from our worthy Friend Mr. J. A. 
of an old Date, the 21st of May.- " Our Affairs says he in this 
Kingdom, I find in a State of Confusion and Darkness that surprizes 
me. Prodigious Sums of Money have been expended and large Sums 
are still due; but there are no Books of Accounts nor any Docu- 
ments from whence I have been able to learn what the United States have 
receivd as an Equivalent." And yet we are told by a Gentleman lately 
from France that the Accounts and Documents were left in the Hands of a 
Person in Paris. My Friend A. L^ is called by those who dread his 
Vigilance " a dissatisfied Man." Having receivd many Letters from him 
since I last saw you, I know he is dissatisfied. What Man who regards 
the Publick Interest, or his own Reputation, can be satisfied, when he sees 
Millions of Livres spent, himself accountable with others for the Expendi- 
ture, and the Man through whose hands the greatest Part has passd with- 
out consulting him after being repeatedly called upon by him, unready or 
unwilling to account for them. There are other Things which my Friend 
complains of, and I think not without Justice 

Deer. p. 

The foregoing I had laid aside, and probably should never have for- 
warded it to you, had not an extraordinary Peice appeard in the last 
Saturday's paper * signd S Dean, in which he avows himself to be the 
Author of the Queries I sent you a few Weeks ago.^ I believe you will 
find the Plausibility of this Performance, which I shall inclose, to be 
answerable to a Character I have given you in the Letter above. He 
" had the Honor to be the Commercial and political Agent of America in 
Europe." He might have said more justly that he had the Honor of being 
employd by the secret Committee of Commerce as their Agent, and by the 
secret Committee of Correspondence as their Intelligencer.'^ Mr. A Lee 
he says " having by a wanton Display of his Errand, given great and just 
Cause of Disgust to the Court of Spain, returnd." I will relate to you 
certain Matters which may explain, if that Court was disgusted with 
him as Mr. D asserts, how it came to pass. Soon after the secret Com- 
mittee was appointed, which if I remember rightly was about three 
years ago, they wrote a Letter to Mr. Lee then in England, requesting a 
political Correspondence with him, and desiring he would give them the 

general in the Southern department, and from the letter of Laurens it may be inferred 
that he was seeking pay in accordance with the brevet rank that he had obtained. The 
notice of him in Heitman, Hist. Reg., gives him the rank of lieutenant-colonel. Cf. 
nos. 290, 315. 633, ante. It should here be noted that the index to the Journals is in error 
in assuming that the Colonel Huger mentioned in the Journals May 29 and Nov. 17 was 
Col. Isaac Huger. It was Francis Huger. 

[635]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 231; Warren-Adams Letters, II. 67. 

-John Adams's letter of May 21 is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 591. 

2 Arthur Lee. 

■* The Pennsylvania Packet of Dec. 5. See nos. 658, 669, post. 

•'• See nos. 564, 566, ante. 

^ See vol. I. of these Letters, pp. 2)72-2,77 ; cf. no. 564, ante. 



504 Continental Congress 

best Intelligence he could, and pledging to him their Confidence^ Mr. Lee 
being thus honord, in Mr. Deans Sense, as a political Agent of America, 
and having the solemn Assurance of Confidence and Secrecy, with his 
usual fidelity and as became him in that Character, proceeded with unsus- 
pecting Frankness to open to the Committee what he thought as well as 
what he knew of Men and Measures. There was at that time in England 
a Mr. Carmichael,^ who is lately arrivd in America and since appointed 
a Delegate in Congress for the State of Maryland. Mr. Lee had a good 
opinion of this young Gentleman; and he being at that time about to 
return hither by the Way of France, Mr. Lee thought him a safe hand, 
and entrusted him with Dispatches to the secret Committee. His Letter 
was written on the inner Sides of the Outside Leaves of a small pocket 
Dictionary, and so neatly closd to the Covers as not to afford the least 
Suspicion if it should meet with the Fate of being taken by the Enemy. 
Mr. Carmichael took the Dictionary and went over to France where he 
remaind till his late Embarkation for Portsmouth at which place he 
arrivd last Summer. \\\ France he met with Mr. Dean. The Letter was 
opend ! Who probably committed this Act, Mr. Dana can inform you 
as well as I can. To him I refer you. I desire you would ask him and 
if you please let him know that I desire it of you. He can tell you more 
than I chuse to trust in writing. I hope you are by this time become 
confidential with him. But this is Digression. I have seen the Letter. It is 
dated the 3d of June, '76. There are containd in it free Sentiments of 
the Minister of Spain, but such as a Man of Mr. Lees Integrity could 
not withhold from the Committee.® Such Intelligence, I must say, being 
thus py rated, Such Secrets betrayd. Judge who " wantonly displayd his 
Errand," and by whose Means the Court of Spain saw Cause to distrust 
Arthur Lee, if they did distrust him. I say if they did distrust him, 
because I doubt the Fact. If they restricted him to the City of Burgos, 
as Mr. Dean says, I rather think it was owing to the Caution of that 
Court, least she should too early offend the Court of London by giving 
Countenance to an American Commissioner. 

Mr. Dean says, "At this Place (Berlin) he (A. L ) was so unfor- 
tunate as to do nothing, unless indeed he may give the Name of Business 
to the Loss of his Papers," by which a Discovery was made of the 
Secrets of his Colleagues and the British Ministry enabled to counteract 
the Measures taken for the Benefit of America. The x\necdote is this. 

7 The secret committee was created Sept. 18, 1775, the members appointed 
Sept. 19; the committee of secret correspondence was created Nov. 29, 1775. The letter 
to Arthur Lee to which Adams refers is doubtless that of Dec. 12 from the committee 
of secret correspondence (vol. II., no. 391, of these Letters; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 

11-63). 

^ Concerning William Carmichael, see especially S. F. Bemis, " British Secret 
Service and the French-American Alliance", in Am. Hist. Rev., XXIX. 474 (April, 
1924). See also the Journals, Sept. 18, 22, 26, 28, 29, 30, Oct. 5, 14, and nos. 524, 528, 
529. 545, 549, 554,. ««^^. Cf. no. 662, post. 

^ Concerning Arthur Lee's letter of June 3, 1776, see no. 467, ante. The " free 

sentiments " here alluded to are found in the sentence, " Spain is more reserved, her 

minister here an old woman, but assuredly when France moves Spain will co-operate ". 

For Deane's account of the dictionary episode, see his " Narrative ", N. Y. Hist. Soc, 

Colleetions: Deane Papers, III. 154-156. Cf. ibid., p. 152. 



November, lyyS ■ 505 

In Berlin, Mr. Lee being invited and dining abroad, the British Envoy 
found ^Means to get his Closet and his Trunk forcd open and his Papers 
were pilferd. But Mr. Lee having Intelligence of it, immediately made 
Application to the Minister of Berlin and by his Interposition the Papers 
were returnd ; as I am informd in a few hours. Mr. Dean designs to hold 
up my worthy Friend in this Instance as careless of the Secrets of his 
Colleagues. But what Security is there against the Rape of the Lock? 
This indeed is the second Instance of his losing his Papers. The first by 
the Behaviour of the Person to whom he had regularly committed them, 
for which I will not now give a Name; and the other by the Theft of a 
British Minister. If he had been as fortunate in the early discovery of 
the one as the other, Mr. Dean might allow " the Name of Business " 
to be given, if not to the Loss of his Papers, to his Activity and Address 
in recovering them. 

It is pleasant to see Mr. Dean indulging his Talent in Insinuation to 
lead his Readers to conclude that A. L. was secretly intriguing with 
the British ^Ministry and thereby embarrassing our Affairs in France. 
His Acquaintance with the Earl of Shelburne who had formerly been 
his Patron in England, was the Ground of Suspicion of his disclosing our 
Secrets; " joynd to his undisguisd Hatred and Expressions of Contempt 
of the french Nation in General." 

I have good Grounds to be satisfied from a Conversation I have had 
with a Great ]\Ian ^"^ who ought to be and undoubtedly is perfectly ac- 
quainted with the French Court, that Mr. L is thought of there differently 
from what ]\Ir. Dean would have the People here think of him, and that 
the Insinuation " that he had given universal Disgust to the Nation whose 
Assistance we sollicited " is void of any just Foundation. But so long ago 
as " in the Summer of 1777 a Correspondence between a certain Dr. Ber- 
kenhout and the Hon Arthur Lee Esq took place." Aye, and it was " on 
political Subjects." If Mr. L had left it to be discoverd by the Sagacity 
of others that there was such a Correspondence between him and 
Dr. Berkenhout and that Dr. B. was in the Confidence of the British 
Ministry. ]Mr. Dean might have supposd there were Grounds to suspect 
Mr. L's Integrity; but unfortunately ]Mr. Lee told it himself to his 
Colleagues and related to them a Part of the Correspondence. Mr. D 
would here insinuate as he did in his Queries that it was a criminal 
Correspondence. But if it has been, would Mr. Lee have exposd himself 
to Mr. Dean? The Man whom he conceivd to be his mortal Enemy? 
Surely not. A wise Minister will endeavor to possess himself of the secret 
Designs of the publick Enemy. This is done by a Variety of Means. 
Mr. Lee corresponds with Dr. Berkenhout (as Mr. Dean says) a Con- 
fident of the British Ministry. A shortsighted Politician believes or a 
prejudicd and designing ]\Ian insinuates that it is a Criminal Corre- 
spondence. If it was so, Why was not Mr. D who knew it in the Summer 
of 1777, so faithful as to acquaint his Constituents, the Congress, of it? 
To have done this would have shown the Appearance of Fidelity. He 

10 The French minister, Gerard. Cf. the " Paca-Drajlon Information ", under 
Apr. 30, 1779, in vol. IV., and other statements there cited. 



506 Continental Congress 

relates a Story and he says himself " simply " thus. " A Gentleman of 
Character told me that his Correspondent in England" etc. (See the 
3 Collumn of his piece.) Who this Gentleman of Character is, and who 
the Correspondent in England, it was needless to tell us; but we learn 
that in Mr. D's Opinion a Gentleman of Character may have an English 
Correspondent. This Correspondent informd this Gentleman of Char- 
acter, and because Mr. Dean tells us so, it is sufficient for us faithfully 
to believe it and damn Dr. Lees Character. But I fear I have tired your 
Patience. Adieu. 

636. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[November 2^, 24, 1778.] 
2 J. Congress sit in the evening untill after 10 o'Clock. I received a 
letter from Miss* Holten per the post. 

24. I sent to the Council of Massachusetts the treaty of alliance with 
France. 



6;^y. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) to 
Benjamin Lincoln.^ 

24th November [1778.] 
Sir 

I have already written to you by this conveyance under the i6th. since 
which I have had the honor of receiving and presenting to Congress your 
favors of the 7th and 9th which are committed to the Board of Treasury 
for consideration and Report." .... 

Captain Barry having made some extraordinary demands on Congress 
for allowance of a Table and a Secretary which the House have not 
determin'd upon, is detained here. I believe Captain Barry to be a brave 
and active Seaman, but I am told by Gentlemen of the Marine Committee 
that the intended service is not pleasing to him tis possible therefore he 
may wish to avoid it, and besides you will find old Commanders in the 
two Southern States who will be much mortified should he actually pro- 
ceed and take the Command of them Consequences will arise which 
would be very disagreeable to you and which may prove detrimental to 
the service. I have suggested these sentiments to the Marine Committee, 
the determination of Congress will probably be known tomorrow.^ .... 

[626]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 175. 

[637P Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 187. Addressed to Major- 
General Lincoln, Charlestown. 

- See the Journals, Nov. 20. 

^ See the Journals. Nov. 10 (p. 1 1 19), Dec. 2. No further action on the matter 
is found recorded in tlie Journals. The marine committee's orders to Barry, dated 
Nov. 20, are in Paullin, Out-Lctters, IL 31. 



November, ijy8 507 

638. William Whipple to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia 24th Nov 1778 
Sir 

I need not acquaint you that the State of New Hampshire has not been 
represented since the commencement of this month as Col : Bartlett will 
inform you he left Congress the day before I arrived, which was the 
4th inst. since my arrival New Jersey has acceeded to the confederacy.^ 
its dayly expected Maryland and Delaware will follow the example. The 
Confederacy then being compleat, less their two delegates will not be 
a representation even 'tho one should be impowered by the State for that 
purpose. 

The Spirit of Monopolizing under the name of Speculating rages with 
great violence through the United States the consequence of which must 
prove fatal unless the interposition of the Legislatures of the several 
States can check its fury. The plan of finance now under Consideration of 
Congress will have a good effect when compleated, but that as well as 
many other important matters are exceedingly retarded for want of a full 
representation. Only nine States have been represented since my arrival 
'till within three days, there are now Eleven States barely represented, 
this tardiness in the States or their Delegates, besides retarding the most 
important Business makes it exceeding fatiguing to those that do attend. 

I have the Honour to transmit you the Treaty of Alliance etc. between 
His most Christian Majesty and the United States of America. 

No intelligence has been received since Col: Bartletts departure we 
are still in suspence about the Enemies intentions at New York 'tho it 
is most generally believed they will evacuate that place 

I have The Honour to be with every Sentiment of Esteem and 
Respect Sir 

Your Most Obt. Hum'le Sevt 
Wm. Whipple. 

639. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, 24th Novr, 1778. 
Sir, 

Enclosed are the treaties between His Most Christian Majesty and the 
United States which Congress have ordered to be sent to the government 
of each State. It is not thought expedient to publish them at present in 
the newspapers 

[638]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; now in N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VI. 5. 

2 The act of accession was passed by the assembly and signed by the governor 
Nov. 20; it was laid before Congress Nov. 25, and the Articles of Confederation were 
signed by the New Jersey delegates Nov. 26. See nos. 403, 424, note 4, 456, 560, 567, 
599, 628, ante. Concerning Delaware and Maryland, see nos. 599, 612, 628, 630, ante, 
668, post. 

[639]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 312. 



508 Continental Congress 

Congress has for some days past attended to the affair of the currency 
every day, and have agreed to persevere untill some measures are con- 
cluded on. They have some votes on the subject, but no plan is com- 
pleted 

The committee on the late Commissary General's affair have not re- 
ported since the recommitment.' 

The appointment of Jon'^ Trumbull, junr, Esqr, to the office of 
Comptroller of the Treasury was unanimous 

I begin to be impatient for the arrival of some of the Delegates from 
Connecticut, as some of my affairs require my return home 

640. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor 
OF Rhode Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, Nov. 24th, 1778. 
Sir: 

.... The important business of financing is on the carpet and We 
hope Congress will soon be able to take such measures for reducing the 
quantity of money in circulation, as will check the depreciation of it at 
least, if not appretiate it. Taxation and loaning are the only engines to 

effect this purpose 

Your Excellency's most obedient, humble Servants, 

William Ellery. 
John Collins. 

641. John Witherspoon, Part of a Speech in Congress 
UPON THE Confederation.^ 

[November 25, 1778?]^ 
The absolute necessity of union to the vigour and success of those 
measures on which we are already entered, is felt and confessed by every 
one of us, without exception ; so far, indeed, that those who have expressed 
their fears or suspicions of the existing confederacy proving abortive, 
have yet agreed in saying that there must and shall be a confederacy for 
the purposes of, and till the finishing of this war. So far it is well ; and 

- See nos. 567, 589, 601, 616, 617, ante. 

[640]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779, p. 49; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 206. 

[641]^ Works of John Witherspoon (Edinburgh, 1815), IX. 135. 

- It is not known when this speech was made, and internal evidence gives only 
indefinite suggestions of the occasion. In general these remarks of Witherspoon might 
have been appropriate at almost any time when the Confederation was under discussion. 
Some passages suggest the autumn of 1777, when Congress was actively engaged in 
framing the articles ; while other passages point to a period subsequent to the adoption 
of the Articles by Congress, when there was danger that the Confederation would be 
allowed to lapse. Such an occasion, for instance, presented itself May 20 and 21, 1779, 
when Virginia and Connecticut, on the one hand, urged the ratification of the Articles 
without the accession of Maryland, and Maryland, on the other, presented her strong 
dissent. It seems somewhat improbable that, during the period of discussion just prior 
to the signing of the Articles, July 9, 1778, a delegate from New Jersey would have 
made such a speech at a time when his state was as yet among the dissenters. In view 
of these uncertainties it has seemed appropriate enough to place the speech alongside 
of the New Jersey authorization, which Witherspoon presented in Congress Nov. 25. 



November, lyyS 509 

so far it is pleasing to hear them express their sentiments. But I intreat 
gentlemen calmly to consider how far the giving up all hopes of a lasting 
confederacy among these states, for their future security and improvement, 
will have an effect upon the stability and efficacy of even the temporary 
confederacy, which all acknowledge to be necessary ? I am fully persuaded, 
that when it ceases [comes ?] to be generally known, that the delegates 
of the provinces consider a lasting union as impracticable, it will greatly 
derange the minds of the people, and weaken their hands in defence of 
their country, which they have now undertaken with so much alacrity and 
spirit. I confess it would to me greatly diminish the glory and importance 
of the struggle, whether considered as for the rights of mankind in gen- 
eral, or for the prosperity and happiness of this continent in future times. 

It would quite depreciate the object of hope, as well as place it at a 
greater distance. For what would it signify to risk our possessions and 
shed our blood to set ourselves free from the encroachments and oppres- 
sion of Great Britain — with a certainty, as soon as peace was settled with 
them of a more lasting war, a more unnatural, more bloody, and much 
more hopeless war, among the colonies themselves ? — Some of us consider 
ourselves as acting for posterity at present, having little expectation of 
living to see all things fully settled, and the good consequences of liberty 
taking effect. But how much more uncertain the hope of seeing the internal 
contests of the colonies settled upon a lasting and equitable footing? 

One of the greatest dangers I have always considered the colonies as 
exposed to at present, is treachery among themselves, augmented by 
bribery and corruption from our enemies. But what force would be added 
to the arguments of seducers, if they could say with truth, that it was of 
no consequence whether we succeeded against Great Britain or not; for 
we must, in the end, be subjected, the greatest part of us, to the power 
of one or more of the strongest or largest of the American states ? And 
here I would apply the argument which we have so often used against 
Great Britain — that in all history we see that the slaves of freemen, and 
the subject states of republics, have been of all others the most grievously 
oppressed. I do not think the records of time can produce an instance of 
slaves treated with so much barbarity as the Helotes by the Lacedemonians, 
who were the most illustrious champions for liberty in all Greece ; or of 
provinces more plundered and spoiled than the states conquered by the 
Romans, for one hundred years before Caesar's dictatorship. The reason 
is plain ; there are many great men in free states. There were many con- 
sular gentlemen in that great republic, who all considered themselves as 
greater than kings, and must have kingly fortunes, which they had no 
other way of acquiring but by governments of provinces, which lasted 
generally but one year, and seldom more than two. 

In what I have already said, or may say, or any cases I may state, I hope 
every gentleman will do me the justice to believe, that I have not the most 
distant view to particular persons or societies, and mean only to reason 
from the usual course of things, and the prejudices inseparable from men 
as such. And can we help saying, that there will be a much greater degree, 
not only of the corruption of particular persons, but the defection of par- 



510 Continental Congress 

ticular provinces from the present confederacy, if they consider our suc- 
cess itself as only a prelude to a contest of a more dreadful nature, and 
indeed much more properly a civil war than that which now often obtains 
the name? ]\Iust not small colonies in particular be in danger of saying, 
we must secure ourselves? If the colonies are independent states, separate 
and disunited, after this war, we may be sure of coming off by the worse. 
We are in no condition to contend with several of them. Our trade in 
general, and our trade with them, must be upon such terms as they shall 
be pleased to prescribe. — What will be the consequence of this? Will they 
not be ready to prefer putting themselves under the protection of Great 
Britain, France or Holland, rather than submit to the tyranny of their 
neighbours, who were lately their equals? Nor would it be at all im- 
possible, that they should enter into such rash engagements as would 
prove their own destruction, from a mixture of apprehended necessity and 
real resentment. 

Perhaps it may be thought that breaking off this confederacy, and 
leaving it unfinished after we have entered upon it, will be only postponing 
the duty to some future period? Alas, nothing can exceed the absurdity 
of that supposition. Does not all history cry out, that a common danger 
is the great and only effectual means of settling difficulties, and composing 
differences. Have we not experienced its efficacy in producing such a 
degree of union through these colonies, as nobody would have prophesied, 
and hardly any would have expected ? 

If therefore, at present, when the danger is yet imminent, when it is 
so far from being over, that it is but coming to its height, we shall find it 
impossible to agree upon the terms of this confederacy, what madness is 
it to suppose that there ever will be a time, or that circumstances will so 
change, as to make it even probable, that it will be done at an after season ? 
Will not the very same difficulties that are in our way, be in the way 
of those who shall come after us? Is it possible that they should be ignor- 
ant of them, or inattentive to them? Will they not have the same jealousies 
of each other, the same attachment to local prejudices, and particular 
interest? So certain is this, that I look upon it as on the repentance of a 
sinner — Every day's delay, though it adds to the necessity, yet augments 
the difficulty, and takes from the inclination. 

There is one thing that has been thrown out, by which some seem to 
persuade themselves of, and others to be more indifferent about the suc- 
cess of a confederacy — that from the nature of men, it is to be expected, 
that a time must come when it will be dissolved and broken in pieces. I am 
none of those who either deny or conceal the depravity of human nature, 
till it is purified by the light of truth, and renewed by the Spirit of the 
living God, Yet I apprehend there is no force in that reasoning at all. 
Shall we establish nothing good, because we know it cannot be eternal? 
Shall we live without government, because every constitution has its old 
age, and its period? Because we know that we shall die, shall we take 
no pains to preserve or lengthen out life ? Far from it. Sir : it only requires 
the more watchful attention, to settle government upon the best principles. 



November, lyyS 511 

and in the wisest manner, that it may last as long as the nature of things 
will admit. 

But I beg leave to say something more, though with some risk that it 
will be thought visionary and romantic. I do expect, Mr. President, a 
progress, as in ever^- other human art, so in the order and perfection of 
human society, greater than we have yet seen ; and why should we be 
wanting to ourselves in urging it forward? It is certain. I think, that 
human science and religion have kept company together, and greatly 
assisted each other's progress in the world. I do not say that intellectual 
and moral qualities are in the same proportion in particular persons ; but 
they have a great and friendly influence upon one another, in societies and 
larger bodies. 

There have been great improvements, not only in human knowledge, 
but in human nature ; the progress of which can be easily traced in history. 
Every body is able to look back to the time in Europe, when the liberal 
sentiments that now prevail upon the rights of conscience, would have 
been looked upon as absurd. It is but little above two hundred years since 
that enlarged system called the balance of power, took place ; and I main- 
tain, that it is a greater step from the former disunited and hostile situation 
of kingdoms and states, to their present condition, than it would be from 
their present condition to a state of more perfect and lasting union. It is 
not impossible, that in future times all the states on one quarter of the 
globe, may see it proper by some plan of union, to perpetuate security and 
peace; and sure I am, a well planned confederacy among the states of 
America, may hand down the blessings of peace and public order to many 
generations. The union of the seven provinces of the Low Countries, has 
never yet been broken ; and they are of very different degrees of strength 
and wealth. Neither have the Cantons of Switzerland ever broken among 
themselves, though there are some of them protestants, and some of them 
papists, by public establishment. Not only so, but these confederacies are 
seldom engaged in a war with other nations. Wars are generally between 
monarchs, or single states that are large. A confederation of itself keeps 
war at a distance from the bodies of which it is composed. 

For all these reasons, Sir, I humbly apprehend, that every argument 
from honour, interest, safety and necessity, conspire in pressing us to a 
confederacy ; and if it be seriously attempted, I hope, by the blessing of 
God upon our endeavours, it w^ill be happily accomplished. 

642. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Casw^ell).^ 

Philadelphia Nov. 28th 1778. 
Dear Sir: 

The President before any of the members could be supplied with the 
printed Treaties with France sent them to all the Governors of the several 
States; I take the liberty (fearing some accident may have prevented 
your receiving one) to enclose one to your Excellency. These Treaties 

[642]! A'. C. State Recs., XIII. 304. 



512 Continental Congress 

ought to have been thrown out to the pubHc immediately, but Congress 
out of their great wisdom thought otherwise.' This business was done 
after the return of the North CaroHna Delegates. Mr. Burke and myself 
stayed and sat in Congress as long as we were authorized by the State to 
give a vote. Your Excellency must also have been informed by Mr. Blount, 
when the requisition was made for 500,000 Dollars, no Delegate of North 
Carolina was or could be present with propriety. 

We have however patched up this business ; 400,000 dols. have been sent 
on to accomplish the first business, and 150,000 to Mr. Blount exclusive 
of the other sum towards forwarding the Southern expedition.^ The 
President has no doubt informed you of the views of Congress, should 
the enemy not think proper to make an attack on Charles Town. I am not 
at Liberty at present to communicate it, as the injunction of secrecy is not 
yet taken off.* .... 

Genl. Howe is ordered to Head Quarters. The little ridiculous matter 
he has been concerned in in South Carolina, with regard to a female, has 
induced the Delegates of Georgia and South Carolina to desire his recall. 
Congress complied with their request, but do not intend to enter into the 
private amours of their Generals.^ I hope our friend (should the War 
continue) will have an opportunity of displaying his abilities (which Con- 
gress acknowledge) in the field of Alars; as w^ell as of Venus 

643. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Lord Stirling.^ 

29th November [1778.] 
My Lord 

Inclosed with this Your Lordship will find a Letter which I have written 
by Order of Congress to Rear Admiral Gambler, and which I request you 
to send in to New York by a Flag without delay, it may be necessary 
to intimate that this is in Answer to the Letter from the Admiral which 
Your Lordship transmitted to me a few days since, and in which there is 

- See no. 608, ante, no. 657, post. The French minister brought to the attention 
of Congress Nov. 20 the irregularity of publishing the treaties prior to the exchange of 
ratifications (see the Journals, Nov. 20, and Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 843) ; and 
in the conference July 12, 1779, he reported the surprise of the French court that this 
had been done without the previous knowledge and consent of that court. See ibid.. III. 
244-248, and the Journals, July 14, 1779; also James Lovell to Samuel Adams July 13, 
1779, in the next volume of these Letters. 

3 See the J oiirnals, Oct. 20, and nos. 480, 505, 523, 542, 546, 552, ante. 

* The proposed expedition against East Florida. See no. 627, note 2, ante. 

^ Cf. no. 542, ante. See also Howe to the President of Congress Nov. 24, in 
N. C. State Rccs., XIII. 498. In the passages that follow Harnett discourses upon the 
evils of frequent changes in the delegation. " By changing your members often ", he 
remarks, " you must of course know, as I am convinced every man of sense must, that 
it will take a young man of Genius, ability and application, three months at least to 
make himself well acquainted with the business of Congress and after he has accom- 
plished it, in a few months, another is appointed, who has the same process to go 
through before he can be made useful to his State, let his abilities be ever so great and 
uncommon." At the same time he declares his intention " never more to return in the 
Character my Country has been pleased to honor me with, unless I am forced into it ". 
Cf. nos. 523, 531, 606, ante. See also vol. II., no. 747. 

[643]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, II. 192. 



November, I'j'jS 513 

an implied menace of retaliation for the confinement of Lieut. Hele and 
others who with a Cargo of Manifestos under sanction of a Flag of truce 
very lately shipwreck'd on the Coast of New Jersey. The subject in dis- 
pute will not warrant the Act and the means we are possessed of for 
retorting tenfold will probably shew the Admiral that his threats are 
altogether futile and therefore I am under no great apprehension of a 
seizure on your Lordship's Messengers, at the same time the hint is not 
useless ^ 



644. William Whipple to Josiaii Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 30th Nov. 1778 
Dear Sir 

I have not received a line from New Hampshire since my arrival here. 
Mr. Frost who arrived the 25th inst Bro't with him an act impowering 
one Delegate to represent the State had it been sent some time before the 
State would not have been so long unrepresented and his coming rendered 
the Act less necessary 

The Treaties of Alliance etc with France are printed I sent one Book to 
the President last week, and shall send one to you by the first convenient 
opportunity.- 

Nothing material has happened since your departure, the business of 
finance goes on very slowly however some of the principal Questions have 
passed the Committee of the whole which leeds me to hope we shall make 
a considerable progress in this important business in a few days 

Col Allen ^ is here he tells me the Green Mountain Assembly have re- 
nounced the 16 towns and wrote to New Hampshire on the subject Young 
Whealock * is also here but I have not seen him — he seems to avoid me. 
I shall write fully on this subject shortly 

- See the Journals, Nov. 9, 25, 28, Dec. 3. The letter to Admiral Gambier, 
embodied in the Journals Nov. 28, was printed in the Pennsylvania Packet Dec. 5, and in 
the Royal Gazette Dec. 16. A draft is in the Library of Congress, U. S. Revolution, and 
a copy is in the President's Letter-Book, IL 191. Gambier's letter of Nov. 15 is in 
Almon's Remembrancer, 1778-1779, p. 203; the reply, Nov. 28, is ibid., p. 303. For the 
case of Lieut. Christopher Hele, whom the correspondence chiefly concerned, see the 
note under Fell's Diary, Jan. 12, 1779, in vol. IV. With regard to the manifestos, see 
no. 568, note 2, ante. Stirling's reply to Laurens, Dec. i, read in Congress Dec. 5, is 
found in Hist. Magazine, IL 323. 

[644]! Library of Congress, Stauffer-Morgan Collection of Signers of the Declara- 
tion of Independence ; Hist. Magazine:, VI. 76. 

2 See no. 630, ante. 

3 Ethan Allen. Samuel Holten records in his Diary under Nov. 26: "Mr. Presi- 
dent and his son, the vice Prest. of this State, Baron Steuben, Genl. Reed, Colo. Frost, 
Colo. Lee, Dr. Scuder, Mr. Hudson and Colo. Allen dined with us." The Colonel Lee 
of the party was doubtless Francis Lightfoot Lee. "Mr. Hudson" rnay have been 
Richard Hutson, delegate from South Carolina. 

*This was Lieut.-Col. John Wheelock. See the Journals, Nov. 28 (p. II74 n.), 
and nos. 646, 660, 672, 673, post. 



514 Continental Congress 

645. Samuel Adams to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia Deer i, 1778 
Sir, 

.... Since my Arrival here in July, I have availd my self of the 
Practice of the Delegates of every State, by applying to Congress for a 
Warrant on their Treasury for a Sum of Money to pay the extravagant, 
though necessary Expence of living. I purpose to repeat this Application, 
as there may be occasion for it, until I shall be directed differently 
or to the Contrary ; and shall credit the Sums so receivd in my next 
Account 



646. The New York Delegates to the Governor of 
New York (George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, ist Decembr. 1778. 
Sir, 

. ..." It gives us particular Pleasure that we are at Liberty to transmit 
to your Excellency several Copies of the Treaties of Amity and Commerce 
between his most Christian Majesty and the United States. Your Excel- 
lency will see how totally groundless have been the suspicions propagated 
by our Enemies respecting these Treaties. They will appear to be founded 
on perfect Equality, and in every Respect liberal and reciprocally bene- 
ficial. It is the Direction of Congress that no Impression of them be made 
untill their further order. 

We have not yet the Pleasure of Mr. Jay's Company. Mr. Ethan Allen 
has lately presented a Paper to Congress, as an act of what they call the 
Assembly of the State of Vermont. It is calculated to shew that the New 
Hampshire Towns on the East side of Connecticut River which Joind in 
the Revolt had retracted and seperated from the Towns on the west side. 
The Design of this flimsy artifice is obvious : but it was a little unreason- 
able for the Projectors that only two days after the Production of this 
Paper, Lieut. Col. Wheelock presented a Remonstrance from the Revolted 
Towns on the East side of the River, complaining that Allen had no 
authority to make the before mentioned Declaration ; that they utterly 
renounced it and adherd to their Revolt from New Hampshire.^ This 
Incident renders ridiculous the Plan which Allen and his adherents boasted 
of as decisive. When Mr. Jay arrives we hope this important Subject 

[645]! Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 93; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 
[646]! Clinton Papers, IV. 321. 

2 A part of this letter here omitted relates to the transmission by Abraham B. 
Bancker {cf. no. 648, post) of 100,000 dollars granted by Congress. See Clinton Papers, 
IV. 294, 356, 393. 

2 See no. 644, ante, and nos. 660, 668, 673, post. Qinton's reply to this letter, 
Dec. 17, is in Clinton Papers, IV. 393. A later letter of the same day from Ginton trans- 
mitted the address of Ira Allen to the inhabitants of Vermont, dated at Dresden, Nov. 27 
{ibid., pp. 396-39B). 



December, I'j'jS 515 

will be taken up, notwithstanding Congress is pressed by a variety of 

Objects which call for attention and Dispatch 

We have the Honour to be, with the utmost respect, Sir, Your Excel- 
lency's most Obedient humble Servants 

Jas. Duane, 
Fra' Lewis, 
Gouv'r Morris. 



647. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Philip Schuyler/ 

2nd December [1778.] 
Sir 

.... Divers considerations have prevented hitherto Congress from 
entering upon that of the proceedings of the General Court Martial in 
your case, but it is to be taken up tonight, and I am going immediately 
after this Letter is finished to attend the House for that purpose.^ 



648. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philad. 2d Decem'r 1778. 
Sir, 

I deliver'd Congress the Depositions your Excellency charged me with, 
respecting the Breach of the Convention of Saraghtoga by that part of 
Genl Burgoine's army which was permitted to return into Canada. It is 
the desire of Congress that this perfidious proceedure may be exposed in 
the fullest Light, and they therefore request that your Excellency will 
endeavour to procure further Evidence, and, if possible one of General 
Carlton's proclamations or orders requiring those Troops to join their 
respective Corpses. 

One thousand Dollars in Specie are now delivered to Mr. Bancker for 
the purpose of making the necessary discoveries, to be employed in such 
manner as your Excellency shall be pleased to direct ; when it is expended 
you will be pleased to remit the account to the Treasury board that you 
may be properly discharged. I did not think it necessary to send the Cont. 
money directed to be paid into your Hands, for the above purpose. It 
therefore waits your disposal in the Treasury." 

[647] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, II. 195. Addressed, "Major 
General Schuyler for the Commissioners of Ind'n Affairs Albany by Patrick Maher ". 
2 See no. 652, post. 
[648]! Clinton Papers, IV. 391. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 30. Clinton's reply, Dec. 17, is in Clinton Papers, IV. 
392. See also his letter to John Tayler, Dec. 14, ibid., p. 365. 

37 



516 Continental Congress 

649. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 

TO Silas Deane/ 

3d December 10 o'CIock [1778.] 
Sir 

On Tuesday I presented your Letter of the 30th Ultimo to Congress 
and received direction to intimate to you that the House having resolved 
to take into consideration as on this evening the state of their foreign 
Affairs such branches as you have been particularly concerned in, would 
in due course become subjects of deliberation without any, avoidable or 
unnecessary, delay. 

I should have given you this infomiation Yesterday had not the very 
long Sessions of Congress morning and evening together with very full 
employment in public business in the interval rendered it impracticable.' 

650. Francis Lewis to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 
Dear Sir 

I had the honor of writing to you yesterday in conjunction with my 
Collegues ; Congress has since received from Lord Sterling, Commanding 
at Eliza. Town, a State of the British Army, together with their late 
embarkations of which the inclosed is a Copy ; should any part of that 
yVrmy be destined against Charles Town So. Carolina, Congress hath a 
month past, ordered 1000 Militia from Virginia 3000 from North Caro- 
lina, together with the Continental Troops in that Quarter to rendevous 
at Charles Town, and in case the Enemy do not attempt that place, our 
Troops are to proceed against St. Augustine under the Command of 
General Lincoln. 

I cannot help thinking that Lord Sterlings Return relative to the Ene- 
mies force in the vicinity of N'w York somewhat exaggerated, as I have 
been lately informed by a person from Staten Island, that there is very 
few troops at present on that Island, and that the Enemy do not intend 
to leave N'w York this Winter. 

Mr. Jay is not yet arrived ; and this morning the proceedings of the 
Court Marshall upon Genl. Schuyler is to be reviewed by Congress.' .... 

Phila. 3d Decemr. 1778 

651. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[December 1-4, 1778.] 
Dec. I . . . . John Temple, Esq., arrived here from Boston.' 
2. Congress sit in the evening, Mr. Temple from Boston dined with us. 

[649] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, IL 204. Addressed, "The 
Honble Silas Deane Esqr. Philada. by M. Young ". 

2 See the Journals, Dec. i, 7, and no. 658, post. 
[650] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 3, and no. 652, post. 
{6siV Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. I7S- 

2 Concerning John Temple, see nos. 671, 672, 678, 685, 689, 698, 699, post. 



December, lyyS 517 

5. Congress sit in the evening- and confirmed the sentence of the Court 
Martial upon Genl. Schuyler and acquitted him of the charges brought 
against him. 

4. Congress sit in the evening and took into consideration G. Lee's 
affair.' .... 

652. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO Philip Schuyler.^ 

4th December [1778.] 
Sir 

I had the honor of writing to you the evening of the 2nd Instant, to 
which I beg leave to refer. 

The business before Congress at the meeting which I had intimated 
totally obstructed the passage of that in which you had been from various 
untoward and unavoidable circumstances too long unhappily detained : at 
length on the following Evening Congress took under consideration the 
proceedings of the General Court Martial on the tryal of Major General 
Schuyler, and resolved that the sentence of acquittal with the highest 
honor be confirmed, ordered the Publication of the proceedings of the 
Court and that the Resolution be transmitted to the Commander in 
Chief.^ .... 



653. Henry Laurens, Memorandum.^ 

[Note of Gerard:'] 

Leave is begged from the hon Presidt. of Congress to submit him 
some reflections upon a late conversation. The insinuation made was 
founded upon the consideration that the method proposed would be 
more simple, more easy and more convenient than any other, and that 
besides the troubles, the expences, the dangers of the sea and of the 
enemy, the spoiling of the cargoes etc. would be avoided. 

3 One of the subjects under consideration in the morning of Dec. 4 was that of 
finance, debated in committee of the whole. Following this discussion James Lovell 
wrote to Col. Henry Bromfield : 

"Deer. 4th 1778. 
" Dear Sir 

". . . . And now, Sir, finding my Brain relieved, by this little Exertion of Fancy, 
from the State into which it had been beaten by the Pros and Cons in a Discussion upon 
Finance, I think I can venture again upon the disagreeable Subject for a moment or two. 
While we are plodding here to reduce the Quantity of circulating Medium, cannot 
Associations be formed to discountenance one great Source of Depreciation which 
operates more strongly than even Quantity. I mean the speculating Spirit which is 
devouring us in geometrical Proportions. Taxation is doubtless our first object here and 
will most readily be received by all the People. Loan is another, if not the second to be 
pursued; but then, Quere, foreign or domestic? How shall Monies now received in 
Loan be paid? As those received in 1776? Every Genius on the Continent with a Turn 
for Finance should throw his mite in to the Delegates of his particular State while that 
important Matter is in agitation. . . ." (Colonial Society of Massachusetts, Publications, 
VL77.) 

[652]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, U. 204. 
2 See no. 647, ante, and the Journ-als, Dec. 3. 

[653]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XXVL 



518 Continental Congress 

The manner of executing this plan if adopted, would be very simple 
and attended with no inconveniency. The Court shall take upon herself 
to satisfy the furnisher of the articles in question and Congress shall 
receive his discharge for ready money in his accounts with the Court. 

December 4th 1778.* 

about the 2d or 3d of Decern. M. Girard had desired me to inform Con- 
gress, that as the Court of France were indebted to these States for the 
supplies of provision to Count D'Estaing'[s] fleet at Boston, he recom- 
mended to Congress to draw a line in M. Beaumarchais' account which 
should seperate the articles of Cannon and Military Stores from other 
articles in that account, that the amount of such Cannon and Stores 
might be set against the amount of supplies to Count d'Estaing, and a 
Balance struck as the case might be. This M. Girard said would be an 
easier and safer means of paying for such Cannon and Stores than by 
remittances exposed to the danger of the Sea. I asked M. Girard if this 
would not be acknowledging that the Court of France had furnished 
those Stores, wdiich as I understood, the Court wished to conceal, this 
question a little alarmed M. Girard, who said Ah ! we are now in War. 

I reported the desire of M. Girard to Congress and intimated my own 
wish that M. Girard should signify what he had said to me in waiting in 
order to avoid mistakes. Congress directed me to apply to M. Girard for 
that purpose.^ I applied immediately in consequence of which M. Girard 
sent me a Note of which the preceding is a Copy, and although it is not 
quite a Copy of our conversation, 'tis plain enough to shew that the court 
had something to do with the furnishing Cannon and Stores — otherwise 
a Minister plenepotentiary I should presume would not have interfered 
in this manner. 

but who is the furnisher — M. Beaumarchais says he is Mr Deane in 
one place, says the Cannon and warlike Stores were granted to his request, 
in another place, he says ["] finding there was a surplus of Cannon in the 
arsenals to be disposed of I waited on the Minister and solicited the 
liberty of purchasing them but zvas refused, then proposed to procure a 
Man to purchase them on condition he should not be called on for pay- 
ment until he sent his Remittances from America. I could not obtain this. 
this application I made previous to my Contracts w^ith Monsr. Beau- 
marchais ["]. 

in another place Mr. Deane says " after which I mentioned to His Excy 
(Count Vergennes) the situation in which the Cannon and Stores I had 
purchased actually were and prayed his advice. He asked me of whom I 
had purchased. I told him, he said there had been some very imprudent 
conduct and seemed to blame M. Beaumarchais ["].* 

2 The text of this note of Gerard is printed from the original (which is in 
English) in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 94, f. 50. The note is endorsed by Laurens, 
" M. Gerard on Payment to Monsr. Beaumarchais ". A copy is in the Laurens Papers 
in the South Carolina Historical Society, and it is to this that Laurens's memorandum is 
attached. These remarks of Laurens, at least the last two paragraphs, were probably 
penned the latter part of December, possibly even later. See note 3, below. 

^ The Journals contain no record of this matter. 

■* The two quotations from Deane are found (substantially) in his "Narrative", 
read in Congress Dec. 22 and 23. See N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, 
III. 157, 160. 



December, 1778 519 

654. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[December 5-8, 1778.]^ 
^th. Saturday was Introduced to Cong-ress. 
6th. Sunday Dined with Mr. Isaac Moses. 
yth. Hon'ble John Jay Esqr. took his seat in Congress ' 
8th. John Temple Esqr.* Dined at Mr. Whiteheads 

655. Henry Laurens to Lord Stirling.^ 

Philadelphia 5th December 1778. 
My Lord, 

I am particularly indebted for Your Lordships obliging- favor of the 
1st December, those of public concerns under the 29th November and of 
the date first mentioned remain yet a secret to Congress, I mean the 
Contents ; for I have day by day for some days past announced these and 
many other public Letters to the House. ^ 

Your Lordship will justly conclude that the business which has ob- 
structed the bare hearing the import of dispatches which for aught we 
know may be nothing less than the evacuation of New York Garrison or 
the reinforcement of that place by Ten thousand new troops, must be 
exceedingly momentous. I speak to you Sir as a Gentleman and fellow 
Citizen. 

My last date to Your Lordship is the ist Inst. I owe you News Papers 
of Thursday and this Morning two of each, together with two Copies of 
Gen. Lee's and one of Gen Sinclair's trials will be found in the Packet 
which will contain this. 

Congress have not yet decided on these Cases; this Morning's Paper 
shews the determination on Major Gen. Schuyler's. Your Lordship will 
observe the coverings of Gen. Lee's trial are of different colours, the 
Marble was published by order of Congress, the blue I apprehend by 
Gen. Lee's order. I bought this of the Printer and have not had time to 
examine it. I am not conscious of any impropriety in requesting- Your 

[654]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. The following title is inscribed 
upon the volume, though not in the writing of John Fell, " Journal, Kept by Judge 
John Fell, while Member of Congress for the State of New Jersey 1778". 

2 The diary for the preceding six days is as follows : 

29th. Sunday. Left Petersfield. Dined at Aquackina. Lay at Newark. 

30th. Monday. Dined 5 Mile from Elizabethtown. Lay at Mr. Marrinors at Bruns- 
wick. (Coll. Nelson told me, he declined going to Congress.) 

Decem'r ist. Tuesday. Dined at Princeton. Spent the Evening with Governor Lev- 
ingston at Trenton. 

2d. Wednesday. Dined at Trenton. Received from the Secretary of New Jersey my 
Credentials to Congress. Lay at Bristol. 

3d. Thursday. Dined at Frankford. Lay at Philadelphia. (At Mr. Whiteheads.) 

4th. Fryday. at Do. Peter R Fell Returned home. 

3 Samuel Holten records in his Diary under this date: "Congress sat till 10 in 
the evening." 

■* See nos. 651, ante, 671, post. 
[655]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS., Laurens. 

2 The letter of Dec. i was read in Congress Dec. 5 ; the letter of Nov. 29 is not 
mentioned. Stirling's reply to this letter, Dec. 18, as also to letters of Dec. 5, 6, and 7 
(see no. 657, post), is in Moore, Materials for History, first ser. {Correspondence of 
Henry Laurens), p. 128. 



520 Continental Congress 

Lordship to recur to the Verdict of the Court on the second Charge which 
is founded on the 13th Article of the 13th Section of the Articles of War, 
and then to the 12th Article of the same Section, had I the Articles before 
me I should score under the words and runaway and be strongly of opinion 
that the Copyist had, which is easy to imagine, inserted 13th when 12th 
had been the fact, but if this be arcanum and not a plain error, it would 
he highly impertinent to attempt to develop a single jot, which is not my 
meaning 

656. John Penn to William Woodford.^ 

Philada. Dec 6th. 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

Yesterday the Sentence against General Lee was confirmed, by a great 
Majority, only two votes against approving : he has been Complaining of 
every body. I suppose this will make him outrageous.^ 

I expect Congress will, in a few days agree on some plan for appreciat- 
ing the Currency. 

657. Henry Laurens to Lord Stirling.^ 

Philadelphia 7th December 1778. 
My Lord 

Yesterday I had the honor of transmitting to Your Lordship two 
Copies of the Treaties between France and these States.^ presently after 
they were gone I discovered something very like an error in the press, 
which I shall not have opportunity to investigate immediately, mean time 
I request you will not suffer any of the Copies to go abroad nor from your 
own custody until you hear again from 

Your Lordship's Obliged and obedt. Servant 

Henry Laurens. 
The Right Honorable 
The Earl of Stirling 
Elizabeth Town. 

658. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

7th December [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

By this Sea Conveyance I shall not say much, because I think the 
chance of miscarriage is great, and because I mean to write again in a 

[656] 1 AT. E. Hist, and Geneal. Register, XXX. 320. Addressed, "To General Wood- 
ford Fredericksburg Virginia Favrd. by Mr. Shannon ". 
2 Cf. nos. 574, 586, note 4, ante. 
[657] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia. 

- See no. 642, ante. 
[658]! S. C. Hist; Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1777-1782, p. 227. 



December, iy/8 521 

day or two bv a safe hand out of the reach of Bachop.' if my Packet 
escapes the Enemy Your Excellency will receive four or five of the latest 
Newspapers, the most striking Articles in these are General Lee's and 
Mr Deane's Letters.^ 

The former has neither Proselytes nor Advocates, the people in Caro- 
lina will see at the first grlance how open he has laid himself and I am 
told he will be attacked in every vulnerable part by a Pen which possibly 
may not hurt his feelings while it displays truth to the World.* Congress 
on Saturday last Resolved that the Sentence of the Court Martial against 
him be carried into execution, eleven States present, 6 Ayes 2 Nays, 2 
divided, and 1 unrepresented — Numbers 16 Aye 7 No — i excused not 
having read the Tryal nor heard the Debates, which deprived New Jersey 
of a representation. I shall send particulars by Land.' 

Your Excellency will be so good as to recur to my Letter of nth 
August.® What might then have appeared trifling to many People will 
now be regarded as a well founded and well intended alarm, this Appeal 
to the People, this rash unnecessary appeal I trust will this day be attended 
to in Congress, but as I am concerned in no intrigue nor Cabal, I am 
consequently ignorant of the designs of my fellow labourers, the honor 
and interests of these United States call upon every Delegate in Congress 
for support, if therefore other Alen shall be silent, I will deliver my senti- 
ments on this very extraordinary circumstance and I have in prospect the 
production of much good out of this evil.^ .... 

659. The President of Congress (Henry Laurens) 
TO George Washington.'- 

8th December [1778.] 
Sir 

.... You will be pleased Sir to direct your next Dispatches to the 
President of Congress, who will not be the subscriber ; but in my private 
Character I shall ever retain that true respect and esteem under which 
I have so often had the honor of acknowledging myself. Sir 

Your Excellency's Most Obedient and Most Humble Servant 

(Then determined to resign)^ 

2 Presumably Capt. Peter Bachop. Cf. S. C. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., IX. 193, 
XII. 134, XIX. 170; Wallace, Life of Laurens, pp. 378, 380. 

3 Deane's address " to the Free and Virtuous Citizens of America " appeared in 
the Pennsylvania Packet Dec. 5. It is found in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane 
Papers, III. 66. Gen. Charles Lee's letter appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet of 
Dec. 3 and may be found in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Lee Papers, III. 255. 

*John Laurens, not so chary of Lee's feelings, challenged him to a duel. See 
ibid., pp. 273, 283. 

5 The member excused was John Fell. See the incomplete entry against his name 
in the yeas and nays {Journals, Dec. 5). 

^ No. 462, ante. 

' See Laurens's resignation in the Journals, Dec. 9, and his notes thereon, no. 663, 
post. Cf. no. 680, post. 

[659] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, II. 210. 

- The body of the letter as recorded in the Letter-Book is in the writing of 
Laurens's secretary, Moses Young, but this remark, which was probably added to the 
letter-book copy after the resignation, is in Laurens's own hand. See nos. 662-668, 671, 
672, 676, 677, 680, 683, 687, post. Washington's reply, Dec. 18, is in Writings (ed. 
Sparks), VI. 140. 



522 Continental Congress 

660. William Whipple to the President of New 
Hampshire (Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia 8th Deer. 1778 
Sir 

I had the Honour of receiving your favor of the 6th Ulto with its 
inclosures, 'tho it did not come to hand till the ist of this month. 

Your Letter to the President has been laid before Congress and is 
refered, with the depositions to the Treasury Board, my best endeavors 
shall be used for the accomplishment of Your wish in that Business.^ 

I was informed by Col. Ethan Allen (who left the City a few days ago) 
of the proceedings of the Green Mountain People, that Gentleman 
promises to use his influence to prevent any further trouble to New Hamp- 
shire from that Quarter, whether his influence is sufficient to effect the 
purpose is a matter I cannot undertake to decide upon, but by the appear- 
ance of so small a Majority in favor of his proposition, I should suppose 
it at least doubtful. I am rather inclined to think that nothing will effect- 
ually settle the dispute but New Hampshire's opposing her claim to that of 
New York even if she should afterwards (supposing the decision to be in 
favor of New Hampshire) agree that the grant on the west side of the 
River should be a separate State, because in that case New Hampshire 
would have it in her power to settle the line to her satisfaction, and perhaps 
avoid some disagreeable disputes that may otherwise arise.^ 

Mr. Wheelock has been here with a memorial to Congress from those 
people who withdrew themselves from the Windsor Assembly, after 
giving it to the President, he met with some discouragements and made 
application to withdraw it but I understand was refused by the President, 
this Memorial has been read in Congress and filed. I shall endeavour to 
transmit a copy of it by next post. I dont know but Mr. Wheelock is 
still in this City. I have not had the Pleasure of seeing him. from some 
perticular circumstances I am led to suppose he avoided me, his reasons 
for so doing I am unacquainted with.^ 

A Packet is lately arrived from France but has Brot nothing new 
having had a long passage, the latest dates by her is 31st Augt 

661. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Philadelphia, Deer. 8th, 1778. 
Sir 

By Mr. Cummins, on the 29th of last month, I forwarded several 
papers of Importance, Triplicates of which Mr. Bromfield, the Bearer 
of this, will dcHver.^ But an accident then took place, obliging me to hold 

[660] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; now in N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VI. 11; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks 
MSS., XXXV. 57- 

2 Weare's letter, presenting certain claims for losses, was read in Congress 
Dec. 2. The board of treasury made a report upon these and similar claims Mar. 9, 1779. 

3 See nos. 507, 543, 597, 644, atite, 668, 673, fyost. 
* See nos. 644, 646, ante, and no. 673, post. 

[66i]iAm. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XH. 181 ("Triplicate"); Wharton, Rev. 
Dipt. Corr., II. 856. 

2 Probably James Cuming, merchant at L'Orient, and Henry Bromfield (1751- 
1837), son of Col. Henry Bromfield (1727-1820). 



December, lyyS 523 

back a Letter which I had written to you. Time was wanting in which to 
write another, the Vessel having fallen down to Reedy Island and the 
Express being mounted. 

My Letter was chiefly on the circumstances of an intended plan of 
Operations which was inclosed, but detained for alterations to be made 
in Congress.^ 

Our only important Struggle is with our Currency. We shall be able, 
at least, to keep it from growing worse ; but we want the Aid of skilfull 
Financiers and of monied men to bring about any considerable appre- 
ciation, as you will more clearly perceive by one of the papers herewith 
to be delivered. 

I am. Sir, 

Your most obedt. Friend and Servant 

James Lovell, 
For the Committee of Foreign Affairs. 
Honble. Doctr. Franklin 

662, Nathaniel Scudder to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Philadelphia, Deer. 9th, 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

I have not written to you sooner, because in reality I had little of Im- 
portance to write. The ancient Motto of " festina lente " or that of " Nil 
operose agendo " will yet apply to us with too great Propriety. 

The Decision of General Lee's affair was never obtained untill Saturday 
last, when the Sentence of the Court martial was confirmed by a great 
^Majority. The Sentence respecting General Schuyler is also confirmed, 
but General St Clair's yet remains undetermined.^ 

We have unfortunately consumed much Time for some Days past on a 
Matter of Privilege consequent upon a Charge exhibited against General 
Thompson for great Abuse given to Congress in General, and personally 
to the Honble Mr. McKean on Account of the Preference shewn to 
Mr. McKinly in his Exchange for Governor Franklin ; and after all it 
remains yet undecided.^ 

What shall I say as to the great Business of our Finances ? I cannot yet 
determine that I have learned any Thing concerning them, much indeed 
I have unlearned ; for although an amazing Deal of Time has been spent 
on this important Subject; tho one Hypothesis has been piled upon 
another like Pelion on Ossa ; tho Scheme has been tacked to Scheme, and 
System succeeded System, while the speculative Genius and playfull 
Fancies of some of our Brethren have again and again in amendments 

3 The allusion is to the plan for the invasion of Canada. See no. 632, note 2, 
ante, and the Journals, Dec. 5. Lovell wrote to Franklin Feb. 8, 1779: "The Marquis 
de la Fayette having sailed from Boston the day before the arrival there of letters sent 
from hence for you by the President of Congress, I now forward to you duplicates of 
those letters, with a course of newspapers, via St. Eustatia " (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
III. 38). 

[662]! Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722. 

- The decision on Schuyler's case was Dec. 3, on that of Lee Dec. 5, and on 
that of St. Clair Dec. 16. See nos. 652, 656, anie. 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 19, 20, 23, 25, Dec. 7, 17, 22, 23, 24, and nos. 680, 695, 
post. Concerning the exchange of McKinly, see nos. 90, 180, 462, ante, 680, 695, post. 



524 Continental Congress 

and a variety of Substitutes exhausted themselves, and finally, when all 
their pretty wiredrawn Plans were crumbled away in the handling, have 
often in common Consent assisted to sweep away the rubbish, and begin 
de novo ; I say tho we have ranged in this Way the boundless Field of 
Finance and with great Labor and Diligence too, I have for my own 
Part obtained no more than to determine what will not do for the Support 
of our public Credit and the prevention of a general Depreciation. When 
I shall be happy enough to detennine what will do Heaven only knows — 
my Enthusiasm only remains. 

Our foreign affairs are in a most deplorable Situation; Mr. Carmichael 
having taken his Seat in Congress I suppose there is an End to Interro- 
gation with him. Mr. Dean has never yet been heard in Congress since 
you left us, except an Evening or two ago, when he was before us only a 
few Minutes to receive Orders from the Chair to deliver in all he had to 
say in Writing as soon as he thought proper, and in the mean Time that, 
if he had any Thing very urgent to communicate, he might be heard the 
Evening following; which then he rather declined, and in fine has not 
asked.* how soon we shall have his written Narration I know not ; When 
it comes I expect it will be interwoven with all those envious Criminations, 
which, notwithstanding he never even hinted them to Congress either in 
his verbal Narration or in any of his subsequent Letters, he has within 
this few Days in a very extraordinary Manner thrown out to the World 
through the Channel of a News Paper, which I doubt not you have 
received.^ 

Thus far I had written in the Morning, I am this Moment come out 
of Congress, where an extraordinary Event has taken Place — it is this, 
that President Lawrence has resigned his Seat, and to morrow is assigned 
for a new Election the Causes of this Occurrence will no Doubt be given 
to you by your Brother ; Time will not admit of my doing it.^ .... 

663. Henry Laurens, Notes on his Letter of Resignation.^ 

[December 9, 1778.] 
a - Five States, Ay, for reading the printed Letter ; six. No ; some of the 
latter as the President has been informed, were influenced by an opinion 

4 See the Journals, Dec. 5, 7. Cf. nos. 545, 549, 554, ante, 669, post. 

^ See no. 658, note 3, ante, and nos. 677, 691, 697, post. 

6 See no. 659, ante, and nos. 663-668, 671, 672, 676, 677, 683, 687, post. 
[663] 1 Among the Laurens Papers in the possession of the South Carolina Historical 
Society are two copies of the speech delivered by Henry Laurens Dec. 9, 1778, upon 
resigning the presidency of Congress. One of these copies, found in vol. L, f. 52, is in 
the writing of Moses Young, Laurens's secretary, with a few additions and corrections in 
Laurens's own hand. The other copy is in a volume designated " Miscellaneous Essays 
and Projects". To each of these copies are appended some annotations, endorsed, 
" Respecting the President Leaving the Chair " ; and it is these that are here printed, the 
text used being that in the volume of Miscellaneous Essays and Projects. The speech 
of resignation itself is printed in the Library of Congress edition of the Journals under 
Dec. 9, and it is there noted that it was first printed in the Pa. Mag. of Hist, a^id Biog., 
July, 1889 (vol. XHL, p. 232), and that a copy, in the writing of Moses Young, is found 
among the Hamilton Papers in the Library of Congress. There is also a copy in Force 
Trans., Whipple, p. 577. The annotations do not, however, appear with either of the 
texts last mentioned. . ... 

2 Note a is upon the paragraph ending, " passed in the negative by a majority of 
one state ". In the text in the Journals it is next to the last paragraph on p. 1203. 



December, z//^ 525 

that it would be waste of time to read what could give them no infor- 
mation, and these intended to vote for a Committee, the question for a 
Committee was over ruled by management in spinning out time to 
one o'clock, when a certain Order of the day to be taken up at that hour, 
and which cannot be postponed but by unamious consent, was peremptorily 
called for. 

b^ By the device above mentioned 

c * The President had frequently premonished Congress of his intention 
to resign the chair on the 31st of October when he should have served in 
it one whole Year agreeable to the Articles of Confederation ; therefore 
on that day being Saturday he reminded the House of his several former 
intimations, and humbly intreated them to make choice of some other 
Member to fill the Chair on the following Monday. 

The House discovered a general disinclination to the measure, and after 
some expostulation ^ determined against a decisive opinion until Monday. 
On the intervening Sunday Morning, the first of November, a Newspaper, 
printed in the Garrison of New York, was put into his hands, and he 
was pressed to read a Letter published in that Paper by some Person who 
professed much personal regard for him, founded upon an old acquaint- 
ance and friendship, and expressing the Writer's astonishment that such 
a Man as he described the President to be, should sit at the head of that 
Banditti (or some term of the same import) the American Congress.^ 

This circumstance embarressed the President, he had been extremely 
desirous of quitting the Chair but now became adverse to gratifying the 
Enemy, who seemed to have thrown the flattering Letter above mentioned 
in his way as a temptation, he therefore waited in silence till Monday 
for the final opinion of Congress. 

On Monday he repeated his request that the House would proceed to 
the Choice of a new President; after some conversation and debate, the 
House were pleased to signify by the voice of a respectable Member, their 
perfect satisfaction with his whole conduct, and that it was their unani- 
mous request, he would continue to sit as President for some time longer, 
which the President then chearfully complied with, and he confesses that 
he felt some degree of exultation in the thought of having it in his power 
by an event so honorable to himself, to demonstrate to his quondam friend 
in the Garrison, that he was not to be captivated by flattery.^ 

3 Note b is upon the words, " my motion was quashed ", second paragraph, p. 1204. 
■* Note c relates to the statement at the top of p. 1206. The index letter is attached 
to the word " last " ih line 3. 

5 The other copy has here " deliberation ". 

6 The letter referred to appeared in the Royal Gazette, Oct. 14, and is signed 
" Verax". It is reprinted in Hist. Magazine, X. 316. The writer declares that the seats 
in Congress, as every one knows, "are very differently filled from what they once were; 
the men of sense, character and property, have either abandoned that assembly, or have 
been drove out of it, and their places supplied by the indigent, the worthless, and the 
desperate". After expressing surprise that a man of Laurens's character would sit with 
such a body, he adds, " Was the united testimony of the whole Congress to be produced 
to his giving his approbation to that indecent and illiberal answer to Sir Henry Clinton's 
last letter, I would not believe them, unless I had his assurance." 

" See no. 598, ante, and no. 664, post. 



526 Continental Congress 

d ® Alluding particularly to the manner in which the motion had been 
quashed, as well as to manners in general, which were well understood.® 

664. Philopatros [Henry Laurens] to Philalethes 
[John Parke ?].^ 
Sir 

Perhaps it is of little importance to the present World as it will be " for 
the benefit of succeeding generations " to know from what motives or 
under what influence Mr. Laurens the late President of Congress sub- 
mitted to continue in the Chair after the 31st October last, but since the 
circumstance has been alluded to and variously related in print by two 
Writers without the previous consent or knowledge of that Gentleman, 
and by neither of them exactly stated, I will, for your better information, 
recite to you in a few words the fact. 

Mr. Laurens had frequently intimated to Members of Congress his 
intention of retiring from the Office of President on the day above men- 
tioned when he should have served in it one Year, he had as often ex- 
pressed his approbation of the inhibitory clause in the ninth Article of 
Confederation " that no Person be allowed to serve in the Office of Presi- 
dent more than one Year in any term of three Years," and also his earnest 
desire to comply with it in the first instance. Agreeably to these senti- 
ments he put Congress in mind on the 31st October being Saturday, that 
his Years service would expire upon the adjournment of that day. He 
humbly desired leave to retire, and intreated the House to think of a 
Member to succeed him. After some debate or conversation it was de- 
termined, zmthoiit a vote, to deliberate on the subject in the interval 
between the Adjournment and the next intended meeting. 

On Monday the 2nd November Mr. Laurens, not in the Chair but being 
called upon to take it, moved the members then present in the Congress 
Hall to proceed to the election of a President, declaring his abhorrence of 
all affected disqualifying speeches, that he meant to offer none such, 
although he was persuaded there were Gentlemen on the floor better 
qualified for the Office than himself, but that he was extremely desirous of 
being relieved as well as of shewing a proper observance to the restrictive 
Proviso in the Articles of Confederation. 

After some debate and conversation a Member suggested that it would 
be highly improper to proceed unless the President would take the Chair. 
Mr. Laurens replied that in his opinion such formality was not necessary, 

s Note d refers to the expression, " the manner in which Business is conducted 
here ", in the second Hne from the end. 

''The other copy of the notes has here, added in Laurens's own writing, "by 
the Members then present ". 

Concerning the resignation, see, further, nos. 664-668, 671, 672, 676, 677, 680, 683, 687, 
post. Cf. Wallace, Life of Laurens, pp. 302-315. 

[664]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Misc., (in the writing of Moses Young). 
Although this statement was evidently prepared for the press, it has not been discovered 
whether it was actually printed. It is without date and is accordingly given what seems 
to be its most appropriate place, namely, beside Laurens's notes on his resignation, which 
in part refer to the same episode. Nevertheless the article itself contains evidence that 
it could not have been written earlier than Jan. 23, 1779. See note 5, below. 



December, lyyS 527 

nevertheless if Gentlemen thought it would be a means of facilitating 
business, he would comply. When he had taken the Chair, addresses and 
private Conferences ensued on the floor, altogether as impossible as it 
would be imessential " to recapitulate ; eventually an old and respectable 
Member ^ who appeared to have been chosen and instructed for the pur- 
pose, addressed the President in terms of assurance that the House was 
entirely satisfied with his past services, and that it was their umamious 
request he would continue to sit in the Chair until the iVrticles of Con- 
federation should be acceded to by all the States, or at least, for some time 
longer. It was this honorary, unanimous request " in which he aqiiiesced " . 

Permit me now Sir to inform you how it came to pass that this " unani- 
mous request " was omitted in the Journal. The Secretary of Congress 
had prepared the form of an Entry for the purpose ; which he laid before 
the President for his approbation or amendment after a moments re- 
flection Mr. Laurens replied to the Secretary that an Entry was unneces- 
sary his sole view was to serve his Country, that he had no anxiety for 
obtaining complimentar}'- Records. I will mention another circumstance, 
which will afford further satisfaction to a lover of truth. 

Although there was not a full Congress on the 2nd November, vet 
comparatively and according to common acceptance, the House was not 
thin. This will appear by reference to the Journal. 

The above, Philalethes, is a brief and true state of the Case in question, 
which will be confirmed to you by every Member who attended Congress 
on the 31st October and 2nd November 1778 if you will take the trouble 
of appealing to them.* 

But I do not mean to charge either you or Common Sense with wilful 
or mischievous aberation from truth. 

The History of the miraculous feeding a multitude of four or five 
thousand Persons with a few loaves and fishes is differently related by 
Matthew and Mark, yet both these Evangelists have been in full credit 
throughout Christendom upwards of 1700 Years, and will continue to 
be so to the end of time. 

I am Sir 

Your Most Humble Servant 

Philopatros. 
[Endorsed :] 

To Philalethes ' 

2 This word is written above " unnecessary ", but the latter is l&f t unerased. 
This was probably intentional, as Laurens frequently employed in this way alternative 
words and phrases. 

3 Probably Samuel Adams. See Wallace, Life of Laurens, p. 302, and cf. no. 671, 
post. 

* See nos. 598, 663, ante. 

s In the violent newspaper controversy which Silas Deane's article in the Penn- 
sylvania Packet of Dec. 5 set going, " Philalethes " was one of the chief protagonists of 
Deane, as Thomas Paine (using principally the pen-name "Common Sense") was his 
chief antagonist. The first article by " Philalethes " appeared in the Packet of Jan. 19, 
1779. and a second in the issue of Jan. 23. Replies by " Common Sense " appeared in 
the issues of Jan. 21 and 26, respectively. These are all found in N. Y. Hist. Soc, 
Collections: Deane Papers, III. 292-335. The passages to which Laurens alludes are 
ibid., pp. 93, 305-306, the first being in the reply of " Common Sense " to Deane, printed 



528 Continental Congress 

665. Henry Laurens, Memoranda.^ 

Resigned for good and sufficient reasons, which were read in Congress 
from the Chair.- 
9th December 1778. 

Henry Laurens. 

loth. Offered to lodge in Congress the Paper containing the reasons 
for resignation above alluded to, and also the Books containing Copies of 
Official Letters written by me as President, some objections by Mr. Gouvr. 
Morris against the first — and the House came to no determination, both 
therefore remain for the demand of Congress. 

loth Decem. 1778 

Henry Laurens 



666. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[December 9, 10, 1778.] 
p. Wednesday Hon'ble Henry Laurens Esqr. Resign'd his Chair as 
President of Congress - 

iy/8, Deer. loth. Thursday.^ Hon'ble John Jay Esqr. was Elected 
President in the Room of Mr. Laurens Resign'd for Mr. Jay 8 States, 
Mr. Laurens 4. Virginia not Represented, Dined with Mr. Laurens 

in the Packet Dec. 15, the second in the defense of Deane by '" Philalethes ", in the 
Packet Jan. 23. In a letter to Laurens Dec. 15 Paine explained that his object in saying 
what he did concerning Laurens's offered resignation, Oct. 31, and the proceedings in 
Congress thereon was to prevent the enemy from drawing unjust conclusions from an 
accidental division in the house (see Conway, Life of Thomas Paine, L 125). 

In the second reply of "Common Sense" to "Philalethes" mentioned above {Packet 
Jan. 26) is this remark : " I am told that the writer or assistant writer of the piece 
signed " Philalethes " is believed to be a person of the name of Parke, and that he is 
subject at times to fits of craziness " (N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, 
III. 326). Professor Wallace also, in his Life of Laurens (p. 332 n.), identifies " Philale- 
thes " with "Colonel Parke". He was probably Col. John Parke (1754-1789), who is 
credited with an able reply to the notorious letter of the Rev. Jacob Duche to Wash- 
ington (included in an appendix to the spurious publication, Letters from General Wash- 
ington to several of his Friends; see Moore, Correspondence of Henry Laurens, p. 59, 
and Ford, Spurious Letters Attributed to JVashiugton. p. 13). In 1786 he published a 
volume of poems, chiefly translations from the classics, but including some original pro- 
ductions, which was dedicated to Washington (see Appleton, Cyclo. Am. Biog., and 
Allibone, Dictionary of Authors). His "Ode to Washington" (an adaptation from 
Horace) and his " Virginia : a Pastoral Drama on the Birth-Day of an Illustrious Per- 
sonage and the Return of Peace, February nth, 1784", have been reprinted as Magazine 
of History Extra, no. 91. 

[665]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, II. 211. These memoranda are 
the last entries in the Letter-Book kept by President Laurens, and both are in his own 
hand. 

2 See nos. 659, 663, 664, ante, and no. 680, post. 

[666]i Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Samuel Holten's Diary records under Dec. 9 and 10 the resignation of Laurens 
and the election of Jay. 

3 With the first entry on a new page Fell customarily set down, as here, the full 
date. 



December, lyyS 529 

667. John Jay to The Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia 10 Deer. 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

Many unavoidable Delays prevented my arrival here till Sunday evening 
last. 

Yesterday Mr. Laurens resigned the Chair, and this morning Congress 
were pleased to appoint me to succeed him. This Circumstance was unex- 
pected.^ Let your public Letters be public ones. I mean that public and 
private matters should not be mixed in the same Letters. 

Commodore Wynkoop's memorial has been presented and committed. 
You shall have the earliest intelligence of its Fate.^ 

The Season for bringing on the affair of Vermont is not yet arrived, 
nor can I divine what will be the Issue of it. I can only say that my 
Endeavors shall not be wanting to bring it to a Termination satisfactory 
to New York 



668. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, loth. Dec'r, 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

Mr. President Laurens, who has been in the Chair 13 months yesterday 
resigned, sated with honor, and worn down with fatigue. A respect as 
to the Confederacy had an influence on this measure. You remember this 
grand instrument of our federal union restrains the same member from 
serving more than a year at one time.^ 

A great majority of Congress immediately determined that one of the 
New York Delegates should succeed in the Chair. We held up General 
Schuyler, which seemed to be very agreeable. On account of his absence, 
Mr. Jay was prevailed on to take the chair with a resolution on his part 
to resign in favor of General Schuyler as soon as he attends.^ I hope we 
shall be able to contrive the means of his executing the particular com- 
mission with which he is intrusted. On this subject we have not yet con- 
ferred any further than to learn to my utter astonishment that he is not 
possessed of the Maps and papers reported by a Committee of Convention 
to justify our claims. I entreat your Excellency to forward one of the 

[667]! C/i«fc»n Papers, IV. 360. 

2 Cf. no. 668, post. See also Correspottdence of Jay, I. 184. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 10, 1778, May 4, 1779. 
[668] 1 Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 53. 

- See the speech of resignation in the Journals (Library of Congress edition), 
Dec. 9; also Laurens's comments, no. 663, ante. Cf. nos. 671, 676, 677, 680, 683, 687, post. 

2 Cf. no. 603, ante. Gouverneur Morris wrote to Clinton the same day, " The 
weight of liis personal Character contributed as much to his Election as the Respect for 
the State which hath done and suffered so much or the Regard for its Delegates which 
is not inconsiderable" {Clinton Papers, IV. 360). 



530 Continental Congress 

Maps and a copy of the minutes of the Committee, or rather of their 
state of the territorial claim of New York.* 

All the States except Mar}dand and Delaware have actually signed the 
Confederacy. New Jersey without waiting for our offer. I fear it will 
cost me a jaunt to Marjdand to prevail on that State to accede ; as I am 
spoken of as one of a Committee for that purpose. Disengaged as we are 
from any obligation to New Jersey we propose to hold out the grant of 
the bounty lands to Mar}dand. The want of ability to gratify their soldiery 
is a capital if not the material objection.^ 

I write in a hurry after the fatigues of the day. I write in confidence 
because I have not time to weigh what I write. Your Excellency I wish 
to see what passes on every important event. 

669. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Arthur Lee.^ 

Philadelphia Deer. loth 1778 
My dear Brother 

After having been absent since the beginning of June, I arrived here 
the 7. of Novr. our bro'r having [left] it a fortnight before.^ I was 
astonished to find that S. Deane had made so great progress in the Art of 
intriguing, as to have formed here a very dangerous party who think it 
necessary to their designs, to remove all the old friends of Liberty and 
Independance, for which purpose every Lie their invention can furnish, is 
circulated with the Air of certainty, and the blackest colorings given to 
Actions in themselves indifferent or accidental. This party is composed of 
the Tories, all those who have rob'd the public, are now doing it, and those 
who wish to do it, with many others, whose design, I fear, is of a much 
more alarming nature, and a few who wish to succeed to Offices abroad. 
All these together form a very powerfull body. Having prepared the 
minds of the people, by a number of understrappers, who have been 
circulating their insinuations and falshoods thro' the Country with great 
industry ; they opened the attack on the 5th inst. with the peice in Dunlaps 
Paper,^ which you must have seen before this reaches you. The air of 
importance and confidence which accompanies it and the lavish profes- 
sions of Love for the people, give it great weight in this City and I dare 
say, will elsewhere, till the truth comes to be known for they have their 
dependencies thro' the Continent by means of their new formed com- 
mercial Establishments. 

*The credentials of Jay, bearing date of Nov. 10, are found in the Journals 
under Dec. 7. His special mission was to endeavor to settle the Vermont question satis- 
factorily to New York. Cf. nos. 644, 646, ante, and nos. 672, 673, post. 

s See no. 638, note 2, ante; also Duane to Clinton Jan. 3, 1779, in vol. IV. The 
appointment at this time of such a committee to prevail on Maryland to ratify the 
Articles of Confederation evidently did not take place. 

[669J1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Phila- 
delphia; Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Trans., V. 97. 

2 Richard Henry Lee had left Congress Nov. 3 (see no. 605, ante), and Francis 
Lightfoot Lee attended Nov. 9. 

3 Deane's article in the Pennsylvania Packet, Dec. 5- Francis Lightfoot Lee 
himself had in the Packet of Dec. 8 a brief communication anent Deane's address, and 
a note by Deane in response is in the issue of Dec. lo. These are in N. Y. Hist. Soc, 
Collections: Deane Papers, III. 77, 78. See nos. 658, 662, ante, 677, 687, 691, 697, post. 



December, i/y8 531 

I make no doubt you will be astonished when I tell you that Congress 
has not called him to account for this peice ; as at the first glance you must 
perceive it contains a daring insult to that body, and the greatest injury to 
the public good, but your wonder will increase, when I assure you, that the 
part where he complains of the Ears of Congress being- shut to him, is an 
impudent falshood. the fact is, that beside the two Audiences which he 
had, he wrote them several Letters ; in all of which he never mentioned 
one word of this pretended treachery of yours, every day he might have 
communicated by Letter whatever he pleased ; and some days before his 
publication. Congress had alotted some part of every day, for their 
foreign affairs, untill they shou'd get thro' them, of which he had notice.* 
The want of a Cypher, prevents my explaining this fully to you. but 
you may know, that the old Whigs are really struck with amazement at 
the boldness of this party; and seem willing to let them run on in full 
security, that they may the easier get to the bottom of their designs and 
know the whole of their strength. A great man,° appears to me, to give 
all his influence to this party. I cannot as yet discover what are his in- 
tentions, if he really means, mutual Advantage, I think he is their dupe, 
notwithstanding all his sagacity. If he has any sinister designs upon this 
Country ; they are his dupes ; for I know they are not friends to his State. 
The first consequence which they expect, is the recall of yourself and our 
bro'r ; ® which may perhaps take place. You will therefore see the necessity 
of sparing neither time, nor pains, to provide yourself with all the means 
necessary, both for attack and defence, in the mean time, every thing 
will be done, by your friends, that is in your [their] power to open the 

Eyes of the people, and set S. Deane in his true light. Mr. C ^ acts 

the same part here, that he did in France. Your old friend D r * is 

strong with them, together with the New Yorkers and Maryland. 
Mr. Lovel no doubt has communicated all our news. We have just heard, 
that 30,000 ton of Shipping are order'd to be immediately taken up on 
Government service at New York, and a general embargo laid. This 
looks like an intention of quitting that plaoe. a few days will determine it. 

Yours afT'tly 

F. L. L. 

670. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[December 11-13, 1778.] 
nth. Fry day Coll. Scudder gon[e] home, State of New Jersey not 
Represented. 

* See the Journals, Dec. i. 

^ It is uncertain who was the "great man" here alluded to. It may have been 
Jay, although the fact that Jay had been in Congress only three days militates against 
this conjecture. If it was Gerard, the allusion to France as " his state" is unusual. 

8 William Lee. 

7 William Carmichael. 

8 William Duer. See no. 683, post. 

[670] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries 

38 



532 Continental Congress 

1 2th. Saturday. A Number of Petitions and Memorials A Letter from 
Gen Washington was read advising that the Enemy had left the North 
River etc. 

i^th. Sunday A great deal of Rain. Dined with Mr. Levy 



671. Samuel Adams to Mrs. Adams.^ 

Philadelphia Deer. 13 1778 
My dear Betsy, 

Captn. Johnson will deliver you this Letter, which incloses a Publication 
in the fast Tuesdays Paper.^ You will easily guess which of the Massachu- 
setts Delegates it is intended for. The Design of it is to represent 
Mr Temple as a British Emissary and that Delegate as listening to his 
Proposals of Accommodation with Great Britain, and thus to beget a 
Suspicion of him in the Mind of the Minister of France, with whom he 
has the Honor of being on friendly Terms. That Delegate has been so 
used to the low Arts of Tories in his own Country, as to have learnd long 
ago to treat them, wherever he sees them, with ineffable Contempt. He 
does not think it worth his while to satisfy the Curiosity of the Writer, 
but he can assure his Friends, that he had never called on Mr T but once 
and that was to show him the way to Mr President Laurens' House, to 
whom he had Letters to deliver, one of which was from the Council of 
Massachusetts Bay. As a Delegate from that State, he could do no less 
than show such a Piece of Civility to Mr T, and he is determind, notwith- 
standing the apparently friendly Hint, to treat him as he thinks 
proper.^ .... Between our selves, I can not say I am not embarrassd 
with Mr T's Arrival here ; He is highly recommended, and I believe him to 
be an honest American. But the Time and Manner of his leaving England 
fix a Suspicion in the Minds of well disposd Men, which cannot easily be 
removd ; and his Residence at the Court of America, if I might so express 
it, gives bad Men a Sort of Occasion, to say that Congress, notwithstand- 
ing all they have publickly given out, are secretly treating with the 
Ministers of Great Britain through their Emissaries in America, than 

[671]! Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 95; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. _ 

2 The item referred to appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet Dec. 8. It is entitled 
" A HINT " and was offered by a person styling himself " a Friend to the Independence 
of America" and signing himself " CENTINEL". The essential parts of it are: " It is 
recommended to an Honorable Member of Congress, of the State of Massachusetts 
Bay, who frequently declares himself to be of o jealous temper, and that jealousy is the 
best security of public liberty, not to be so frequent in an exchange of visits with 
J_ T— , Esq; lately arrived in this city .... lest he may incur that reproach which 
has too often with justice been thrown on Divines, namely, 'That they do not practice 
themselves what they preach to others.'" Adams makes further remarks upon this 
newspaper item in his letters to Bowdoin, Winthrop, and Cooper, nos. 685, 689, 698, post. 

The Captain Johnson who bore this letter may have been Isaiah Johnson. See the 
Journals, Nov. 28. Samuel Holten records in his Diary for Dec. 5, " Capt. Johnson dined 
with us ". , . , 

3 Adams mentions here a conversation with " Monsieur " (evidently 

Gerard) respecting Temple. The conversation is related more at large in the letter to 
Bowdoin, Dec. 19 (no. 685, post). 



December, 1778 533 

which Nothing can be more contrary to Truth. I do not care therefore 
how soon Mr T thinks of returning to New England.* .... 

[P. S.] I forgot to tell you that last friday Mr President Laurens having 
dischargd the Duties of his Station for more than one year with Fidelity 
and to the Acceptance of the Members, resignd the Chair, and John Jay 
Esqr a Delegate from New York was chosen in his Room. To this Gentle- 
man I chearfully gave my vote.^ 

Mrs. Clark and her Sister Miss Daily in whose house the Massachusetts 
Delegates are agreeably scituated present their respectful Compliments 
to you.® 

672. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 14th Deer 1778. 
My Dear Sir 

Since you left Congress Messrs. Jay and Duane have taken their seats, 
the first mentioned Gentn was last Thursday put into the Chair on the 
resignation of that very worthy Gentn you left in it.^ I have so high an 
opinion of Mr. Laurens that I must confess I exceedingly regreted his 
leaving the Chair, however I hope it is again well filled Mr. Jay is a 
Gentn of acknowledged abilities and great application I have therefore no 
doubt the Business will be well conducted so far as it respects the President. 
The Business of finance is in considerable forwardness. I hope in a few 
days more the present System will be finished by Congress, and doubt not 
the States will do their part with Alacrity, the Tax will be very consider- 
able perhaps 15 or 18,000,000 this seems a large sum, but when we 
consider the immense sum in Circulation I cannot think it will be difficult 
to raise provided it is justly proportioned.^ 

Mr. Wheelock has been here with a number of applications among 
which is one for IMoney for the Indian School this is not yet determined, 
another that Bedels Regiment might be keept up. this producd an order 
that the Regiment should be immediately Disbanded he also brought a 
letter from a Joseph Marsh, a copy of which I have inclosed to Col. 
Weare.* .... 

P. S. I was a little surprised at a letter from the Council of New- 
Hampshire recommending Mr. Temple to Congress. I cannot recollect 
any Gentn of that Board who have had an opportunity of being thour- 
oughly acquainted with that Gentlemans Charecter. surely his having 
formerly been Lieut. Govr. of New Hampshire can be no recommendation, 
there are many anecdotes of him (some of which are well authenticated) 

* See nos. 498, 651, ante, and nos. 672, 685, 689, 698, 699, post. See also a letter 
from James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, Dec. 10, in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: 
Deane Papers, III. 78. 

•' See no. 668, ante. 

^ See no. 388, note 2, and no. 615, ante. 
[672]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Members of the Old Congress, V. 69; Hist. 
Magazine, VL yy. 

2 Cf. nos. 659, 663-668, 671, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 13, 18, 19, 21, 26, 29, 31 ; also Jan. 1-14, 1779, passim. 
Cf. nos. 679, 687, 688, 693, post. 

^ See nos. 644, 646, 660, ante, 673, post. 



634 Continental Congress 

that renders Mr. Temples Charrecter at least problematical, indeed in 
some Gentlemens minds they amount to a conviction of his being a tool 
of the British Court ^ more of this here after 

673. William Whipple to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia Deer 14th 1778 
Sir 

In my last ^ I mentioned a memorial from the People who withdrew 
from the Windsor Assembly, on farther inquiery I find myself mistaken in 
the form of the paper it being a letter from a Mr Marsh ^ who stiles him- 
self Chairman of a Convention, a copy of this letter I take the liberty to 
inclose, the paper refered to in the letter, (called the " out-lines of a 
plan for settHng all matters in controversy with N. Hampshire"), is in 
print.* I therefore immagine you are possessed of it. What the views of 
these People are I know not, but I am much inclined to think the western 
part of the State will be keept in a perpetual Broil 'till a final settlement 
of the Jurisdiction. There are three ways of determining this matter, that 
Country must be under the Jurisdiction of New- York, or New-Hampshire, 
or it must be a seperate State. The People are so exceedingly averse to 
the first that they never will volentarily submit to it, and Humanity forbids 
that they should be compeled to Unite with a people for whom they have 
an inextinguishable avertion, arising from the injuries they have suflfered, 
by the most cruel acts of Injustice. Should the last take place, I am very 
apprehensive that many Towns on the Eastern side of the River will be 
fond of joining them, by which means New-Hampshire will be embroiled 
in a very disagreable contention or subscribed to a very small compass, and 
that limited Territory subject to the discharge of an immense debt in- 
cured for the defence and protection of the whole. When these matters 
are fully considered I think every one who has the Happiness of Man- 
kind and Peace and Welfare of New-Hampshire at Heart will be convinced 
of the propriety of her claiming the jurisdiction, it would be a piece of 
presumpsion in me sir, to point out to you, the advantages resulting to 
New-Hampshire from such an extention of her Territory. They un- 
doubtedly are many and great. The perticular scituation of affairs in that 
Country I should suppose calls for the immediate attention of the Legis- 
lature, and if it should be determined to Claim, (which my own feeling 
will not suffer me to doubt) it will certainly be thought necessary to make 
immediate provision for the support of the Claim, in order thereto I beg 

'^ See the Journals, Dec. 3, 8, and no. 671, note 4, ante. 
[673]iN. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VI. 14; Library of Congress, Force Trans., 
Whipple, II. 585 ; Harvard Univ., Sparks MSS., XXXV. 81. 

2 No. 660, ante. 

3 Joseph Marsh. See the Journals, Nov. 28, and no. 672, ante. 

* Marsh's letter, dated Oct. 23, was read in Congress Nov. 28 (see the Journals, 
p. 1174, note 2). It is found in N. H. State Papers, X. 289. The accompanying paper to 
vi^hich Whipple refers is doubtless the so-called "Protest", dated Oct. 22, ibid., p. 285. 
The latter is also in Slade, Vermont State Papers, p. 100, and Records of the Governor 
and Council of Vermont, I. 422. 



December, lyyS 535 

leave to suggest the propriety of speedily employing some able Lawyer to 
collect materials and make himself Master of the subject. New- York are 
very solicitous for a settlement, that State has sent a Delegate extraordi- 
nary ^ to Congress for that purpose, and I have reason to think Congress 
will be hard pressed to do something in the matter. I therefore wish to 
know the minds of my constitutents as soon as possible. Whether they 
will send another Delegate who may be well acquainted with the business, 
or will Instruct their Delegates now in Congress, must be left to their 
decision. I must confess I most heartily wish that the former method may 
be adopted. I cannot suppose the expence will be an objection when the 
Magnitude of object is considered, which is nothing less than doubling the 
Territory of a Sovereign Independent State.® 

674. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[December 14, 1778.] 
14. There was a grand ball at the city Tavern this evening, given by a 
number of French Gentlemen of distinction. I had a card sent me but 
declined attending. I think it is not a proper time to attend balls when our 
country is in such great distress. 

675. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[December 14, 15, 1778.] 
14th. Monday. Letter from Count Polaska Read referrd to the Board 
of Warn 

15th. Tuesday. Dr. Wetherspoon came to Congress 

676. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton),^ 

Philadelphia, 15th. Deer. 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

.... You will see by our papers a ridiculous squabble getween Deane 
and the Lees. It may amuse a leisure hour. Our late honorable President 
was exceedingly wounded that Deane was not called to account by Con- 
gress and resigned. I was not present ; but from what I can discover his 
zeal transported him a little too far. Congress ought certamly to be 
careful how they attempt to stop the channel of communication in a free 
country; it may give rise to dangerous suspicions: if their conduct is 
irreprehensible, they can suffer no diminution of dignity ; if exceptionable, 
it is right it should be known. Misrepresentation is only to be guarded 
against and condemned.^ .... 

^ The " Delegate extraordinary " was John Jay. See no. 668, ante. 

^ Cf. DOS. 597, 6/2, ante, and Whipple to Bartlett, Jan. 3, 1779, in vol. IV. 
[Sj^]'^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 176. 
[675] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 
[676]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XIL 54. 

- See no. 668, ante. 



536 Continental Congress 

677. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Arthur Lee/ 

Philadelphia Deer. 15, 1778. 
My dear Bro'r. 

.... We have had nothing from the party since my last, only that 
Mr. Wm. Lee's name is in the list of Aldermen, in the Calendar for 1778. 
I expect an attack in this days paper, upon S. Deane, by Common Sense. ^ 
he knows a good deal of the transactions, and if in earnest, can do a 
great deal of good. Congress has yet done nothing in finance or foreign 
affairs. I fear there is a design in some that nothing shall be done, that 
things may get into such disorder, as to make the people wish for the old 
Governmt. Congress has no power, and every Villain whome they want 
to call to account, insults them.^ 

The inclosed Letter from Mr. Laurence, will give you an Account of his 
resignation and his reasons.* he is really an honest Man, and I hope will 
do a great deal of good. Jay, is President 

678. James Lovell to Horatio Gates. ^ 

15 Deer. 1778 
Dear General 

.... I am only able to give you the reading of Dunlap's Papers 
through Mr. Hancock as I am stinted to a small Number. From that read- 
ing and conversation with my very honest Cousin the Bearer ^ you will 
have an insight into some droll Management here and be able to form a 
tollerable conjecture which of the two are rendering best Services to Gr 
Britain, the wicked Mr. Temple ^ or the good Mr. Deane. I do not think 
that the Public will be any Losers by the Time they spend in view'g a late 
Commissioner at the Court of France and the present Secretary to the 
Committee for foreign Affairs tie and untie a few Knots,* since the former 
has been pleased to call up that Species of Diversion. 

679. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[December 16, 1778.] 
idtJi. Wednesday.^ Motion from one of the Treasury to take out of 
Circulation all the Emissions of May 20. 1777 and April 1778 — 41 Million 

[677] 1 Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 The reply of " Common Sense " (Thomas Paine) to Silas Deane appeared in 
the Pennsylvania Packet Dec. 15. It is in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, 
in. 86. Cf. nos. 658, 669, 671, ante, and nos. 678, 680, 683, 687, 691, 697, post. 

3 An allusion probably to the case of Brig.-Gen. William Thompson. See no. 662, 
ante, and nos. 680, 695, post. 

* This letter has not been found. See the reply, Dec. 26, in Letters of Richard 
H'enry Lee, I. 462. 

[678]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIII. 

2 This " honest cousin " has not been identified, though it may have been Temple 
himself. Temple did not, however, leave Philadelphia until the 20th (see no. 689, post). 

3 Concerning John Temple, see no. 671, ante, and nos. 685, 689, 698, 699, post. 

* The allusion is to Deane's address to the people and the reply of " Common 
Sense" (Thomas Paine, secretary to the committee of foreign affairs). See nos. 658, 
669, 677, ante, 687, 691, 697, post. 

[679] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

- The entry in Samuel Holten's Diary for this day is : " l6. I was taken in Con- 
gress in the evening very ill and for about lo hours was in the utmost distress, my life 
much despaired of." See no. 690, note 2, post. 



December, iy/8 537 

500 [ooo]^ 30 Million on Loan and 15 Million by Taxes for the Year 
1779. Genl. St. Clairs acquital confirm'd New Jersey divided Dr. 
Weatherspoon No. 

680. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

1 6th December, [1778.] 
Dear Sir 

The last Letter I had the honor of writing to you is dated the 7th 
Listant, and went by Sea, therefore I trouble Your Excellency with a 
duplicate in company with this. 

The Gentleman by whom I then had intended to write in a day or two, 
has turned his face another way. the present is a chance opportunity 
which affords me but a few minutes for paying my Respects. I must 
observe brevity and confine myself almost to one subject, and that a bad 
one, myself. 

The Motion which I had the honor of making on the day above men- 
tioned Respecting S. Deane's publication will appear in my Act of Resig- 
nation transmitted with this ; ^ I had antecedently to the appearance of 
Mr. Deane's insult been exceedingly Chagrined by the tame submission 
of the great Representatives of the United States to the most gross affronts, 
four or five weeks have passed since proof by the Oathes of four Persons 
were laid before Congress, that Brigadier General Thomson * ^ had, in 
the open Coffee House called Congress a Rascally set and a Set of Rascals, 
and particularly applying the approbrious term to the Chief Justice of 
this State then present, on Account of a determination in Congress to 
exchange Governor McKinley for Governor Franklin at the particular 
request of Deleware, by which Act Mr. Thomson was pleased to think 
himself injured, he afterwards insulted Congress by an Apologetic Letter, 
denying that he had called them Rascals, but acknowledging the appli- 
cation of the term Rascal to the Honorable Mr. McKean, wantonly adds 
Villain, and twice repeats that he had said that Gentleman was a Rascal 
and a Villain, this Letter stands recorded at full length on the Journals. 
Thomson is voted to be guilty of a breach of Privilege, and there the 
subject rests, he is in favor with a party who seem determined to support 

3 The emissions of the series of May 20, 1777, were: May 20, $5,000,000; Aug. 15, 
$1,000,000; Nov. 7, $1,000,000; Dec. 3, $1,000,000; Jan. 8, 1778, $1,000,000; Jan. 22, 
$2,000,000; Feb. 16, $2,000,000; Mar. 5, $2,000,000; Apr. 4, $1,000,000; those of the series 
of Apr. II, 1778, were: Apr. 11, $5,000,000; Apr. 18, $500,000; May 22, $5,000,000; 
June 20, $5,000,000; July 30, $5,000,000; Sept. 5, $5,000,000; total of the two emissions, 
$41,500,000. Cf. the committee report in the Journals, Oct. 28; also nos. 589, 672, ante, 
687, 688, 693, post. 

[680] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1777-1782, p. 238. 

2 Laurens's resignation is in the Journals, Dec. 9. See also his notes thereon, 
no. 663, ante. The motion referred to was for the appointment of a committee to report 
specially upon the contents of Deane's address (see the resignation). Cf. no. 658, ante. 

^ "* See appendix No. i, relative to Gen. Thomson" [note by Laurens]. This is 
not, however, mentioned in the list of enclosures at close of this letter. Concerning the 
case of Brigadier-General Thompson, see nos. 662, 6yy, ante, and no. 695, post. Concern- 
ing the exchange of President McKinly of Delaware, see also nos. 90, 180, 462, ante. 



538 Continental Congress 

him at the expence of the honor of Congress. Mr Deane's mischie- 
vous publication alarmed me. the House would take no other notice 
of it, but such as Mr. Deane has very improperly display'd to the World 
in the light of concession, failing in my attempt to rouse Congress to 
the vindication of their honor, I felt for my own, and Resolved to descend 
from the Chair to the floor where I could be of the most real service to 
my Country. The Act of Resignation must speak for its self. I felt it 
to be right, and there fore I believe it to be so, but the party of Deanites 
were pleased to catch at the concluding sentence, which I would not for 
any consideration have omitted, because I was persuaded good conse- 
quences would follow the strong reproof, and perhaps continue at least a 
fortnight. 

A friend of mine unsolicited moved the House on the loth Instant for 
thanks to the late President, he was Jockey'd by " the manner in which 
business is transacted here " and this repeated daily until Yesterday, when 
I in modest tenns demanded a testimonial of my Conduct, intimating 
the honor and interests of Congress and the States were as nearly con- 
cerned as my own. If I had merited censure I would kiss the Rod, but I 
could no longer bear to be kept in a state of implied censure, that I held 
my act of Resignation to be the best Act of my Life, that if any Gentleman 
had taken offence at the concluding words, I had to say in Apology, that 
I did not mean to give the occasion etc. etc. the particulars of which 
shall be laid before Your Excellency by the next or some early opportunity. 
I then retired from the House, and after some debate it was resolved with- 
out a division " That the thanks of this House be given to the Honorable 
Henry Laurens Esquire, late President, for his conduct in the Chair and 
in the execution of Public Business " this comprehends an acknowledge- 
ment of propriety of conduct within doors and without, and an appro- 
bation of the late Presidents " sundry reasons " as it is entered on the 
Journals, for resigning.* From this brief Sketch Your Excellency will 
be further impressed with a knowledge of " the manner in which Business 
is transacted here " and see that my repeated complaints have been well 
grounded. I hope my Countr}anen will approve of my conduct, now I am 
releas'd from the Chair, my attention shall be bent to the investigation of 
the Secret and Commercial Committees Accounts, and to such other 
Business as comes within the compass of my abilities forsaking all thoughts 
of my private Affairs for some time longer.® 

Mr Deane, not withstanding his groundless assertions that the ears of 
Congress were shut against him, and that he had prepared to return to 
France and such stuff, is not ready now, at the end of twelve days with his 
Narrative, and 'tis not impossible that Common Sense has thrown him 
twelve days further back. I intreat Your Excellency will not believe that 
I have any improper attachment to the Lees. I am a little of the opinion 
that upon the whole information we shall see an explication of an old 
Proverb, although I am persuaded we shall not " come by our Right." 

* See the Journals, Dec. 15, 16. Laurens's reply, Dec. 16, to the vote of thanks 
is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 858. 

^ See Wallace, Life of Laurens, pp. 313-315- 



December, lyyS 539 

I am distressed for want of time to inform Your Excellency more 
minutely on this and other subjects of importance. I would wish that 
until I shall be enabled to do so, there may be no publication of what I 
have now the honor of transmitting-. 

I am 

With the highest Respect and Esteem etc. 

H. L. 
Papers inclosed with this 
Resignation of the President of Congress 
Duplicate of the Letter of the 17th Inst. 

Copy of a Letter from His Excellency J. J. Esq. President of Congress 
5 Newspapers from the 5th Instant. 

681. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of 
Connecticut (Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia Decembr. i6th 1778 
Sir 

We take the first Oppertunity by Mr. Sherman now on his return to 
Acquaint Your Excellency of Our Arrival at this City after a long and 
Tedious Journey Occasioned partly by bad Weather frequent Storms and 
extreme bad roads and some delay by the enemys Shipping being up the 
North River as far as Kings Ferry as Mr. Shemian will be able fully 
to Acquaint you with the late material resolutions of Congress and our 
not being here time Sufficient to Acquaint our selves with them will excuse 
our Omission for the present. The letter from your son ^ who was 
appointed Comptroller General was delivered and read and Committed, 
there has not yet been time for an Answer have no doubt they will 
excuse his attendance as requested at least till January I understand 
his appointment was Ntry Unanimous Are with most Sincere respect 
and Esteem 

Your Excellencies most Obedt. H'le Servts 

Elipht. Dyer 
Jesse Root 
P. S 



682. John Fell, Diary.^ 

IJ^S, Dec. lyth. Thursday. Sieur Gerrard requested to Ship 6000 
Cask of Rice, Reccomended to the State of So. Carolina to allow it ; ^ 
Letter read from Genl. Washington at Middle Brook, Relating to the 
disappointment of the Commissioners, who went to Amboy to meet the 
British Commissioners to setle an Exchange of Prisoners. Committee 
appointed to answer the General, Mr. Laurens, Burk, Smith and Morris.' 

[68i]iConn. State Lib., Trumbull Papers (M. H. S.), X. 284 (in the writing of 
Eliphalet Dyer) ; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Trumbull, X. 284. 

2 Jonathan Trumbull, jr. See the Journals, Oct. 31, Nov. 3, Dec. 15. 
[682]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 This is recorded under Dec. 16 in the Journals. 

3 Fell omits the name of Samuel Adams. 



540 Continental Congress 

Motion for Purchasing Horses in Virginia, Postponed to consult with 
the General. Motion on fineance for the Bills to be cancelld by the first 
of June, for Weatherspoon, Duane, Geary, Ellsworth, agst. Smith and 
Burk. Dined with President Jay. Commercial Committee appointed vizt. 
Mesrs. Laurens, Smith, Lewis, Searle and Fell.* 

i8th. Fryday. Letter from General Lee, Requesting the minutes of 
all the Proceedings relating to him ; Do. from Mr Marlbon,^ Rhode Island, 
requesting to bring his Effects from Jamaica 

683. Edward Langworthy to William Duer.^ 

Philadelphia, Deer. 8th [i8th?] 1778.- 
Dear Sir, 

Being just got to Congress and finding as usual we cannot proceed to 
business for want of a sufficient Number of States, I have sate down at 
the Table to scribble and communicate to you a few of my Sentiments. 

You have no doubt heard of the resignation of his Excellency Henry 
Laurens Esqr, and of the extraordinary Oration he delivered previous 
thereto. Mr Deans publication was particularly aimed at; but notwith- 
standing the Phantasticability and absurdity of the President, the House 
were of Opinion there should not be the least restraint on the Liberty of 
the Press.^ as for my part I shall rejoice to see more publications on the 
proceedings of Congress, a little gentle Satyr will be useful on many 
occasions and will restrain the Spirit of Intrigue and Cabal. I shall say 
no more on this subject, until I have the happiness of seeing you, only 
that there never was a time when I wanted your presence more 

684. The President of Congress (John Jay) to the President 
OF South Carolina (Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

Ppiiladelphia i8th : Deer: 1778. 
Sir, 

I have the Honor of transmitting to you the enclosed Act of Congress 
of the 1 6th : Inst : It was passed at the Instance of the Minister of France 
to enable him to purchase and export from your State 6,000 Barrels of 
Rice for the Use of the French-Fleet. 

* The appointment of this committee is recorded in the Journals under Decem- 
ber 14, in connection with the resolve to create a new committee. Probably the actual 
naming of the committee did not take place until this day. 

^ The petition of Evan Malbone, sr., and Evan Malbone, jr. On the petition of 
Claver Taylor (see the Journals, Dec. 17) the committee made report Mar. 13, 1779; 
but there is no further mention of the Malbone case. 
[683]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duer Papers, I. 

2 This letter is dated Dec. 8, 1778, and is so endorsed by Duer, but it was evi- 
dently written several days subsequent to Laurens's resignation, which was on the gth. 
The statement " finding as usual we cannot proceed to business for want of a sufficient 
Number of States " suggests Dec. 18 as the probable date. Deficiencies in attendance 
prevented sessions in the evenings of Dec. 10, 11, 14, 15, 17, and 18, and altogether 
on Dec. 28 and 30. 

3 See nos. 662-668, 671, 6y2, 676, 677, 680, ante, and no. 687, post. 

[684]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 14, p. 4 (Letter-Book of Presi- 
dent Jay). 



December, 1778 541 

The Middle and Eastern States cannot supply more Wheat this year, 
than the Inhabitants and Army will consume. New- York, New- Jersey 
and Pennsylvania have been so much embarrassed and injured by military 
Operations, as to afford at present but a small proportion of their usual 
Supplies. The Crops now in the ground indeed are great and promise 
plenty the next Season. The wheat in Maryland and Virginia and I may 
add North-Carolina, has been so destroyed or spoiled by a Fly which 
infests those Countries that but little Flour and that in general of a bad 
Quality can be procured there. 

For these and other reasons the Congress think the proposed measure 
expedient. Unless there should be some weighty and at present unforeseen 
Objection to the Exportation in question, I flatter myself South-Carolina 
will chearfully give our Ally this proof of her disposition and detemiina- 
tion to sustain and succour Armaments sent by him to defend the American 
cause.^ 

I have the Honor to be with great Respect 

Your Excellency's most Obedt: and Hble Servt: 

J.J. 

685. Samuel Adams to James Bowdoin.^ 

Philade. Deer. 19th 1778 
My dear Sir 

Mr Temple was so obliging as to deliver me your Letter of the of 

November.^ The Day after his Arrival in this City, I offerd him my 
Service and introduc'd him to Mr President Laurens, to whom he had 
letters of high Recommendation, and among others from the Council of 
Massachusetts Bay. The President read these Letters publickly in Con- 
gress. I did not fail to communicate the Contents of those which I was 
honord with to individual Members.^ .... The Minister Plenipotenti- 
ary of France could not but be attentive to these Suggestions. In a 
private Conversation with him at his House the other Day, when no one 
was present with us, Mr. Temples Name was mentioned. He said he knew 
not his personal Character — he understood that he was well recommended, 
but as he was under the violent Suspicions of the People here, his Resi- 
dence so near the Congress might make improper impressions on the 
Minds of Persons abroad. It may reasonably be supposd that he is de- 
termind to merit the Character at his own Court, of a vigilant and faithful 
Minister.'* .... I have done ]\Ir. Temple the most substantial Acts of 

- See the Journals, Dec. 16 (pp. 1221, 1224). 
[685] 1 Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 99; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 Bowdoin's letter, dated Nov. 7, is in Mass. Hist. Soc. Collections, sixth sen, 
IX. 428. A letter from Bowdoin to Washington on the same day is ibid., p. 427. For 
earlier correspondence between Bowdoin and Adams concerning Temple see ibid., 
pp. 423-427. See also letters of Thomas Pownall, William Pulteney, and David Hartley 
to Temple, in April and May preceding, ibid., pp. 414-420. Some account of Temple 
will be found in the preface to the volume named. Cf. no. 498, ante. 

3 What follows here is substantially the same as the passage in the letter to 
Mrs. Adams, no. 671, ante. Cf. nos. 689, 698, 699, post. , ^ , , . 

4 Concerning the active part which Gerard took in the matter of Temple s mis- 
sion, see the paper by Elizabeth Kite, " Conrad Alexandre Gerard ", in the American 
Catholic Historical Society's Records, XXXIII. 75 et seq., where will be found in trans- 
lation extensive excerpts from Gerard's reports. 



542 Continental Congress 

Friendship in my Power, though I could not have the Pleasure of so much 
Conversation with him as I wishd and intended to have. He leaves this 
City suddenly.^ .... 

686. John Fell, Diary.^ 

lyyS, Deer. ipth. Saturday. Genl. Lee to be furnish'd with all the Pro- 
ceedings from the Reccords relating to his tryal ; Motion to conferr with 
G'l Washington on ways and means to reduce the Expences of the Army, 
referrd to a Committee of 5. vizt. Laurens, Duane, Geary, Ellsworth, and 
Smith. Dined with General De Portaile. 

20th. Sunday. Commercial Committee met at Mr. Laurens's agreed 
to meet to morrow morning at 9. O Clock to choose a Secretary. 

687. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia Dec. 20th 1778. 
Dr Sir: 

On our arrival here which was on the 9th of this month, we found the 
City much engaged by a publication which you will find enclosed, and in 
which Mr. Deane has made some very home " accusations. We found it 
occasioned some little ferment in Congress, and that Mr. Laurens resigned 
the Chair, because they would not take notice of it, as an affront to their 
dignity, we thought it but prudent to decline going in, for a few days 
until this little fracas was over, leaving those to decide on punctilios who 
had been best acquainted with public characters.^ On our going into Con- 
gress we found them engaged principally on finance, and that they had 
spent much time in maturing something which we totally disapprove. I 
will endeavour to give you the General outlines as perfectly as they are 
yet to come to our knowledge. 

Two Emissions are to be called out of circulation, viz. : 20th May 1777, 
nth April 1778 on pretence of their being much counterfeited. They are 
by Authority of Congress to be called in by the ist of June next, and not 
afterwards to be redeemed. They are to be replaced to the proprietors by 
Loan certificates or New Bills. Our objections are that Congress by its 
own authority cannot prevent the currency of money which our Laws 
made a legal tender, because that implies a power to suspend or repeal our 
Laws. That the time is too short for our people so dispersed as they are 
and so circumstanced as not to be able to receive notice in time sufficient 
to enable them to bring in their money. That it is not in the power of 

f" He left the next day (see no. 689, post). 
[686]i Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

[687]^ N. C. St. Recs., XIII. 328; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXVL 491. 
2 That is, accusations that are pointed and pierce home. The use of the word 
" home " in this sense is not usual nowadays, except in such expression as " home-thrust ". 
Another instance of its use about the same time is mentioned by Professor David D. 
Wallace in his Life of Henry Laurens, p. 332 n. 

^ Concerning the Deane publication, see nos. 658, 669, 677, ante ; concerning 
Laurens's resignation, see no. 680, ante. 



December, I'jiS 543 

Congress to declare any Emission of money irredeemable at any certain 
time because it implies a power to destroy at pleasure the security which 
the people have in all the property vested in paper money. That all that 
should be done is to deny its currency and leave it to the States to enact 
Laws and fix the times of their operation for that purpose. We were 
however overruled, and we find that our Country wall be subjected to the 
payment of a heavy debt, borrowed at an exchange of ten for one and 
which we must discharge at par, with six per cent, interest. This debt too 
is incurred to Commercial Individuals who alone have money to lend and 
who have acquired it by engrossing and extortion. Thus shall we realize 
fortunes for Individuals and subject our Country to a debt, which were it 
not for loans, a little industry would pay ofif, but which Loans make 
heavier than if all we have borrowed had been gold or silver. I believe 
this mischief is inevitable, and having long since foreseen it, I always was 
averse to giving the powers of borrowing and emitting to Congress by 
the Confederation, a power which I am persuaded will always be used 
for purposes partial, and unjust, and either to serve particular States, or 
Individuals to the prejudice of the whole community. Besides what I 
have mentioned, a vote is passed for raising by Tax fifteen Millions of 
dollars, a sum which I am persuaded is not equal to our abilities, but 
this simple and unexceptionable mode for sinking the excess of paper 
Currency, is not so much favored in Congress as the intricate, injurious 
and ineffectual mode of Loans, and the reason is obvious enough. Loans 
give advantage to the States who have furnished supplies at extravagant 
prices, and therefore abound with money, by giving them an opportunity 
of lending at a high interest when money is depreciated ten for one, to be 
paid hereafter, when it will be restored to its original value.* .... 



688. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia 21st. Dec 1778. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... I feel with you the distresses occasioned by the amazing depre- 
ciation of the paper currency, but flatter myself some relief is at hand, 
a plan for remedying this evil, is nearly completed and I hope it will have 
its desired effect, part of the plan will be to call in about 40,000,000 
dollars of the circulating medium, the mode of doing this you will soon 
be informed of, together with other particulars.^ 

I shall do every thing in my power to get the Naval department arranged 
properly and hope in the course of the winter the business will be effected. 
Congress is so exceedingly pressed with business that it is difficult to get 
a matter attended to that does not appear of equal importance to every 
one. All monies that go to the Eastern department for Naval purposes 
must go through the Navy Board of that department 

* See nos. 589, 672, ante, 688, 693, post. 
[688] 1 Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 589. 
2 Cf. no. 687, ante. 



644 Continental Congress 

689. Samuel Adams to John Winthrop.^ 

Philad Deer 21 1778 
My dear Sir 

Your obliging Letter of the [9th] of November was deliverd to me 
by Mr Temple immediately after his Arrival here. I must candidly confess 
that when the Gentleman informd me by his Letter dated in New York, 
of his Intention then to pay a Visit to this City, I was disagreably im- 
pressd with it, and interrested my self, as far as I could do it with Decency, 
to prevent it. A certain Dr Berkenhout was here at that Time. He had 
formerly been a fellow Student with Dr Lee in Edinburgh ; and although 
he brought no Letters from him, he made an Advantage of the old Con- 
nection, and addressd himself to Richard Henry Lee Esqr, the Doctors 
Brother and a Member of Congress, who from the Beginning of our 
Contest has been exceedingly obnoxious to our Enemies from his 
firm and invariable Attachment to our Cause. Dr Berkenhout was put 
into Prison by the Authority. of this State on Suspicion, and afterwards 
dischargd for Want of Evidence against him. Perhaps he sufferd the 
more, from a certain Set of Men for valueing himself on Colo Lee ; and 
the Colo himself has since sufferd the Reproach of an angry Writer and 
disappointed Man, for shewing Civility to a Person who was once 
acquainted with his Brother.^ So true is the Observation I have somewhere 
met with, that a Man hardly ever speaks with another, but sooner or 
later he finds that he has receivd Good or Harm from it. 

Had Mr Temple arrivd at that Juncture, I do verily believe he would 
have shared the Fate of Berkenhout. And the Testimonials he has since 
brought with him added to the warm Recommendations of some of my 
most virtuous and honorable Fellow Citizens have not been sufficient to 
obtain for him a welcome Reception. The Time and Manner of his leaving 
England, the Company he came with and the favorable Treatment he met 
with in New York, were judgd to be Grounds of Suspicion which more 
than balanced the Recommendations of his Friends and Countrymen, 
who, though acknowledgd to be very respectable, it was supposd, might 
possibly be partial in their Judgments of him. His Connections in Boston, 
and the Character he had sustaind there before he left that Place, it was 
said, made him the fittest Instrument to carry into Effect the Purposes of 
the British Ministers. The honest and zealous Whigs clamord against 
him because they imagind him to be a British Emissary ; and the artful 
Tories, who would cordially receive such a Character into the Bosom of 
their Councils, if they could be sure of keeping him among themselves, 
joynd in the Clamor, either because they believd him to be a true American, 
or, if they judged him to be a Spy, as they pretended, they did not chuse 
to trust him in the Hands of those who might possibly draw from him the 
Secrets of his Employers and detect him. The Tories appeard to be the 
most acute Politicians, as in my Opinion, I am sorry to say it, they too 

[689]! Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. loi ; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The reference is probably to Deane's " Address " of Dec. 5. See nos. 564, 566, 
635, 658, 662, 669, ante. 



December, iJjS 545 

often are. Thus Mr T has had the Misfortune to be spoken ill of both by 
the Friends and Enemies of the Publick. A very grievous Misfortune, 
when the People scrutinize and decide upon Characters with Candor and 
Moderation, which perhaps does not take Place at all Times in any 
Country. 

I have shown Mr Temple the most substantial Acts of Friendship in 
my Power ; yet I must own to you I have been somewhat embarassd. A 
Delegate of the Massachusetts Bay who has been heard to say that 
" Jealousy is the best Security of publick Liberty," has been called upon 
in a publick News Paper " to be cautious of too frequently exchanging 

Visits with J T Esqr who is suspected to be a Spy " etc I do 

not suspect j\Ir Temple ; but I have been under the Necessity of violating 
my own Inclination to pay every kind of Respect due to that Gentleman, 
or risque the consistent Character which a Delegate of that State ought 
to support in the Opinion of Congress, of the IMinister of France and the 
People of America Mr Temple left this City yesterday.^ .... 

690. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[December 21, 22, 1778.] 
2ist. Monday.^ Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Present, Smith, 
Lewis, Searle and my Self chose Mr, Lawrence Chairman and Major 
Moses Young Secretary. Congress. 1 1 A M, great debates about calling 
in the Money so soon, ought not to be till money can be ready to be Ex- 
changed for it. Commercial Committee to setle Mr. Saml. Cursons Acct.^ 
Mr. Root Balloted, for the Board of Warr.* This day came to Lodge at 
the house of Mrs. Gibbon in Spruce Street. 

22d. Tuesday. Memorial Read from Mr. Sutton Pay Master for the 
Loss of Money, carr'd in the Negative.^ At 6 P M, Mr. Deane attended 
Congress 

691. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Phila Deer 22d 1778. 
My dear Bro'r, 

Publications still continue in abundance to blacken the Lees and make 
Deane the greatest man in the world. The cry is in their favor, no one has 
dared to enter the lists with them, but Common Sense, who tho he has 
said a great deal of truth, and much to the purpose, was as far as I can 
understand very little regarded, it having been artfully put about, that he 

3 See nos. 671, 678, 685, ante, and nos. 698, 699, post. Concerning Berkenhout 
see nos. 487, note 2, 498, note 2, ante. 

[690] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Samuel Holten records in his Diary: "21. This day I attended in Congress. 
My health much better." See no. 679, note 2, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 14, 18. 

* The appointment is recorded in the Journals under Dec. 22. In the Journals, 
Dec. 21, is a report of the board of war, dated "20th December, 1778". This date is an 
error. The full report is found in the Journals, Dec. 20, 1777, its proper date. 

5 See the Journals, Dec. 15, 22, 1778, Apr. 9, 1779. 
[69i]iUniv. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 



546 Continental Congress 

was hired, and the poor fellow got a beating from an Officer, it is said 
for having wrote the piece. He unfortunately made some mistakes which 
are taken notice of by his Answerer Plain Truth,- and throws a discredit 
upon the rest. It is really a shame, that when so many things can be 
alledged against this man, that the public should be so abused, because 
Congress will not go thro' the business, they have done nothing yet, in 
the mean time he continues to insult them. After having long pester'd 
the Congress by Letters to hear him, in justification of himself, never 
hinting that he has any Discovery to make, urging the necessity he was 
under of going immediately to France. And after complaining to the 
public that he was obliged to communicate his discoveries to them, be- 
cause Congress would not hear him, as if he cou'd not have given his 
infonnation to Congress in a Letter, as well as to the people. After all 
this Congress on the 8 inst directed him to put in writing the whole of 
his transactions and discoveries while in Europe and told him that if in 
the mean time, he had any thing of immediate consequence to communi- 
cate, they would hear him the next evening. He answer'd that as he 
cou'd in two or three days put everything in writing he did not desire to 
be heard. Since which we have not heard one word from him in Congress. 
And yet no notice is taken of him. in short the Party are determined to 
support him in everything, and contradict the old opinion, that it is im- 
possible to wash the blackamore white. ^ Finance is yet very backward. 
God knows what will become of us. Letters from Rhode Island say 
Byron's seamen are very sickly, which prevents his fleet from moving. 
This is all our news. When you come up I wou'd advise you to cross at 
Kent Island, the road by Baltimore is very bad. Love to your fireside and 
all friends. 

Francis Lightfoot Lee. 

692. James Duane to Mrs. Duane.^ 

Philad. 22d. Decemr 1778 
My dearest Polly 

.... Altho' our publick Affairs brighten up to the utmost of our 
Wishes they still require great Application ; particularly the State of our 
Finances in which last I am much engaged : nor do I despair of seeing 
even our paper money soon placed on a Safe Footing. I am sure we have 
the means : but such as are indispensably necessary can only be suggested 
and recommended by Congress : the respective States must be looked to 
for their Efficacy and Success 

2 In the Pentusylvania Packet of Dec. 17 " Plain Truth " announced his forth- 
coming reply to " Common Sense ". " Plain Truth contends to prove that almost the 
whole of the elaborate address to Mr. Deane is a gross misrepresentation of facts." 
The article appeared in the issue of Dec. 21. The announcement and the article are in 
N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, III. loi, 103. _" Plain Truth " was Maj. 
Matthew Clarkson. A statement over Clarkson's own name is ibid., p. 137, taken from 
the Pennsylvania Packet of Dec. 31. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 22, 23. Cf. nos. 658, 669, 677, 687, ante, and no. 697, post. 
The direction to Deane to make his statement in writing was on Dec. 7, not Dec. 8. In 
the evening of the day on which this letter was written Deane presented Congress a 
written account of his transactions. 

[692]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, I. 13. 



Decejnber, 1//8 547 

693. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina (Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia deer. 22d 1778. 
Dear Sir 

We have been applied to. to procure some Necessar\^ wami cloathing- 
for Colo. Hogans Regiment who are very deficient in that article so neces- 
sary in a country cold and every way inclement in which they are to 
winter, we have applied to Congress for the articles, submitting that they 
should be charged to the State if on future Enquiry it shall be deemed Just. 
on these Terms we can be supplied with shoes and Stockings, but not with 
Blankets, and Colo. Hogan is to be accountable to the State for them." 
we deemed it incumbent on us to use every means to prevent the distress of 
our Countrymen who are here in Obedience to the State, and in the pub- 
lic Service, more especially as the time of their Service puts them out of 
the common Line, and leaves them without the ordinary provisions made 
for the Continental Troops, we are told they are to be quartered in this 
city, in which case we purpose to Engage as many of them as we can to 
inlist in the Battalion for the war, or one year at least after their present 
Temi shall Expire, this matter can go no farther than proposals through 
their Officers, and learning the Terms on which they can be procured, 
until we receive particular powers and Instructions from the State, we 
wish, therefore, to have their sense as soon as possible. 

We are sorry to inform you that Congress are about to take measures 
relative to our paper currency which we think our Duty Obliges to Oppose. 
'Tis proposed by Authority of Congress to call in two emissions, vizt 
^ amounting to forty One Millions of Dollars, and 
to declare them Irredeemable after the first of June next, also to exchange 
them for Loan Certificates or new Bills at the election of the Owners, we 
urged against it that Congress could not by their own authority decry the 
currency of money which our Laws have made a Legal tender because it 
implies a power to repeal or suspend our Laws, that it was impolitic to 
throw any difficulties in the way of the currency, because People would 
become very suspicious of its quality and Credit, and if they took it at all 
it must be at a value depriciated in proportion to the Risque, that it was 
not in the power of Congress to declare money Irredeemable for which the 
public faith had once been pledged, for it implied a power to destroy the 
Peoples security in that part of their property at Will, and even if they 
had the power, it is indiscreet to use it, because if the People ever Con- 
sidered it as subject to acts of arbitrary power they would Consider the 
public credit as too precarious a Security, and of Course the whole Cur- 
rency must be very Considerably affected, we also urged that the time 
would not admit of sufficient Notice being given to People in States so 
Extensive and remote as ours. But the objection of highest moment is that 

[693]! N. C. Hist. Comm.. Caswell Papers; N. C. State Recs., XXII. 987. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 14, 1778. and Jan. i, 1779. 

3 A blank space was left here, evidently for the dates of the two emissions to be 
called in, namely, May 20, 1777, and Apr. 11, 1778. See no. 680, note 3, ante. 

39 



548 Continental Congress 

by borrowing when money is so highly depriciated as at present to be 
paid hereafter when the war is over will be to charge our Constituents with 
a Debt which will take ten parts of future Industry to pay for one part 
of the present, for Loan certificates cannot be called in by Taxes, but 
must be paid off by appriciated money, of which every one knows it will 
take a much greater quantity of Industry to procure a given Sum, than 
when it is depriciated. we look on borrowing in this way to be Ruinous, 
and Realizing the Debt as to make it equal to Gold and Silver, tho in any 
use we can make of it, it has not above a tenth part of their value, we 
Conceive it very unjust to subject the States, who have not acquired 
abundance of the money, to so unequal a charge to those who have, or to 
make the many pay a Debt at so great a Disadvantage to the few in whose 
hands money may be accumulated and who in many cases have acquired 
it by Extortion. We must lament that our Opposition is likely to prove 
Ineffectual, for the Interest of the monied States is too powerful for our 
Endeavours, we deem it, how[ev]er, not improper to advise you, and 
through you the Assembly, of a matter in which the property of our 
Country is so deeply interested, their wisdom may possibly fall on mea- 
sures to avert the worst of the consequences * — We have the honor 
to be sir. 

Your very obdt. servants, 
J Penn 

Whit'll Hill. 
Thos Burke. 

P. S. Fifteen millions are voted to be raised by a Tax. 



694. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philadela Decmr. 23d 1778. 
Dear Sir 

The necessity of making some inquiry on the Subjects contained in 
your Letter of the loth Decemr and the Reference of the Resolutions of 
the General Assembly to the Marine Committee, upon which no Report 
has yet been made, has deprived us of the Honour of answering your 
Letter so soon as we intended 

The Expedition against Florida, always was, and still is, in our opinion 
a dangerous and ruinous project, attended with a certain considerable 
Loss and Expense, without the smallest Hope of Success or advantage; 
And altho' Congress have not re-considered or in any way countermanded 
their former orders and recommendations, yet we think it not improper 

* Cf. nos. 672, 679, 687, ante. 
[694]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 67; Arch, of Md., XXI. 271. 



December, I'j'jS 549 

privately and in Confidence to inform you, that there does not appear 
to us any hope of Success in prosecuting this Expedition.^ .... 
We are with the highest respect and Esteem 

your obedient and very hble Servts. 
John Henry Junr. 
Wm. Carmichael 

695. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[December 2^^, 24, 1778.] 
27,d. Wednesday. Mr. Deane attending this morning did not go to 
Committee Genl. Washington visited Congress ; ^ At 6 P M Genl. 
Thompson v^^ith two witnesses were Examin'd at the Barr.^ NB Genl. Lee 
and Lt. Coll. Laurens fought a Duel 

2/^th. Thursday. A motion for the Secretary to wait on Genl. Washing- 
ton to desire his attendance President told him a Committee would be 
appointed to consult with him Respecting the ensuing Campaign, he with 
drew, the Committee Laurens, Duane, Smith, Root and Morris : The 
remainder of the day in debate about Genl. Thompson, whether Judge 
Atleys deposition be admitted, carried in the Negative. Motion whether 
the General is guilty of a breach of Priveledge agst. the member Hon'ble 

2 See the resolutions of Congress Nov. 2 and 10 relative to the East Florida 
expedition; also the Maryland council to Congress Dec. 10, Arch, of Md., XXI. 262, the 
council to the delegates Dec. 10, ibid., p. 263, and to Governor Henry of Virginia the 
same date, ibid. The Journals of Dec. 14 record a letter from Governor Johnson dated 
Nov. 14, but this is doubtless an error for Dec. 10, as there is no record of the presen- 
tation of a letter of that date. Cf. no. 627, ante, and no. 706, post. See also the Journals, 
Jan. IS, 1779. 

[695] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 If this entry is correct, the visit must have been altogether informal, as it was 
not until the morning of the 24th that Washington's arrival in the city was announced 
to Congress. Cf. the entry under Dec. 24. Holten records (no. 696, post) that Wash- 
ington had arrived in the evening of the 22d. The Pennsyk'ania Packet of Thursdayj 
Dec. 24, contained the following item : 

"On Tuesday last arrived here, GEORGE WASHINGTON, Esquire, Commander 
in Chief of the Armies of the United States — Too great for pomp — and as if fond of 
the plain and respectable rank of a free and independent Citizen, His Excellency came 
in so late in the day as to prevent the Philadelphia Troop of Militia Light-Horse, 
Gentlemen, Officers of the Militia, and others of this city from shewing those marks of 
unfeigned regard for this good and great man which they fully intended and especially 
of receiving him at his entrance into the State and escorting him hither." 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 19, 20, 23, 25, Dec. 7, 17, 22, 22, 24, and nos. 662, 680, 
ante. McKean's information is in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 159, f. 292; Secretary Thom- 
son's notes of the testimony taken in the case, Nov. 23, Dec. 7, 23, are ibid., ff. 296-311; 
General Thompson's memorial of Nov. 23 is ibid., f. 316; his letter of Dec. 14 (read in 
Congress Dec. 17) is ibid., no. 78, vol. XXII., f. 609. His apology has not been found 
among the Papers of Congress. 

In the Pennsylvania Packet of Dec. 29 is a communication from General Thompson 
in which he relates the history of the affair from his point of view, adding these words : 
" Before therefore I return to captivity, I think myself called upon to declare to the 
world, that Chief Justice McKean has, in an affair which does not relate to his conduct 
in Congress, and which is of a private nature, behaved like a Lyar, a rascal, and a 
coward." In the issue of Dec. 31 McKean replied, giving his story of the affair. In the 
issue of Feb. 2 appeared another communication from McKean, together with the pro- 
ceedings in examination of Thompson and the witnesses, Nov. 19 to 23 ; while in the 
issue of Feb. 4 the proceedings are continued to Dec. 23, with which are printed Thomp- 
son's remarks Dec. 23, and what purports to be his apology, dated Nov. 23. Concerning 
the latter a note says, " This apology was never read in Congress until Dec. 23d ". 



550 Continental Congress 

Mr. McKean Carried in the Afirmitave, my Vote no. then whether the 
Generals defifence should be allow'd as a full justification, carried in the 
afirmitive so ended an unhappy dispute that has given Congress a 
great deal of trouble between Genl. Thompson and the Hon'ble Member 
for the State of Delaware, to morrow being Christmas Day adjournd 
to Saturday. 

696. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[December 23-25, 1778.] 
2^. Congress sit from 9 till 3 and from 6 till 9. G. W.' arrived here 
last evening. 

24. Genl. Washington was admitted into Congress and informed that 
Congress sent for him to consult with him about the affairs and operations 
of the army the coming year, 

2^. Christmas day.^ I dined at the Presidents of this State.* Genl. 
Washington and his lady and suit, the president of Congress, Colo. Law- 
rence, '" my colleagues. General Whipple and Don Juane *^ dined with us. 

697. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Phila. Deer. 25th 1778. 
My dear Bro'r 

The day on which my last Letter " was wrote, Mr. Deane produced to 
Congress his written narrative of his transactions and accusations. The 
first [was] the most pompous bloated thing that ever was on paper, the 
only charges against Doct'r Lee are that he is suspicious, jealous, affrontive 
to every body he has any business with, and very disgusting to the whole 
french Nation, by his hatred for them which he discovers by all his words 
and actions. Mr. W. Lee is mean, and goes shares with the Agents he 
appointed. The whole is most grossly abusive of both of them. The 
Party sucked it in, as Nectar and Ambrosia, and say he has acquited him- 
self most honorably. They whisper about, that as they are very moderate, 
and wou'd not injure anybody unheard, they think the best way is to recall 
them, that they may justify themselves. This in fact, under the appearance 
of moderation, is the thing they are working for. They have [some] of 
their Party ready immediately to fill all the places ; and then every thing 
being- in their own hands ; we shall have fine work, with the trade which 

{Qg^Y Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 249. 

2 General Washington. The abbreviation "G" was often used for General, 
and it is not probable that it here stands for George. Cf. iio. 695, ante. 

3 " 2^th. Fryday. This day is excessive Cold with Snow and Ice in the River, 
has been sevearly Cold for some days past" (John Fell. Diary). 

■^ The president of Pennsylvania was Joseph Reed. 

^ Presumably Col. John Laurens, aide to Washington. 

6 Don Juan de Miralles. See nos. 475, 587, ante. 
[697]! Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 No. 691, ante. See the Journals, Dec. 22, 23, 26, 31, and no. 704, post. Deane's 
narrative is in Seventy-Six Society, Papers in Relation to the Case of Silas Deane, 
PP- 17-75, and N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, III. 144-205 (with a small 
addition). 



December, ijyS 551 

the Continent must carry on for our large advances in Europe. Altho 
Deane had two Colleages; the word, voe, is never used in his Narrative, 
/ did everything, /, procured all the supplies, bro't about the Alliance, pro- 
cured D'Estaings fleet conducted them to America, discovered the de- 
signs of the Enemy and baffled them, in short, / have establish'd the 
Liberty and independance of America; whose safety and happiness now 
depend upon my vigilance. You are sufficiently acquainted with human 
nature, to know that such magnificent Ideas, inculcated in the most positive 
style ; repeated a thousand times by many Trumpeters ; and supported by 
a Courtly Letter from Count Vergennes ; and the great Dr. Franklin, will 
have great weight with many, the old Whigs are something benumbed, at 
the apparent greatness of the Party. I shall not be surprised at their suc- 
cess, for meaness and wickedness increase daily. If our brothers are not 
disgraced now, I am sure they will be e'er long; for they will allways 
stand in the way of bad men ; and no villainy will be left unpracticed to 
ruin them. I believe they mean to push for a speedy decision in favor of 
Deane. ^ Finance has not been mentioned since my last, no News. 

Yrs. Aff' tly 
F. L. Lee. 

P. S. I forgot to mention, That I am informed Deane has sent a great 
many of the Papers containing his Address to Virginia to be circulated 
there by you can guess whome.* .... 



698. Samuel Adams to Samuel Cooper.^ 

Philadelphia Deer 25 1778 
My dear Sir 

I have receivd vour Favors of the 7th and 20th of November, the former 
of which was deliverd to me by the Honble Mr Temple. That Gentleman 
is intitled to my Esteem from the opinion I entertain of his personal 
Merit, and from your Recommendations and those of some others of my 
virtuous Fellow Citizens. I have done him every Act of Friendship in 
my Power ; but Circumstances, of which he is not unapprized, have pre- 
vented my having so much Conversation with him as I could have wished 
for. The Time and Manner of his leaving England, the Company he came 
with, the favor granted him at New York of writing a Letter to Mr Presi- 
dent Laurens requesting Permission to pay his Respects to Congress, 
and another to myself, neither of which, it was presumd, could have 
passd without the Inspection of General Clinton, nor sufferd by him to 
pass unless they had been adapted to his Views. These were made the 
Grounds of Suspicion of him then; and they were afterwards judgd 
sufficient to overbalance the Letters he brought from his Friends and 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 22, 23 ; also Francis Lightf oot Lee to Richard Kenry 
Lee, Jan. 5, 1779, in vol. IV. 
-Benjamin Harrison? 
[6g8]'^ Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 104; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 



552 Continental Congress 

Countrymen, respectable as they were acknowledge! to be by all, who might 
be supposd possibly to have judgd partially in his Favor.' .... 

699. Samuel Adams to Charles Chauncy/ 

Philad. Deer 25 1778 
Reverend and much esteemed Sir 

I am greatly indebted to you for your very acceptable Letter of the 7th 
of Novr by Mr Temple. That Gentleman, in my Opinion took an un- 
guarded Step on his late Arrival in New York. I mean his writing a 
Letter to the late President Mr Laurens requesting Pennission to pay his 
Respects to Congress, and another Letter to myself. This excited a Sus- 
picion in the Minds of the true Friends of our Cause, that what they had 
before seen in the English News papers, viz that he and Dr Berkenhout 
were sent to America by the British Ministry might not be without 
Grounds. This Desire of paying a respectful Visit to Congress was judgd 
to be a Reason merely ostensible ; and the Time and Manner of his leaving 
England, the Company he came with and the Readiness with which the 
British General granted him the Liberty of sending his Letters, the Con- 
tents of which must most undoubtedly have been under his Lispection, it 
was said, afforded Reason to believe his real Design was to gain an 
honorable Admission into this City, and the Confidence of Members of 
Congress and others thereby the more easily to cooperate with the British 
Commissioners, and carry their Designs into Effect.^ .... 

You have my hearty Thanks for your Sermon lately publishd which I 
have read with pleasure. The Evil you therein mention is indeed alarming. 
Amidst the great Variety of pressing Affairs, Congress is devoting certain 
Hours of every Day to investigate a radical Cure ; and I am in strong 
Hopes that an effectual Plan will shortly be laid before the General Assem- 
blies of the several States. 

When General Gates was orderd to Boston a considerable Embarkation 
of the Enemies Troops had been made at N York and it was apprehended 
they would attempt a Landing somewhere near that Place. His military 
Abilities and Experience, his political Principles and Attachments and the 
Confidence which the Troops and People of the Eastern States had in 
him, were the Considerations which indued his being sent thither.^ Had 
the Enemy turnd their whole Force that way of Course the Commander in 
Chief would have followd. General Heath has given entire Satisfaction 
to Congress during his Command there. The Change took Place on the 
'Spur of the Occasion, and probably in the Spring a different Arrangemt 
may be made. 

2 See nos. 671, 685, ante. Cf. the Journals, Jan. 2, Feb. 27, 1782 ; also Samuel 
Osgood to James Lovell, Mar. 2, 1782, and Thomson's Notes of Debates, Aug. i, 1782, 
in a succeeding volume of these Letters. The remainder of the letter relates principally 
to the Deane affair, and the subject is continued in letters of Jan. 3, 6, 19, and Feb. 21, 
1779 (Writings, IV. Ill, 115. 118, 126). 

[699] 1 IVritings (ed. Gushing), IV. 108; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

- In this letter, and that to Samuel Cooper Dec. 25, Adams repeats substantially 
much of what he had previously written others on the same subject. See nos. 671, 685, 
689, 698, ante. 

3 See the Jotirnals, Oct. 22; cf. nos. 603, 624, ante. 



December, lyyS 553 

700. John Fell, Diary/ 

[December 26-28, 1778.] 
26th. Saturday Excesive cold morning. Commercial Committee, 
Present Mr. Lawrence agreed to meet Mr. Mumford ^ to morrow 
morning 1 1 A M Congress. A Letter from Abm. Clark was Read, with 
a complaint agst. Genl. Maxwell for refusing to deliver some Prisoners 
detaind by him and demanded by a Habeus Corpus reffer'd to a Com- 
mittee of 3. vizt. Mr. Duane, Mr. Burk and Mr Fell.^ A Memorial was 
Read Complaining of sundry abuses of Capt. Cunningham " of the Re- 
venge, Refer'd to the INIarine Committee Motion for the Emitions of 
May 1777 and April 1778 to be brought in by the first June and not after- 
wards redeemable 

2/. Sunday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock A M 
28. Monday. Commercial Committee do. 1 1 A M. Went to Congress, 
but not being Members sufficient no Congress. 



701. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[December 28, 29, 1778.] 
28. Great free mason day. Congress adjourned in the morning. I dined 
with M'r de France " and my colleagues. 

2p. Genl. Washington, The Prest. of Congress, The minister of France, 
the prest. of this state. The Revd. Mr. White ^ and several other Gentle- 
men dined with us. 



702. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[December 29, 1778.] 
2p. Tuesday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. 11 AM. Congress. 
This morning waited on General Washington, about the Exchange of 
Lashier and Brower his answer that he had allready demanded them of 
Sir Henry Clinton. - 

[700] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

- The Journals merely record that a memorial from Mumford was read Dec. 22. 

3 See Charles Thomson to Joseph Reed, Feb. 19, 1779, in vol. IV. 

* Capt. Gustavus Conyngham. See the Journals, Dec. 26, 1778, Jan. 4, 1779. 
[joi]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 249. 

2 Presumably Monsieur de Francy, agent of Beaumarchais. Once (Oct. 20) 
Holten uses the designation " Monsr France"; in other entries (Dec. 30, 1778, June 3, 
1779) " ^I'l" de France ", as here. 

3 " Rev. William White (1748-1836), one of the few clergy of the Church of 
England who supported the colonists, and the first Bishop of Pennsylvania. His sister 
was the wife of the merchant, Robert Morris." (Note in Essex. Inst. Hist. Colls.) He 
was one of the chaplains to Congress, the other being Rev. George Duffield. 

[702]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The following correspondence concerning Brower and Loziers is found in the 
Washington Papers: Washington to Sir Henry Clinton, Dec. 26; Clinton to Washing- 
ton, Jan. 23, 1779 (enclosing letter of Daniel Jones, Jan. i) ; Washington to Clinton 
Feb. 5. 



554 Continental Congress 

A Request from the French Minister to Prevent the Carrying Masts 
from New Hampshire and the Masachusets Bay to St. Domingo for fear 
of falling in to the hands of the Enemy 

Motion for 2 Brigr. Generals for North Carolina i for Philadelphia 
and I for So. Carolina. Finance 



703. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[December 30, 31, 1778.] 
JO. Thanksgiving day. I attended public worship and dined at the city 
tavern. The Pres. of Congress, The minister of France, Genl. Washington 
and about 60 other Gentlemen dined with us. M'r de France ^ invited the 
Com. to dine. 

jj. I dined with M'r de Miralles, a Spanish Gentleman. Mrs. Wash- 
ington and 7 other ladies dined there. G. W. and about 40 other Gentle- 
men of the first character dined with us. The entertainment was grand 
and elegant and at M'r Gerard's house. 



704. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

7775, Deer. ^oth. Wednesday, Thanksgiving day, No Congress. 

Sist. Thursday, did not go to the Commercial Committee Congress. 
Mr. S Deane attended with his Narative ^ Sundry Letters read from 
Gen Gates, Genl. Phillips etc. finance etc. 



705. Francis Lewis to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Phil. 31st Decemr. 1778. 
Dear Sir, 

.... The state of our Finances and the rapid depreciation of our 
paper currency is truly alarming. Congress had several weeks past allotted 
two hours each day for the purpose of Financing; and have at length 
passed the following Resolves ; ^ , . . . these resolves will be published 
in the newspapers in a few days. The next thing under the consideration 
of Congress is, the establishing a pemianent sinking fund, for which 
purpose a special Committee have a plan ready to report this day, and I 
hope by these modes we shall be able to give our money an appre- 
ciation.^ .... 

[703]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 249. 

2 De Francy. See no. 701, note 2, ante. 
[704]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See Deane's letter of Dec. 30, read in Congress prior to his personal attendance 
(N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, III. 137). In this letter, and again in a 
letter of Jan. 4 (ibid., p. 244), he refers to Paine's attacks upon him. See Fell's Diary, 
Jan. 4, 1779, in vol. IV. 

[705]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 56. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 16, 18, 19, 21, 26. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 31, 1778, and Jan. i, 2, 1779. 



December, 1778 . 555 

706. Henry Laurens, Notes.^ 

[December, 1778.] 

South Carolina, admitting a full Months time for preparation, and no 
alarm from the Indians, may bring into the Field, 10,000 Men, one half 
of them badly clad and as badly Armed. 

should the Indians be in action or threatning the Inhabitants of the 
back Country will not leave their families exposed on that frontier, in 
such Case 4 or 5 thousand is the most Alilitia that can jx)ssibly be collected 
for defence of the Sea Coast. 

the Enemy by landing 2000, at Wingaw will meet little or no opposition 
in plundering and ravaging all the Northern part 

2000 more landed at Beaufort may act in the same manner to the South- 
ward including all the Islands 

5000 with a few frigates may very easily take possession of Fort 
Johnson and Charles Town, securing the mid-country. 

Fort Moultrie falls of course without firing a Gun against it. 

Plunder, 
not less than 50000 Barrels of Rice in three Weeks, 
immense quantities of Indian Corn Pease, Flour etc. 
Indigo at least half a Million horn'd Cattle Sheep Hogs etc. 
10,000 Negroes. 

very great quantities of Merchandize, 1 50 to 200 Sail of Ships and other 
Vessels for transporting the Provision and Negroes, Warlike Stores etc. 

We have no fleet to retake the place, if we call foreign aid, it will be 
ineffectual, because four fifty Gun Ships and six frigates within will bid 
defiance to the whole fleet of france. 

Georgia will fall immediately or may be over run by the Troops from 
St. Augustine and 500 Indians. 

[Endorsed:] 

Notes, from whence I remonstrated to Congress on the danger to which 
So Carolina and Georgia were exposed in Decem. 1778 — which I had 
often done at fonner periods.