I. John Fell, Diary. 

[January 1, 2, 1779.] 
January 1sst. Fryday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress 

Letters from General Gates to General Washington and answers relating the Canada 

Expidition Letter from the Governor of Connecticut to their Delegates 

relating to the better allowance to Officers referrd to a Committee of 

3 vizt. Mr. Smith, Mr. Root and Mr. Atley.^ 

Letter from Israel Ward ^ of the State of New York, relating to his 

house being burnt by the Enemy, Referrd to a Committee of 3. vizt. 

Draton, Burk and Fell Finance President requested to invite Genl. 

W^ashington to Dine * At 6 P M Commercial Committee 

2d. Saturday. 9 oClock. Do. [i. ^., Commercial Committee] 11 AM 
Congress. Letter from Mr. McDonald ^ of Salem County, complaining 
of not being Paid for sundry goods taken per Officers. Referrd to a Com- 
mittee Committee of 3. vizt. Roberdeau, Root and Fell. Answerd Wards 
Letter. Mr. Hopkinsons Sallery Voted 3500 Doll's.^ Preamble to the 
Finance Bill agreed to be Printed Dined with the So. Carolina Dele- 
gates. City Tavern. 

2. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[January 2, 1779.] 

2. The Delegates of South Carolina invited the Congress and Genl. 
Washington to dine with them at the city Tavern. Financing Published. 

3. The President of Congress to the Marquis de Lafayette.^ 

Philadelphia, 3d Jan'y, 1779. 
Sir: 

The Congress have directed me to observe to you, that the Plan for 
emancipating Canada was conceived at a time when, from various move- 
ments of the Enemy, there was the highest Reason to expect a Speedy 
and total Evacuation of all the Posts they held in these States. Those 
Indications however proved fallacious, and the probability of their quitting 
the Country in the course of the Winter is become very slender, nor is 
it by any means certain that they will do it in the Spring. Prudence 
therefore dictates that the Arms of America should be employed in 

[i]i Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See the Journals, and no. 9, post. 

3 The letter was from Stephen Ward. See no. 38, post. 
* See nos. 2, 21, 22, post. 

5 John Donnell. See the Journals, Jan. 2, Mar. 11, June 7. 
^ Francis Hopkinson was treasurer of loans. 
[2]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 250. 

[3]^ Library of Congress, Papers of the Continental Congress, no. 14 (President's 
Letter-Book, to be hereafter so referred to in this volume), p. 8; Correspondence of 
John Jay, L 185. 



2 Continental Congress 

expelling the Enemy from her own Shores, before the liberation of a 
Neighbouring Province is undertaken. As the proportion of force neces- 
sary for our defence must be determined by the future Operations and De- 
signs of the Enemy which cannot now be known, and as in case of another 
campaign it may happen to be very Inconvenient if not impossible for us 
to furnish our proposed Quota of Troops for the Emancipation of 
Canada, Congress think they ought not under such circumstances to draw 
their good Ally into a measure, the Issue of which depending on a variety 
of contingencies would be very uncertain and might be very ruinous.^ 

John Jay. 

4. James Duane to the Governor of New York (George Clinton).* 

Philad. 3d Jany. 1779. 
Sir, 

I have now the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's 
favor to me, and to the Delegates collectively. The letter with the en- 
closures were delivered to the President, as we consider the subject of the 
revolt from our state particularly within his province ; he being delegated 
for the express purpose. I cannot but think he will be at a loss for the 
maps whenever he finds an opportunity to take it up: your Excellency's 
remarks ought certainly to hasten a determination : for a more favorable 
conjuncture than the present is hardly to be expected. Mr. Jay has not 
yet held any conference with his colleagues on this interesting business: 
but intends soon to form a resolution, and prepare the way for its suc- 
cessful reception.^ With respect to your favor to me individually it is only 
necessary to observe that any assurance for the faithful application of 
the specie remitted to you by Congress must be totally superfluous. 

When I joined Congress I found they had for some time been engaged 
in the business of Finance, but had made an inconsiderable progress. 
As Chairman of the Treasury I was officially called to an active part. 
It was not till yesterday that Congress agreed on a plan for funding the 
money emitted in Bills of Credit; a copy will be transmitted to your 
Excellency by the President ; to give conveyance to which I have ventured 
to detain the express two days.^ If the different legislatures heartily sup- 
port the arrangement proposed by Congress, I flatter myself the public 
credit will be restored : for sufficient and known funds being once estab- 
lished for sinking the debt in a reasonable period, the good sense as well 
as monied interest of America will be on the side of government. The 
danger lies not in the past; but the future increase of paper money, 
should the war unhappily be protracted. To prevent such increase it is 

2 In the Journals, Jan. i (p. 14), is a draft of a letter to Lafayette submitted l3y 
a committee and approved by Congress ; but it would appear that President Jay, while 
retaining the substance of the approved draft, recast the form. See Lafayette to 
Washington Jan. 5, Letters to IVashington (ed. Sparks), IL 247. 
[4]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XIL 59. 

2 See these Letters, vol. IIL, no. 668. Clinton's letter, dated Dec. 17, read in 
Congress Dec. 29, is in Clinton Papers, IV. 393. The Vermont question was not taken 
up in Congress until May 22. See no. 313, post. 

3 See vol. III., no. 705, and the Journals, Jan. i and 2. Cf. no. 6, post. 



January, 1779 3 

proposed to borrow money; abroad for supplies of clothing, arms, and 
ammunition ; at home for pay and subsistence. The first will be promoted 
by our ally ; the last by the security derived from our sinking fund ; by 
an immediate tax to the amount of near one fifth of the paper in circula- 
tion, and by proscribing and calling in two large emissions, which are 
now in circulation and artfully counterfeited. It is true the bills of those 
emissions may be exchanged for others where the holder prefers it to 
loan office certificates : but in most cases he will choose the latter : because 
from necessity he must wait some time before the bills for the exchange 
can be prepared and transmitted. Should all this fail, other means must 
be found out to encourage the loan. I think they are within our reach. 
This is however a very delicate subject. It must readily occur that it 
would be pernicious to give the paper money a great and sudden appre- 
ciation. As a medium it has passed from the public for more than five 
for one during the last ten months in which by far the greatest part of 
our debt has accrued. If it should be redeemed on a par, or at three or 
even four for one, the public would pay a premium for their supplies 
greater than ever was known, or which the richest nation could bear. 
True policy therefore lies in inclining the money towards an apprecia- 
tion for the present ; from the nature of things when the war closes com- 
merce revives, and the quantity is diminished, by the operation of taxes 
it must rise in estimation. In all probability the bills which shall last be 
cancelled will be equal to the nominal value compared with specie; and 
that they will gradually grow better as they approach nearer and nearer 
to that period. I am aware of the uncertainty of all speculations upon 
this intricate subject. The remedy must be addressed to the reason as 
well as the avarice of the people. 

Yesterday Col. Floyd joined us with an intention of continuing here 
till the first of April. His affairs he says will then call him home, and he 
must watch the moment when he may repossess his estate. The conse- 
quence I fear will be that this winter we shall have five Delegates when 
three would have served very well ; and next summer we shall probably 
be without a representation. This I know was not the meaning of the 
Legislature ; they do not wish to be so profuse of their money ; and meant 
that three should statedly serve, and the other two be a relief at seasonable 
periods. I wish the Legislature would empower your Excellency to settle 
our routine of duty; it is really necessary, and I feel myself particularly 
interested in it.* .... 

5. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philad. 3d Jan'y, 1779. 
My dear General 

.... I had not long been here before Mr. Lawrence resigned the 
Chair.^ It was ofiferd to New York We proposd you and it met with 

* Clinton's reply, Feb. 2, is in Clinton Papers, IV. 540. 
[sJiN. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. J50; ibid., Bancroft Coll., Schuyler Papers, 
no. 701 (copy) ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., LX. 159. 

2 Duane took his seat Nov. 19. Laurens resigned the presidency Dec. 9. See the 
Journals, also these Letters, vol. IIL, no. 668 and note 2. 



4 Continental Congress 

Approbation, Mr. Jay in the meantime agreeing to be your locum tenens.^ 
I had no Objection to this parade in your favour ; but was firmly resolvd 
that you shoud not if I could help it quit your high Station in the Army 
where you may be long and so eminently serviceable to the united States 
and to your own in particular: for the sake of presiding in Congress for 
a single Year. It woud be a bad Exchange both in a publick and a private 
View : with respect to your own State which wants your utmost atten- 
tion, it woud be in the highest Degree pernicious, you are popular in the 
Southern Army at least: you are greatly respected by the Commander 
in Chief : your advice will have great Weight in Congress. In short, 
every measure you recommend for the protection and safety of your 
native State will have its full Weight while you are in the Army. In the 
Chair of Congress your lips will be sealed; and your Knowledge and 
Abilities in a great Measure lost to your Country. I am therefore clear 
in my Opinion, which I flatter myself w411 not be slighted. If it is re- 
jected I look for good Reasons.^ .... 

General Washington has been here ten days by order of Congress. He 
seems impatient to return to the Army: but the Business for which he 
was sent to be advised with, will detain him a few days longer,^ .... 

6. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, January 3d, 1779. 
Sr. 

On account of the many difficulties and disappointments which I met 
with in crossing the North River, I did not arrive here until the 1st
instant; the next day I attended Congress, and after the usual business 
of the morning, which is the reading of public letters, and receiving re- 
ports from the several Committees; at one o'clock (according to a rule 
of house which had been for some time standing that all matters before 
them should be laid by and Congress proceed upon the business of 
Finance) Finance was taken up, and I soon found there was sundry 
resolutions, which had been long under consideration and at length agreed 
to, for the purpose of raising the credit of our currency.^ Some gentle- 
men appear very sanguine that they will have their desired good effects ; 
I wish they may ; but must confess I have great doubts. 

The Resolves with a preamble are gone to the printers. If I can get 
them before this opportunity leaves town, I will send them to you. But 
you will undoubtedly receive them officially from our President very soon. 

There were two other questions of importance to the several States 
agitated; but was, in my opinion happily, thrown out. The one was to 

3 Cf. nos. 603, 668, in vol. III. of these Letters. 

4 Schuyler wrote to Duane Dec. 19 that he was sending his resignation to 
Congress (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Ford Coll., Schuyler). His letter of resignation dated Dec. 
27 was read in Congress Jan. 5. See no. 37, post. 

5 See the Journals, Dec 18, 24, 1778, Jan. 1, 30, 1779. Washington remained in 
Philadelphia until Feb. I. Cf. no. 106, post. 

[6]i Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XH. 57. 
2 See the Journals, Jan. 2 ; cf. no. 4, ante. 



January, 1779 5 

prohibit all lotteries in the several States, and the other was to cry down 
all bills of credit, except continental. I considered the two questions as 
infringing on the rights of the Legislatures of the several States and was 
glad to have them negatived.^ .... 

7. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 3d of Jan'3% 1779 
My Dear Sir 

Yesterday put a finishing stroke to the plan of finance, that was under 
consideration before my arrival and I suppose long before your departure. 
I Heartily wish it may have the desired efifect. by acco'ts receiv'd from 
every quarter Our paper Currency is in a most miserable scituation but 
I hope the remedies now applied will be something more than palliatives, 
indeed I have not the least doubt of it if the States will exert their powers 
to put in execution the recommendations. I flatter myself that New H — 
will not be deficient in that respect. Taxation is the only means to 
efifect a cure and every state will find great advantage in taxing as high 
as possible while money is plenty. Connecticut (who never looses sight 
of her own interest) raised £800,000 last Year by Tax, which was col- 
lected in five or six different payments, this I think was a wise measure, 
and I wish it may be adopted by the State whose interest I have most at 
heart there are but few men but will pay £25 pr. Qu'r : with more cheer- 
fulness then £100 pr. Year in one payment. The two Emission [s] 
which are to be paid in by the first of June amount to 41,500.000, but 
this is to be redeem'd partly by Loan Certificates or new money which 
the artificers are now preparing the Machines for. it is said this new 
money can not be Counterfieted I suppose it is meant not so easily 
counterfieted as that now in circulation no doubt the Gentn. of the 
Treasury have exerted their inventive faculties to guard against the in- 
genuity of villains, but it must be left to time to determine their success.^ 

Having got pretty well over finance (at least for the present) the next 
standing Job, (I suppose) will be Foreign Affairs this business I expect 
will produce much alte[r] cation and that not without a due proportion 
of warmth. Our Friend who left Congress the day you did is still absent, 
but some late publications in the newspapers will bring him back sooner 
then he intended, he is expected very soon.^ all his eloquence will be 

used in support of his Friend and the Friends of Mr. D will equally 

exert themselves, for my part I sho'd be very willing to consign Mr. 

3 See the reports on finance brought in Sept. 19 and Oct. 28. The propositions 
are nos. 13 and 16 of the former report and nos. 8 and 9 of the latter. 
[7]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. II. 

2 Whipple wrote to Langdon Jan. 4 : "A plan of finance which has been a 
long time under consideration has at last got into the hands of the printer. I hope it 
will have the desired effect, but in order thereto it must have the most speedy assistance 
of the several Legislatures" (Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 595)- 

3 The allusion is to Richard Henry Lee. In his letter to Gov. Weare Nov. 24 
(vol. III., no. 638) Whipple states that he arrived in Philadelphia Nov. 4 and that 
Bartlett had left the day before (see vol. III., no. 588). Lee, it appears, left the same 
day (see vol. III., no. 605, note 3; also the Journals, Oct. 31). He returned to Congress 
Feb. 20. 



6 Continental Congress 

D over to Common Sense,* and never hear his name mention'd 

again 

Congress is fuller than I ever knew^ it at this time of Year, all the 
States are represented. I wish I could say they were Confederated, but 

our Froward Sister M and her little Crooked Neighbour still stand 

out.^ .... 

8. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[January 3, 4, 1779.] 
^d. Sunday moderate weather. (Chief Justice Morris ^ in Town) 
4th. Monday Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Letter 
from Genl. Sulevan relating to a Court martial. Referrd to a Committee 
of 3. vizt. Drayton, Atley and Ellery. Letter from Mr. Deane relating 
to Mr. Paynes adress.^ (Dined with Governeor Morris.) 6PM Com- 
mercial Committee. 

9. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, January 4th, 1779. 
Sir, 

We had the honor of your favor of the 8th Decemb'r by Brown, who 
arrived here about the 20th." Congress was then deeply engaged in the 
matter of finance, and in taking measures, at least to give some check to 
the rapid course of depreciation of their paper currency, to releive its 
sinking credit and possibly gradually to appreciate its value. A portion 
of every day was set apart for that purpose, and was not closed till Satur- 
day night last. We thought it prudent to detain Brown till we could trans- 
mit to you the proceedings of Congress on that subject, lest his return 
without any intelligence might fix the impression on the minds of the 
people that Congress was only amusing them with bare pretences, while 
in fact they meant to have the bills die in the possessors' hands. We are 
happy that it is now in our power to transmit to your Excellency such 
resolutions of Congress as we hope will wholly remove those impressions, 
and as by the co-operation of the people and the blessing of God will give 
permanent credit to our bills, and furnish us still with the means of our 
. defence. The measures at present adopted relative thereto are herewith 
transmitted, which renders it needless to point out the same in this letter.^ 

* Thomas Paine. See vol. III., 110s. 664, note 2, 678, note 4; also the Journals, 
Jan. 5-9, 11, 12, 14, 16, and nos. 9-12, 15, 16, 18, post. 

^ Maryland and Delaware. The latter acceded to the Confederation a few weeks 
later (see the Journals, Feb. 8, 16), the former not until Mar. 1, 1781. 
[8] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 A sketch of Robert Morris (1745-1815), chief justice of New Jersey, is in 
N. J. Archives, second ser., IIL 446 n. ; also in Appleton, Cyclo. Am. Biog. 

3 See vol. IIL, no. 704, note 2. Deane's letters of Dec. 30 and Jan. 4 are in N. Y. 
Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, III. 137, 244. 

[9] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 328. 

2 Trumbull's letter is in Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh sen, II. 318. His 
acknowledgment of the committee letters of Nov. ii (see note 6, following) is ibid., p. 320. 
The messenger was Jesse Brown. See the Journals, Mar. 17, 22, July 3. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 2. 



January, 1779 T 

possibly some other measures may be taken to restore commutative jus- 
tice among the people. 

Your letter and the petition of the officers in the Connecticut line to 
our Assembly have been laid before Congress, and referred to a commit- 
tee v^^ho have not yet made their report.* Possibly the Assembly will not 
think it proper to proceed any further on that subject than to make some 
reasonable provision for the support of their families, in the manner 
already proposed, untill they hear further from Congress on that head, 
which we hope will be in a few days. Indeed the officers and soldiers in 
the army seem to be in many respects on the same footing with our salary 
men, orphans, widows, etc., and hope some measures may soon be taken 
which will operate to the administring justice to the whole, as near as 
these calamitous times will possibly admit of. 

A foreign loan is in contemplation, but how soon it may be effected is 
at present uncertain. By the best information we can obtain, the several, 
or most of the States in the union have taken measures to fund their own 
bills, and have paid and are now paying in the several taxes apportioned 
to them the last year, and all seem inclined to tax as high as possible. 

You enquire, Sir, why the Articles of Confederation are not concluded. 
We have only to answer that the States of Maryland and Delaware have 
not yet acceded, and we are waiting with impatience for their union, and 
as the Articles drawn comprehend the thirteen States jointly it is at least 
a doubt whether the assent already gained from eleven States is not 
founded on the joint consent of the whole thirteen, and unless the re- 
maining two join the whole is void, and will make it necessary to send 
back to each State for their approbation if no more than eleven States 
unite in the Confederation, which would take up much time, beside the 
inconvenience which might attend, therefore are still waiting in hopes of 
the compliance of the other two.^ 

As to what is done in consequence of the circular letters sent out by 
the committee to superintend the Commissary's and Quarter Master De- 
partment are not able to acquaint you, as the committee have not made 
any report. Therefore must refer to Mr. Sherman, who is one of that 
committee, for intelligence on that head.*' 

The unhappy situation of our western frontiers, as well as those of 
New York, are truly melancholy, and demand the greatest attention, both 
as it respects the present inhabitants, former settlers, and the supplies 
derived from them. The Board of War have reported an addition to 
Colo. Hartley's regiment, who is a worthy, spirited, and attentive officer, 
and now on the frontier part at Wyoming. We hope further additions 
will be made for their defence.'^ General Washington is now in town, on 

* See no. 1, ante, and the Journals, Jan. 1, Feb. 16. Cf. nos. 124, 156, post. 

5 See no. 7, note 5, ante. Cf. no. 86, post. 

6 Trumbull's inquiry was concerning the activities of the committee that had sent 
out the circular letters of Nov. 11 (vol. III., nos. 620-623; see note 2, above). Sherman 
was not, however, a member of that committee, although he was appointed, Oct. 31, 
on a committee to inquire into abuses in the quartermaster's department, and he was 
also a member of the committee on the arrangement of the army (see vol. III., no. 559). 

7 See the Journals, Dec. 16, 1778, Jan. 13, 1779; cf. ibid., Feb. 1, 13, 25, Mar. 13, 
May 17. 



8 Continental Congress 

the request of Congress, and a committee appointed to confer with him 
on the subject of any new or future operations, and hope something to 
effect will soon be done. 

Mr. Dean has been fully heard by Congress, to the utmost of his wishes, 
but by reason of the pressure of other important business nothing is de- 
cided respecting him or his negociations. We know not of any fault in 
the delay ; the late publications are rather premature and unhappy, as we 
conceive no good will be derived from them, or useful instruction.^ 

January the ^th. — We have been obliged to detain Brown to this day, 
to have the quotas of the several States affixed for their present propor- 
tion of the fifteen millions dollars tax for this year, in which is appor- 
tioned to Connecticut 1,700,000 — large indeed in sound, but hope may not 
prove disagreeable, when it is considered with how much more ease so 
large a sum may be now paid than a much less in future, and that what 
they overpay now will be allowed to their account, and diminish our pro- 
portion of those which will succeed, beside an interest on the overplus in 
the same manner as that recommended the last year. We have transmitted 
to your Excellency the copies of the resolutions of Congress on these 
matters, with the quotas affixed to each State,® and though through the 
diversity of the circumstances and interest of individuals, a variety of 
opinions may be formed, yet we hope they will be received with candor, 
prove in general satisfactory, and that every one will endeavour to pro- 
mote the great and good ends therein designed. 
Are, with the greatest esteem and respect. 

Your Excellency's most obedt., hble. servants. 

Eliph't Dyer. 
Oliver Elsworth.^" 
Jesse Root. 

10. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, Jan. 5th, 1779. 
Sir, 

I do myself the pleasure to enclose this day's paper to you, containing 
the ultimatum of Congress on the affair of Finance, and a publication 
from Common Sense with what other little news we have here. 

The publications of Mr. Dean, and Mr. Paine, makes a great talk in 
this place, and I am afraid will throw Congress and the people at large 
into violent parties.^ 

I am told that the late President declined his seat as president because 
Congress would not take up Mr. Dean's publication in a way which he 
thought proper. In ballotting for a new President, they came in favor of 
Mr. Jay, who is now our President.^ 

** See vol. III., no. 669, note 3, also nos. 7, ante, 10-12, 15, 16, 18, post. 
^ See the Journals, Jan. 5. 

1° Here, as in several other instances in which the source is a copy, the text in 
Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, has the incorrect spelling " Elsworth ". 
[io]i Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XH. 63. 

2 See nos. 7, 9, ante, and nos. 11, 12, 15, 16, 18, post. 

3 See no. 5, ante. 



January, il79 9 

There is nothing yet done with respect to the Vermont business, not 
owing to any neglect of our members ; but that it was not possible to bring 
on that, or any other matter of importance, while the grand business of 
Finance was under consideration. Now that is over, I expect we shall 
soon take it up, and I obtain something decisive from Congress on the 
subject. 

In conversation yesterday, I mentioned the affair to Mr. Drayton who 
fully agreed with me that the consequences of their holding their inde- 
pendence would be a means of producing fifty new States, therefore must 
by no means be allowed.* 

From, Sr., your most obedt. Servt. 

Wm. Floyd. 

II. Henry Laurens to John Sullivan.^ 

Philadelphia 5th Jany 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

Although I have but a few minutes allowed me for writing by this 
Messenger Brown I cannot suffer him to pass without acknowledging 
and thanking you for your favor of the 15th Ulto. Yesterday I reed, 
your public address under the Ulto. inclosing the proceedings of 

a Court Martial in the cases of Crossing and his coadjutors these I de- 
livered to the present President and they were read in Congress.^ I had 
the honor of resigning the Chair on the 9th December for reasons which 
then appeared to me to be good and which subsequent circumstances have 
proved to be so. Love of order and an high respect for a great Represen- 
tative, restrains my pen from an explanation at present. 

I am reduced to a private station but do not mean to turn my back on 
Congress immediately, therefore Sir, I shall endeavor to merit a continu- 
ance of your correspondence by contributing the best offerings on my part. 

Inclosed with this you will receive this days Packet with a continuation 
of Common Sense, and a plan calculated by Congress for lessening the 
quantity of Paper Circulation and appreciating the Value of the re- 
mainder.^ — Time will prove its efficacy — Oeconomy, Taxation and Open 
Ports would be infallible. 

I have the honor to be with the highest Esteem and Regard Sir 
Your obedient and Most humble Servt 

Henry Laurens 

12. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Philadelphia Jany 5 1779. 
Dear Bro: 

.... Common Sense has attacked Mr : Deane something in his own 
way, but I think has not made the best use of the materials in his hands : 
however it appears he has stung the Gentl., for he has had the impudence 

4 See vol. III., no. 668, and no. 4, ayite. 
[ii]i Library of Congress, U. S. Revolution. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 4, and nos. 52, 169, post. 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 2. 

[12]iiV. E. Hist, and Geneal. Reg., XXXV. 84; Maine Hist. Soc, Revolution, no. 4- 



10 Continental Congress 

to complain to Congress, of his being abused by Payne in his official 
character, in consequence of which we have had some warm debates, not 
much to Mr: Deanes advantage.' 

Your piece ^ is in the hands of Mr. Adams for his opinion; tho I am 
incHned to delay it till you come, as the public is likely to be entertained 
in the mean time. Finance is finished, 15 million dollars raised by tax 
this year, 6 million yearly for 16 years as a sinking fund, the two last 
large emissions, amounting to 40 odd millions, which are supposed most 
counterfeited, are called in by the 1st June, and new money given in 
Exchange. I fear the plan will not sufficiently check the rapid deprecia- 
tion which has lately taken place as the money has almost ceased to be 
current in the Eastern States 

13. John Fell, Dl^ry.^ 

[January 5, 1779.] 
^th. Tuesday. Do. [i. e., Commercial Committee] 9 oClock. P M ^ 
Dined w'th Genl. Washington Congress Lievt. Coll. Fluerys Letter 
Read and debated Letter from Genl. Schuyler with his Resignation to 
confer with Genl. Washington on the subject carried in the negative.^ 
Proportion of the Taxes of Each State * . . . . 

NB Georgia being invaded Pays no Part of this Tax 

14. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[January 5, 6. 1779.] 

5. Genl. Washington invited Congress to dine with him at the city 
tavern and we dined accordingly. 

6. Congress spent part of the Day considering the publication of Com. 
Sense on Mr. Deane's affairs.^ 

15. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Dear Sir, Philadelphia, Jany 6, 1779. 

In your last you ask me, " How Matters have stood since the Recall." ^ 
I will answer this Question at another Time when I shall have more 

2 See Deane's letters of Dec. 30 and Jan. 4, read in Congress Dec. 31 and Jan. 4, 
respectively (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 869, III. 9; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: 
Deane Papers, III. 137, 244). Cf. nos. 7-1 1, ante, 15, 16, 18, post. 

3 This may have been Richard Henry Lee's address to Silas Deane, found in 
Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 11, or possibly it was certain queries found among the Samuel 
Adams Papers (end of 1779), accompanied by a note of Richard Henry Lee forwarding 
the piece to Dunlap. 

[ 13] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The "9 oClock" was no doubt the morning hour at which the commercial com- 
mittee customarily met. The " P M " should probably be understood as applying particu- 
larly to dining with General Washington, not necessarily to all the entries which follow. 
The Fleury matter, for instance, probably came up early in the day. 

3 See no. 5, ante, and no. 37, post. 

* The quotas, being in the Journals, are here omitted. 
[i^]^Esse.r Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 250. 

2 See nos. 17, 18 (note 2), 23, 34. 35, 36, 30. post. 
[15]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. III., p. 234; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel 
Adams Papers (draft); Writings (ed. Cushing), IV. 113. 

2 The inquiry is in a letter of Dec. 8 (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers). 



January, 1779 11 

Leisure ; and at present only say, that Mr. D arrivd here, I think, 

in July and in August he was admitted into the House, or, to use his own 
Phrase, hud an Audience, in which, with as much Vanity as I ever saw 
in a Man of Sense, he appeard to assume to himself almost the whole 
Merit of all the Ser^'ices that had been renderd, at least by Americans, in 
France; as if he would have it to be beleivd, that one of his Colleagues 
had done but little if anything, the other worse than nothing, himself 
everything. And with equal Spleen and ill Nature, he would even go out 
of the Path of Decency and Propriety to draw in Invectives and diminish 
the Characters of the two Mr. Lees and Mr. Izard. In short his publi- 
cation which you have seen is a Specimen of his Narrative.^ .... 
Mr. A. L,"* you are fully sensible, was most indefatigable in supporting 
our Cause in England. By penetrating into the Designs of a most un- 
principled Court, he was able to give us the most timely and important 

Intelligence, which he did at the Risque of his Life, while Mr. ° 

was in the opinion of some of his own Countrymen as well as others, of 
a doubtful political Character. Mr. Lee continued to transmit to our 
Friends in France as well as to Congress, before he left England, the 
most accurate State of things there. Such was the opinion entertaind by 
Congress of his Abilities, his Integrity, and his Zeal and Attachment to 
his Country, which indeed had been long experienced, that he was em- 
ployed as a most useful and necessary Man 

16. Samuel Adams to Samuel Cooper.^ 

Jan'y 6 —79 
My dear Sir, 

I wrote to you on the 3d Inst, by Express and then promisd to write 
again by the first good Opportunity.' .... 

In the latter End of 75 one of the Characters ^ in my last was left out 
of the Delegation of the Colony he had represented, and a Number of his 
Friends gave him a sort of Certificate or Letter of Recommendation as 
they had before done to one of your Delegates, which led me to think it 
was their Opinion he needed a Prop in his own Country. Soon after, the 
Congress appointed a secret Committee of Commerce, with a View of 
procuring from abroad the necessary Articles for carrying on the War. 
They also appointed a secret Committee of Correspondence. Their Busi- 
ness was to form political Connections abroad and to feel the pulsations 
of foreign Powers and particularly France. The first of these Commit- 
tees engagd Mr. to go to that Kingdom for the purpose of their 

Commission and the Corresponding Com^ took the Advantage of his in- 

3 This account would appear, on the face of it, to apply to Deane's first hearings 
in Congress (see the Journals, Aug. 13, 15, 17, 19, 21), but it is no doubt colored by 
Adams's impressions of more recent audiences. Cf. vol. III., no. 697. See also nos. 9-12, 
ante, and nos. 16, 18, post. 
4 Arthur Lee. 
^ Deane. 
[16]^ IVritings (ed. Gushing), IV. 115. 

2 The letter is in Writings, IV. in. 

3 Silas Deane. " Mr. " in the first and third instances below is also Deane. 

See especially vol. III., no. 564. 



12 Continental Congress 

tended Residence there to facilitate the salutary Purpose of their Appoint- 
ment. At the same Time they wrote a Letter to Mr. ■* then in 

England from whom the Congress had before receivd the most accurate 
Intelligence, requesting a Correspondence with him and pledging Secrecy 

and Confidence. Mr. arrivd in France in June 76. Thus you see 

we had an Intelligencer to let us know what was doing or meditating 
against us in England; and a political Commercial Agent who was to 
inform us what was doing or could be done for us in France. The one 
had before settled a Correspondence and formd Connections in several 
parts of the Continent of Europe and particularly France ; the other was 
a perfect Stranger in every Nation in Europe, but bearing Letters to 
considerable Men there. The one was altogether the political Man, the 
other had to do with Commerce as well as politicks. The one by his Ad- 
dress obtaind in England such Assurances as satisfied him that France 
would afford such Aid to America as she could consistently, the other was 
better skilld in the commercial Part of his Agency than the political. The 
one in London in the Months of March and April discoverd that he 
might successfully and actually did treat with a Merchant in France of no 
Capital but a favorite at Court for a Supply to the Value of £200,000 
sterling — the other arrivd in the Month of June following, found him out 
and was somehow concernd in forwarding the Supplys thus contracted 
for. I dare say you are apt to draw this Conclusion that the one was the 
political Negotiator in this Instance and the other the Commercial Agent 
only — yet, will you believe it, it is positively affirmd that the one did every 
thing and the other Nothing. I will explain it to you in my next.^ 

17. John Fell, Diary.^ 

1779, Jan'y 6th. Wednesday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. 
Congress. Letter from Genl. Sulevan to Genl. Washington Letter from 
Lt. Brow[n]rigg to his Mother in Ireland.^ Do. from the State of Mary- 
land respecting the Confederation, and approving of the Alliance with 
France Letter from Thos. Payne. Order for Mr. Dunlap respecting 
Printing a Paper. Order for T Payne whether he was the Author, 
acknowledged himself the author and dismised. Debate ensued ' 

18. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS, SPEECH.^ 

[January 7 (?), 1779.] 
Mr. President, 

As the several motions on your table appear to be founded upon the 
same principle, I shall make some few observations which relate to them 
all, without balancing their respective merits, or taking notice of the many 

* Arthur Lee. 

^ Cf. no. 15, ante, and no. 45, post. 
[17]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 This was an intercepted letter transmitted by Sullivan to Washington. See 
the Journals. 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 5, 6, and nos. 18^ 23, 34, 35, 36, 39, post. 
[18]i Sparks, Life of Gouverneur Morris, L 200. 



January, 1779 13 

inaccuracies with which they abound." It gave me great pain, Sir, to hear 
in the debates, both of yesterday and this morning, the word party made 
use of. This is a word which can do no good, but may produce much 
evil. If there be a party among us, the name is unnecessary. If there be 
not, it is unjust. And, certainly, there is not. There is indeed in this 
House a chosen band of patriots, who have a proper respect for each 
other's opinion, a proper sense of each other's feelings, and whose bosoms 
glow with equal ardor in the common cause, but no party. 

Gentlemen mean nothing but the public good, though sometimes they 
mistake their object. But I would warn them against indulging too far 
this tenderness for each other. When one has in view a favorite object, 
or has adopted a favorite opinion, others hastily catch the idea. The 
warm effusion flies from breast to breast, and reason lags in the pursuit. 
Hence arises a prepossession, which reason combats in vain. 

I hope for indulgence, whilst I state the case before us as it really exists. 
I know that a gentleman stands in a disagreeable attitude, whilst com- 
batting principles, which appear to flow from a regard to the privileges 
of a citizen, and respect for the rights of mankind. Yesterday we were 
told by an honorable member, that these rights and privileges would be 
drawn into question. This he ventured to prophesy and warned us to 
beware. On this occasion the honorable member was in capacity to be 
an excellent prophet ; a very excellent prophet, Mr President. But I am 
not to be terrified by these shadows. I trust I shall be able to show, that 
the rights of a citizen are nowise concerned in the determination on the 
matter before us. 

Gentlemen exclaim, " do not deprive Mr Paine of his office, without 
giving him a copy of the charge ; do not punish a citizen unheard ! " I ask 
on what tenure he holds that office. Is it during good behavior? If it be, 
he must be convicted of malconduct, before he can be removed. But we 
are not the proper court to take cognizance of such causes. We have no 
criminal jurisdiction clearly; then, he ought not to be heard before us. 
But he does not hold his office during good behavior ; it is during pleasure. 
And what are we ? The sovereign power, who appointed, and who, when 
he no longer pleases us, may remove him. Nothing more is desired. We 
do not wish to punish him. 

What then do we ask ? To turn a man out of office, who ought never 
to have been in it. Let us examine the circumstances. Mr Paine, Secre- 
tary to the Committee of Foreign Affairs, styling himself Secretary of 
Foreign Affairs, acknowledges himself to be the author of a publication 
highly dishonorable to his most Christian Majesty, and very injurious to 

2 On Jan. 5 the minister of France had presented to Congress a memorial pro- 
testing against certain passages in one of the articles by "Common Sense" ("Common 
Sense to the Public on Mr. Deane's Affair ", which had appeared in installments in 
the Pennsylvania Packet, Dec. 31, Jan. 2, 5, 7, 9), and in consequence of which the 
author, Thomas Paine, was called before the bar of the house. See the Journals, 
Jan. 5-12, 16. Morris's speech was doubtless made Jan. 7, on the motion that Paine 
be dismissed. Impatient over the delay on the part of Congress in taking the steps 
which he deemed proper, Gerard presented a second memorial on the subject Jan. 10 
(read Jan. 11). Paine's article is in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, III. 
209-239; Gerard's memorials are ibid., pp. 246, 253, and Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 
II, 16. See also no. 17, ante, and nos. 23, 35, 36, 39, post. 

6 



14 Continental Congress 

him and us. Dishonorable to the King of France, because it is in direct 
contradiction to repeated assurances given to the British court. Injurious 
to our mutual interests, because it enables the Ministers of Great Britain 
to charge France with a breach of the treaties, and call upon other courts 
for the performance of engagements entered into, upon a view to that 
contingency. Gentlemen, who know Mr Paine, may be unwilling to be- 
lieve this. It deserves consideration. The Secretary of Foreign Affairs 
is the person, who, of all others, must from the nature of his office be best 
acquainted with such transactions. His assertions, therefore, contain the 
fullest weight, which knowledge can give. And not only so, but from the 
importance of that office, none but the most approved and exhalted char- 
acter would be, by a wise people, entrusted to fill it. And, therefore, the 
ideas annexed to such a character will serve to authenticate his assertions. 

P^oreigners, Sir, have not an adequate idea of the manner, in which 
business is conducted in this House, nor the difficulties we have labored 
under. They are led to compare everything on the scale of their own 
experience. And what would be the idea of a gentleman in Europe of 
this Mr Paine? Would he not suppose him to be a man of the most afflu- 
ent fortune, born in this country of a respectable family, with wide and 
great connexions, and endued with the nicest sense of honor? Certainly 
he would suppose, that all these pledges of fidelity were necessary to a 
people in our critical circumstances. But, alas, what would he think, 
should he accidentally be informed, that this, our Secretary of Foreign 
Affairs, was a mere adventurer from England, without fortune, without 
family or connexions, ignorant even of grammar? Could he believe this? 
And if assured of the fact, and if possessed of common sense, would he 
not think that we were devoid of it ? And yet. Sir, this is the man whom 
we would remove from office, and this is the man, who has been just now 
puffed as of great importance. 

Considering the case as it stands before us, there are three objects 
which require our attention. The first is, to obviate the ill effects of his 
publication. The second, to remove him from office. And the third, to 
assign proper reasons for that conduct, so as to connect the two first 
propositions together, and give a greater weight to all our measures. 

In order to obviate the ill consequences of his mad assertions, we must 
pointedly contradict them. I say we must contradict them, for to such a 
deplorable situation has this man reduced us, that, although many gentle- 
men in the House might be of a different opinion, they would find them- 
selves urged by irresistible motives of policy to contradict his assertions. 
Happily, we have on our table the fullest evidence to ground a declaration, 
that what he has published is untrue. 

We must then proceed to assign our reasons for removing him from 
his office. These cannot be wanting. For, in the first place, he never was 
fit for it ; and, in the second place, he has abused it in the instance before 
us most flagrantly, and therefore is utterly undeserving of any farther 
confidence. 

Lastly, we must remove him, for without this, in contradicting him, 
we shall not be believed. Nor is this the worst of the matter. The pre- 



January, lyyg 15 

sumption is, that he would not have written these things without our 
consent, and therefore a disavowal of the person becomes necessar}', not 
only to give credit to a disavowal of the thing, but to convince our allies, 
that we ourselves are not the authors of this infamous falsehood. And 
here gentlemen step in and tell us of Mr Paine's importance. Sir, were 
he really of importance, nay, more, were his assertions really true, I 
should not hesitate a moment to dismiss him from our service. Duty to 
our ally requires it. Duty to ourselves requires it. Look at his threaten- 
ing letter on your table. What ! are we reduced to such a situation, that 
our servants shall abuse the confidence reposed in them, shall beard us 
with insolent menaces, and we shall fear to dismiss them without grant- 
ing a trial forsooth ? And what are we to try ? Has he not acknowledged 
himself to be the author of those exceptionable paragraphs? Are we not 
able to judge of them, and to determine what they mean? Do we not 
know, that they contain a falsehood? Suppose Mr Paine to be now 
standing at our bar, what would you do? Would you confess an ignor- 
ance of language, and ask what those paragraphs mean ? Surely you would 
not. Would you ask him whether the idea contained in them is true or 
false? It is utterly unnecessary. His answer is ready; that they are true. 
But we know them to be false, and we can hardly be so weak as to balance 
in our judgment between Mr Paine's opinion, and the full evidence on 
our table. 

What then remains, unless it be to ask his advice as to our future 
conduct! Sir, he will tell us that he is Thomas Paine, author of all the 
writings under the signature of Comaion Sense, and Secretary of Foreign 
Affairs; that he is a man of infinite importance, far more entitled to our 
respect, than the most Christian King, and that we must not dare to 
dismiss him from our service, because to his other titles he adds that of 
a " Citizen of Pennsylvania ". And should we take his advice? And shall 
we be moved by his threats? And shall we be amused by paltry tales of 
this person's importance ? I hope not. I am confident we should not have 
wasted so much time, and had so many motions on this subject, but that 
some gentlemen feel themselves interested in supporting the rights of a 
citizen; and but for that mutual confidence, and good opinion, and re- 
ciprocal sentiment, which are too apt to mislead those, who are not con- 
stantly under the guard of reason.^ • 

19. Henry Laurens, Memorandum.^ 

[January 7, 1779.]' 
The Honorable Robert Morris Esquire, late Chairman of the Secret 
and Commercial Committees, and thro' whose hands all the transactions 

3 Sparks states {Life of Morris, I. 199) that on the back of Morris's copy of this 
speech was a memorandum, " taken down from memory to obviate misrepresentation ". 
[ 19] 1 Long Island Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, 
vol. I., no. 19. 

2 This " Anecdote " respecting Robert Morris and the books of the secret com- 
mittee is without date, but it is possible that it was prepared by Laurens for the use 
of Thomas Paine and served as the basis for Paine's insinuating paragraph which called 
forth Robert Morris's Statement of Jan. 7 (no. 20, post). 



16 Continental Congress 

of the former, and almost all of the latter had passed, did in the Month 
of October 1777^ inform Congress that he had obtained from his State 
Leave of absence for six Months, in order to settle and adjust his private 
Affairs, and he then moved the House for leave to take into his custody 
the Books of the Secret Committee, promising to adjust the Accounts 
contained in those Books in the course of a Month or two. The Books 
were accordingly put into Mr. Morris' hands, and transported from 
York to his House at Manheim. Some time in February 1778 Mr. Morris 
having been informed by a tale Bearer * out of Congress that his Conduct 
had been freely discanted upon respecting those Books, threatnd by 
Letter to return them, unless the contrary should be particularly requested 
by Congress — no notice was taken of this menace. Mr. Morris neverthe- 
less continued to hold the Books until near the middle of September 1778, 
when he informed Congress that he found the Books in such confusion 
he could make nothing of them, that he did not know he had anything 
more to do with them than any body else, and that he should send them 
back to the Committee — and he did so.° 

The 14th December 1778 ^ Mr. Morris having been informed that the 
Books were lodged in the hands of Mr. Laurens, sent a message to Mr. 
Laurens desiring the Books might be returned to him, he was sure nobody 
but himself could settle them. Mr. Laurens replied, it would be alto- 
gether irregular to put the Books out of his, into the hands of a Gentle- 
man not a Member of Congress, that he should make an essay for ad- 
justing them, and that when he should stand in need of assistance or 
information from Mr. Morris, he would take the liberty to call on him. 

[Endorsed:] Anecdote Respecting Robert Morris Esquire and the 
books of the Secret Committee. 

20. Robert Morris, Statement.^ 

To the Public. 

.... I shall now give the true state of these matters.^ My leave of 
absence from Congress was obtained from the Supreme Executive Coun- 
cil at Lancaster, the nth day of November 1777, and bears that date. 

3 Morris states (no. 20, post) that this was on Nov. 28, 1777. 

4 Doubtless John Penn is meant. See his letter to Morris, Feb. 4, 1778, vol. III., 
no. 74; also ibid., nos. 133, 462 (note 14). Cf. nos. 20, 30, 401, 414, 420, post. See also 
no. 48, note 5, post. 

5 Cf. the Journals, Sept. 4, 1778, and no. 20, post. 

6 In Laurens's reply to Morris (no. 24, post) he is not so definite. 

{20Y Pennsylvania Packet, Jan. 9, 1779; Royal Gazette, ]an. 23, 1779; Almon's 
Remembrancer, 1778-1779, p. 382; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, III. 
259; Library of Congress, Morris Papers (draft). 

2 Morris first replies to an insinuation of Thomas Paine in the article " Common 
Sense to the Public on Mr. Deane's Afifair " (see no. 18, note 2, ante), namely: " I wish 
in this place to step for a moment from the floor of office, and press it on every 
State, to enquire what mercantile connections and of their late or present Delegates 
have had or now have with Mr. Deane, and that a precedent might not be wanting, 
it is important that this State, Pennsylvania, should begin" (N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collec- 
tions: Deane Papers, III. 218). Morris then replies to Paine's charge of neglect 
in settling the accounts of the secret or commercial committee (ibid., p. 226). There 
are other occasional insinuations pointed at Morris. Paine's reply to this statement is 
ibid., p. 266, taken from the Pennsylvania Packet of Jan. 12. 



January, ly'/Q 17 

I returned to Congress, and on the 28th of November informed them of 
my leave of absence obtained to settle the affairs of the late house of 
Willing Morris and Co. as well as my ow^n; and as some leisure time 
might occur, I offered in full Congress to take home the books of the 
Secret Committee, which were then unemployed, and devote what time 
I could spare to them. The offer was accepted by general consent, although 
no resolution was entered, it being unnecessary. The day I left Congress, 
I was appointed on a Committee to repair to Head-Quarters,^ from 
whence I did not return to Manheim, then my place of residence, until 
the 14th or 15th day of December, at which time the books were not 
arrived, nor did they reach me until the latter end of that month. I deny 
that Congress called on me for those books in February, but early in that 
month I was informed that some matters to my prejudice had been in- 
sinuated by a Member in Congress respecting these books,* whereupon I 
wrote a letter dated the 8th February, 1778, to the Commercial Com- 
mittee (who then had the direction of them) complaining of the injury 
and offering to return them, and received an answer dated the 21st 
February, containing the following clause: " We laid this letter (mean- 
ing mine of the 8th) before Congress, who desired us to inform you, that 
they would have you still keep the books in your possession and settle 
them as soon as you could." ^ Accordingly I retained them, and until they 
were re-delivered, employed on them the little leisure which remained 
from my private avocations, and the many interruptions occasioned by 
public business which pursued me in my retirement, and many times 
obliged me to visit York-Town, each visit taking up from four to six days. 
In the beginning of June I went to camp at Valley-Forge, and re- 
mained there until the evacuation of this city; after a week's stay here 
I returned to Manheim to bring down my family and effects. I was again 
in Philadelphia the 4th day of July, the anniversary of our glorious Inde- 
pendence, and in the course of a week or ten days my effects, and with 
them the books in question, came down and remained unopened until I 
delivered them to the Clerk of the Commercial Committee, which I think 
was in that month, July. Thus it appears, that instead of having these 
books to work in from October, 1777, to September, 1778, it was in my 
power to do so only from the latter end of December, 1777, to the first 
of June, 1778; and although but little of that time could possibly be de- 
voted to them, they were far from being returned in the same or nearly 
the same unsettled state they were received; on the contrary these books 
will shew that I settled a number of accounts, the entries being made with 
my own hand in the waste book, and then journalized and posted by my 
clerks until the ledger was filled and no room to open any more accounts 
in it. I sent to Lancaster to procure paper of the same size to be sewed 
into that book that I might go on, but none suitable could be got, and I 
was obliged to stop. 

3 See the Joitrtials, Nov. 28, 1777. 

* Morris may refer to the letter of John Penn, vol. III., no. 74, although Penn's 
words are, "some members at times drop expressions on that subject that I do not 
like ". Henry Laurens understood that he was the member alluded to by Morris. See 
no. 19, ante, and nos. 24, 30, post. 

^ The letter of the commercial committee, signed by Francis Lewis and William 
Ellery, will be found in vol. IIL, no. 109. 



18 Continental Congress 

Mr. Thomas Morris's papers were seized on his death in France by 
the King's officers, according to the custom in that country, they were 
afterwards dehvered to and kept by the American Commissioners until 
orders should appear respecting them from hence. I applied to Con- 
gress for an order to have them delivered to my Agent, and though at 
that time ignorant of the state of his accounts, I pledged myself to Con- 
gress, although no ways bound to do so, that I would pay any balance 
that might be due from him to the public.® These papers I have not yet 
received, nor do I know whether the order for them has reached my 
Agent's hands, but the house at Nantes, who under my brother's direc- 
tion, transacted all his business, have rendered full, and I am told, clear 
accounts of all the public concerns to the Commercial Committee, so that 
there is no embarrassment that I know of, and instead of his being a 
debtor, the balance is in favour of that house, 50,380 livres 2 sons 9 
denier, or about 2204 I. 2 s. 6 d. sterling, which they stopped from monies 
of Willing, Morris and Company, in their hands, and have empowered 
me to receive the same from Congress. 

By the manner of mentioning that the amount of expenditures on the 
Committee's books is considerably above two millions of dollars, some 
people may be led to imagine that I stand accountable for that sum. 
The fact is thus — the accounts in these books are kept by double entry, 
and the Treasurer and Auditor are credited for all the monies drawn from 
them by the Committee, those who received are charged and accountable 
for what they did receive. Many Gentlemen from New-Hampshire to 
Georgia entered into contracts for procuring supplies, on which they re- 
ceived part of this money, for which they have accounted or are to ac- 
count, and in like manner is my late house and myself to account for all 
monies by them and me received. 

Twice I have settled Willing, Morris and Company's accounts with the 
Secret Committee, and the entries thereof are in their books. The last was 
closed in May, 1778, with a balance in favour of the former. There are, 
is is true, many things yet to be settled ; I have made out a state of them, 
and would most gladly make a final settlement if practicable: That can- 
not now be done, because some account sales and accounts current are not 
yet received from Europe, and many articles of goods, which are finally 
to be articles of these accounts, have been by inevitable accidents, lodged 
in the West-Indies, and must be carried to account, in different ways, on 
the contingency of their safe arrival within the United States. On the best 
computation I can make of all the depending accounts my late house and 
myself have with the Continent, it clearly appears that a considerable 
balance is due to us, and I shall either make a speedy settlement, or if 
circumstances continue to keep that out of my power, I will lay before 
Congress a full state and clear estimate of these dependencies, when I 
doubt not, they will do ample justice to my character. 

Out of respect to that public with which I wish to stand as fair as my 
real conduct and character deserve, I must add, that so far have I been 
from protracting the settlement of public accounts, that I have on all 

6 See the Journals, Sept. 4, 1778 ; also Franklin to Ross Apr. 26, 1778, in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 560. 



January, ///p 19 

occasions promoted sucli settlements, and all measures that tended thereto. 
In November 1777, before I left Congress at York-Town, I drew a report 
from the Commercial Committee, for establishing a Board of Commis- 
sioners to manage the public commerce, and of course to settle those 
accounts, urging that it was impossible for Members of Congress, if ever 
so well acquainted with business, to attend the House and do that duty. 
I pressed this frequently, but the report meeting with some opposition, 
remains to this day undetermined on.'^ 

After joining Congress again in this city, I moved that the Members 
of the Secret Committee, who were then Members of Congress, might, 
as being most competent, be re-appointed a Committee to finish the set- 
tlement of their accounts, which was agreed, but those Members being 
much engaged in other business could not attend, and therefore with the 
concurrence of one of them that did attend, I hired an accomptant to 
work on their books, which he did until stopped by sickness in the first 
instance, and when he returned to the business he was discharged by a 
Member of the new appointed Commercial Committee, who, I under- 
stand, have undertaken to finish the settlement of these accounts.^ 

I will only add, that it is in my power to prove by papers in my posses- 
sion, papers and records in the public offices, or by living witnesses of 
unquestionable character, every fact and circumstance that I have laid 
before the public." Robert Morris. 

Philadelphia, January 7, 1779 

21. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[January 7, 8, 1779.] 
yth. Thursday Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Letter read from 

Thos. Payne debate concerning him lasted all Day.^ Mr. Thos. Adams 

from Virginia ^ Dined with President Jay. 

8th. Fryday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress Letter 

read from T Payne with his Resignation, debates on the subject lasted till 

Past 4 oClock ; Dr. Weatherspoon went home : Dined with Congress * 

22. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[Januarys, 1779.] 
8. Congress sit till 4 o'Clock and then dined at the city tavern, where 
they had invited Genl. Washington and a number of other Gentlemen to 
dine with them.^ 

7 In a letter to William Whipple Sept. 4, 1777 (vol. II., no. 624), Morris speaks 
of his part in securing the reorganization of the secret committee into the commercial 
committee. See also ibid., nos. 185, 246, 253. 

« See the Journals, Sept. 4, Dec. 14, 1778. 

'-• See nos. 24, 28, 30, 31, 43, 81, 85, post. Cf. vol. III., no. 462. Following this 
article, both in the printed texts and in the draft, is a note by Morris requesting such 
printers as may republish the papers of " Common Sense " to republish with them his 
article and draw upon him for the charge of printing. 
[2i]i Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 10, 12, 15, 18, ante, and no. 35, post. 

3 That is, Thomas Adams attended. 
* Cf. no. 1,ante, no. 22, post. 

[22]'^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 250. 
2 See nos. 1, 21, ante. 



20 Continental Congress 

23. John Fell, Diary/ 

[January 9, 1779.] 
^th. Saturday Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress Letter 
from Genl. Putnian, giving an acct. of Huntingtons Regement attempting 
to Mutiny, confine! some and Prevaild on the rest to return to their Duty. 
Referrd to the Committee to conferr with Genl. Washington. Letters 
from Coll. Beatty and Genl. Portail were read referrd to the same Com- 
mittee ; " Coll. Beatty wanted to have his Powers defined, that he may Act 
in his department of Commissary General of Prisoners, without being 
controld per the Officer on the Post etc. 2 Brigadier Generals appointed 
by Ballot for No. CaroHna viz. Somner 13. Hogen 9. Clark 4 ( ? first [) J ' 

I Do. for Maryland Col Gist. Letter Read from Mr. McPherson, de- 
sireing an appointment debate concerning Mr. Payne lasted till 5 P M.* 

24. Henry Laurens, Minutes of Proceedings.^ 

[January 9, 1779.] 
Mr. Laurens requested to be indulged in a few words in order to re- 
move prejudices from the minds of the Members 

He then producd a News Paper containing a Publication signed Robert 
Morris and read the following Paragraph Vizt.^ he observed that he did 
not put on the Cap or make an application because it fitted but because 
the application had been made to him and then appealed to the Hon'ble 
Mr. Penn ^ — that he had not insinuated but asserted certain facts which 
had been reported to him at York Town, recapitulated the information 
he had received respecting the exportation of a Cargo of about 470 Hdds 
of Tobacco, the Bills of Loading which were filled up to be delivered to 
the order of Willing, Morris and Co or W and M that the ques- 
tion was asked Mr. M on whose account the Tobacco was he 

replied that it would be determined at a proper time, that the Vessel was 
Captured, when by accounts it appeared that only a small quantity about 

I I Hogsds — appeared to be on Account of W M and Co or W and M and 
the rest on Public Account, that he had asserted this in Congress at York 
Town that he then appealed to the Hon. Gentn. who had given him the 
information that the Gent, called upon him in the Evening and said he 
was very sorry he Mr. L had mentioned the affair. Mr. Laurens asked 
him why because said the Gent. I had determined to mention the matter 
to Mr. Morris himself that he replied you know Sir I told you at the 

[23] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Cf. no. 26, post. 

3 The numbers after the names of Sumner, Hogan, and Clark indicate the 
votes for them, respectively. The word " first ", following the vote for Clark, doubtless 
means that Clark was first nominated. The interrogation is in the original. See the 
Journals, Dec. 29, 1778, and nos. 27, 2121, 40, post. 

* See nos. 17, 18, ante, and nos. 34, 35, 36, 39, post. 
[24]iL. I. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 9. The paragraph read is not included in these minutes, 
but it was doubtless that passage in which Morris refers to the insinuations of a member 
of Congress in February, 1778. See no. 20, note 4, ante. Cf. nos. 30, 31, post. 

3 See vol. IIL, no. 74. 



January, ///p 21 

time that such a circumstance ought not be kept a secret that Justice to 
Mr. Morris as well as to the Public forbid it. 

that the honorable Gentn. who had given him the information at York 
Town was now on the floor and he was sure he had candor and generosity 
enough to confirm what he had said.* 

25. James Duane to George Washington.^ 

Phil. 9th Jany 1779 
Sir 

In order to give Dispatch to the several Matters mentioned in your 
Excellency's Report to the Committee ^ it is proposed to offer Resolutions 
to Congress on the Heads you enumerate. We wish that the Remedy 
may be effectual and think it happy that we can be favourd with your 
Assistance. We therefore request that you will be pleased to point out 
what ought to be done with respect to the Arrangement of the Army — 
the Department of Artillery and Ordinance \_sic'\ the Cloathing Depart- 
ment the Inspectorship and the Branch of Engineers. 

Indeed we think it would be adviseable to vest the Commander in Chief 
with power to make these and every other Arrangement for the good 
Government of the Army by fonning a compleat System to be adopted by 
Congress as their Act. We submit this last Suggestion to your Excel- 
lency's Consideration being unwilling to throw any Burthens upon you 
which may be disagreeable, 

26. James Duane to George Washington.^ 

Philad lOth Jany 1779 
Sir 

I intended to have done myself the Honour of seeing your Excellency 
yesterday Evning but was so long detaind in Congress that I could not 
collect some Information which was necessary to be laid before you. 

4 This was Francis Lewis. Cf. nos. 28, 30, 31, 43, 81, 85, post. A " Copy of Mr. 
Laurens' declaration 11 Jany 1779", in Laurens's writing, is among the Laurens Papers 
in the South Carolina Historical Society (Congressional Letters, 1779) ; and a copy of 
" Mr. Laurens's reply in Congress to Mr. Lewis 16th January 1779 " journals, Jan. 19) 
is in the Long Island Historical Society, Laurens Papers. A minute of a vote, endorsed 
" Information respecting Robert Morris ", but corresponding to the vote, Jan. 9 {Jour- 
nals, p. 47), respecting Thomas Paine, is one of a group of papers pertaining to Robert 
Morris and the ship Farmer (ibid.). 

[25]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXX. 71. 

2 The committee of conference, of which Duane was chairman, was appointed 
Dec. 24. See the Journals; also vol. III., nos. 695, 696. Washington submitted to the 
committee of conference, Jan. 8, minutes of heads of matters requiring attention. These, 
in Washington's own hand, are in the Washington Papers and are printed in his 
Writings (ed. Ford), VII. 309. Washington's reply, Jan. 11, to the committee's letter 
is ibid., p. 309, (ed. Sparks), VI. 153. See also his letter to the committee, ibid., p. 158 
(with the date Jan. 15), and Writings (ed. Ford), VII. 317 (dated Jan. 13). The letter 
is actually undated. It discusses particularly the problem of recruiting the army and 
that of planning the next campaign. In a letter to the committee Jan. 20 Washington 
discussed the question of half-pay and pensions for the officers (Writings, ed. Ford, 
VII. 328, ed. Sparks, VI. 167). In a letter of Jan. 23 he took up the matter of clothing 
for the army (Library of Congress, Washington Papers). See also nos. 26, 29, 50, 53. 
54, 59. 63, 66, post. 

[26]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXX. 74. 



22 Continental Congress 

I expect Mr. Peters has furnished you with such papers as will give you 
a State of the Post at Fort Pitt and the plan of Operation suggested by 
General Mcintosh.^ I gave a Verbal direction to him yesterday on this 
Subject and have repeated it by a note this Morning. Indeed I am apt 
to believe it woud not be lost Time if your Excellency shoud converse with 
Mr. Peters as this Expedition has been conducted under the Eye of the 
board of War. The Committee will be very glad of your Advice on this 
Occasion 

I have now reed. Col. Wadsworth['s] Report on Supplying the Army 
which is enclosed and shows the necessity of dispersing the Bread with 
Oeconomy ; and limiting our Views.^ 

The enclosed Letter from the commiss[ar]y of Prisoners was yester- 
day referred to our Committee that we might have the Advantage of your 
Excellency's Advice on the Reformations proper for that Department. 
We accordingly beg leave to recommend it to your Consideration 

Congress have also been pleased to refer to us General Putnam's Letter, 
which is sent that we may have the Benefit of your Thoughts upon it when 
we meet. For the same Reason I transmit the papers referred to us con- 
cerning the French Engineers.* Your Excellency will perceive the high 
Tone in which they consider and represent their Services and their Impor- 
tance. Congress do-not see the Necessity or even Reasonableness of alter- 
ing the mode they adopted, it appearing to them to be sufficiently honour- 
able and respectful : But as they are determined not to weaken your 
Hands in a Branch that may be essentially injured by the Retirement of 
all the Gentlemen skilled in it, they have reserved it as a Subject of our 
Conference. 

I have the Honour to be with every Sentiment of Respect Sir 

Your Excellency's most Obedt humble Servant 

Jas. Duane. 

27. Thomas Burke to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia, Jany loth, 1779. 
Sir: 

Some time ago the Congress resolved to appoint two Brigadiers for 
our State, and agreeable to Instructions we nominated Cols. Sumner and 
Clark. Yesterday Cols. Sumner and Hogun were chosen by ballot. The 
choice of the latter gentleman not being pursuant to the Instructions, the 
design of this letter is to account for it and, if you please, you may lay 
it before the Assembly. 

2 A letter from the board of war on the subject, by Richard Peters, secretary, 
dated Jan. 10, is in the Washington Papers. 

3 Probably the letter of Wadsworth, Jan. 8, read in Congress Jan. 9. The copy 
enclosed by Duane does not appear to b^ in the Washington Papers. 

4 Concerning the engineers, see the Journals, Jan. 1, and no. 46, note 2, post. For 
the letters of Beatty and Putnam, see the Journals, Jan. 9. 

[27]! A/'. C. State Recs., XIV. 10. This letter is printed also in vol. XV., p. 746 
(without date), in XIX. 906, and in XXII. 519 (dated June 17, 1777). 



January, 1779 23 

After the nomination of Cols. Sumner and Clark, Mr. Hill and myself, 
who lodge together, were informed by a gentleman, who came immedi- 
ately through the army, that the deviation from the line of Seniority of 
rank, in the intended promotion of Col. Clark, gave great uneasiness, 
that it was considered by officers of every Corps, as a violence to military 
rank and honor, and by all resented. 

Reflecting that this matter of military rank had given great uneasi- 
ness, and occasioned great embarrassment to Congress, and that it had 
been for some time settled, and no deviation made from it, except where 
some officers had been fortunately distinguished in some extraordinary 
enterprise, (a case which is always admitted as an exception to the general 
rule,) and that it would not be prudent or just to wound a set of men, 
in a point which they hold so tender, who are so useful to their Country, 
and have ventured and suffered so much for their fellow citizens, with no 
prospect of emolument peculiar to them — and reflecting also that the 
officers of our Troops must be reduced to the necessity of resigning or 
remaining in the amiy as men degraded, and of course despised, a situa- 
tion the most intolerable that I can imagine and in which, I am persuaded, 
as they do not deserve to be placed, so their country do not wish them 
to be; reflecting I say Sir, on these circumstances, Mr. Hill and myself 
concluded, that it would be for the general good that the promotion should 
take place according to the rank of our line — and that the State, if well 
informed, would so far countermand their Instructions, being however 
concluded by our instructions we would not presume to nominate or vote 
for any but such as we had in Command, we deemed it, however, incum- 
bent on us, in order to preserve that character, for candor and integrity 
which we very highly value, and which we deem necessary even for pre- 
serving a due weight to the representation of the State, and particularly in 
order to prevent on the State the imputation of partial injustice and of 
involving the Congress in difficulties with respect to the Army, we deemed 
it incumbent on us to inform the Congress before they proceeded to ballot, 
how the rank of our line stood, and what occasioned the instructions. 
we communicated our Ideas to Mr. Penn, and he concurred with us — 
accordingly Sir, I laid the matter fairly before the Congress, and imme- 
diately thereon Col. Hogun was put in nomination, but not by any of us. 
Mr. Penn endeavored to support the Nomination made under our Instruc- 
tions, which, I confess, I did not. I told Congress that if I were to make 
a choice from my present Instructions it should be Col. Clark, but I 
thought all such considerations should give place to public utility, that I 
was apprehensive the choice of him would induce a very great inconveni- 
ence in our present circumstances, and I ventured to give it as my opin- 
ion that the State would not desire any thing which might have such effect. 
I lamented the misfortune of Col. Clark in having been restrained by 
Superior Command at Germantown which prevented his having an op- 
portunity of obtaining destinction, that even this misfortune had given 
a preference to Col. Hogun who had in that action behaved with dis- 
tinguished intrepidity, that upon the whole, tho' I must vote for Col. 



24 Continental Congress 

Clark, because I was so instructed, I could not be so uncandid as to say 
he had the best pretensions. In all the sentiments I delivered, I was happy 
to find that Mr. Hill concurred with me ; nor indeed do I know that Mr. 
Penn differed — he chiefly insisted on his instructions, and the violence 
done Col. Clark's feelings, in refusing him a promotion, which had been 
so long expected for him. 

Mr. Hill and I, for whom I can only now speak, not having seen Mr. 
Penn since the adjournment, are persuaded that we have done what our 
Constituents would have done if present, but should we be so unhappy 
as to have our conduct disapproved, we must lament the dilemma in 
which we were placed, and which made it impossible for us to gratify 
ourselves by supporting our Instructions, and at the same time preserve 
a due regard for the public service, and for the character of upright In- 
tegrity, which is very dear to every honest man — and essentially neces- 
sary to every Magistrate among free People." I have the honor to be, 
Sir, etc., 

Your very ob. Servt. 

Thos. Burke. 

28. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[January 10, 11, 1779.] 
lOth. Sunday. Coll. Scudder went home. Dined with Mr. J. Searle. 
II. Monday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Debates 
concerning Mr. Payne, and Mr. Laurens motion about Mr. Robt. Morriss 
conduct in Shipping Tobacco.^ lasted till near 6 oClock. 

29. The Committee of Conference to George Washington.^ 

Philad. iithjany 1779 
Sir 

The enclosd papers have this day been referred to the Committee of 
Conference with your Excellency: Not with any View to the immediate 
Contents of those papers : but to introduce a general Enquiry whether 
Humanity and policy demand from Congress a further proposition for 
the Exchange of Prisoners? Upon this great Point we wish in a free 
Conference to consider the State of the Prisoners on both sides and to 
have the Opinion of the Commander in Chief " 
I am with the greatest Respect Sir 

your Excellency's most Obedient humble Servant 

Jas. Duane 
His Excellency the Commander in Chief 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 29, 1778, Jan. 9, 1779. Cf. no. 23, ante, and nos. 33, 40, 
post. 

[28] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 19, 20, 24, ante, 30, 31, 43, 81, 85, post. 
[29]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIL 221. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 9 (p. 43), and a report of the committee, found in the 
Journals, under Jan. 22 (p. 104) ; cf. no. 49, post. 



January, 17IQ 25 

30. Henry Laurens to Robert Morris.^ 

[January 11, 1779.] 
To the Hon'ble Robert Morris Esquire 
Sir, 

An unnecessary allusion in your Address to the Public Saturday the 
9th Inst.^ has dragged me to the Press, an ill chosen tribunal for the 
purpose of Liqudating old Accounts. 

You say — " Early in the Month of February 1778, you were informed 
that some matters to your prejudice had been insinuated by a Member in 
Congress respecting these Books ", referring to the Books of the Secret 
Committee. 

Every Member of Congress understands what is meant by your in- 
sinuation they know the particular Member whom you mean to mark, 
altho there were many others who expressed the same sentiments every 
enquirer out of Doors will soon be informed who is the person, hence 
it is become necessary for me to ward off and to remove prejudices against 
myself. In the instance you allude to I insinuated nothing. I asserted 
certain facts respecting the Books which cannot be denied, and one other 
fact which if proved, must affect your reputation. Upon what grounds 
did I assert the latter? not vague report, but upon the testimony of a 
Member of Congress, one of your Coadjutors in the Commercial Com- 
mitte, who was present in Congress then sitting in Yorktown and to 
whom I appealed for confirmation, he was silent but did not contradict 
it.'^ I was not actuated by a desire to destroy your Character: quite the 
contrary, the information which I gave was ushered by sentiments like 
the following and as well as I can remember in almost the same words — 
" if the account which I have received be true, the Public ought to be in- 
formed, if it be groundless. Justice forbid that Mr. Morris should be 
kept in ignorance." The Gentleman from whom I had received the in- 
formation and to whom at the same time I declared I would introduce it 
into Congress upon the first proper occasion, called upon me in the 
Evening after the Adjournment of Congress and said " he was very 
sorry I had mentioned that affair ". why so Sir? You know I told you 
I would not keep it secret; because replied the Gentleman I had deter- 
mined to take an opportunity of speaking to Mr. Morris myself, be the 
affair well or ill grounded, I have not acted unfairly. 

A few days after this occurrance, a common friend of yours and mine * 
who had recently returned from Manheim suggested to me that you had 
been extremely misinformed respecting what had passed in Congress on 

[3o]iS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Congressional Letters, 1779 (draft). This 
document is in the writing of Laurens and bears an endorsement by him, " Copy of a 
Letter to Robert Morris ". It has also the following endorsement in the writing of Moses 
Young, Laurens's secretary, " An Address to the Hon'ble Robert Morris Esqr. intended 
for publication". It appears from Morris's reply (no. 31, post) that Laurens first sent 
the document to Morris himself. Upon receipt of the reply he doubtless concluded not 
to publish his letter. 

- Xo. 20, ante ; dated Jan. 7, but printed Jan. 9. 

3 Francis Lewis. See no. 24, note 4, ante. 

4 Probably John Penn. See no. 19, note 4, ante. Cf. Lovell to Samuel Adams, 
Jan. 28, 1780, in the next volume. 



26 Continental Congress 

the subject above mentioned and that you were Hellish Mad. he ex- 
pressed himself altogether in terms of benevolence, his attempts aimed at 
one point, to conciliate, he earnestly requested me to write and explain 
the matter to you. I resisted his kind entreaties because in a compli- 
ance there would have been a manifest impropriety. If Mr. Morris has 
been taught to beleive I have injured him, he will undoubtedly call on 
me. it would be beginning at the wrong end were I to offer a justification 
before I am accused and I am persuaded Mr. Morris if he is innocent will 
not Silently bear the charge which has been brought against him. why you 
have not made an inquiry into that charge is not for me to answer. 

Before I came to Congress I had heard complaints of the great expen- 
diture of Money by the secret Committee in which you had been always 
viewed as the ostensible Actor and of the unsettled state of their accounts. 
Similar complaints were repeated in my Ears immediately upon my ap- 
pearance in Congress in July 1777, and although " Andiam alteram par- 
tem " ,^ is a never failing maxim with me, jealousies were unavoidably 
excited, the information given by the Member at York Town had no 
tendency to extinguish or lessen them, had you called upon or written 
to me I would have given you the fullest satisfaction in my power, to do 
justice to an injured Man without respect to his rank or fortune is one 
of the highest pleasures I experience in life. 

Neither Common Sense ® nor your self Sir, have accurately repre- 
sented the Case respecting your assumption and surrender of the Books. 
I will therefore supply the defect of both relations by the following brief 
and true state. 

You proposed to Congress as you say in Novem. 1777 to take the Books 
to Manheim and to attempt in your recess an adjustment of the Accounts 
of the Secret Committee. I think you said you hoped to accomplish the 
business in about two Months, in the Month of February following 
Congress discovered much dissatisfaction at your long detention of those 
Books and upon that occasion I said, " from my Ideas of the Secret 
Committee's accounts I would engage to post up the whole in nine days, 
admitting Entries had been regularly made in the Waste Book, that if 
the necessary Entries had not been made an imputation would fall upon 
some body or other for this neglect, the Books however remained in your 
hands, not I assure you Sir from any special desire of Congress, they 
were chagrined and came to no decision on your Letter of the 8th Febry. 
the Commercial Committee were desired to write such an answer as they 
should judge proper. 

In September 1778," you informed Congress then sitting in Philadel- 
phia, " that you had done all you could in the Books of the Secret Com- 
mittee but that they were in such confusion you could make nothing of 
them, that therefore you wished to be rid of them and would send them 
to the Commercial Committee or wherever Congress should be pleased 
to direct, that you did not know you had any more to do with them than 

'-> In its English translation, " I will hear the other party ", Laurens uses this 
maxim not infrequently. See, for instance, no. 186, post. 

6 Thomas Paine. 

7 See the Journals, Sept. 4, 1778. 



January, lyyg 27 

any body else " those Books were accordingly sent by you as I have 
understood to the Commercial Committee and from thence the Com- 
mittee sent them to my House early in December last.* a few days after 
they had been in my possession a Young Gentleman called upon me in 
your Name requesting the Books should be returned to you because you 
were sure no body could settle them but your self or by him with your 
assistance, you will not think it extraordinary that I was surprised at 
the tenor of this Message- I replied to the Gentleman, the Books Sir had 
been very long in Mr. Morris's hands, he assured Congress some time 
ago that he could make nothing of them, they are now in mine I am 
determined to make an essay on them, besides it would be extremely 
improper to put Public Books into the hands of any Gentleman who is 
not a ^Member of Congress. My Compliments to Mr. Morris, if I find 
it necessary to ask his advice or assistance I shall take the Liberty of 
applying to him. This I say Sir is a brief and true statement of facts 
relative to the Books of the Secret Committee from November 1777 to 
Decem. 1778. 

You have, in my opinion, from many circumstances made your self 
responsible for the transactions in general of the Secret Committee, as 
well as for all deficiencies which may appear in the Accounts of your late 
Brother Mr. Thomas Alorris from a certain period. 

If I am not unexpectedly called away from Congress I trust I shall 
with the consent of the present Committee be able to shew what the Books 
do really contain and in what manner the Public Money has been ex- 
pended; far be it from me Sir, in the present stage to assert or insinuate 
that you have in any respect acted dishonestly. I hope quite the contrary 
will appear, but viewing you as an accomptant through whose hands all 
the business of the Secret Committee had passed and in whose single 
name much of the business had been negotiated I must think you a little 
faulty for keeping the Books upwards of ten Months and then returning 
them in their present disorderly State, especially as they had been a long 
time in your custody antecedent to Novem. 1777. 

You plead in excuse many other avocations, but will this consideration 
excuse you before the Public — by no means, why did you engage in so 
much more business than you were competent to? If private affairs would 
not admit of a close attention to your Public duties for due execution of 
which in the particular case before us Congress had altogether depended 
upon you, you should have relinquished in time and delivered up the 
Books in good order 

I speak with equal freedom and candor but do not mean to draw too 
hasty conclusions to your detriment. If after a full examination of the 
Books there shall appear no fault on your part I shall be among the fore- 
most to " do justice to your Character " and to remove every groundless 
suspicion from the minds of others by declaring in public and in private 

*^ In Laurens's " Anecdote " (no. 19, ante) he states that Morris sent for the 
books Dec. 14. That at all events was the date on which a new committee of commerce 
was appointed. See Morris's Statement, no. 20, ante. 



28 Continental Congress 

that you have not meritted censure. I shall be happier if I am enabled to 
add that you deserve the thanks of your fellow Citizens 
I am Sir your obedient hum. Servant, 

The Member alluded to.^ 

31. Robert Morris to Henry Laurens.^ 

Philada. Jany. nth, 1779. 
Sir 

I am to acknowledge the Honour of your Communication of this Morn- 
ing.^ I shall say nothing as to the Propriety of Vindicating your self in 
the News paper, nor pretend to determine whether there is or is not a 
better Method. 

Your own feelings must prompt and your own judgement direct you. 
For myself I am indifferent what attacks may be made on me. I feel a 
consciousness of innocence which puts me above every Effort to cast a 
stain on what, I thank God, hath hitherto been an unblemished reputa- 
tion. Since you have enclosed that paper to me I am under the necessity 
of pointing out some of those instances in which from inadvertancy you 
have mistated Facts lest a silent Acquiesence shou'd be misconstrued into 
admission. 

You will observe that I have not chosen the Press as a Tribunal for the 
liquidation of Accounts but being charged Publickly by Name, I was 
under a Necessity of defending myself in my own Name publickly. " The 
one other Fact, you allude to — which if proved must affect my reputa- 
tion " or rather one other allegation, I never heard untill last Saturday 
Evening when a Gentleman informed me what passed in Congress on the 
Subject. I have here to add that no circumstance could have given me 
greater pleasure than to learn that matters which had so long been the 
groundwork of private Conversation against me, were now to be pub- 
lickly investigated and I will add, Publickly refuted. 

I am little solicitous who gave you the information, but am to thank 
you for the Public communication, and confess my astonishment that 
the similar declaration at York Town, if such was made, was not fol- 
lowed by an immediate investigation for I agree with you that if it be 
true the Public ought to be informed, and I go farther, the offender ought 
to be punished. Why I have not made an enquiry into that charge is 
already answered for I could not enquire after things I had not heard 
and never shou'd expect to be charged with. 

The reason why I did not call on you was that from my information, 
you had only drawn wrong conclusions from mistated Facts, and thence 
taken an opportunity to urge insinuations to my disadvantage, to which 
a justification of myself before Members of Congress was unnecessary, 
and their cordial and unabated Friendship to me convinced me I had done 
what was right on that occasion. 

° Cf. nos. 19, 20, 24, ante. Morris's reply is no. 31, t^ost. For a continuation of 
this controversy, with additions, see Laurens to Morris, July 8 (no. 398, post). 
[31]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XVIIL 
2 No. 30, ante. 



January, 1779 29 

You are mistaken if you suppose I said that I hoped to accomplish the 
Settlement of the Books in question in about two Months. I did not 
say so. 

I agree that you or I or any person that understands Book-Keeping 
might soon post up the Books had the Entries been regularly made in the 
waste Book. They were not, but minutes of the Committee were regu- 
larly kept, from which and the letters and Accounts in their possession, 
those Entries can be made. This is the State of that matter and this I 
Stated to Congress while you were in the Chair and Moved a resolution 
that the Members of that Committee should be directed to finish the Set- 
tlement of those accounts,^ and when the Honourable R. H. Lee Esqr. 
declined this task then I asserted that I had no more business to settle 
the Books than (not any body else, but[)] any Member of that Commit- 
tee. If there was no decision in Congress on my letter of the 8th Feby., 
Mr. Lewis and Mr. Ellery must justify themselves for signing and 
sending me the answer I published.* I cannot suppose they wou'd have 
done it without proper Authority therefore am inclined to think they can 
set you right in that respect. You have much misapprehended what 
passed in Congress in Septr. 1778. I informed Congress that I had 
Worked at the Books of the Secret Committee untill the Leger was filled 
so that there was no room for opening new Accounts and that I had 
delivered the Books to the Clerk of the Commercial Committee So far 
from saying, " that I had done all I could in the Books " (except on 
acct. of the Ledger) " and that they were in such Confusion I could 
make nothing of them and therefore wished to be rid of them["] I deny 
the Fact. I never entertained such Sentiments and declared quite the 
reverse. I said the Accounts were in such forwardness that they might 
easily be settled by the Members of the Secret Committee and therefore 
moved they might be appointed for that Service, this Sir will be well 
remembered by many Members of Congress. What Conversation passed 
between you and the Young Gentleman who called for the Books I really 
do not know. I authorized no such conversation on my part as you men- 
tion, that Young Gentn. when he recovered from Sickness went to the 
office to work at the Books, not finding 'em there he came to me. I knew 
nothing of them, but Mr. Bowen informed him you had them, as I did 
not know your intentions, I told him I supposed you wou'd give them 
to him when you had done with them. 

With respect to the reasoning of your Piece ^ I shall at present be 
Silent, if you are convinced of the justness of it you will abide by it. 
my own opinions govern me, and as you and I differ I will only tell you 
at this time, that I beleive your strictest search after deficiencies in the 
Committies or my Brothers Accounts will not answer your expectations, 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 4, 1778. 

* The reference is to the letter of Francis Lewis and William Ellery, members 
of the commercial committee, Feb. 21, 1778 (vol. III., no. 109). 

^ The word here and also in the postscript is interpreted by the copyist as being 
in the plural, " pieces " ; but as Morris speaks in the outset of " your communication " 
(singular), and as there is no other indication that Laurens sent him more than the one 
piece, it is assumed that '" piece " is the proper reading. 



30 Continental Congress 

but if any such appear I will chear fully abide the Consequences shou'd 
Congress determine me to be answerable. When I have received that 
acquittal which I am confident of and placed in that light which I know 
myself to deserve, it will be time enough to speak of private Friendships. 
I have a better opinion of you than to believe you would prostitute that 
term by a Connexion with me whom you seem to consider as a dishonest 
Man. 

I am Sir with proper Respect 

Your most Obedt. and humble Servant, 

RoBT. Morris 
P. S. 

I return your piece herewith. 
The Honourable 

Henry Laurens Esqr.® 

32. William Carmichael to Mordecai Gist.^ 

Sir 

I am happy at the same time that I return you my thanks for your 
obliging attention to my letters, to inform you that you are appointed a 
Brigadier General in the service of the United States. 

It will be an additional satisfaction to you to know that you were 
unanimously appointed by Congress and that General Washington 
hath expressed his warmest approbation and high satisfaction on the 
occasion.^ .... 

Philadelphia Jany. nth 1779 

33. Whitmill Hill to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia Jany. 12: 1779. 
D'r Sir, 

.... There has been a grand Maneuvree in Congress, attempting to 
fund their several paper Emissions,^ but am doubtful the project will be 

6 Concerning the controversy between Laurens and Francis Lewis over the 
question of Morris's interest in the tobacco ship Farmer, see no. 24, note 4, ante, and 
the Journals, Jan. 9, 11, 12, 13, 15, 19, Feb. 9, 10, 11. Under the latter date is found 
a letter from Morris to a committee of Congress, dated Jan. 22, setting forth at 
length the history of the matter. An account of the episode is in Wallace, Life of 
Laurens, pp. 329-335. With regard to an additional chapter in the controversy, see no. 
398, post. 

[32]! Md. Hist. Soc, Gist Papers, vol. IL, no. 2. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 9. Samuel Sterett, then assistant clerk of the Penn- 
sylvania assembly, wrote to Gist Jan. 21 concerning his promotion : " I need not mention, 
as you would naturally suppose, that you had a Competitor for this promotion. But 
notwithstanding his claim of precedence founded on seniority created a delicate dif- 
ficulty, this recent instance of their approbation of your rnilitary conduct was con- 
ferred with the greatest unanimity The Adherents of Colo. Price (if any) 

receiving such conclusive Proofs of disapprobation from Congress, to save his credit 
will probably take refuge under the sanction of a report, that it was obtained through 
partiality. But this I apprehend will prove an untenable post and they will be compelled 
to retire from it before all except the uninformed" (Md. Hist. Soc, Gist Papers, 
vol. HL). It does not appear from the Journals that Col. Thomas Price was even 
nominated. 

[33]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Members of the Old Congress, H. 97. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 2, and the circular letter, ibid., Jan. 13. 



January, 1779 31 

very injurious to the Southern States, my wish is, that I may be mis- 
taken ; however think, this might be remedied in some degree, should our 
State emit a sum of paper Cur'y immediately and buy up all the Conti- 
nental Cur'y possible, and lodge it in the Loan Office, in which case, they 
would draw on Interest for all Sums over their proportion, and would 
have it in their power to procure Cont'l Cur'y without any Inconvenience, 
which in a future day must be redeemed with Gold and Silver or its 
equivalent, am sensible how averse our people are to emitting money, 
but when it is considered that the quantity of circulating medium is not 
increased by this Emission, and only one Species of Money exchanged 
for another am led to believe under this Consideration they will consent 
to emit such a Sum as they may judge necessary to exchange for Cont'l 
Cur'y : this being a matter of real Moment to us, wish the Assembly to 
prosecute some Scheme that will avert the Danger, 

I must not omit informing you that Col. Clarke has not been promoted 
agreeable to Instructions given the Delegates by the Assembly. This 
matter expect will occasion some warmth among Colo. Clarkes Connec- 
tions (whom I much esteem) and perhaps the Assembly may construe it, 
into a Violation of the Trust reposed in their Delegates, therefore think 
it necessary to state the matter as it really was. a few Days past Cols. 
Sumner and Clarke were nominated to be ballotted for as Brigds. for 
our State, yesterday ' their Election came on, when Mr. Burke and myself 
impressed with a Sense of the Duty we owe to the common Cause, and 
justly alarmed with the intended Resignations of many of our Officers, 
concluded that we should not be acting the part of candid and honest Men, 
not to remind Congress of our Instructions relative to this matter, and 
at same time inform them of the Rank of our Line, and leave it with 
them to determine; the merits of the several Officers was not the question, 
but Seniority determined Congress in favor of Col. Hogun; on our part 
we implicitly obeyed our Instructions, by nominating and voting for 
Col. Clarke, this was all we had it in our power to effect, and we rest 
assured from this State of the matter, we shall stand acquitted by our 
Country, as we are sensible they would wish us to retain that degree of 
Candor and Integrity, which ever distinguishes the worthy Character.* 

I have the Honor to be with great Esteem, 

yr. Excellency's most Obdt. Sert. 

Whitmill Hill. 

34. John Fell, Diary.^ 

1779, Jany. 12th. Tuesday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Con- 
gress. Lievt. Hale ^ a Prisoner Pe[ti]tion'd to go to New York. Referrd 

3 The nomination of Q)lonels Sumner and Clark was on Dec. 29 ; the election 
of Sumner and Hogan was on Jan. 9. This letter must therefore have been written 
on the loth. 

* Cf. nos. 23, 27, ante, and no. 40, post. 
[34] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 This was Lieut. Christopher Hele of the British navy, who was taken prisoner 
when the sloop Hotham, bearing the objectionable manifestoes, was wrecked in the 
Delaware (see vol. IIL, nos. 568, 576). A protest from Admiral Gambler, Nov. 15, at 



32 Continental Congress 

a Committee of 3. to draft a Letter to Admiral Gambier concerning him. 
Debates on Monsr. Gerrard Memorial lasted till near 6 oClock.^ Letter 
from General Phillips to General Gates and Genl. Washington and Lord 
Sterling Committee to con f err with Mr. Gerrard about Flour to be Shipd 
Duane, Smith and Adams. 

i^th. Wednesday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock.* Congress. 
Letter from Coll. Grason with his Resignation, refer'd to the Committee 
to conferr with Genl. Washington Sundry Letters from the Councill of 
Massachusetts Bay respecting Flour, and Securing the Harbour of Boston. 
Circular Letter Read to be sent to the Governors of Each State.^ 

35. The President of Congress to the Minister of France 
(Conrad Alexandre Gerard).^ 

^•^^ Philadelphia, January 13, 1779. 

It is with real satisfaction that I execute the order of Congress for 
transmitting to you the inclosed copy of an Act of the nth inst.^ on a 
subject rendered important by affecting the dignity of Congress, the 
honor of their great Ally, and the interest of both nations. 

The explicit disavowal and high disapprobation of Congress relative 
to the publications referred to in this Act will, I flatter myself, be no less 
satisfactory to his most Christian Majesty than pleasing to the people of 
these States. Nor have I the least doubt but that every attempt to injure 
the reputation of either, or impair their mutual confidence, will meet with 
the indignation and resentment of both.^ 

I have the honor to be. Sir, With great respect and esteem. 

Your most obedient and humble servant, 

To the Hon. the Sieur Gerard, ^^^^ J^^' 

Minister Plenipotentiary of France. 

Hele's imprisonment, as a viola tion of the flag of truce, gave rise to the letter in 
response, found in the Journals, Nov. 28, 1778 (see vol. III., no. 643, note 2). Admiral 
Gambler's letter of Dec. 25, read in Congress Jan. 12, was a further protest on the 
same subject. Gambler's letter of Nov. 15, preceded by some correspondence between 
his secretary, James Dick, and Col. John Beattyj commissary-general of prisoners, 
together with the resolves of Congress Oct. 16 and Nov. 9, is in Almon's Remembrancer, 
1778-1779, p. 179; his letter of Dec. 25 is ibid.^ p. 203. Laurens's letter of Nov. 28 is 
ibid., p. 303. During his imprisonment Lieutenant Hele wrote numerous letters of 
complaint to Congress and eventually broke his parole, having first, however, notified 
Congress that he intended to do so. See tlie Journals, Oct. 20, 26, Nov. 2, 28, Dec. 12, 

1778, Jan. 7, Feb. 12, Mar. 8, Apr. 3, 6, May 18, July 15, Aug. 10, Sept. 20, Dec. 13, 

1779, Jan. 19, 1780; also Paullin, Out-Letters of the Marine Committee, IL 102, 158. 

^"12. Congress sit till 6 o'Clock" (Samuel Holten, Diary). Concerning Gerard's 
memorials of Jan. 5 and 10, see nos. 17, 18, 23, ante, 35, 36, 39, post. 

* The committee had under consideration this day a letter of James Willing, 
referred to them Jan. 12. Their report is in the Journals, Jan. 14. For some account 
of Willing, see vol. IL, p. 565, vol. III., p. 96. A deposition of James Searle, Oct. 31, 
1785, pertaining to Willing, may relate to this period (Searle says that it was "in 
the year one thousand seven hundred and seventy eight or seventy nine"), but it is 
believed that Searle's memory was in error and that the matter to which he refers 
more probably came up in April, 1780. (See under Apr. 7, in the next volume.) 

5 The letter is in the Journals. 
[35]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 12; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Col- 
lections: Deane Papers, III. 255; Royal Gazette, Feb. 13, 1779, p. 3. 

- The resolution is found under Jan. 12. 

3 See no. 18, note 2, ante. Gerard's response is in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: 
Deane Papers, III. 256, and Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 23. See also nos. 39, 172, 
180, post. 



January, 1779 33 

36. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[January 14, 1779.] 
14th. Thursday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock Congress. Debates 
relating to jMonsr. Girrards Letter.^ Letters from Genl. Schuyler, relat- 
ing to Indians and restoration to be made to sundry Persons for damage 
Sustained by their forridge etc. Letters from Govr. Clinton and Genl. 
Washington in behalf of James Douel ^ of Little Britain, for the Loss of 
his Barn etc. burnt by the Convention Troops, all Referrd to a Com- 
mittee of 3 viz. Fell, Burk and Dyer; Agreed to Emitt 15000,400 
Dollars.* 

37. The President of Congress (John Jay) to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philadelphia 15th Jany. 1779 
Dear General, 

As the Secretary has neglected to furnish me. (as usual) with the dates 
of your late Letters to Congress, and your Express sets out early in the 
Morning I must describe them by the Subject-IMatter. 

The one on the Subject of your Resignation still remains under con- 
sideration.^ The one respecting the request of the Oneidas is referred to 
a Committee appointed to confer with General Washington who are 
directed, without the further Intervention of Congress to determine and 
give Order relative to it.^ The third, which, if I mistake not, states the 
Embarrassments you have been subjected to by Genl. Gates' having forbid 
the Quarter Master to pay certain Notes you gave while in command, 
is referred to a special Committee who are ordered to report without 
delay.* .... 

38. The President of Congress (John Jay) to Stephen Ward.^ 

Philadelphia 15th Jany. 1779. 
Sir 

Immediately on receiving your Letter of the 6th Deer, last, I communi- 
cated it to Congress. A committee was thereupon appointed to enquire 
into the Facts mentioned in it, and Mr. Drayton, (one of that Committee) 
a few days after wrote you a Letter on the Subject, which I sent by Ex- 
press to Poughkeepsie. I hope you have received it and that you will en- 
deavour to obtain and transmit the necessary Proofs he requires without 
delay. ^ 

[36]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 17, 18, 23, 35, ante, and no. 39, post. 

3 James McDowell. Clinton's letter to Washington relative to the claim, Dec. 18, 
1778, is in Clinton Papers, IV. 401, and this was the subject-matter of Washington's 
letter of Jan. i read this day. Cf. Jay to Clinton Jan. 15, Clinton Papers, IV. 484. 

* The figures are erroneous. Thej should be 50,000,400. 
[37]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 16. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 5, Alar. 18, Apr. 19; cf. no. 5, ante, and nos. 104, 144-146, 
241, 352, post. 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 14. Cf. ibid.. Mar. 18, 24, Apr. 3. 

* See the Journals, Jan. 14, 29, 30. After the postponement of the matter, Jan. 
30, no further action has been found in the Journals. 

[38]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 18. 

-Ward, writing from " Fredericksburgh 6th Deer. 1778", relates that on 
Nov. 13, " two days after the expiration of the Manifesto published by the British 



34 Continental Congress 

39. John Fell, Diary/ 

[January 15, 16, 1779.] 

i^th. Fryday Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Letters 
from the Governors of Virginia and Maryland, advising of the Scheme 
agst. Augustine being lay'd aside ; ^ Report from the Marine Committee 
to Reverse the Sentance of Capt. McNeal." Memorial of Mr. DeFrancy 
in behalf of Mr. Bowmarcha agreed to send him 3000 Hhds. Tobacco. 
At 6 P M at the Commercial Committee. 

16th. Saturday. Congress. Resolved that the Committee for foreign 
affairs order Mr. Thos. Payne their Secretary to deliver on Oath, all the 
Papers etc. in his Office.* 

40. John Penn to Jethro Sumner.^ 
D.arSir Philada. Jany. 16, 1779 

Inclosed you will reeceive a Commiss'n appointing you Brigadr. your 
rank in the Army depends on the date of your Colo's. Commission it was 
not in my power to procure it sooner owing to the length of time it took 
to arrange the army. Colo. Hogan is appointed a Brigadr. also, the reason 
given for over looking or in other words not Complying with the recom- 
mendation of No. Carolina in favr. of Colo. Clark was that Colo. Hogan 
had behaved well and was the oldest officer, all acknowledged Colo. 
Clark's merit and would have been glad to have raised him.- .... 

41. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 17th Jan'y 1779 

.... I wish the promotion of Simpson - as sincerely as you do. but 
the reasons you give, viz the appointmts. of Landais ^ and Hardin " operate 

Commissioners at New York bearing date the 3d of October ", his dwelling was burned 
"by an express Order (if not with the own hands) of General Tryon". " It aflforded me 
no small degree of Consolation ", he declared, " when I saw that most excellent 
Declaration by the Honorable the Congress of the 30th of October vis: .... 
[after quoting the first half of the last paragraph of the manifesto, he then adds] 
the which I sincerely hope may continue untill the End and design of the same 
(tho' form'd from necessity) may be accomplished; and operate in such way as to check 
our unconscionable Enemy in their insatiable thirst for human carnage and Devasta- 
tion." Ward's letter was read in Congress Jan. 1 (see no. 1, ante), but there is no 
further reference to the matter in the Journals. 
[39]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See vol. III., no. 694, note 2 ; see also nos. 62, 63, 67, post. 

3 See vol. III., no. 440, note 4. 
* See nos. 17, 18, 23, 34-36, ante. 

[40]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 3934. 

2 Cf. nos. 23, 27, 33, ante. 
[41 ]i Hist. Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., Members of the Old Congress, VI. 89. 

2 Lieut. Thomas Simpson, commander of the ship Ranger, was appointed captain 
Sept. 17, 1779. See also the Journals, Apr. 29, Dec. 2. 

3 Capt. Pierre Landais, appointed to the command of the Alliance June 19, 1778. 
See also the Journals, May 9, 29. 

■* Seth Harding, appointed captain of the Confederacy Sept. 25, 1778. See vol, 
III., p. 539- 



January, 1779 35 

against it for the present I hope he will content himself with the com- 
mand he has for the present cruise in which I doubt not his conduct will 
justify me in urging his promotion 

42. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[January 18, 1779.] 
18. Congress adjourned without doing any business, there being but 
8 states present. My Colleagues, Genl. Whipple and myself dined with 
Mr. Holker, the Consul of France 

43. John Fell, Diary.^ 

18th. Monday Commercial Committee 9 oClock. 12 Went to Con- 
gress but not being States Sufficient no Congress At 6 P M Commercial 
Committee. 

1779, Jany. 19th. Tuesday Commercial Committee Excesive Cold. 
Congress. Letter from Genl. Sulevan to Genl. Prescot and his answer. 
Do. from Lt. Coll. Bradford for leave to Resign.^ Do. from Capt. Fowler 
late a British officer.^ Do. from Genl. Green reccomending Warrant Offi- 
cers to have Commissions all referrd to the Board of Warr. Committee 
appointed on Acct. of Mr. Laurenss information against Mr. R Morris 
Vizt* lblank^ 

44. The Committee on the Commissary and Quartermaster's 

Departments to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philadelphia 19th January 1779. 
Sir 

We did ourselves the honour to write to your Excellency the nth of 
November last on the Subject of Engrossing.^ permit us to call your 
attention once more to that Subject. The Evils feared when that Letter 
was written now rapidly approach and the Letter from the Commissary 
General * of which we inclose a Copy gives us the most alarming appre- 
hensions 

\.^2Y Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 251. 

[43 ]i Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 19, Apr. i. 

3 Capt. Alexander Fowler was chosen auditor of the army Feb. 20 (having 
been nominated Feb. 11) and was assigned to the Western district. A letter from him 
to Thomas Gates of Portsmouth, N. H., written from Pittsburgh July 25, 1779, is in 
Hist. Magazine, third ser., I. 292 (with the signature " C. A. Fowler ", the " C " being, 
however, a misinterpretation of a flourish). There are several memorials from him, 
as late as 1787, in Papers Cont. Cong., and numerous letters in the Washington Papers. 
See also Illinois Hist. Colls., V. 161, 237, 246. 

* Laurens's information, dated Jan. 16, is in the Journals, Jan. 19. Copies are 
also in S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Congressional, and Long Island Hist. Soc, 
Laurens Papers. See nos. 19, 20, 24, 28, 30, 31, ante, and nos. 81, 85, post. 

[44]' Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, XXIV. 60; id. to New Jersey, N. J. State Lib.; A^. /. 
Rev. Corr., p. 140; id. to Delaware, Library of Congress, Force Trans., Rodney. 

2 See vol. HI., no. 621. 

3 Wadsworth's letter of Jan. 8, read in Congress Jan. 9. 



36 Continental Congress 

The Wisdom of the State you preside over and your own Exertion 
will not we are Confident be wanting to prevent the Mischiefs arising 
from that insatiable thirst of Gain which knows neither principle or 
bounds. We will not insult your good Sense by dwelling on this fruitful * 
Topick — your knowledge of the Cause and prudential foresight of the 
Effects will doubtless Stimulate you to every measure which you shall 
deem necessary for the public Service ^ 
We are with Respect 

Your Excellencys Most Obedient and humble Servants 

Gouv Morris 
Wm : Whipple 

45. Samuel Adams to Samuel Cooper.^ 

Jany 19 —79 
My dear Sir 

Inclosd is the Newspaper of this Day. Philalethes in attempting to 
show that the Supplys from France were not a Present from that Court, 
which nobody that I know of has asserted, has abundantly proved one 
thing which Common Sense has insisted on viz that A Lee had been nego- 
ciating with Mr Beaumarchais for those Supplys, before Mr Dean arrivd 
there. ^ .... 

^ The text in N. J. Rev. Corr. has " painful ". 

5 See the letter from the Maryland council to the delegates Jan. 28, Arch, 
of Md., XXI. 286, and no. 70, post. 

[45P Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 118; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The defense of Deane by " Philalethes " (supposed to be Col. John Parke) 
appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet of Jan. 19. " Common Sense " replied briefly 
in the issue of Jan. 21, " Philalethes " came out in another article Jan. 23, and " Common 
Sense " in a further reply Jan. 26. These articles are all found in N. Y. Hist. Soc, 
Collections: Deane Papers, III. 292-335. 

For an article of Henry Laurens signed " Philopatros ", addressed to Philalethes, 
combatting some statements of the latter in these articles respecting Laurens's resignation 
as President of Congress, as also for a brief note concerning Colonel Parke, see 
these Letters, vol. HI., no. 664. Since that volume appeared the editor has come upon 
two documents relating to the controversy between Laurens and Parke. One is a 
statement of John Laurens, without date, evidently intended for Colonel Parke, relating 
circumstantially the history of his efforts to have Parke rectify in the press the mis- 
statements of fact in these articles respecting the resignation of President Laurens ; 
the other is a letter from Colonel Parke, written from Dover, March 27, 1779, addressed 
to John Laurens, and replying to a letter from the latter, dated March 6. 

John Laurens says in the beginning of his statement : " Col. Hamilton informed me 
that Col. Gibson had mentioned to him that he and Col. Parke were concerned in the 
publications in favor of Mr. Deane." He then relates that he had called upon Parke 
and insisted that he publish a true state of the facts. Parke declared that he had not 
meant to reflect upon President Laurens, but that the narrative as he had published 
it had been given him by a member of Congress. " I then ", says Laurens, " shewed 
him the true narrative, and told him I thought it incumbent on him to publish it 

with a proper preface I told him I would be answerable for the truth of every 

part of it, and that he might shew it to any member of Congress. He promised to 
publish it." There was undue delay, and Laurens called again. Meanwhile Parke had 
shown it to a member of Congress, who " saw nothing material to alter in it ". Parke 
again promised to publish the narrative, but said that it would take him some time 
to prepare the matter for the press. Laurens " observed to him that there was nothing 
to prepare but a preface of three lines — that the narrative was ready done to his hands ". 
Parke then said he would " carry it for Dunlaps next paper ". Sometime later, as the 
publication did not appear, Laurens renewed his demands through letters to Parke at 
Dover. Afterwards Parke called on him in Philadelphia and explained that he had given 



January, 1779 37 

Mr Deans Friends are in hopes he will be sent to Holland as a Reward 
for his good Services, from whence he may probably send or bring 
another mercantile Letter of Recommendation. Doubtless deep Com- 
mercial Connections may be formd there. They are willing Mr J A should 
go to Spain. The Design of this is to get Mr A L removd from thence. 
Others are for sending Mr A to Holland leaving Mr L in Spain, to whose 
Influence in that Country our Armies are indebted for Supplys of 
Blanketts Shoes and Stockins. I am sorry to be obligd to think, that a 
Monopoly of Trade, and not the Liberty of their Country, is the sole 
Object of some Mens Views. This is the Cake which they hope shortly to 
slice and share among themselves.^ 

46. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[January 20, 1779.] 
20th. Wednesday Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Let- 
ters from Sieur Gerrard and Genl. De Portail and others. President 
requested to answer them.^ Letter from Major Genl. Lincoln with an 
acct. of the Enemys taking Savanna in Georgia. Letter from Coll. Zed- 
witz referrd to the Board of Warr.^ Letter from Genl. Mcintosh con- 
cerning the Indians referrd to Genl. Washington. Letter from Mr. 
Deane * Motion for a Committee on foreign affairs one Member from 
Each State vizt. Whipple, Gerry, Ellery, Ellsworth, Duane, Fell, Searle, 
McKean, Paca, Smith, Burk, Laurens, Langworthy.^ 



the article to Dunlap, but that the latter had made excuse for delaying to publish 
it. In this conversation Parke stated that he had obtained his information concerning 
the resignation from Deane. A call upon the latter brought forth a denial and the fur- 
ther statement that Mr. Duer and Colonel Parke had drawn up the paper in question, 
and that the former had given the account of the President's resignation; that he (Deane) 
had, however, gone over the manuscript of Philalethes with Mr. Duer, a fact which 
might have misled Colonel Parke. In his conversation with Deane, Laurens suggests 
that, since so much time had elapsed, he would probably not insjst further on the 
publication. 

Parke's letter is, in brief, an assertion that he had prepared the piece for the 
press, had given it to Dunlap, who had promised to publish it but had persistently 
delayed in spite of repeated requests from Parke. " H Mr. Dunlap does not choose to 
comply ", he remarks, " it is not in my Power to set his Press to work." The " true 
narrative " which John Laurens had furnished Parke was doubtless the " Philopatros " 
article referred to above, which accordingly seems not to have been printed before. 
3 Cf. vol. III., nos. 669, 697-699, and no. 12, ante. 

[46]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The letter of Gerard is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 26, the letter from 
Duportail and the other engineers. La Radiere Laumoy, and Gouvion (the latter did 
not sign the letter, but his assent is indicated in a postscript), is ibid., p. 27. The 
letters convey the assent of the engineers to the offer of Congress as expressed in the 
Journals, Jan. I. The Journals do not record the instruction to the President to make 
reply. Cf. no. 26, ante. 

3 Concerning Col. Herman Zedtwitz, see vol. II., p. 60 n., and the Journals, Jan. 
20, Apr. I, June 26, July 14. 

* Deane's letter is in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, III. 300, 
and in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 29 (dated Jan. 21). 

5 This was a special committee for the investigation of foreign affairs. Dyer 
took the place of Ellsworth Feb. 24. See, further, the Journals, Mar. 17, 24 (the 
committee's report), Apr. 15, 20-22, 26, 28, 29, May 3, 18, 22, 25, June 8^ 10. 



38 Continental Congress 

47. William Whipple to John Langdon/ 

Philadelphia 20th Jany. 1779. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... I see no danger this way of a loss of influence. Some little 
convulsions are always necessary to let people know themselves. I hope 
the plan of finance will have a good effect, but something farther must 
be done. I hope New Hampshire will tax largely and not confine herself 
to the 500,000. her proportion was set higher, but I got it lowered in 
order that she might be more at liberty to act herself, many of the States 
will tax much more than the sums set to them. Virginia will raise between 
2 and 3 millions lawful, those States that tax very high while money is 
thus plenty will certainly find their advantage in it." .... 

48. Henry Laurens to John Gibson.^ 

Sir 

I had the honor of receiving your favor of the 18th Instant intimating 
the request of the Board of Treasury " that I would lay before them the 
expenditures for supporting my Household as well as other incidental 
charges while I officiated as President of Congress " ^ In answer I must 
observe Congress were truly informed in my letter of the 19th Ultimo ^ 
that as I had not been taught to expect reimbursement of my expences 
I had kept no particular account of them, therefore I intreated the House 
to excuse me from attempting to render accounts which it was impossible 
for me to frame with any degree of accuracy, and that they would be 
pleased to accept my services of that kind as a very small return for their 
friendship. 

I would now most earnestly repeat my request, had not the House 
resolved against it. nevertheless it is impossible for me to render par- 
ticular Accounts because I kept none ; the nearest computation that I can 
form is one thousand Pounds Sterling in Bills of Exchange, about forty 
Guineas in Gold, four thousand Continental Dollars, exclusive of House 
rent in Philadelphia, Servants, Carriage and Horses, firing, Candles, Sta- 
tionary, some extra Household furniture, a Pipe of Wine and other 
liquors supplied me by Major West and Colonel Cox. the whole amount 
may be suitable enough to the vicious fashion of the day, but with shame 
I confess it to be altogether anti-republican and inconsistent with the 
circumstances of the distressed States of America. Whatever sum the 
Treasury shall be pleased to determine upon will be perfectly satis factoiy 
to me: had I known I had been living at public expence my conduct 
should have been governed by different rules and principles. 

Under cover with this you will receive an Account of my advances to 
a Secretary, for I employed but one at a time, to Express Messengers etc., 

[47]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 603. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 5, and no. 79, post. Cf. no. 7, ante. 
[48]iS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Letters, 1779-1780. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 11, 12, 16, 22, 1778. Cf. vol. IIL, no. 412, and the 
undated report found in the Journals under July 31, 1778. 

3 Laurens's letter of Dec. 19, read in Congress Dec. 22, has not been found. 



January, ///p 39 

which you will be pleased to lay before the Honorable Board, and if it 
shall be found free from error, a Warrant on the Treasury for the Bal- 
ance 3394 15/90 Dollars, will be very acceptable* 
Chestnut Street. 21st Janry 1779.^ 

John Gibson Esquire Auditor General Philadelphia. 

49. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[January 21-23, 1779-] 
Jan'y 21st. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Letter from 
the French Minister, and the Marine Committees answer about Provision, 
and the Commissary Generals reply that he could not furnish any Flour 
to the Minister.- 6PM Commercial Committee. 

22d. Fryday. Do. Do. 9 oClock till 3PM Congress. Coll. Freling- 
huysen ^ came to town today, but I did not go to Congress. Coll. Cad- 
walader Resign'd. President to write to the Governors of South and 
North Carolina to assist Georgia. President to write to the Count Estang 
to request his assistance and to send two advice Boats and the Marquis 
of Britagnie to have the Command of one. Letter from Commisary 
Jeremiah Wadsworth against the Distilling of Grain referrd to a Com- 
mittee.* Genl. Washingtons Letter reccomending Coll. Rawlinss 3 Com- 
panys to be rec[r]u[i]ted. Letter from General Phillips. Letter from 
Count Mumford ^ for leave to Resign, granted. Committee on Col 
Beattys Letter Reported that the Commisary General of Prisoners, Re- 
side at Camp and that he receive orders from the Commander in Chief, 
Congress or the Board of Warr. Inspector General to have the Rank of 
Major General.® 

2^d. Saturday:. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Intro- 
duced Coll. Frelinghuysen. NB some of the Business sett down Yester- 
day was done this day and Enterd thro Mistake.^ 

4 The letter bears what appears to be an endorsement by the auditor, " Passed 
Novr. 9, 1779". A warrant for 35,000 dollars in Laurens's favor was ordered Nov. 12. 
See Wallace, Laurens, pp. 317-318. 

5 Following is a passage in a letter from Samuel Sterett to Gen. Mordecai Gist, 
Jan. 21, 1779: 

" The Custom of Duelling is exceedingly prevalent at present in this City. Such is 
the Dominion of fashion that neither penal laws, or sentiments of religion are able to 
abolish this barbarous and unjustifiable practice. Two Members of Congress, Mr. 
Lawrence the late President and Mr. John Penn from N. Carolina lately decided 
some nice point of honor by single Combat. Such is the countenance given to that mode 
of satisfaction by the example of those illustrious heroes in romance, that we have 
new duels fought every day" (Md. Hist. Soc, Gist Papers, vol. IIL). See no. 19, 
note 4, ante. Cf. no. 570, note 3, post. 

[49]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

- See the Journals, Jan. 12, 21, 22, Feb. 3, Mar. 17. 

3 Frederick Frelinghuysen, delegate from New Jersey. He took his seat Jan. 23. 
The " Do. Do." in the line above stands in the original below the words " Commercial 
Committee ". 

* This and the succeeding items of this day's entry all appear to belong under 
Jan. 23. See the Journals, Jan. 23, and Fell's next entry. Wadsworth's letter is in Md. 
Hist. Soc, Red Book, X. 18. It calls the attention of Congress to the fact that a 
law of Pennsylvania forbids distilling, that distillers are moving into Maryland, and 
that a scarcity of bread is likely to be the consequence. 

5 This was Count Julius de Montfort, major in Pulaski's regiment. 

6 Cf. no. 53, post. 

'' See note 4. above. 



40 Continental Congress 

50. The President of Congress (John Jay) to a Committee 

OF Congress.^ 

Philadelphia 23d Jany. 1779. 
The President of Congress presents his Compliments to the Committee 
appointed to confer with General Washington etca., and requests the 
favor of them to compleat and transmit to him a state of the Intelligence 
ordered to be sent to Count D'Estaing as soon as they conveniently can. 
That a measure deemed so important may not be affected by any delay 
in the President's dispatches.^ 

51. The President of Congress (John Jay) to the Governor of 
Virginia (Patrick Henry ).^ 

Philadelphia 23d Jany. 1779 
Sir, 

The Congress viewing the Expulsion of the Enemy from Georgia as 
an object for many reasons important, and relying on the chearful Exer- 
tions of Virginia on this Occasion have come to a Resolution of which 
the enclosed is a copy.^ They flatter themselves that in the Patriotism 
as well as Power of your State, the cause of Liberty and Humanity in the 
neighboring ones, will always find chearful and seasonable Relief and 
Support.^ 

52, William Ellery to John Sullivan.^ 

Philadelphia Jany 24th 1779 
Dear Sir, 

I received yours of the 15th of December, and have since found that 
the sentence of the court martial on Crossing and his associates answered 
my expectation. The Court could not have done otherwise consistent with 
Law and justice; but it seems there is danger of retaliation in case the 
Sentence should be executed. I should be very sorry if the execution of 
that infamous traitor, should occasion the death of any especially of a 
worthy whig. Genl. Prescott I find by your last letter to Congress on this 
subject is very solicitous to preserve the lives of Crossing and Phillips.^ 
His Aid,^ if I remember right, told you that they both had Commissions. 
If this should be the case : If they had commissions from the K of Britain 

[50] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 30. Addressed, "To Coll. 
Henry Laurens, James Duane and Others of the Committee of Congress appointed 
to confer with General Washington etca.". 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 22, and nos. 54, 63, 67, post. 

[51]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 31. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 22 ; cf. no. 54, post. 

3 A similar letter was written to Governor Caswell of North Carolina (Presi- 
dent's Letter-Book, p. 31; N.'C. State Recs., XIV. 16). 

[52]! Library of Congress, U. S. Revolution. 

- " Phillips " must have been written inadvertently for Corey, as there is no 
other mention of a Phillips in the correspondence concerning this affair, which pertains 
to the cases of William Crossing and Francis Corey. See no. ii, ante, and no. 169, post. 

^ In Sullivan's letter of Jan. 4, read in Congress Jan. 19, the aide is mentioned 
as Captain Barry (Capt. Henry Barry?). 



January, 1779 41 

previous to their kidnapping Almy etc. it would make a material altera- 
tion in their Cases ; but I doubt this very much. If they had commissions 
why were they not produced at their trial? certainly there was time 
enough for that purpose, between the capture and trial ; and why did not 
the Aid bring them to Providence? If Genl. Prescot will declare bona 
fide that they had these Commissions previous to their kidnapping expe- 
dition, and exhibit them to you, I should give some Credit to such decla- 
ration and exhibit; but I must confess I am not satisfied with the Story 
of his Aid. The proceedings of the Court-martial are committed, and 
I am one of the Committee. I should chuse to have fuller light, than I 
have at present, before I can give Judgment : Therefore could wish, if 
you should receive any further information, that you would communicate 
it to Congress 

53. The Committee of Conference to George Washington.'^ 

[January 24, 1779.] 
,-,. Sunday 3 oClo P M 

When I have the Honour of seeing your Excellency I will explain the 
objection made in Congress to the plan for establishing the Department 
of Inspector General. It held up the Idea too strongly of seperate Depart- 
tnents which, as they have been conducted, imply an Independence of the 
Commander in Chief, and are in other respects productive of Inconveni- 
ence and Expence. And it assigns too high a Rank to the assistant Inspec- 
tor General in the Opinion of some of the members of Congress. That we 
may know your Excellency's Opinion on these points and particularly 
whether there is a necessity for the Rank recommended, are the principal 
motives for the Reference.' 

The enclosd Dispatches from the Commis'y Prisoners require imme- 
diate attention.^ 

If it will be convenient I shall be glad to spend a few minutes with 
you at any Time you shall appoint after four oClock. 

I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Respect Sir 

Your Excellency's Most Obedient humble Servant 

Jas. Duane 
His Excellency the Commander in Chief * 

54. The Committee of Conference, Statement for the 
President of Congress.^ 

It appears that a detachment of the Enemy's troops by no means incon- 
siderable have possessed themselves of Savannah the Capital of Georgia. 

[53]' Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, LIIL 240. 

- See the Journals, Jan. 23 (p. iii), Feb. 18, Apr. 16. For the earlier history of 
the inspectorship, see the Journals, May 5, Aug. 1, 20, Sept. 15, Nov. 24, 1778,_ and 
the letters of Washington upon which Congress acted. Those of Apr. 30 (two printed 
with that date, although one is actually dated Apr. 28), June 1, July 26, Sept. 12, 1778, 
are (in whole or in part) in Writings (ed. Ford), VI. 504, VIL 66, 124, 189, (ed. 
Sparks), V. 347, 350, 408, VL 20, 66. The orders establishing the office of inspector- 
general are dated June 15, 1778 (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 152, vol. VL, f. iii). 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 23 (p. 104). 

4 Washington was then in Philadelphia in consultation with Congress. 
[54]! Paris, Archives de la Marine, B*, vol. CLXVIIL, f. 18 (copy). 



42 Continental Congress 

Their number cannot be ascertained but it is between 4000 and 5000. 
Their Naval force is by no means considerable, consisting of a 50 and 
40 gun ship, two sloops of war and some gallies. By this stroke they are 
in capacity more effectualy to defend their possessions in East Florida, 
to annoy the southern part of south Carolina, perhaps a favorable mo- 
ment to attack Charlestown 

They will draw from Georgia immense supplies of provisions for their 
troops in America and the Islands. Their cruizers will shut up the navi- 
gation of South Carolina and not only possess themselves of the property 
at sea intended for that State, but what is of greater importance totally 
prevent the sending of rice from thence for the use of our allies in the 
Islands. 

It is a melancholy truth that little dependence can be prudently placed 
on the wheat and flour of the more Northern States until the next harvest. 
But however great advantages above stated that [they?] derive one of 
far more value considered on a general scale. The riches of Mexico and 
Peru are in a manner locked up, unless the Southern extremities of 
America and the Bahama Islands can be wrested from their possession 
and it is highly probable that the expedition takes its rise from the appre- 
hension of a war with Spain. While we lament the inconveniences which 
will be felt from the loss of Georgia; we cannot but derive pleasure from 
a consideration how much they have exposed themselves should the situa- 
tion of affairs in the islands permit such detachment from the combined 
fleets of France and Spain, or either of them as would prevent their 
escape by sea; while a body of good french or Spanish thrown in some 
favorable situation between Savannah and Augustin would prevent their 
retreat that way until the force now assembling in Virginia and the Caro- 
linas could be collected to operate against them with effect. On a view 
of these circumstances it appears extremely probable that the conse- 
quences of the measure would be not only the destruction of that detach- 
ment of the Enemy's force, but the possession of all those ports which 
secure the navigation of Mexico and gulph of Florida, the essential ad- 
vantages of which during the future operations of the war are too evident 
to need illustration 

The above paper agreed to in Committee of Conference with the Com- 
mander in Chief and directed to be delivered to the President of Con- 
gress, as the substance of intelligence respecting the invasion of Georgia ^ 

Jas. Duane for 

the Committee 
(Copy) 
25th January 1779. 

55. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[January 25, 1779.] 
2§th. Monday Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress Motion 
to call Robt. Lettice Hooper to acct. for having several Brigades of Con- 

~ See no. 50, ante; cf. nos. 63, 67, post. If this statement is among the Papers of 
Congress it has not been found. 

[55]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



January, i/'yp 43 

tinental Waggons Loaded with Flour and Iron, on Private account the 
General requested to call a Court Martial; ^ Bounty of 20 Doll's besides 
the 80 offerd before with Land and Cloathing and to the Officer for 
Inlisting 10 D's at Camp and 20 abroad and 3 D's a Day.^ Wm. Bedlow, 
auditor * Committee on Genl. Lincolns Letter, Laurens, Root and Lee.** 
Johnson Smiths complaint agst. Coll. Flowers at Carlisle Committee 
Roberdieu, Dyer and Hill.'^ 6 P M Committee on foreign Affairs 
Mr. \\^hipple Chairman 

56. William Ellery to Christopher Ellery(?).^ 
Dear Brother, Philadelphia Jany. 26th 1779 

.... I expect an Auditor of the Army will be appointed for the 
army in our State, and that the Council of War in our State will have the 
appointment of him. I believe his pay will be five or six dollars pr day. 
If you should think such an office will suit you, you must keep a good 
look out.^ .... 

57. Thomas Burke to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Joseph Reed).^ 

^jY Philadelphia Jany 26th 1779 

Mr. Root suggested to a committee to whom Congress have referred a 
report of the Committee of appeals relative to the case of the Sloop 
Active, in which it seems the State of Pennsylvania have some political 
as well as pecuniary Interest, that you are desirous that some arguments 
or documents should be offered to them on behalf of the state before their 
report is concluded on. the Committee are desirous of clearly under- 
standing your wishes, and have every disposition to comply with them. 
I request you therefore to let me know them particularly that I may open 
them at our next meeting. 

The committee is not appointed to review the Decree of the committee 
of appeals, but to state the principles of their power, and the reasons for 
the judge's refusing to execute, and they are to report specially.^ 

I am sir with all due Respect, and personal regard 

your Obdt Servt 

Thos Burke 
[Endorsed :] From Thomas Burke Esqr. Read in Council Jany 27, ///p. 

2 The motion as recorded in the Journals is " for remedying abuses in the several 
public departments '' ; but see the Journals, Jan. 23 ; cf. ibid., Dec. 22, 1778, Apr. 15, 
1779 (P- 453 n.). 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 23, Mar. g. Fell's entry would indicate that the report 
of the committee of conference was under discussion this day. 

* According to the Journals, a letter recommending William Bedlow for the 
position of auditor in the army was read Jan. 23, but his election did not take place 
until Feb. 9. 

B Cf. nos. 58, 62, 6z, 67, 78, post. 
6 See the Journals, Jan. 25, Mar. 13, and no. 85, post. 
[56] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Members of the Old Congress, II. 4. 

2 Cf. the Journals, Jan. 21. 23. Feb. 9. Christopher Ellery was nominated Nov. 5 
for the office of commissioner of the board of treasury but was not elected. 
[57]! Collection of the late D. McN. Stauffer of Yonkers, N. Y. 

2 Concerning the case of the sloop Active, see the Journals, Nov. 28, 1778, Jan. 
19, 21, Feb. 2, 13, 2~., Mar. 3, 6, .9, 16 (petition of Olmstead and White), jo, Apr. 6, 9, 



44 Continental Congress 

58. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[January 26-28, 1779.] 
Ja7iy. 26th. Tuesday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. 
Letter from President Read in Council complaining of Major Genl. 
Arnolds conduct in useing publick Waggons in Private affairs etc. and 
of Indignity to their Body Referrd to a Committee of 5 vizt. Paca, Burk, 
Floyd, Holton and Root." Instructions read to the Delegates of Pensyl- 
vania, complaining of an improper arrangement in their State of Briga- 
dier Generals, Referrd to the above Committee ^ 6PM attended the 
Committee on foreign affairs " a most miserable Rainy bad Night. 

2'/'th. Wednesday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. 
Sundry Letters read. Long debates about the Marquis of Britagnies 
Instructions ^ 6PM Committee on foreign affairs. 

28th. Thursday Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Letter from Genl. 
Lincoln, vi^ith 1400 Continental and Militia — Enemy Genl. Campbell 4000, 
Letter from Genl. How v^^ith 600. Letter from Govr. Lounds desiring 
Frigates to be sent to So. Carolina ; Debate on the f rench Ministers Pro- 
posal for Compensation if Count Estang goes to Georgia. 6PM Com- 
mittee on foreign affairs 

19, 24, 28, Sept. 6, 29, Oct. 13, 21, 1779, Jan. 17, Mar. 21, 1780. Burke was chairman 
of the committee appointed Jan. 21, the other rnembers being Paca, Root^ Dyer, and 
Meriwether Smith. Reed's reply to Burke, Jan. 28, is in A'". C. State Recs., XIV. 256, 
and Pa. Arch., first ser., VII. 170. Burke's response to Reed the same day is no. 60, 
post. Mar. 6 a committee, consisting- of Paca, Burke, and Richard Henry Lee, was 
appointed to confer on the subject with the committee of the Pennsylvania assembly. 
Mar. 30 the committee of Mar. 6 was discharged and the matter referred to a committee 
appointed Mar. 29 for a general conference with a committee of the Pennsylvania 
assembly (see the Journals, Mar. 26). This committee consisted of Paca, Root, Samuel 
Adams, Laurens, and Richard Henry Lee. See no. 91, note 2, post. For an account of the 
case of the sloop Active and the importance of the place which it has in the development 
of the court of appeals, see J. F. Jameson, " The Predecessor of the Supreme Court ", 
in Essays in the Constitutional History of the United States, pp. 17-23. 
[58] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 26, Feb. 1, 15, 16, 18, 22, 24, Mar. 1, 17, 23, 25-27, 29, 
30, Apr. 1, 3, 12, 15, 16, 24, 26-28, and Pa. Arch., first sen, VII., passim (index, 
Arnold). In a letter to the Pennsylvania delegates, Jan. 30, President Reed requested 
that " whenever any Question shall be put which may affect the Authority or Reputation 
of this Council, and more especially in the Case of Gen. Arnold, that you call for the 
Yeas and Nays, that in our Correspondence with our sister states we may have an 
opp'y to shew them how far their Delegates in Congress do or do not manifest a 
Disposition to support the authority of civil Government, and more especially in the 
Execution of the Resolves of Congress" (ibid., p. 174). Of particular interest is a 
circular letter from the Pennsylvania council to the other states, Feb. 6 (ibid., p. 183), 
respecting " the necessity of preserving the Dignity and Security of civil Government, 
and guarding the good people of these States against all Abuses of Power ". See 
also nos. 95, 143, 162, 180, 183, 208, 234, 311, post. 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 26, May 11, 12. Concerning the case of Col. William 
Irvine, who was made brigadier-general May 12, see. vol. III., no. 631. 

* The special committee of thirteen appointed Jan. 20. See no. 46, note 5, ante. 

^ The debates were doubtless concerning the despatches to the Comte d'Estaing 
which Bretigney was to carry. See the Journals, Jan. 22, 25, 27, Feb. 5 ; cf. nos. 62, 
63, 67, 68, 74, 88, post. The Marquis de Bretigney had been soliciting employment 
since August, 1778, and had preferred numerous memorials to Congress to that end, 
which had been frequently imder consideration but without decision. See, for instance, 
the report of a committee Dec 2, 1778, and cf. the Journals, Apr. 13, 17, 1779. 



January, 1779 45 

59. James Duane to George Washington/ 

Philad. 28 Jany 1779. 
Sir 

I found myself so much indisposed this morning that it was impru- 
dent to go abroad, which will I hope apologize for my not meeting 
the Committee of Conference at Your Excellency's Quarters as was 
proposed 

Col. Armand has favourd me with the enclosd Letter respecting his 
Corpse. I take it for granted Congress will submit the formation of a 
Plan respecting the independent Corpses, including such of the 16 Regi- 
ments as were raised, to your Excellency. I know not how it is possible, 
any other way, to obtain an Arrangement which must depend on a 
Variety of Circumstances, and is encompassed with many difficulties. 
I do not know what progress has been made by the Committee of Arrange- 
ment, tho' I think it necessary that your Excellency shoud be furnished 
with every thing they have done, or had in Contempl'n as far as appears 
from their papers in the War Office. 

Col. Armand seems at present to be contented with his separate Corpse, 
tho' averse to an Incorpo'n with Count Polaski's. If the latter takes place 
it seems to be his Intention to go to South Carolina as a Volunteer and 
therefore is pressing for a Decision before your Departure. In my opin- 
ion he has a Claim to our attention. Every thing, which is consistent with 
the publick Service, ought to" be done for him.^ 

60. Thomas Burke to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Joseph Reed).^ 

Philadelphia, January 28th, 1779. 
Sir, 

I received your favor of this day, and laid it before the Committee. 

We concur with you in every wish that the business referred to us may 
be discussed and decided upon principles of law, justice and reason, and 
know of none other that ought or can influence the Congress therein. 

We have yet discovered nothing in the Business that can affect the 
temper or indanger the harmony which we believe subsists between 
Congress and the state of Pennsylvania. 

We do not suppose that the general power of Congress to decide as the 
last resort in all cases of captures is denied or affected by the opposition 
given by the Judge of admiralty in Pennsylvania in the case referred to 
us, the Judge has been requested to certify his reasons ; he has declared that 
the law of the state has made the finding of a Jury conclusive in all 
matters of fact, without reexamination or appeal, and that he is pre- 

[59]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXX. 152. 

2 Armand wrote to Washington Jan. 20 with regard to his corps and enclosed a 
tabular statement of its composition (N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Rev. Papers, L 
307), to which Washington replied Jan. 21. The letter to which Duane refers may have 
been the letter of Feb. 3, read in Congress Feb. 4. See the Journals, Feb. 4, 5, 12, 13, 
and nos. 72, 74, 90, post ; also Washington to the President of Congress Feb. 8, in 
Writings (ed. Sparks), VL 172. Cf. these Letters, vol. IIL, no. 288, note 2. 

[60]^ Pa. Arch., first sen, VIL 170. 



46 Continental Congress 

eluded by this law from enforcing any decree contrary to the verdict of 
a Jury, he has offered arguments in support of his conduct, and the only 
question seems to be whether the municipal law of any one state can con- 
trol or restrain the exercise of the power to decide finally on all cases of 
captures? This question ought, and we hope will be discussed and de- 
cided on principles of law, justice and reason, and we doubt not if it shall 
be found that the Legislature of Pennsylvania have mistaken or over- 
looked any principle, and through such mistake or Inadvertance have 
passed a law which has an injurious effect contrary to their expectation 
and wishes, the members composing it have too much liberality to persist, 
and too much temper and good sense to take offence at men who may be 
by their duty called on to decide. In short we none of us conceive this 
affair to have proceeded from any thing but those imperfections of human 
language and human understanding from which no rank or condition of 
men is exempt, and we have no apprehensions that any evil can arise from 
the result of the deliberations and decisions of Congress on it. We are 
exceedingly willing to receive every information possible on the subject, 
and have appointed to-morrow afternoon to hear whatever the parties 
may be pleased to suggest ; the Committee will meet at the State House 
at six o'clock.^ 

I am Sir, with great esteem and respect, 

your very obed't serv't, 

Thos. Burke. 

6i. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

[January 29, 1779.]' 
Sir, 

Congress have not yet laid down any permanent Principle to ascertain 
each State's Proportion of Men and Money: what is suggested on this 
Subject in the Articles of Confederation is not compleated and therefore 
could not be adopted. The late apportionment of Monies was made ac- 
cording to Principles which originally obtained, that is according to the 
number of Souls in each State as ascertained by Estimates formerly 
furnished by the Delegates. 

But even this mode was not strictly attended to. Rhode Island and 
New York being invaded were unable to pay the whole of their Propor- 
tion and Georgia for the like Cause not able to pay any Money at all : the 
Deficiency of these States was thrown on the rest tho' not in equal Divi- 
dends, some of the States having taken upon themselves more than their 
Proportion, induced by the Idea that they can contribute to sink their 
Debt with more Facility while they abound in Paper Emissions than when 

2 See no. 57, ante. Reed's letter of Jan. 28 is in A^. C. State Recs., XIV. 257, and 
Pa. Arch., first se_n, VII. 170; his reply to this letter, Jan. 29, is ibid., p. 172. See nos. 
222, 234, 611 (note 3), post. 

[6i]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 31; Arch, of Md.. XXI. 288. 

2 This date is found in the endorsement, but it may be the date the letter was 
received. 



January, 1779 47 

the Quantity is reduced and our Currency appreciated : Part of this Defi- 
ciency has been imposed on ]\Iaryland but less than her Proportion of it. 
Congress having adopted a temporary mode of apportionment and 
not intending to conclude the States by it have to prevent Injury from 
unequal assessments resolved that all the sums of Money which the 
States are called on to raise shall be placed to their respective Credits on 
Interest : When the Rule therefore of apportionment comes to be estab- 
lished such States who shall be found to have advanced beyond their 
annual Quota will be compensated by Interest on such Advances.^ 
We have the Honor to be Sir 

Your most Obedient Humble Servants 

Wm. Paca 
John Henry Junr 
Wm. Carmichael 

62. John Fell, Diary.^ 

177Q, Jany. 29. Fryday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock Congress 
Letter from David Franks for leave for his Clerk to go to New York. 
Letter from General Washington for leave to go to Camp.^ Motion for the 
defence of Georgia and So. Carolina debated. Referrd to the Committee 
to conferr with the General Letter from the President Read, in answer 
to the Minister of France for his request of Compensation, long debate 
lasted till near 5 oClock ^ 

63. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

29 January [1779.] 
Dear Sir 

.... Your Excellency is well acquainted with my anxious forebod- 
ings of the distress of Georgia. All that I have offered from time to time, 
for upwards of twelve months past, met with slight, will not say Con- 
temptuous, receptions, when a proposition was made in August 1777 
for an Enterprise to West Florida which appeared to me to promise 
nothing more than ineffectual dissipation of Men and Money, I reminded 
Congress of the weak state of Georgia and South Carolina. I succeeded 
so far as tended to quash the attempt, but could never prevail on the 
House to dispose of the intended means for the security of a weak 
frontier.^ 

My labors for five Months past have been incessant for fixing the 
attention of the higher powers to the safety of the Southern States. Your 
Excellency shall in due time see all my Letters on this subject, and which 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 5 ; cf. no. 70, post. 
[62] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Cf. no. 66, post. 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 28 (pp. 119, 123), 29, Feb. 5, and nos. 50, 54, 58, ante, 
63, 67, 68, 74, 88, post. 

[63]! S. C. Hist. Society, Copies of Letters mainly to Laurens, 1771-1782, p. 248. 
2 See vol. H. of these Letters, nos. 559A, 559B, 584, 586, 601, 605. 



48 Continental Congress 

not being properly supported Gentlemen in general concluded that I was 
either deficient in my political Ideas or unnecessarily and partially appre- 
hensive of danger in the quarter where my own and the Estates of my 
particular friends happen to be situated. I have nothing to offer in sup- 
port of a penetrative Judgment, but the sacrifices which I have made them 
ought I think, to have shielded me against the smallest imputation of 
selfishness. I am reduced to the state of many an old Man to content 
myself with saying " I told you so." ^ 

I am rejoiced that Your Excellency has advertised Count d'Estaing of 
the circumstances of the two Southernmost States. I was confident you 
had done so before your advices reach'd me. I had suggested the Idea of 
writing to the Count to the same effect by special advice Boats from 
hence Maryland and Virginia, the President of Congress requested in- 
structions upon the occasion. The subject appeared to me to be narrow 
and concise, however a Committee was ordered to prepare the required 
foundation, this was done on the 25th Instant.* the President was then 
to confer with Mr. Gerard, he did so, and reported yesterday " that the 
Minister expected that the application for the aid to be asked of Count 
d'Estaing should be accompanied with assurance of compensation agree- 
ably to the spirit and meaning of the fourth article of the Treaty of alli- 
ance to be hereafter settled by a Convention between the Court of France 
and the United States." A Committee was thereupon appointed to take 
the same into consideration and to confer with the Minister on the subject, 
Mr. Laurens, Mr. S. Adams and Mr. Paca, were the Committee, and were 
unanimously of opinion the Fourth Article did not apply to the present 
case. I have not time to set forth the reasonings in which Congress 
seemed generally to concur, and some were a little fired by the obstacle. 
Mr. Gerard had in our conference adhered to his first opinion. 1 think 
it unlucky that we applied for his intervention. If the fourth article is 
obligatory, it will ever be so, and might have rested as a subject for future 
discussion, for the compensation, if any is to be made, must be discussed 
on a future day. here the business was hung by the Eyelids at our ad- 
journment Yesterday, and will be resumed this Morning.^ all this tends 
to lengthen a dangerous delay. I flatter myself with hopes that Your 
Excellency's letter to Count d'Estaing has reached him before this day. 
in this case I am persuaded he will, without hesitation and with much 
alacrity grant all that Congress meant or intended to ask — " such relief 
as may be in his power." I do not exactly quote the words of the Jour- 
nals — but these contain substantially and precisely the meaning. 

The President will have acquainted Your Excellency with the recom- 
mendations of Congress to the States of Virginia and North Carolina, to 
afford you all possible aid.*' .... 

3 Cf. vol. III., nos. 482, 541, 572, 627, 694, 706. 

4 Laurens doubtless alludes to the statement of Jan. 25, no. 54, ante. The Journals 
do not, however, record the order to the committee to prepare such a statement. See 
also no. 50, ante. 

•' See nos. 58, 62, ante, 67, 68, 88, post. 

^ See the Journals, Jan. 22, 28, 29, Feb. 5, 8, and no. 67, post. 



January, ///p 49 

I believe Sir it will be impossible for me to write to our worthy friend 
Gervais by this Conveyance. I moved for the million of Dollars he re- 
quired and obtained an immediate vote on the 21st Instant/ I hope the 
Treasury have done their duty, and that the money is now on its way. 
I have the honor to be, with all possible Esteem and Respect, Sir, 
Your Excellency's Obedt. and Humble Servt. 

H. L. 

64. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to William Bingham/ 
_. Philadelphia 29 Jany 1779 

.... The circumstances under which Cap Cunningham ^ saild in the 
Revenge are not known here actually, though Mr. Deane and Mr. Car- 
michael are on the Spot. The intentions of the former as to the sale of 
her was not confirmed by his colleagues in France, but yet I do not see 
how the request of your Letter of August 16 in regard to her prizes can 
be taken up, as Mr. Cunningham, into whose hands the product is com- 
mitted, has never informed Congress that he possesses any of their prop- 
erty. I wish you would gain and transmit the true state of facts relative 
to the outfit, and present claimants of this Vessel.^ .... 

65. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[January 30, 1779.] 
^oth. Saturday Letters Read from Govr. Clinton and Genl. Wash- 
ington for the Payment of Sundry People in the State of New York. 
Letter read from Genl. De Portail relating to the fortyfying Boston 
Harbour, referr'd to the Marine Committee Brigr. Hamiltons Letter to 
Coll. Harvey ^ in Virginia and his answer, relating to the accomodation 
of the Convention Troops. 

66. The President of Congress (John Jay) to 
George Washington.^ 

^^. Philadelphia 31st Jany : 1779 

Congress .... by their Act of the 30th Inst, of which the enclosed 
is a copy, have consented to Your Excellency's Return to Camp. 

" The matter was referred to the board of treasury Jan. 20, and the warrant was 
ordered Feb. 3. 

[64]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. I., p. 277 (letter-book 
copy). 

2 Capt. Gustavus Conyngham. 

3 See the Journals, Dec 26, 1778, Jan. 4, Feb. 22, Mar. 12, and nos. 108, 133, 135, 
post. Samuel Adams, writing to James Lovell from Boston, Mar. 30, 1780, respecting 
Capt. Paul Jones and the Alliance, remarked: " If Congress will recollect the Managem't 
of the Cutter Revenge commanded by Cunningham^ which I imagine has not been 
cleard up to this Day and probably never will be, they will think it just to the Publick 
and necessary that £nquiry shd. be made, while Jones is on the Spot, concerning the 

Squadron lately under his Command" {Writings, IV. 144, incorrectly placed among the 

letters of 1779). 

[65]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

- John Harvie, lately a delegate to Congress from Virginia. The letter to him 
was from Brig.-Gen. James Hamilton of the convention troops. 
[66] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIII. i. 



50 Continental Congress 

The Opinion of Congress, respecting the continuation of the Commit- 
tee of Conference, is, as yet, undetermined. To me it appears proper, as 
well as necessary, that until they become dissolved, by making a Report 
on the several Matters committed to them, they should consider an epis- 
tolary correspondence v^'iih your Excellency on those Subjects to be as 
much within the Line of their Appointment as personal conferences ^ . . . . 

6y. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

31 January [1779.] 
Dear Sir 

.... Your Excellency will learn from a Piece of paper here inclosed 
that we have not advanced one step in our intended application to the 
Count d'Estaing. this stagnancy is probably the effect of misapprehen- 
sion, the Journal of Congress direct [s] that an application be made to 
Count d'Estaing for such aid or relief as may be in his power to afford.^ 

The Minister seems to have fixed his attention to a paper which had 
been prepared by a Committee for the President, setting forth the dis- 
tressed circumstances of Georgia, the dangerous Situation of South Caro- 
lina, and also the advantages which may result from an immediate attack 
upon the Invaders of those States, and coupled to these the Idea of an 
intended Conquest of East Florida, an event not anxiously wished for by 
our ally.^ in this view there can be no question whether the 4th Article 
of the Treaty of Alliance will or will not apply. 

But to solicit for such immediate relief as the Admiral may be able to 
afford to invaded States which are guaranteed by the Treaty is one 

2 Jay is replying to a letter of Washington Jan. 29 {Writings, ed. Sparks, VI. 
171). A record of what was probably the last of these conferences may be found in 
the preface to vol. XIII. of the Journals (ed. Ford), p. 7. Cf. nos. 25, 26, 29, 50, 53, 54, 
59, ante. 

[67J1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Copies of Letters mainly to Laurens, 1771-1782, g. 250. 

2 See no. 63, ante. The " piece of paper " mentioned at the beginning of the 
paragraph may have been the proposed letter to the minister of France. The considera- 
tion Jan. 22 of the intelligence frorn Georgia and South Carolina (letters of General 
Lincoln) set in motion several lines of action and gave rise to two committees, each 
of which underwent some changes in personnel. Arnong the ijistructions to the Presi- 
dent was one that he confer with the French minister with a view to obtaining the 
interposition of Comte d'Estaing for the relief of Georgia and South Carolina, and 
it appears, particularly from this letter of Laurens and that of Jan. 29 (no. 63, ante), 
that, as a basis for this conference, the President obtained the statement of Jan. 25 
(no. 54, ante) from the committee of conference with General Washington. The 
President reported to Congress Jan. 28, and this " information " was referred to a 
committee (Laurens, Samuel Adams, and Faca). The committee brought in a report 
at the close of the same day (the report is found in the Journals immediately after 
the appointment of the committee), but it was not taken into consideration until the next 
day, when it was recommitted, Ellsworth and Duane being added to the committee, 
'i'he report was. taken up again Feb. 5, when a resolution was adopted declaring the 
purpose of Congress and then a new committee (Gouverneur Morris, Laurens, and 
the President) was appointed to confer with the minister of France and to prepare 
despatches, etc The latter cornmittee made its report Feb. 8. For another line of action 
through a committee, see note 5. below. Meanwhile, there were conferences proceeding 
with Gerard on other subjects by other committees. 

^ The statement of the committee of conference, Jan. 25, no. 54, ante. See also 
no. 63, ante. 



January, lyyg 51 

thing- — eventual proceedings and consequent benefits to the Party re- 
quiring aid in an Enterprise, is another. 

If after having afforded the necessary rehef in which the Parties in 
good faith are mutually interested, an Enterprise for acquiring new Ter- 
ritory should be projected previous stipulations for compensation to the 
assisting party will become necessary/ I fear while we are reasoning my 
Country is bleeding. 

A Committee had been appointed for conferring with the Commander 
in Chief on the most proper means for reenforcing General Lincoln, but 
nothing having been effected in the course of two or three days I yester- 
day moved for an addition of two Members, and recommended my Col- 
leagues, these Gentlemen being elected, we immediately entered upon 
the business committed to us. the General, I mean General Washington 
is of opinion that no effectual aid can be afforded from the Main Army, 
Count Pulaskis Legion excepted. Congress adjourned before we could 
make our Report and negativ'd a proposition for meeting this Morning 
(Sunday). Tomorrow we shall recommend to repeat the late requisitions 
for all possible aid to be sent from Virginia and North Carolina, includ- 
ing about four thousand stand of Arms, a large quantity of Gunpowder, 
some lead etc. to be collected in Maryland, and the States before men- 
tioned.' You are not to expect any naval assistance, the Idea of granting 
such, from our feeble funds was generally exploded, if I remember right 
when the question was put on that occasion there were no voices, ay, but 
Mr Drayton's and my own,'' and truly Sir, you will not be much surprised 
at this, when you are fully informed of the circumstances of our 
Marine 

68. A Committee of Congress, Proposed Letter to the Minister 

OF France (Conrad Alexandre Gerard).^ 
Sir 

The candor and frankness which have distinguished all your negocia- 
tions with these States, impose particular obligations on Congress to ob- 
serve on all occasions the like conduct towards you. 

* See the proposed letter to the French minister, no. 68, post. 

s Laurens speaks as if a committee had been appointed specifically for conference 
with Washington relative to the means for re-enforcing General Lincoln. The com- 
mittee to whom this business was assigned (Jan. 20, Journals, pp. 93, 94) was the 
committee appointed Dec. 24 for conference with General Washington (Duane, Root, 
Meriwether Smith, Gouverneur Morris, and Laurens). It was this committee, doubt- 
less, that prepared the statement of Jan. 25 {ante), and it was this committee to which 
the intelligence from Georgia and South Carolina was referred Jan. 29, and to which 
Drayton and Hutson were added, Jan. 30, for the single purpose of conferring with 
Washington upon that intelligence and reporting appropriate resolutions. The committee 
made its report Feb. 2. Laurens transmitted these resolves to Lowndes Feb. 4, 
remarking, " I shall exert myself for carrying into execution every Article without 
delay" (S. C. Hist. Soc, vol. of copies). 

8 This probably refers to a vote in committee. See the committee's report in the 
Journals, Feb. 2. 

[68] IS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XXVL (in the writing of Moses Young). 
This letter (with variations, chiefly of a minor sort) is printed in the Journals (ed. 
Ford) under Jan. 28, from a copy in the writing of George Bond, assistant in the office 
of the secretary of Congress. It appears from Laurens's statement appended to his 
copy of the letter that it was framed by the President (John Jay), and it seems 
probable that this was done in consultation with the committee appointed Jan. 28 on 
the President's " information ". 



52 Continental Congress 

They consider the Arms of the AlHes as united in one common Cause 
for the great purpose of effectually maintaining the I^iberty Sovereignty 
and Independence absolute and unlimited of these States, and for mutual 
aid during the course of the War and they admire the wise provision, 
made by the Treaty for preserving the harmony subsisting between them 
by excluding all after claims of compensation on one Side or on the other, 
whatever may be the event of the War. 

How far the fourth Article of the Treaty directs a stipulation for com- 
pensation to precede a particular Enterprize proposed by one Party, and 
to which the aid of the other is requested, has been taken by Congress 
into consideration. 

They are of opinion that the compensation mentioned in that article 
cannot relate to Enterprizes essential to the design of the Alliance and 
which may be proposed and undertaken by either Party to secure, not ex- 
tend, their respective Territories, or to diminish the power of the Enemy 
by defeating their Fleets and Armies, not conquering their Countries or 
Cities. 

The Expedition in question aims at nothing more than the expulsion 
of the Enemy from a State which cannot be Sovereign and independent 
while they remain Master of its Capital, and by destroying part of their 
force, advance the declared end of the War, which is to compel the Enemy 
to yield the great objects of the Alliance. 

This Enterprise therefore must be considered in the same light with 
all other joint and ordinary exertions of force against the Common 
Enemy, and can give to neither Party any more claim to compensation 
than they would have derived from the reduction of Rhode Island by 
the United forces which operated against it. 

But on the other hand, if, after expelling the Enemy from Georgia, Con- 
gress should extend their views, and concert an Enterprize against St. Au- 
gustine, and request the aid of France in executing it, there can be no 
doubt but that according to the Article in question a prior Convention 
ought to regulate the proportion of force each should furnish, and the 
share of advantage which each should reap by the conquest, because as in 
this case, new Territory is to be acquired, Reason demands that both 
Parties concerned in the acquisition should have its due proportion of 
this, as well as all other joint prizes.^ 

However Sir, as Congress ardently wish to render the Alliance per- 
petual, and therefore are Sollicitous to avoid all cause of future discon- 
tent or dispute, they forbear on this occasion to request or sollicit, but 
only recommend to Count d'Estaing to detatch to Georgia such part of his 
Fleet as may answer the purpose intended, provided he be not so engaged 
in more important Expeditions so far as to render a compliance imprac- 
ticable or improper, in this recommendation they request the favor of 
you to join, they view it as a Military Manouvre which appears worthy 
of attention, and in that light only, submit it to your and his consid- 
eration. 

2 The text in the Journals (Bond copy) reads here, "reason demands that the 
party benefitted by the acquisition should make adequate compensation to the other ". 



February, 1779 53 

It gives me pleasure, Sir, to be authorized and directed to assure you, 
that as on the one hand these States will faithfully observe the Treaty, 
and make the most strenuous efforts against the common Enemy, they 
entertain not the least doubt but that their great Ally as well as his Minis- 
ters and Officers in every department are influenced by the same prin- 
ciples, and will chear fully exert all the Power of his formidable Kingdom 
to obtain the avowed important objects of the noble and Liberal Treaty 
he hath concluded with these States. 

[Memoranda by Henry Laurens :] 

The above was framed by the President. The following proposed by 
Mr. Laurens to be introduced or added, in order to avert a charge of per- 
tinacity, and to expedite business. 

" Upon the whole Sir, should the Count d'Estaing afford such aid and 
succor as may be in his power, to Georgia and South Carolina Congress 
will chearfully accord in your proposition, that compensation shall be a 
Subject for future discussion according to the true intent and meaning 
of the Treaty of Alliance." 

Gentlemen were dissatisfied, a motion was made to take the Sense of 
the House whether by the fourth Article of the Treaty any compensation 
ought to be demanded, for the aid intended to be applied for. 

I considered this to be an ambiguous stating, and that a flat determina- 
tion in the negative by one Party might be ill received by the other, there- 
fore when the question was about to be put, I moved that the previous 
question which was carried, that, that question should not be now put — 
and here, to my grief and amazement the business rests. ^ 

31st January. 

[Endorsed :] Form of a Letter proposed to be written to the Minister 
Plenipotentiary on demand for compensation etc. Jan'ry 1779. 

69. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Monday February 1st. 1779. Commercial Committee Letter from 
Chevalier Cambray going to So. Carolina to Put the fortifications in 
order. Genl. Washington apply'd for leave to return to Camp came and 
took his leave of Congress.^ Letter from the Assembly of Masachussets 
Bay, to request the Embargo to be taken off in order to Import grain to 
the Eastward, also a complaint from Rhode Island of the great want of 
Flour and other Provisions the Inhabitants being in a Starving condition. 
Referrd to a Committee of 5. vizt. Dyer, Ellery, Paca, Laurens and 
Floyd. ^ Memorial of Sundry People in Phila. acquainting of a Number 
^ Just when these proceedings took place in Congress can not be determined, but 
probably on Jan. 29, when the committee's report was considered and recommitted 
(January 31 was Sunday). Laurens doubtless had this copy, with his appended com- 
ments, prepared for transmission to President Lowndes in connection with his letter of 
that date (no. 67, ante). Cf. no. 88, post. 

[ 69 ]i Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 66, ante. 

3 See the letter of Governor Greene of Rhode Island, Jan. 7, in Staples, R. I. in 
Cont. Cong., p. 209, and the Journals, Feb. 8. Cf. nos. 80, 84, post. 



54 Continental Congress 

of Privateers on the Coast and if Congress will sell one of their Frigates 
they will fitt her out for the Protection of Trade; Motion for Selling the 
2 Frigates on the 1st of March Committed to the Marine Committee.* 
Letter from General Washington relating to Genl. Mcintosh for want of 
Provisions at Fort Pitt, the General to arrange the Quarter Masters and 
Commisary department to the Westward. President Reads complaint 
agst. M Clarkson, Orderd that he do not leave the City till he has satisfied 
the Council ^ 6PM Committee on foreign Affairs. 

Tuesday Feby. 2d. 1779. Commercial Committee 9 oC Congress. 
Motion for Powder, Shot and Armes to be sent to So. Carolina and Coll. 
Cambra, that the General send an Engenier to So. Carolina. Letter from 
General Gates — Letter from do. to Genl. Washington. Letter from General Green 
reccomending a plan for setling the Account of People who have sufferd 
damage by the Army. Referrd to the Committee to consult with the 
Quarter Master General 

Board of Warr to contract with Monsr. Penet and Co. for Fire Arms 
etc. Report Read from the Committee of Appeals. "^ At 6 P M attended 
the Committee on foreign affairs but not members enough, did no 
Business.^ 

70. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philadel'a Feby 2d 1779. 
Dear Sir 

.... We have enquired of Mr. Whipple and Mr. Morris who are 
appointed by Congress to assist and inspect into the Commissary Depart- 
ment, and they inform us that it will not be immediately necessary to call 
the General Assembly, especially as they are informed, it meets by ap- 
pointment on the first of March; at the same time they earnestly request 
you will afford every assistance in your power to the Commissary of 
purchases.^ 

By the resolution of Congress the sum alotted to Maryland is 1560000.' 
The reason of her quotas being so large we have related to you in our 

^ See the Journals, Feb. 1, Apr. 8. 

^ See the Journals, Feb. 1, 18, 24, and nos. 85, no, 158, post. 
6 See the Journals, Jan. 19, 21, Feb. 2, 25, Mar. 3. 0: also no. 57, note 2, ante. 
"^ The special committee of thirteen. See no. 46, ante. 
l7o]iMd. Hist. Soc., Red Book, V, 32. 

2 See no. 44, ante, and no. 82, post. 

3 In the letter from the Maryland council to the delegates Jan. 28 {Arch, of Md., 
XXI. 286) is this inquiry: " In the Resolution of Congress of the Sth Jany ascertaining 
the Proportion of each State of the 15,000,000 of Dollars, sent us by the President, 
Maryland is set down at 1700,000. in the News Papers we see Maryland is set down at 
1,560,000: which of these is the true Sum?" The copy of the resolution in which 
Maryland's quota is put as 1,700,000 and North Carolina's as 950,000 is in Md. Hist. Soc, 
Red Book, VIII. 72, and is in agreement with the figures of the original report (Papers 
Cont. Cong., no. 42, vol. V., f. 85). In what manner the sum of 140,000 was shifted 
from the quota of Maryland to that of North Carolina the Journals do not show, and 
the Maryland delegates offer no explanation. 



February, 1779 55 

Letter by the last i>ost.* The latter part of your letter we shall answer by 
the next post.^ 

We are Sir with the highest respect and Esteem 

your most obedt Servts. 
Wm. Paca 
Wm. Carmichael 
John Henry Junr. 

71. Daniel Roberdeau to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed).^ 

Philada. Feby. 3d, 1779. 
Sir, 

The Delegates of this State in Congress have just received your Excel- 
lency's favour of this date, and I am desired by them to inform the 
Honorable the Council, through you, that they have not the least reason 
to think the Military command in this City was changed before General 
Arnold left it, as no other measures have been taken of their complaint 
than mentioned in yr. Excellency's Letter, as the Committee on the Busi- 
ness have not yet. reported.^ 

72. John Fell, Diary/ 

[February 3, 4, 1779.] 
Wednesday Feby. ^d. Commercial Committee. Congress. After agree- 
ing to Count Polaskey and Coll. Armand Cores of Infantry to [be] 
recruted,^ Went in to Committee of the whole House Resolved that 
500,160^ Dollars in Certificates be Prepaird for Exchanging the Emis- 
sions to be call'd in, debates lasted till 5 P M. 6 P M Committee on for- 
eign affairs. 

Thursday Feby. 4th. Commercial Committee. Watkins Commissary 
of Purchases with his Resignation.* Referrd to the Board of Warr. 
Resolved that the Commander in Chief arrange the Relative Rank of 
Officers, under the degree of Brigadr. Generals (committed to the Board 
of Warr) Letter from Mr. Bingham at Martinico, giving an Account 
of the British taking the Island of St. Lucia and of Count DeEstangs 
repulse in endeavoring to retake it.^ 6 PM. Committee on foreign 
affairs. 

* No. 61, ante. 

5 See no. 82, post. 
[^lYPa. Arch., first ser., VII. 181. 

2 See no. 58, ante. Reed's letter of Feb. 3 has not been found. 
[72]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 This matter is recorded in the Journals under Feb. 4. Cf. no. 59, ante, nos. 74. 
90, post. 

3 The figures should be 5,000,160. 

* Joseph Watkins is characterized in the Journals (Feb. 4, July 16) as commissary 
of ordnance and military stores. 

5 See the Journals, Feb. 5, 6, 8. 



56 Continental Congress 

73. Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes)/ 

4th February [1779.] 
Dear Sir 

.... Inclosed Your Excellency will find an Act of Congress of the 
2d Instant for affording succor to South Carolina and Georgia. I shall 
exert myself for carrying into execution every Article without delay, 
I am now told the 125 Chests of Arms at Baltimore are dwindled into 
125 Arms, " the manner in which business is transacted here." " . . . . 

74. John Fell, Diary/ 

[February 5, 6, 1779.] 
Fryday Febv. 5th. Commercial Committee 9 oClock Congress Letter 
from Count Polaska, referrd to the Board of Warr. Do. from Coll. 
Armand, that as he cannot be Promoted, he desires to go to France.^ 
Granted. Letter from the Marquis Fayatt he Saild from Boston the 
14 Jany. in the Alliance and his dispatches did not get there till the 15th, 
Committee appointed to write to the Marquis to acquaint him the Expidi- 
tion to Canada was set aside.^ Letter from Governor Hueston at Georgia 
and President Lounds at So, Carolina Jany. 15 long debate about the 
manner of wording the request to the French Minister for the Aid of 
Count DeEstang for the Relief of Georgia.* 6 PM. Committee on 
foreign Affairs. 

Saturday Feby. 6.^ Commercial Committee 9 oClock Long debates 
about the manner of sending for Count DeEstang Congress agreed to 
Dine at the City Tavern being the aniversary of the French Alliance. 

75, Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[February 6, 1779.] 
6. Being the anniversary of the alliance with France, Congress dined 
at the city tavern and the minister of France and several other Gentlemen 
of distinction dined with us.^ 

[73]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Copies of Letters mainly to Laurens, 1771-1782, p. 253. 

2 The quotation is from the last sentence in Laurens's resignation (Journals, 
Dec. 9). 

[74]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See the Jotirttals, Feb. 4, 5, 12, 13. Cf. nos. 59, 72, ante, and no. 90, post. 

3 Rather, the committee was instructed to forward to Lafayette copies of the 
earlier despatches on the subject. 

^ See the Journals ; also nos. 58, 62, 68, ante, and no. 81, post. 

^ Concerning the case from North Carolina referred this day to the committee 
on appeals, see N. C. State Recs., XIV. 252-254. 
[ISV Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 251. 

2 The following account of the dinner appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet of 
Feb. 9: 

" Last Saturday being the anniversary of forming the Alliance between France and 
the United States, the Honorable the Congress gave a public entertainment to his 
Excellency the Minister Plenipotentiary of his ]\Iost Christian Alajesty, at which the 
following Toasts were drank, under a discharge of cannon : 

1. May the Alliance between France and the United States be perpetual. 

2. The United States. 



February, 1779 57 

76. Samuel Adams to John Winthrop/ 

Philade. Feb 6 1779 
My dear Sir 

I have receivd your favor of the 21st of January. Every Body sees 
that the Depreciation of the Paper Currency is owing to the Floods of it 
which have been necessarily issued. In Addition to which a great Quan- 
tity more especially of the Emissions of 20 May 1777 and 11 April 1778 
has been counterfeited. This last Consideration was sufficient Induce- 
ment to the calling out of Circulation all the Bills of those Emissions as 
speedily as possible. The lessening the Quantity in Circulation is the only 
Means of restoring the Value and Credit of the Remainder. It would 
therefore be a happy Event if every possessor of them would receive 
Loan Ofifice Certificates for them instead of new Bills in June next but 
this cannot be expected. In proportion as this may be done the only effec- 
tual Means, besides that of taxing which I hope will be chearfully sub- 
mitted to by the People, of remedying the great Evil will have its effect. 
Congress have not cried down those Emissions, as the Expression is ^ or 
resolvd that the Bills should sink in the Hands of those who would not 
exchange them for Loan Ofifice Certificates, as has been done in the 
Eastern States. This might have been too harsh a Remedy. They have 
left it in the Option of the Possessors to receive either such Certificates 
or new Bills. This is the obvious Intention of their Resolutions on the 
Subject.^ The Wish of every discerning honest Man must be as obvious, 
viz that as many of the Bills may sink in the Loan Ofifices as the People 
can possibly spare, and as soon as possible. I think therefore you have 
judgd right of their Views. It would be an Act of Charity and a great 

3. His Most Christian Majesty. 

4. The Queen of France. 

5. His Most Catholic Majesty. 

6. The Princes of the House of Bourbon. 

7. Success to the allied arms. 

8. General Washington and the Army. 

9. The friends of liberty in every part of the world. 

10. May the new Constellation rise to the Zenith. 

11. May the American Stripes bring Great Britain to reason. 

12. The Memory of the Patriots who have nobly fallen in defence of the liberty and 
independence of America. 

13. A safe and honorable peace. 

" The chearfulness which existed in the company upon the happy occasion of their 
being assembled, was not to be exceeded ; and a thousand brilliances alluding to the 
Alliance were uttered. There can be no doubt but that every true American and every 
true Frenchman will contribute his efforts to preserve that connection which is formed 
by the Alliance, and which is so necessary to the happiness and aggrandizement of 
both nations. Their mutual interests dictate such a conduct in the strongest and most 
affectionate terms. The principles of the Alliance are founded in true policy and equal 
justice; and it is highly probable that mankind will have cause to rejoice in this union 
which has taken place between two nations ; the one, the rnost puissant in the old, and 
the other the most powerful in the new world." 

On Mar. 9 Congress resolved, " That there is due to Gifford Dally, his account for a 
public entertainment on the 6 February last, lo86 dollars ". 

[76]! Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 121; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 See the eighth article of the report of the committee on finance, the Journals, 
Oct. 28, 1778 (p. 1074). 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 2. The voting upon the principal items of the measure 
took place between Dec. 18 and 31, 1778. 



58 Continental Congress 

Service to the publick if those who can afford to put their Money to In- 
terest would ease their poorer fellow Citizens who are possessd of those 
Bills, by exchanging them for other Bills without a Discount. 

yy. Samuel Adams to Jonathan Trumbull/ 

Phi LAD Feb 6 — 79 
Sir 

The Marine Conf have done themselves the Honor of writing to you 
by this Post.^ The great Dammage which has been done to the Trade at 
the Southward and particularly Chessapeak Bay by the Enemies Priva- 
teers has causd such pressing Demands for the Aid of our Ships of War 
as laid us under the Necessity of ordering the Queen of f ranee immedi- 
ately on a Cruize that Way. This I mention as a Reason why she could 
not be employd with the Confederacy and the other Ships but her Desti- 
nation will remain a Secret. 

I hope the Expedition proposd by your Exc'y and agreed to by the Com^ 
will be performd in 2 or 3 Days, for I fear if it should be known to the 
Enemy, not only the desired Event w'd be prevented but there would be 
danger of our losing our Ships. ^ .... 

78. The Board of War to Benjamin Lincoln.^ 

War-Office 6th Feb. 1779. 
Sir, 

By a late resolution of Congress General Pulaski is ordered to the 
Southern department with his Legion. 

\-77V IVritings (ed. Gushing), IV. 120; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The letter from the marine committee to Governor Trumbull, signed by Samuel 
Adams as chairrpan and dated Feb. 10, is in PauUin, Out-Letters, II. 40. See also 
the letter to Gapt. Joseph Olney, commander of the Queen of France, to Gapt. Seth 
Harding, commander of the Confederacy, and to the commissioners of the navy board 
of the Eastern department, all of the same date {ibid., pp. 41-46) ; also to a committee 
of Baltirnore merchants Feb. 23 {ibid., p. 47). Goncerning the latter, see the Journals, 
Feb. 12. 

2 Some remarks of James Warren respecting the marine committee's project, and 
respecting the committee's methods as well, may appropriately be quoted here. They 
are in a letter to Adams Feb. 28 (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; Warren- 
Adams Letters, II. 91) : 

" And now I must say a little to you about the Navy Board and Gonfess to you that 
I am Extremely surprised at your last Letter from the Marine Gommittee. have they 
no kind of Gonfidence in the Members of the Navy Board here, and do they wish to 
hold them up to the officers of the Navy in a Gontemptible Light, if not why are 
not your orders directed to them, to be given to the Gommanders, and in most Gases at 
least some discretion of theirs to be used instead of that of the Gaptains. I own I am 
Mortified and will not long submit to it. You should have Persons [?] at this Board 
you can place Gonfidence in. if we are not such you should displace us and appoint 
others, it is Impossible you can Judge 300 miles of[f]. if the Gonduct of the Raleigh 
had been left to us she would probably have been saved and she and the Dean would 
have Effected the Service you wished for and made a Gruize. and yet you have Gom- 
mitted in my Humble opinion a greater Error in ordering the Queen of France on the 
Goast of Virginia alone and to be followed by the Ranger and then the Confederacy. 

the Ranger will sail with her, but in my opinion they will both be lost I think we 

had formed a Grand Plan, if you had permitted us to Execute it. but I will not have 
the Reputation of the present one. it shall be known whose orders they sail under." 

[78]! Ghicago Hist. Soc, Gunther Goll. 



February, ///p 59 

We would request that the General and his Corps may be so employed, 
that he will not be subject to the direction of any officer inferior in rank 
to the Commander in Chief of the department. This will be extremely 
satisfactory' to the Count, and we conceive it to be tlie spirit and meaning 
of the resolution of Congress.^ 
We are, sir, with great respect, 

your most obedt. servants, 

By order of the board 

Tim : Pickering. 

79. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 7th Feby. 1779 
My Dear Sir, 

I thank you for the information contained in Your favor of 24th Deer, 
last which is the last letter I have receiv'd from you. Col Beadle's Regi- 
ment is dismiss'd.^ I need not inform you of the difficulty of procuring 
a just enquiry into the conduct of an Officer at a distance from the Army. 
this I suppose occasion'd the act of Congress impowering the executive 
authority of the several States for that purpose.^ I wish it was done by 
N. H. in this instance. I have no doubt there has been great abuses com- 
mited in that Country, and I know of no power so competent to investi- 
gate the true state of matters there as the executive authority of the State. 

The plan of finance has reached you I suppose some time ago. You'll 
observe the Quota of N. H. is not so high in proportion as last Year. I 
procured this abatement not because I thought the sum more then the state 
would be able to raise but because you might be more at liberty to act your 
discretion, however I hope you will raise a much larger sum, as you 
will be allow'd interest for all you raise above your just proportion, and 
there can be no better time to collect money then when it is plenty. I hope 
some other method will be devised to help our Currency what is already 
done can be nothing more then mere palliatives.* 

The transactions relative to the British Commission etc. are not yet 
finished I shall do myself the pleasure of sending them to you as soon 
as they come from the press. ° .... 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 2, 4, 5, 12, 13, 15, 17, 18; also Washington to the Presi- 
dent of Congress, Feb. 8, and to Pulaski the same date, Writings (ed. Sparks), VI. 
172. ^72,- 
[79]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. II. 

2 Col. Timothy Bedel. See the Journals, Nov. 27, 1778. 

3 See the resolution of Feb. 9, 1778. 
■* See nos. 7, 47, ante. 

5 Whipple is probably referring to the publication, then in preparation by Gouver- 
neur Morris, and shortly to appear, which bears the title Observations on the Ameri- 
can Revolutiotjj but had for its original purpose the setting forth to the public the 
proceedings and reasonings of Congress in connection with the British peace commission. 
See nos. in, 127, post. Cf. Sparks, Life of Morris, I. 187. In the Pennsylvania Packet 
of Mar. 20 is a review of the Observations by "Common Sense" (Thomas Paine), 
wherein it is suggested that William Henry Drayton had a minor hand in the production. 



60 Continental Congress 

John D n ® is chosen to represent Delaware in C but has 

not yet taken his seat, that State hath acceeded to the Confederacy/ 
there now only remains Maryland who you know has seldom done any- 
thing with a good Grace, she has always been a froward hussey. It is a 
misfortune that such differences sho'd take place between our Commis- 
sioners but it is not to be wondered at, that the watchfulness of D. L.^ 
sho'd draw on him the enmity of those who are utter strangers to the 
feelings of Patriotism that influences that Gentns. Conduct, however, 
I need not trouble you with my opinion of those charecters, you are well 
acquainted with them. I well remember your opinion of a certain Person ® 
(now in this City) early in 76 before his departure from America, it 
wo'd have been fortunate for this Country if others had entertain'd the 
same opinion of him then that you did, but he was then, as he now is, 
supported by charecters who will never suffer Martyrdom for the cause 
of Virtue. 

Europe is now full of negotiations which it may be expected will reach 
America in the spring, when probably we may be entertain'd with a new 
set of proposals from Britain, tho' I can hardly think her vain enough to 
entertain even an Idea of anything short of Independence even that, in 
my judgment, ought not to satisfy us, unless she will quit all pretensions 
to Canada and Nova Scocia as for the Floridas I think we may consent 
to divide that Country with Spain if she will furnish us with funds to 
sink our paper money, whatever may be the result of negotiations we 
must prepare for another vigorous Campaign for which purpose I hope 
every exertion will be used to recruit the Army, New Hampshire I am 
confident will not be backward in this respect 

80. John Jay to the Governor of New York (George Clinton). '^ 

Philadelphia 8th Feby. 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

Inclosed in a Letter of this day you will receive from me an Act of 
Congress requesting Connecticut and New York to afford a Supply of 
Provisions to the Inhabitants of the State of Rhode-Island who are said 
to be in great distress for want of Bread.^ 

This is a Subject which in my Opinion is to be treated with great deli- 
cacy. New York has credit for her Exertions to supply the army and the 
exhausted State of her resources is known. It is nevertheless hoped that 
she may be able to give some Releif to her starving Sister, and every mo- 
tive of humanity and policy will advise it if practicable. Care however 

^ John Dickinson. He took his seat Apr. 23. 

T Nicholas Van Dyke had written to Thomas McKean Jan. 24 : " You doubtless 
are anxious to know how our General Assembly go on. They have appointed Delegates 
to Congress, this perhaps you have heard, yourself, John Dickinson and me. This Week 
some Determination will be had I expect on the Articles of Confederation, and from 
what I can judge am of Opinion they will do as Jersey has done" (Hist. Soc. of Pa., 
McKean Papers, I. 27). See the Journals, Feb. 8, 16. 

s Dr. Arthur Lee. 

^ Silas Deane. 
[So]^ Clinton Papers, IV. 552. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 1, 8; also no. 6g, ante, and no. 84, post. 



February, i//p 61 

ought to be taken of our own Inhabitants, and the Releif, if afforded, 
should be so regulated as to prevent that amazing Exportation, and intol- 
erable Rise in the price of Provision, which would follow an incautious 
tho' partial Refusal of the Embargo. Nor would it, I think, be wise to go 
into any measures in consequence of this recommendation without having 
previously consulted with the Commissary General, as well as with Con- 
necticut ; with the former, on the State of his Magazines, with the latter 
on the Subject of a joint plan. Unless there be an overplus to be spared 
from the Necessities of the army, and the Consumption of the Inhabitants 
all ought to be retained. If there be an Overplus in both States, would it 
be amiss for the Commissary to purchase and collect it at the Expence of 
Rhode-Island, and let the Government of that State cause it to be trans- 
ported, and provide for its due distribution. The Poor of that State will 
otherwise be at the mercy of Engrossers, and, like the wretched Egyptians, 
under the vicegerency of Joseph, be obliged to give their land for corn. 

8i. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[February 8, 9, 1779.] 
Monday Feby. 8th. Commercial Comittee 9 oClock Congress, a num- 
ber of Letters Read ; A Memorial from Lt. Coll. Varick in behalf of him- 
self and the Officers in the Muster Masters department. Referrd to the 
Board of Warr. A Memorial from Dr. Shippen in behalf of himself and 
the other Doctors, Referrd to the Medical Committee. Long debates again 
about sending to Count DeEstang etc.^ 6 P M. Committee on foreign 
affairs. 

Tuesday Feby. the gth. Commercial Committee Congress, a Number 
of Letters, a Curious one from Philip Johnson with Offers to destroy the 
Fly that does so much hurt to the Wheat.^ Card to the President, from 
Mr. Gerrard.* Treasury appointed 5 auditors — Wm. Bedlow appointed 
one. Committee appointed to examine the accusation agst. Robt. Morris 
Reported ° 6PM Committee on foreign affairs. 

82. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philadel'a Feby 9th. 1779 
Sir 

When we wrote to you last upon the subject of supplies for the army 
we understood the General Assembly was to meet on the first of March, 

[81]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 58, 62, 68, 74, ante, 84, post. 

3 According to the Journals the writer of the letter was P. Jackson. Cf. the 
resolutions of Feb. 8. 

* There are two memorials of Gerard dated Feb. 9, preceded by a note, Feb. 8, 
requesting to be informed in what manner certain important communications with 
which he was charged should be made to Congress. The memorials, one of which 
related to the question of supplies furnished through Beaumarchais, the other to the 
expected adherence of Spain to the alliance, were read in Congress Feb. 12. They are 
found in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 38, 39, 40. See, further, the Journals, Feb. 13, 
15, 17, 23, and'nos. 83, 90, 93, 95, 98, 105, post. 

5 See the Journals, Jan. 19, Feb. 9, 10, 11 ; also nos. 19, 20, 24, 28, 30, 31, 43, ante, 
85, post. 

[82]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 34. 



62 Continental Congress 

and Mr. Morris and Mr. Whipple concluded the time was so short that it 
would be unnecessary to call the assembly before that Day. But as we are 
mistaken as to the Meeting of the Assembly, it is their opinion and ours, 
that a Meeting of the Assembly as soon as they can be called, will be 
necessary.^ .... 

We are Sir with the highest personal respect, Yrs. ,^. ^ 

W M. Jr ACA 

John Henry 

83. John Henry, jr., to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 

Dear Sir Philadel'a Feby 9th 1779. 

.... We have just had an important piece of intelligence, which I 
am not at liberty to relate, as soon as it is publick you shall have it.^ 

84. Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Dear Sir Philadelphia February 9, 1779. 

As the British Kings speech may not come to hand, before this reaches 
you, I will inclose it, with several other papers, which contain all the public 
intelligence here worthy your attention, that I am at liberty to com- 
municate.'^ 

The committee of congress that has under consideration, what ways 
and means are most adviseable, for supplying the eastern states with flour, 
reported yesterday, and after some debate thereon, it was recommitted 
for amendments, but I believe it will not be long, before congress will 
come into some resolutions respecting the same.^ 

85. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[February 10, 11, 1779.] 
Wednesday Feby. loth. Commercial Committee Congress Letters 
Read Mr. Morriss Defence and Papers Read. Deferd till Tuesday next.^ 

2 See no. 70, ante. A letter from Gouverneur Morris and William Whipple to 
Governor Johnson, Feb. 9, relative to the quantity of flour wanted from the state of 
Maryland, is in Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, XXIV. 64. 

[83]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 35. 

2 This was evidently the news of the prospective alliance with Spain. See no. 81, 
ante. The memorial of the French minister conveying this intelligence does not appear 
to have been presented to Congress until Feb. 12 ; nevertheless Congress must have 
received intimation of its contents on the 9th. The order of that day to the committee 
on foreign affairs to report with all possible despatch lends additional strength to this 
assumption. See nos. 99, 116, 117, post. Cf. Washington to Laurens, Feb. 17 (IVritings, 
ed. Sparks, VL 175), to Jay, Mar. i (ibid., ed. Ford, p. 178). 

[84]! Mass. Archives, CC. 308. 

2 Cf. nos. 81, 83, ante. 

3 The committee was appointed Feb. 1, on a representation of the delegates 
of Rhode Island and a letter from the Massachusetts council. Two separate reports 
were made by the committee Feb. 8, one on the Rhode Island representation, another 
on the Massachusetts letter. The latter was recommitted, and it was not until Feb. 26 
that action was taken upon it. See also the Journals, Jan. 13. Cf. nos. 69, 80, ante, 86, 
lo1, no, 112, 17s, post. 

[85]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The Journals record that the letter was to lie on the table until the report of the 
day before should be determined upon. It happened that the matter was brought up 
the next day. Cf. no. 81, ante. 



February, 1779 63 

President Reeds Letters and Major Clarksons. Debates lasted till 5 
oClock.^ 

Thursday Fehy. nth. Commercial Committee. Congress Sundry 
Letters read and Referrd to Committee Aron Lopezs Memorial relating 
to 2 Prizes, Referrd to the Committee of Appeals,* Memorial of Capt. 
Cellorine ^ to the Board of Warr. do. of Sarah Kennedy for the loss 
of her Estates, Referrd to the Treasury Board.® Letter from Genl. Gates 
w'th an acct. of the Enemy at several Posts in Canada 2952 above Mon- 
treal 3922 ^ Letter from Jeremiah Powell President of Masachusets Bay 
giving an acct. of Coll. David Mason and others great defaulters of the 
Public Money at the Labratory at Springfield Referrd to the Com- 
mander in Chief, to bring the defaulters to a Court Martial.® Mr. Laurens 
moved the House that he was fully satisfied in the affair relating to 
Mr. R Morris, and declared him clear of all Suspicion to which the House 
unanamously agreed.^ An order from the Treasury for Coll. Flowerss 
department causd great debate and his Carractor Canvasd which appeard 
good.'° 

86. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Feby 11, 1779. 
May it please your Excellency, 

Your first enquiry, we presume, will be, how goes on Confederation? 
We have the pleasure to inform you that Jersey and Delaware have ac- 
ceded.^ and Marv'land alone stands out. Her reasons for it we enclose 
to you ; ^ and whether we shall send to all the States for their consent to 
a Confederation of twelve, or wait for Marjdand to consider better of it 
and accede, will be the most expeditious and prudent method of bringing 
this important business to a close, is the question. 

Recruiting, providing for, arranging, and paying the army have long 
engaged the attention of Congress. These are all important objects, and 

2 C/. no. 69, ante, and nos. no, 158, post. 

* Cf. the Journals, Apr. 19, 1780. 

5 Capt. Lewis Celeron. See the Journals, Feb. 20. 

^ See the Journals, Feb. 11, 17, June 29, and nos. 98, post. 

■^ These figures are from a letter of Gen. Jacob Bayley to General Gates, written 
from Newbury, N. H., Jan. 1, a copy of which is in the Washington Papers. The 
numbers of men at the several posts are given in two groups, the total of one group 
(those at Quebec, Sorel, Chambly, St. John's, and He au Noix) being given as 2952, 
the other (which includes Niagara, Three Rivers, and Chaudiere) 970, and the 
grand total being 3922. The logic of the grouping is not apparent, and Fell's words, 
" above Montreal ", do not apply correctly to either. Bayley adds, as from his informant, 
"That the Canadians are ready to join in". 

8 Lieut.-Col. David Mason was deputy commissary-general of military stores at 
Springfield. Washington ordered a court martial Feb. 22 (letter to General Putnam, 
Washington Papers) and transmitted the proceedings of the court martial to Congress 
Apr. 12 (see the Journals, Apr. 14). See, further, the Journals, July 26, Aug, 30, 
Nov. 18, 1780. 

9 See nos. 19, 20, 24, 28, 30, 31, 43, 81, ante. 
10 Cf. no. 55, ante. 

[86]l^Iass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh sen, II. 347. 
2 See the Journals, Nov. 25, 1778, Feb. 8, 16, 22, 1779. 
2 See the Journals, Jan. 6, May 21. 



64 Continental Congress 

notwithstanding the present deranged state of our foreign affairs and 
internal resources, and the reduced condition of our finances, we hope 
and trust that such wise measures will be adopted and supported by the 
united exertions of the several States as will, through the smiles of 
Heaven, put them upon a firm and respectable footing. The committee 
appointed to confer with General Washington on this business have pre- 
pared a number of resolutions to lay before Congress, which when passed 
we shall embrace the earliest opportunity to transmit to your Excellency. 
The resolution passed upon the representation from the State of Rhode 
Island of their inhabitants being likely to famish through the operation 
of the land embargo in Connecticut has been transmitted by the President.* 
x\lthough Mr Dean has long since been heard on his agency abroad, yet 
his affairs remain undecided upon. A committee is appointed to look 
through them, in order to bring them to a proper and speedy issue.^ .... 
With the highest esteem and respect, we have the honor to be 
Your Excellency's most obedient and most hble. servants. 

Eliphalet Dyer. 
Oliver Ellsworth. 
Jesse Root. 

87. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee.^ 

Freestone point Virginia Feby. 11, 1779 
My dear Brother, 

As well as the shortness of my time will permit, I will give you the best 
detail in my power of things here since I wrote you fully by the Marquis 
Fayette of the state of our politics and parties.^ The wicked intrigues 
which you experienced from a certain set, and of which you have so 
often and justly complained, have been practised here to a still greater and 
more extensive, mischievous length. The Tories avail themselves of it, 
and they are to a Man on Deane's side, hoping thereby to injure and 
deprive us of influence whose determined will and capacity to injure 
their cause they well know and fear. Deanes party in short rests on treple 
ground. The first and most considerable is Toryism, the second and next 
most considerable is Commercial plunder, the third is Ambition. These 
last are few in number, but artful, intriguing, and want now, when our 
affairs look well, to come into your and our b.^ Williams places, which 
they would not have dared even to have accepted before the late happy 

* See the Journals, Feb. 8, and no. 84, ante. 
5 The committee was appointed Jan. 20. 
[87]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VI, 17; Letters (ed. Ballagh), IL 30 (with omis- 
sions). 

2 In his letter of Oct. 19 (Letters, ed. Ballagh, I. 441) Lee mentions that Lafayette 
was to carry a letter for him, and as the letter of Oct. 27 (ibid., p. 445; also these Letters, 
vol. III., no. 590) was carried by Lafayette (cf. Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 814-816), 
the latter is probably the letter here referred to. The letter of Oct. 19 referred to 
above was supposed by the editor of Lee's Letters to have been written to Francis 
Light foot Lee, but the letter contains clear evidence that it was to Arthur Lee. For 
instance, his son Ludwell, whom he asks to be introduced to Lafayette, was then in 
France, whither Lafayette was taking his departure, whereas Francis Lightfoot Lee 
was at that time in Virginia. 

3 Brother. 



February, ///P 65 

change of our affairs, by the Alhance with France. Soon after I wrote 
by Marquis Fayette I left Philadelphia the 3d of Novr. having been 
between 6 and 7 months from my family and quite worn down with con- 
stant attention to public business. As I came [down I met our brother 
Frank going]* up to Congress where he has been ever since. After I came 
away a month, Deane published his Libel of deer. 5 as you see in one 
of the papers now sent.° The bold and impudent assertions, the dark 
innuendos. and the art with which the whole is wrought up, had it seems, 
such an effect in Phila. as to excite Tumults there in his favor. And to 
the Southward here, it had very ill. tho not such violent effects, because 
there are fewer Tories here to aid its operation. In the enemies quarters 
the City of N. York it created the most extravagant joy and underwent 
republication. These Intriguers who are wickedly working their own 
private benefit, do infinitely more injury to the common cause than all 
the power of our enemy can effect. Before they came here our business 
was going on with unanimity and with wisdom, since their arrival dis- 
cord and faction have reared their baneful heads to the unimaginable 
injury of our affairs.^ .... He '' and his party are now working to get 
him to Holland and themselves in your places. What may be their success 
God only knows. I am now on my way to Congress having been long de- 
tained at home by excessive bad weather and the Gout. Deane affirmed to 
Congress upon his honor that he was not engaged in Trade, nor had been 
except in two small ventures at first which turned out to loss. It might 
be very important to have his commercial connections clearly developed 
and proved. I have sent to the Virginia Press the other day a vindication 
of you and our b. \Vm.® against Deanes Libel wherein I have disproved 
some of his charges from original letters. I hope this will have a good 
effect. All sensible Whigs in this Country', and now the herd of Mankind 
begin to see clearly into Deane and his party. But he has a very strong and 
a very Artful party in [Congress] ° and by means of commercial connec- 
tion a considerable [party] in almost every [state]. In the eastern States 
where he is well known he has by far the fewest supporters. Indeed he has 
very few there. Those people are wise, attentive, sober, diligent and 
frugal, which are qualities not fit for [D]eanes purposes. His principal 
[abettors] are from [New York] and some [are fou]nd ^° from Pen a 

^ The manuscript is torn here, obliterating several words, but there is little 
doubt that what is here supplied gives the sense at least of the missing words. As 
Richard Henry Lee left Philadelphia Nov. 3, 1778, and Francis Lightfoot Lee arrived 
there Nov. 7 (see vol. IIL, no. 669), the two doubtless met on the road. 

5 See vol. IIL, nos. 669, 697. 

^ Lee here relates his connection with Berkenhout, substantially as in his letter 
to Laurens Dec. 26 {Letters, ed. Ballagh, I. 462; cf. vol. III. of these Letters, no. 689), 
and discusses further the Deane affair, chiefly on the basis of Francis Lightfoot's 
letters to him. 

" Deane. 

^ Brother William. The production is found in Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 5. See 
also the letter to Silas Deane, ibid., p. 11. 

9 Several words in this and also in a later passage are in cipher. They are 
enclosed in square brackets. Words in brackets which are due to defects in the manu- 
script are otherwise explained. Concerning the cipher, see. vol. IIL, p. 231 n. 

10 A piece is torn out of the margin of the manuscript at this point, affecting also 
the words "Deanes", above, and "you" and "appear", below (all the other bracketted 
words are in cipher). The conjecture "found" is doubtful, but there is scarcely room, 

for instance, for the words " from Va. and ". " C-r-1 " is Carmichael. 



66 Continental Congress 

and almost all from [Maryland]. For which purpose [you] may imagine 

C r 1 [was sent] to [Congress]. It does not [app]ear to me 

that the publications of Common Sense on Deanes affair merited all that 
high resentment shewn to it. The honest writer had only in view to dis- 
robe Deane of the gaudy vest he had assumed as being the sole author 
and procurer of all the Supplies that came here in 1777. But you see 
that under this it has been so contrived as to get a general condemna- 
tion of all his publications on this subject — Altho the far greater part 
relates solely to Deane, and many honest truths are told and properly 
pressed. It wounded the party very deeply I fancy, and there was no 
other way to prevent the public effects it would certainly have had other- 
wise, and will yet in a great degree, for I am informed that people here 
do by no means agree with Congress in their general condemnation of 
these papers.^^ As for the noise made about its being said that the United 
States might make a treaty with England with't the consent of their Ally 
if war was not declared, I do not believe that any one Man of sense, or 
member ever said or thought any think [sic] like it. Tis mere pretence. 
For myself I know that I would sooner cease to live than I would agree 
in any manner or for any pretext to desert our Ally for whom 1 feel 
infinite gratitude and reverence. You know perfectly well how long and 
how ardently my Soul has panted after this connection with France. 
Perhaps there was not another Man in America so enthusiastically strenu- 
ous for the measure as myself. Indeed as Shandy says it was my Hoppy 
Horse. And now a pack of rascals would insinuate (for their private pur- 
poses) that I would injure the measure I have been so uniformly and 
so warmly promoting.^- ..... Nothing could serve the common cause 
so much as stopping these abominable intrigues and factions here. And 
as Mr. [Gerard] ^^ has much [influence with] the [ministry] if [they]^* 
were [instructed] to [discontinue] it, a very happy consequence wd. 
f [ollow]. For my part, I see so clearly that the Man who serves the public 
honestly has so many enemies and persecutors, and I am so worn down 
in the public service that I am resolved to send my resignation to our 
Assembly next April 

I am most affectionately and faithfully yours 

R. H. L. 
P. S. 

Take all imaginable pains effectually to vindicate your own character. 
It would be of infinite consequence to get the Dutch into our Alliance and 
the acknowledgement of our Independence 

11 See the Journals, Jan. 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 16. 

12 c/. his Letters (ed. Ballagh), I. 457, 462. Similar expressions abound in his 
correspondence. 

13 There is little doubt of the correct interpretation of this cipher (455 b XIV;. 
In a letter of May 23 (no. 295, post) the cipher appears several times in the form 
" 455.b. i.XIV ", while in a letter of Oct. 12 is found the same form as in this letter 
and is clearly intended for Gerard. 

1* Some words here are almost entirely obliterated. All that can now be made out 
is, "2..aX... if (?) ....IX". It is conjectured that the first cipher is 243aXVII 
(ministry), the second 374aIX (they). Of the last word in the sentence ("follow"?) 
only the letter f remains. 



Dear Sir 



February, 1779 67 

Henry Laurens to the President of South Carolina 
(Rawlins Lowndes)/ 

1 2th February [1779.] 



[P. S.] A Schooner loaded with about 18 Tons of MiUtary Stores, 
which the Commissary of that Department has consigned to the Com- 
manding Officer of the Southern Department and in his absence to the 
President or Governor of South CaroHna will Sail for Charles town to- 
morrow.^ I have most earnestly urged in Congress the immediate depar- 
ture of Count Pulaski and his Legion, but they are still detained for 
adjusting old Accounts. I think the Paymaster might remain for that 
purpose and another appointed pro tempore, but we move no faster than 
we would do if the Southern States were in perfect peace and safety. 
The Count is as anxious for his departure as I am.^ 

Nothing yet done respecting an application to Count d'Estaing, I mean 
the indirect application intended to be made not yet gone forward, nor 
indeed the former reported.* Your Excellency and all our distressed 
friends will judge of my feelings by your own. 

I sent a packet of Newspapers including the 13th 

89. The South Carolina Delegates to the President of 
South Carolina (Rawlins Lowndes).^ 

12th January [February, 1779.] 
Sir 

In obedience to Your Excellency's requisition for Military Stores to 
be sent by water we have made application to Congress for them and the 
means of transportation. As many stores of Musket, Powder and Shot 
from Buckshot to 6 pounders were ordered to be shipped in this Port for 
South Carolina as the Magazines here could with propriety spare. And 
about 18 Tons of those Stores were shipped in the Schooner Count 
d'Estaing which brought Your Excellency's letter of the 15th of January 
to the Honble Mr Laurens. A larger quantity of these Stores would have 
been shipped in his Vessel could she have carried them, but we shall en- 
deavor to find some opportunity of sending forward what remains here 
of the quantities ordered." 

We are with great Respect, Sir, 

Your Excellency's Most humble and Obedient Servants 

Henry Laurens 
W. H. Drayton 
Rich'd Hutson. 

[88] ^S. C. Hist. Soc, Copies of Letters mainly to Laurens, 1771-1782, p. 253. 
- See the Journals, Feb. 4, and no. 89, post. 
3 See the Journals, Feb. 4, 12, 13, 16, 18. 

* See nos. 63, 67, 68, ante, and the Journals, Feb. 5, 8. The suggestion that such 
an application might yet be made does not seem consistent with the action of Congress 
Feb. 8. 

[89] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Copies of Letters mainly to Laurens, 1771-1782, p. 254. 
2 See no. 88, ante. 



68 Continental Congress 

90. John Fell, Dl\ry.^ 

[February 12, 13, 1779.] 
Fryday Fcby. 12th. Commercial Committee Congress Letter from 
R Curson and others at Baltimore referr'd to the Marine Committee.^ 
Lievt. Hales Letter ^ Genl. Polaskas Letter to Recruit his Infantry to 
their full Establishment not agreed to.* 

Saturday Fehy. i^th. Commercial Committee Congress. Coll. Hart- 
leys Resignation accepted Resolv'd that Congress have a high Sence of 
the Services renderd his Country. Great and long debates about the 
Mode of Receiving Mr. Gerrard to a Conferrence agreed to be on Monday 
I oClock in Committee of the whole House.^ Dined with Mr. R Morris ^ 

91. Daniel Roberdeau to the President of Pennsylvania 
(Joseph Reed).^ 

Philada, Feb. 13th, 1779. 
Sir, 

Congress have now under Consideration the report of the Committee 
of appeals. On this important Subject the Delegates of this State would 
be glad of your advice, which I am desired to ask on their behalf.^ 

92. William Carmichael to Thomas Harwood.^ 

Sir 

His Excellency inclosed the Delegates your Letter of the 5th of Feby. 
which I have laid before the board of treasury for their consideration. 
A Multiplicity of important business hath hitherto prevented them from 
coming to any decision on its contents. I shall not cease to urge the 

[90]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 This letter was from a committee of Baltimore merchants. See no. 77, note 2, 
ante. 

3 Christopher Hele. See no. 34, note 2, ante. 
* See nos. 59, 72, 74, ante. 

s See the Journals, Feb. 13, 15; cf. nos. 81, 83, ante. 93, 99, 105, 116, post. Thomas 
Fitzsimons of Philadelphia wrote to a correspondent Feb. ij : " Our Congress have 
within these few days given some hints that they were in possession of some Intelli- 
gence of the Utmost Conseq'e but say they are not at liberty to disclose it Various are 
the Conjectures upon it, but being merely Conjectures I cannot venture to give you any 
opinion of mine. Whatever.it may be it has had a very good Effect in reducing the 
price of Gold" (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll.). 

6 Samuel Holten records in his Diary under the date Feb. 12, " I dined with 
the Hon. R. Morris, Esqr and 14 other members of Congress dined there ". Holten has 
no other entry between the 8th and the 14th ; the date of the dinner may therefore have 
been Feb. 13. On the nth Congress had exonerated Morris from blame in the matter 
of recent charges against him. 

[gijiPa. Arch., first ser., VH. 192. 

2 This was the case of the sloop Active, which had brought into prominence 
the question of the powers of Congress. See no. 57, note 2, ante. Thomas Burke 
wrote to Thomas Hart, Feb. 13, " I must take part in a debate that is now agitating " 
(N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 1161; N. C. States Rccs., XIV. 22). It is doubtless 
the debate on this question to which he refers. See no. 69, ante, and no. 119, post. 

[92]! From the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels. 



February, ijjg 69 

board to acquaint you with their sentiments, which I hope will be done 
next post or sooner if opportunity offers.^ 

I am Sir 

Your Humble Sert. 

Wm. Carmichael 
Philadelphia Feb'y 15th 1779 
[Addressed :] 

Thomas Harwood Esq T. L. O.^ 
Annapolis 

93. William Henry Drayton, Memorandum of Conference with 

THE Minister of France (Conrad Alexandre Gerard).^ 

Monday, February 15, 1779. 

He informed the Committee ^ that his master, actuated by the most 
friendly regard to the United States, had ordered him to acquaint them 
that a great revolution had taken place in Great Britain respecting the 
question of their independence; that there had been a great party in the 
Cabinet Council of that nation in favor of that independence; that they 
were willing to grant that independence with certain conditions; that 
those conditions were somewhat similar to those proposed by the late 
commissioners ; that they principally respected a kind of Federal Union, 
such as that the United States should assist Great Britain in her wars; 
that, however, this measure had been laid aside, the Cabinet being im- 
pressed with the representation of the Commissioners that divisions pre- 
vailed among the members in Congress, and between the Congress and 
some of the States; that by the operations of the Commissioners a foun- 
dation was laid upon which discord would arise between the United States 
and France in the ensuing campaign; that in its operation it would be 
sudden and critical, and that there was a powerful party against the inde- 
pendence of the United States; that the British Court, as they had always 
done, propagated and spread these suggestions throughout Europe, and 
were the more at large in the calumny, that some impressions might re- 
main in consequence of the heat of the calumny; that although his most 
Christian Majesty paid no attention to these suggestions, yet he most 
strongly recommended concord without meaning in any manner to look 
into or interfere in the internal measures of the United States. 

That such being the disposition of the Cabinet the beginning of October, 
the Court of Spain had thereupon taken her final resolution, as ex- 
pressed by her remonstrance to the Court of London the end of that 
month, respecting her hostile operations against France, making the inde- 
pendence of the United States the preliminary article to a general pacifi- 
cation ; that it was possible this would lead to a general peace, and that 

2 a. Arch, of Md., XXI. 323, 368, 375, 387, and nos. 258, 266, 267, post. See also 
the Journals, July 17. 

3 The letters stand for " Treasurer of the Loan Office ". Harwood was com- 
missioner of the continental loan office in the state of Maryland. 

[93]iGibbes, Documentary History of the American Revolution, II. lOi. 

2 The conference was in the committee of the whole. See nos. 81, 83, 90, ante, 

94. 95, 98, 99, 105, 116, post. 



70 Continental Congress 

the negociations would necessarily be rapid, as peace or war must finally 
be determined upon before the season for opening the campaign came on. 
That as the Court of France had no object in view but the independence 
of the United States, if this was to be obtained there was a great proba- 
bility of peace ; but if it could not be obtained, his most Christian Majesty- 
would exert all his powers in the next campaign in prosecution of the war. 
That the Congress ought to lose no time in appointing a proper person to 
take a part in the expected negociations ; that he should be furnished with 
ample powers, as well as the desires of Americans as her ultimatum, 
relaxing in the first as in his discretion he should see fit, the distance being 
too great, and the crisis too pressing, to admit of applications to Congress 
for instructions; that the United States should consider their resources 
and their abilities on the one hand, and the probable advantages and 
disadvantages arising on the other, by continuing the war ; that moderate 
terms might, perhaps, be now obtained ; that the pride of Great Britain was 
too high, and her abilities too great, to submit to extraordinary demands 
at present. She might be able to continue the war for some years yet. 
France desired no aggrandizement by conquest, the Independence of 
America being alone such a debilitating of Great Britain, as to secure her 
effectually against the haughtiness of that nation. 

That the Court of Great Britain had endeavored to form alliances upon 
the Continent; that twenty months ago she had applied to the Empress 
of Russia for a body of her troops for the American service; that she 
replied she had not been raised to empire by Providence for such a pur- 
pose ; that she would not send her troops against a people who asked only 
for justice and liberty; she would not engage in such a bloody work. In 
shore, she answered with such disdain, that the British ambassador re- 
tired from Court till he received instructions on that head from London ; 
that these instructions were in such mild terms, that he returned as if 
nothing had happened; that afterwards he applied to the Empress that 
her Majesty should act in strict conjunction with the British, and that a 
large district in America would be assigned to the Empress; but she 
answered this in such a manner, as discouraged a renewal of the appli- 
cation. That Britain had also proposed to the King of Prussia to loan an 
army of observation, with the view of collecting to it such forces as were 
against the interests of the Emperor ; that the King, the Emperor, and the 
Queen of Hungary, had applied to his Master to mediate in the disputes 
relative to Bavaria ; that he being in alliance with Vienna, had not chosen 
to be alone the arbiter, but had called upon Russia to be a co-umpire, to 
which the King of Prussia and the Emperor had consented; that the 
Empress of Russia had desired of the King of France to mediate between 
her and the Porte; that thus it appeared none of the Great Powers of 
Europe would take part against France, and that Great Britain was 
destitute of alliances against his Master; that Spain wished to have the 
territorial claims of the United States terminated. She wished to have 
the navigation of the Mississippi shut, and possession of the Floridas ; that 
she disliked the neighborhood of the British in that quarter, who were 
too restless and enterprising, and preferred that of the United States ; that 
if the war continued, a subsidy might be obtained of Spain in aid of the 



February, 1779 71 

pecuniary wants of the United States ; that this aid was most honorable 
to protect States to obtain under the mark of a subsidy ; that it might at a 
loose rate call for 6.000 men, when not more than 3,000 would be ex- 
pected to be embodied for the reduction of the Floridas, to be relinquished 
to Spain when conquered ; that Spain might obtain that territory inde- 
pendent of the States; that if a peace now took place, Spain would have 
no claim upon the United States, nor would they have any upon the 
Floridas; that if this subsidy took place, the money might be lodged in 
respectable private hands in Paris, and if prudently managed would give 
the States a credit in Europe equal to their wishes ; that at all events the 
United States should exert themselves to prepare for another campaign, 
and put on the appearance of aiming at more than they meant to strike 
at; for such an appearance would accelerate the negociations, especially 
if the United States could strike a blow, which, though not important, 
might be brilliant ; that peace was the time for the United States to recover 
their finances; that France had just begun to recover hers when hos- 
tilities begun between her and Britain ; that had those hostilities been post- 
poned two years, she would be more competent to the war ; that, however, 
France had made every necessary arrangement for the next campaign. 
But that, as her exertions, and the maintenance of 60,000 men on the 
frontiers of Germany, to enforce her umpirage, would occupy all her 
resources, she was not able to afford those aids to America, which she 
was disposed to do, considering as she did the interests of America as 
her own. 

94. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[February 15, 1779.] 
75. Congress was resolved into a committee of the whole and the 
Minister of France was admitted to a private conference for some 
time 

95. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[February 15, 16, 1779.] 
Monday Feby. 15th. Commercial Committee Congress. Conferance 
w'th Mr. Gerrard.^ 6 P M. Committee on foreign affairs. 

Tuesday Feby. 16th. Commercial Committee 9 oC Congress. Great 
debates relating to Genl. Arnold, a Motion for Suspending him, agreed 
to Postpone the motion till the Committee brought in their Report.^ A 
Representation from the Assembly of Pennsylvania to their Delegates in 
Congress, Relating to the Distresses of the Frontier Inhabitants. Letter 
from Govr. Clinton of New York, and One from Govr. Turnbull, Con- 
necticut all to the same Purport. Referrd to the Committee of Confer- 
rence * Letter from the Govr. of Virginia concerning the Convention 
Troops, referrd to their Delegates Corn £10 to £15 per Barrell Dined 
with Coll. Grififtn.' 

[^^Y Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 251. 

[95]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 81, 83, 93, ante, and no. 98, post. 

' See no. 58, note 2, ante. 

* See the Journals. Feb. 16, 17, 25, Mar. 13. Cf. nos. 96, lOl, 102, 104, post. 

^ Cyrus Griffin, delegate to Congress from Virginia. 



72 Continental Congress 

96. Daniel Roberdeau to the Speaker of the Pennsylvania House 
OF Representatives (John Bayard).^ 

Philada. Feb'y 16th, 1779. 
Sir, 

The Instructions to the Delegates of this State in Congress, from a 
Committee of your Honorable House respecting the defenceless Situation 
of our Frontiers, is referred " to the Committee lately appointed to con- 
fer with the Commander in Chief, and that they be directed to confer with 
a Committee of the Assembly of Pennsylvania." ^ 

Mr. Duane, Chairman of said Committee, requests through me, that 
he may be notified of the appointment of such Committee, and when and 
where they will hold the Conference. 
I am with high esteem, 

Sir, yr most obt hum. Servt, 

Daniel Roberdeau. 

97. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia 16th Feb'y 1779 
My Dear Sir, 

.... Our ships have been so unfortunate that many gentlemen (per- 
haps from different motives) very reluctantly consent to the appropriation 
of money to that service : however there are those who think differently 
and see clearly the importance of a Navy. Notwithstanding the views on 
both sides the question may be well intended, these different sentiments 
have a tendency to procrastinate matters which may sometimes be of great 
importance 

I have urged the Commercial Committee to settle the commissions on 
some general system which they encourage me will soon be done, when you 
will have full information on that subject.^ .... 

98. John Fell, Diary.^ 

IVednesday Feby. i/th. ly/p. Commercial Committee Congress 
]\Iemorial Read from all the Officers now Prisoners on Long Island 
Praying to be Exchanged refferd to a Committee of 3. vizt. Duane, 
Atley and Dyer ^ Widdow Kennedys Report, and Treasurys Board opin- 
ion thereon Postponed.^ Sundry foreign Letters from Arther Lee and 
other Commissioners and from John Ross were Read G Morris moved 
with many Reasons well drawn up that the above Letters, and the late 
Conferrence with the Minister be Referrd to a special Committee agreed 

[96]! Pa. Arch., first ser., VIL 194. 

- See no. 95, ante. 
[97]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 617. 

2 Cf. the Journals, May 28, Dec. 31. 
[98]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 17, 18, Mar. 4, May 21, June 3. 

2 See no. 85, ante. 



February, lyyQ T3 

to 5 vizt. Morris, Burk, Weatherspoon, S Adams and Smith. Secret * 
6PM Committee on foreign Affairs only 3 

Thursday Feby. 18th. Commercial Committee Congress Letter from 
President Powell and one from Com'y Ward, on Long Island, in behalf 
of the Prisoners on Long Island, Referrd to the Committee appointed 
yesterday. Barron Stewbon the Inspector Generals Rules and orders," 
application from the Board of Warr for a further allowance, agreed 84 
Doll's in addition to his Pay as a Major General. Letter from Count 
Polaska. Report of New Regulations in the Artilery Line etc.^ 6 P M. 
Committee on foreign Affairs Only 3 Members 

99. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 18th Feby. 1779 
My Dear Sir, 

Your two favors of the 9th and 20th Jany. came to hand Yesterday. 
I do not wonder at your uneasiness on acco't of the scituation of the 
Curr'y I hope what has been done by Congress will have some tendency 
to reestablish the credit of it, however something more must be done, and 
I trust, very shortly will. I am sorry to find your mind in so gloomy a 
scituation. " You fear, nothing but peace will save us from destruction " 
these my Friend are sentiments calculated for the meridion of Pensyl- 
vania. Peace to be sure is desireable but in my Opinion a secondary Ob- 
ject, war with all its horrors is preferable to an inglorious peace. I hope 
we shall never consent to such a peace as will involve posterity in greater 
evils then we have suffered I have no doubt but there is vertue enough 
in the Army to undergo the fatigues of one more campaign they must 
be sensible that everything that can be is done for their comfort, and I 
will undertake to say that the strictest justice will be done them when it 
is in the power of their Country to do them that justice. I have heard 
nothing of Genl. Sullivan calling for the Militia he has never intimated 
any such intentions to Congress nor can I have the least conseption what 
they can be wanted for at this time. The design of the publication ^ you 
mention I believe was to conceal the Villany of the publisher. I need say 
nothing to you of the Charecters he endeavours to blacken you know 
them to be some of the best that this contest has brought on the stage. 
The Charecter he chiefly aims at, America is certainly under very great 

* The Journals mention only letters of Arthur Lee, with enclosures. The letter 
of John Ross was probably the letter to Deane, July 22, 1777, to which Richard Henry 
Lee makes frequent reference (see, for instance, the letter to Laurens, Dec. 26, 1778, 
that to Francis Lightfoot Lee, Jan. 10, 1779, and the public letter to Deane, in Letters, 
L 462, IL I, 11). Ross's letter is in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, H. 97; a 
letter of July 19, to which that of July 22 is a supplement, is ibid., p. 94. 

It was this committee that reported upon the terms upon which peace would be 
considered, or what came usually to be called the ultimatum, or ultimata. See the 
Journals, Feb. 23, 27, Mar. i^ 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 19, 22, 24, and nos. 108, no, 
114, 119, 128, 133, 138, 143. 158, 159, post. 

5 That is, the " Plan for the Department of Inspector General ". 

^ The " Arrangement of the Department of Ordnance ". 
[99]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. II., 1779-1790. 

2 The allusion is doubtless to Silas Deane's publication of Dec. 5. See no. 7, ante. 



74 . Continental Congress 

obligation to. to him we are indebted for every piece of good informa- 
tion we have receiv'd from Europe since the commencement of the dis- 
pute with Britain I am well satisfied the publisher wo'd give all his 
smugled wealth to recall that performance but it is too late, he has tho' 
without intention given the key by which his base designs will be dis- 
covered and I hope public justice will be done. There can be no depen- 
dence on the intelligence you get from York that part respecting the 
lOO Dollar Bills certainly is not true. 

By the last acco'ts from Europe American affairs have a much better 
aspect there then here the perticulars I have not Liberty at present to 
communicate but I flatter myself I shall e'er long have it in my power to 
give you such intelligence as will dispel those gloom that at present seem 
to pervade your mind.^ but I hope every faculty will be exercised to 
have a very respectable army in the field if that is effected I have not 
a doubt but we shall (under the smiles of Heaven and assisted by our 
allies) Humble to the dust the proudest nation in the world have peace 
on our own terms and make America the seat of Happiness; that this 
Glorious event may speedily take place God of his infinite Mercy Grant 
Amen 

Yours most sincerely 

Wm. Whipple 
Col : Bartlett 

100. Charles Thomson to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed).^ 

Philada. Feby. 19. 1779 
Sir, 

I have the honour to transmit to you the proceedings of Congress^ in 
the cases mentioned or referred to in your letter this day read in Con- 
gress.^ I beg leave to inform your excellency that there has been no com- 
plaint made against Genl. Maxwell by the state or the governor of New 
Jersey the complaint was made by Mr. Clarke late a delegate from that 
state, as you will see by the extract enclosed. The case of lieut col Car- 
rington is of a delicate nature. The atonement he made was so full and 
satisfactory that could it have been done with propriety Congress would 
have willingly removed the whole from their journals, as that could not 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 12, 13, 15, 17, 23, and nos. 81, 83, ante. Cf. nos. 105, 116, 
117, post. In the Literary Diary of Ezra Stiles (II. 323), under date of Mar. i, appears 

the following entry : " Hon. Ellsworth last week from Congress came to Town. He 

told us there was grand News from Europe which was at present secret, but we should 
know it in due Time." Ellsworth obtained leave of absence Feb. 19. 

The expression " those gloom ", above, is doubtless incomplete, those gloomy fore- 
bodings probably being intended. 

[ioo]i Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 69, vol. III., f. 617 (autograph 
copy, with endorsement by Thomson, " Copy of a letter to his excellency J. Reed, prest. 
of Council of Pensylvania Feb. 19, 1779"). 

2 The letter is summarized in the Journals. For the Maxwell case, see vol. III., 
no. 700, and the Journals, Dec. 26, 1778, Jan. 2, 30, 1779. For the affair of Capt. James 
Nicholson, see the Journals, Apr. 29, May 1, 1777, and these Letters, vol. II., nos. 
468-470, 474, 505. For that of Lieut.-Col. Edward Carrington, see ibid., no. 674 {cf. vol. 
III., p. 188 n.), and the Journals, Aug. 18, 19, 1777, May 23, 1778. 



February, lyjg 75 

be done, they have taken the only step in their power which was to order 
that this part of their journal should not be published. From your nice 
feelings of honor, I am confident that, in any use the Council may wish 
to make of these extracts, you will take care that lieut col Carrington's 
feelings may not be hurt, for though sometimes the manner of attoning 
for a fault sets a character in a fairer point of light than if no fault had 
ever been committed. Yet to men of nice feelings it must give pain to 
have it publickly known they were once guilty. 

I write this in friendship and confidence having no authority for so 
doing. I beg leave farther to inform you, that should your excellency or 
Council have occasion for any minutes of Congress that are not directed 
to be kept secret, on the least hint to me they will be immediately furnished 

I am Sir 

Your obedient humble Servt 

Chas. Thomson 

loi. John Jay to the Governor of New York (George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, 19 Feb. 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Mr. Duane promises to prepare a joint letter for the Delegates 
to you, and I imagine it will be ready in the morning. Lest it should not, 
it may be proper to inform you that all the Departments are placed under 
the immediate direction of Gen. Washington, and therefore that provi- 
sion for the security of the frontiers falls within the line of his duty and 
authority. Pennsylvania is under similar circumstances with you, and 
will equally demand and be referred to his care and protection.^ .... 

The scarcity of bread in the East and South is become a serious subject, 
and I hope care will be taken to prevent so great a calamity in New York. 
Give while you have to spare, but regard to self preservation ought to set 
bounds even to acts of benevolence.^ .... 

102. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia 19th Febry. 1779. 
Sir, 

We beg Leave to acknowledge the Receipt of your Excellency's Dis- 
patches of the 9th Instant by Barclay.^ 

We lament the frequent Ravages of the western frontier. They have 
been severely felt both by our own State and Pensylvania; and we are 
called upon by every motive to be vigorous in the necessary Preparations 
for punishing our Enemies and protecting our Citizens. The Commander 

lioi]^ Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 64. 

2 See nos. 102, 106, post} cf. no. 95, ante. 

3 See nos. 80, 84, 86, ante, no, 112, post. 
[102Y Clinton Papers, IV. 580. 

2 Clinton's letter to the delegates, Feb. 9, is in Clinton Papers, IV. 555. Letters 
to Jay and Morris of the same date are ibid., pp. 554, 556. The letter to Jay transmits 
to him a new commission as delegate. Cf. a letter from Francis Le\yis and Gouverneur 
Morris to Clinton, Jan. 21, ibid., p. 514. 



76 Continental Congress 

in Chief has spent some time in this City in Conference with a Committee 
of Congress. No pains have been spared to impress him with a strong 
Idea of the absolute necessity of attention to these great objects. The 
operations which will be most effectual are submitted to his Judgement, 
and every Department is placed under his immediate Superintendance. 
With him, therefore, we wish your Excellency to correspond. We know 
that he has great Confidence in you and that your Solicitations and advice 
will have a proper weight.^ 

General Schuyler also stands high in his opinion; and we are fully 
persuaded that any Plan which you and he suggest, or Requisition which 
you make, will meet with all possible attention. These are as fortunate 
Circumstances for our Frontiers as coud be wished, and we are persuaded 
they will be embraced. If any Obstructions arise, or any thing you may 
deem essential is omitted (which we have not the least Room to appre- 
hend) we shall stand ready to support your Representations with the 
utmost Diligence and Zeal. 

The arrangement of the army with respect to the relative Rank of the 
officers is not yet entirely compleated. This Defect, which has given room 
for dissatisfaction, is chiefly to be ascribed to the Committee's having left 
Congress before the arrangement was matured for a Report. It is however 
handed over to the Commander in Chief who is directed to finish it, the 
principles having been established by Congress. You will, therefore, be 
pleased to apply to him for Information ; his own Anxiety on so interest- 
ing a Subject to the whole army will not brook Delay.* .... 

Preparations are making by Congress for the ensuing Campaign. The 
Intelligence from Europe is not sufficiently decisive to Justify the least 
Relaxation, tho they are by no means discouraging 

We have the Honour to be with the highest Respect Sir, 

Your Excellency's most Obedient humble Servants 

Jas. Duane 
John Jay 
Wm. Floyd 
Era. Lewis. 

103. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Friday Feby. ipih. ///p. Commercial Committee Congress. President 
Reeds Letter, requesting the Resolutions of Congress with regard to 
sundry Officers therein mentioned. On Motion that he should have applied 
to the Delegates of the State, caused long debates ^ Letter from the 
Board of Warr, setting forth the necesity of Putting the Clothier Gen- 
erals Business on a better footing, and also the exceeding bad manage- 
ment of the Commisary of Hides department; the first Referrd to the 
Committee of Conferrence, and the last relating Hides to the B'd of 

3 See nos. 95, lo1, ante; also Clinton to Washington Mar. 3 (Letters to Washing- 
ton, ed. Sparks, II. 255; Clinton Papers, IV, 611), and Washington to Congress Mar. 3, 
to Clinton Mar. 4 (Writings, ed. Sparks, VI. 182, 183). 

* See the Journals, Feb. 4. 
[103]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 100, ante. 



February, ///P 77 

Warr to Report The Treasury requested a New Emission of 5,16000' 
and also their reasons for not complying with the request of the Commer- 
cial Committee for 500,000 D's.* President acquainted the House that 
the Minister of France had told him, that his health was Impaird and he 
beleived the Air of this Country did not agree with him, that he had leave 
to go to France, and that another was appointed in his Room. A Frigate 
was orderd to be imediately Prepaird to carry him Home.^ 
This night the Committee ^ did not meet, Rainy night 
Saturday Feby. 20th. Commercial Committee Letter from John Hart, 
relating to his Loss by Cloth taken from his fulling Mill. Committee of 3. 
Vizt. Dyer, Hill and Weatherspoon.^ Letter from Capt. Hector McNeal 
to be considerd on Tuesday. Memorial of Lucy De Pasey.® Board of 
Warr. do. from Capt. Celleron, to have a Brevet for the Rank of Major. 
No. Motion to allow him 1000 D's agreed Ay.^ Petition from Timothy 
Pening to send a Vessell to Jamaica referrd to a Committee vizt. Adams, 
Dyer, and Collins.^" Report read about the Convention Troops in Vir- 
ginia 2 Auditors appointed for the Army. vizt. Varley and Powell ^'• 

3 The correct figures are 5,000,160. 

* The report of the board of treasury on this subject, dated Feb. 15, is found in 
the Journals under that date. Fell's entry indicates that the report was not brought 
in until this day. 

5 The Journals record only the order for the preparation of the frigate. Samuel 
Holten records in his Diary under this date, " I understand Mr. Gerard is going to 
return to France on account of his health ". He did not, however, take leave until Sept. 17. 
As early as Oct. 25, 1778, Gerard had written to Vergennes of the serious state of 
his health, which he attributed to the climate, and had asked for his recall. He urgently 
repeated this request Feb. 5, 1779, and expressed the hope that he might be relieved by 
the month of April. On Feb. 24 he wrote, " I propose to leave on the first occasion 
which presents itself ". Then on Mar. 8 he wrote to Vergennes : 

" The symptoms of the malady which oppresses me, in spite of every possible remedy 
and the pleasant weather which we have enjoyed for a month, continue with unabated 
violence ; therefore I have confidentially announced to Congress my early departure. 
They have expressed their regrets in the most obliging manner ; many members have 
told me they have long foreseen that I would be obliged to leave on account of the 
climate. The Chief of Admiralty came immediately to offer me, among all the vessels 
of the State, my choice of the one by which Congress wishes to conduct me to France. 
I have chosen this time because I wished to sail with the Plenipotentiary of Congress, 
and because the Public, who are vaguely imbued with the idea that important matters 
are being considered, will take this association as proof that the most perfect harmony 
exists between us. 

" Congress to whom I communicated these ideas thanked me warmly and approved 
them. As to the time of departure it will depend upon the actual termination of the 
deliberations of Congress. I will not leave earlier even at the peril of my life. I hope 
Monseigneur, that these considerations will aid my justification and that perhaps my 
presence in France may not be entirely useless to you." Transcripts of these letters 
are in the Library of Congress. Translations of them were kindly furnished by Miss 
Elizabeth S. Kite. See nos. 143, 167, 225, post. 

^ Presumably the committee of thirteen on foreign aflfairs, which, according to 
Fell's Diary, was meeting almost every evening at six o'clock. See no. 46, ante. 

'' See the Journals, Feb. 20, Apr. 7, Oct. 9. 

8 According to the Journals, the memorialist was " Lewis D. Passern ". Probably, 
however, it was William De Passern, who, in a memorial dated Aug. 27^ 1778, read in 
Congress Sept. 8, described himself as major of the regiment of Hesse Hanau. See 
also the Journals, Nov. 19, 1778. Cf. no. 292, post. 

^ Cf. the Journals, and no. 85, ante. 

10 The letter from Timothy Penny was referred to " the committee on the letter 
from Mr. Taylor". This was Claver Taylor, and the committee was Collins, Thomas 
Adams, and Dyer. See the Journals, Dec 17, 18, 1778, Mar. 13, 1779, and vol. HL, no. 
682. For the decision on Penny's petition, see the Journals, May 31. 

11 Felix Varlev and Alexander Fowler. 



78 Continental Congress 

Motion for Pay Master and Treasurer for the Marine Board, deferrd. 
Motion for 100,000 D's for the Commercial Committee. Motion for the 
Officers to be furnished and the Quarter Master, with Portmantuas, and 
Valances at the Publick Expense. 

104. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 
Dear Sir, Philad. 20th Feb'ry, 1779. 

.... It was but within a few days that we learned that the maps and 
papers concerning the claims of the revolters from our State were in 
Mr. G. Morris's hands.^ I came from Fishkill with information and a 
strong persuasion that they remained in the Sec'y's office. On all accounts 
it is a favorable juncture to settle the dispute with these malcontents, and 
I flatter myself that Congress will do what is right and for the general 
interest. They certainly owe it to us as an act of justice, setting policy 
out of the question ; for some of their own acts, and much more the con- 
duct of two of their generals have served to inflame the ambition of the 
revolters, and flatter them that the separation was not disagreeable to 
the highest power. The arts of individuals have gone still further. I trust 
however that all these projects will be baffled by right and truth. 

Our Finances are in a delicate and difficult situation. I hope however 
that we shall be able to restore the public credit in spite of the malice of 
our enemies and the avarice of our citizens. I am pleased to find a free 
spirit of inquiry in your news-papers. We shall be happy in receiving 
information; and I would be far from discouraging those whose literary 
labors are employed in so interesting a subject. And yet it seems strange 
that the real farmer has never stopped to ask himself whether any man 
would touch continental money after it had been taxed 25 per cent, or 
even a fifth of that sum ! by the authority of Congress ; to say nothing of 
the arbitrary assumption of power which must be implied in such an act. 
Congress have a right to call on the States for contribution : but the mode 
of taxation rests solely with their separate legislatures. I do not despair 
but remedies will be discovered, if the last act of Congress should not 
prove effectual; we must give time for its operation, and as well as we 
can reconcile our citizens to the distress which that and every other means 
which can be devised will occasion. The paper money has been extended 
too far; like a disjointed limb, it cannot be reduced without giving 



pam.^ 



105. Francis Lewis to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 
Dear Sir, P^^^a. 20th Febry. 1779. 

I have been honoured with your letter of the 1st Instant. 
You will undoubtedly ere this reaches you hear the current bruit of the 
present time. i. e. that Congress are possessed of great news received from 

[104]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 66. 

2 See Gouverneur Morris to Clinton Feb. 20, Clinton Papers, IV. 584. 

3 See Clinton to Duane Feb. 2 {ibid., p. 540), and to Morris, same date {ibid., 

p. 535). 

[loSV CUnton Papers, IV. ^83. 



February, 1779 79 

Europe but for reasons of State, think it improper at this time to be de- 
vulged ; this has raised the curiosity of the pubHc to know what the mighty 
Secret is. As a member of Congress I am enjoined to Secrecy, but think 
myself at liberty to cominunicate to your Excellency (in confidence) that 
Mons'r Gerard has given Congress such intelligence as will put our affairs 
upon a more respectable footing than ever, but then it will be necessary 
that we exert ourselves in our military appearances, but above all in our 
unanimity, for the only hope Britain has now left, is to divide us.^ 

The Rumor has this good effect, that Engrossers and monopolizers are 
at a stand, many offer goods for Sale, but few choose to buy, so that goods 
fall in price, and our money appreciate ; the Express waiting obliges me 
to conclude 

Your Excellency's most Obedt. Humble Servant 

Era. Lewis. 

106. James Duane to Philip Schuyler/ 

Philad. 20th Eeb'y 1779 
My dear Sir 

.... The General has a great Esteem for, and writes confidentially 
to you: I need therefore say nothing on the military preparations you 
mention. Every Department and Detachment of the Army are put under 
his immediate Care, and Congress have the most unlimited Confidence in 
his Wisdom and Judgement as well as his Zeal and Integrity. Congress 
I believe wish to give all his Operations what none have had hitherto, the 
advantage of Secrecy : for which Reason they have not been the Subject 
of debate, and I fancy you are one of a very few with whom they are 
entrusted. I do not say this on Account of Caution : to you it is unneces- 
sary. I have Reason to think the General while attending Congress, or 
rather a Select Committee of five, expressed to many Members his Re- 
luctance at your quitting the Army, and wished it coud be prevented. No 
Motion has however been made, and when it is I am apt to think it will 
depend on your Friends to turn the Scale, you will have a strong advo- 
cate in R. H. L. who took his seat this day.^ .... 

107. Meriwether Smith to John Page.^ 

Philadelphia, Feby 21st 1779 
Dear Sir, 

I have reed, your Favor of the 4th inst. on the Melancholy Subject of 
the wretched Condition of our Country, and I can truly say, with you, 

2 C/. nos. 81, 83, 90, 99, ante, 116, 117, post. Lewis wrote again to Clinton 
Feb. 24, in nearly the same terms (Clinton Papers, IV. 585). Cf. his letter of Mar. 13, 
ibid., p. 658. 

[io6]iN. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 551; ibid., Bancroft Coll., Schuyler 
Papers, no. 719 (copy) ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., LX. 157. 

2 Concerning the conference with General Washington, see nos. 5, 37, ante. 
Concerning Schuyler's resignation, see the Journals, Jan. 5, Mar. 18, Apr. 19, and nos. 
144, 241, post. 

[107]! Library of Congress, U. S. Revolution. .Addressed, "To the Hon'ble John 
Page Williamsburg Virginia ". 



80 Continental Congress 

that I have snatched a Moment to answer it ; For the Multiplicity of Busi- 
ness on my Hands, and the Manner in which it is conducted here," renders 
the Task I have undertaken arduous indeed. 

The Scarcity of provisions throughout the Continent, and the amazing 
Depreciation of our Money which renders that Scarcity more severely 
felt, are much to be lamented; but these are Misfortunes which in the 
present Moment are without a Remedy ; unless it be in the Fortitude and 
Exertions of the sensible and virtuous Part of the Community, who may 
destroy the depreciating Spirit which prevails, and by Precept and Ex- 
ample, encourage that Industry and Frugality on which our Safety and 
Happiness as a Nation depend. Every Preparation should be made to 
encrease the Quantity of Provisions in Virginia the present year 

The Governor and Council are vested with Powers to dispose of the 
Convention Troops as the Necessity of the Case may require.^ 

The nth and 12th Articles of the Treaty of Paris are given up by 
France.* It is impossible for a Nation to act with more Disinterestedness; 
and every Day affords us fresh Proofs of her Friendship. Whilst I know 
this, I can not but feel an Indignation against the Conduct of those little 
Politicians (not to say worse of them) who know not how to distinguish 
between the Nation and a few individuals of the Nation; and who are so 
much under the Influence of Folly and Prejudice, that, when Harmony 
with that Nation is essentially necessary to our Safety, they are daily 
sowing the seeds of universal disgust. 

I beg that the People of Virginia will not think that the Disputes of 
Messrs. Lee and Deane can be attended with any Serious Consequences 
to these united States. Believe me they would not deserv^e the serious 
Attention of a Moment if they did not interrupt the Business which is of 
more Importance. 

I beg you to present my respectful Compliments to your Lady and 
believe 

Yr aff'e hble Servt. 

Meriwether Smith. 

108. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Monday Feby. 22d. ijjg. Rain Commercial Committee Congress. 
Letters from A Lee at Paris ^ Letter from Wm. Bingham Agent at 
Martinico per the Revenge Cutter w'th One Case of Tea and 50 Chests 
of Arms.^ long debate ab't the Foreign Committee A Lee beleives the 
British Commissioners have orders to acknowledge our Independcy.* 

2 Possibly an echo of Laurens's parting fling in his resignation as President 
(Journals, Dec. 9, 1778). 

2 See tlie Journals, Feb. 20. 

* Sec the Journals, May 5, Oct. 22, 1778, and Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II 699. 
[108]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The Journals mention letters from William Lee, but none from Arthur Lee. 
See note 4, below. 

2 The Journals do not mention the case of tea. Samuel Holten recorded in his 
Diary for this day, " Yesterday Capt. Cunnacome arrived here from France ". It was 
Gustavus Conyngham, commander of the Revenge. Cf. no. 64, ante, and nos. 133, 135, 
post. 

* See note 2, above. The allusion is probably to a statement in William Lee's 
letter of Sept. 12, in which he says, " I am informed, and have reason to believe my 



February, ///p ■ 81 

Tuesday Fehy. 2^d. Commercial Committee Congress. Sundry Let- 
ters Read. Committee of Conferrance with Mr. Gerrard brought in a 
Report, after long debate agreed to consider on the Report on Thursday 
in a Committee of the whole House ° 6 P M. Committee on forreign 
affairs 

109. The President of Congress (John Jay) to 
George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 23d Feby. 1779 
Sir, 

Congress consider Genl McDougall's Application worthy of attention, 
and the better to enable your Excellency to comply, if you think proper 
with his Request have ordered a thousand Dollars to be forwarded to you. 
The enclosed is a Copy of the Order for that purpose." 

no. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[February 24-27, 1779.] 
Wednesday Feby. 24th.' Commercial Committee Congress. Letters 
from the Commissioners at Paris to know the Colours used per the 
different States referrd to the Marine Committee. And also how to treat 
with Algerines, Referrd to Mr. Carmichael, Nelson and Burk. Members 
chose to fill up the Marine Committee vizt. for Virginia R. H. Lee Penn- 
sylvania Mr. Searle New Jersey Mr. Fell Treasury Board Mr. Freling- 
huysen, Committee on foreign affairs Mr. Dyer. A Soldier Condemned 
per a Court Martial, Pardoned. President Reeds Letter and papers relat- 
ing to Major Clarkson Read, and several motions made respecting him, 
occasiond long debates till Past 5.^ 

Thursday. Feby. 2^th.* Commercial Committee Congress Letter 
from Major Genl. Mifflin desireing leave to Resign his Commission, after 
long debate it was accepted. At the Request of the Assembly for the State 
of Pensylvania, agreed to Raise 5 Companys of 73 Men Each for the 
defence of the Western Frontiers the acct. to be transmitted to the Com- 
mander in Chief Dr. Wetherspoon went home 

information true, that orders have already been sent to their commissioners in America 
to acknowledge our independence if nothing else will answer, in order to commence a 
treaty and make peace" (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 715). Cf. Arthur Lee's letter 
of Nov. 15 {ibid., p. 839). Doubtless the communication of "An American" (Gouver- 
neur Morris) in the Pennsylvania Packet of Feb. 27 (see no. 132, note 2, post) was in 
part written in view of this news. 

^ See no. 98, ante, and nos. no, 114, post. 

[109]' Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, III. 53. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 22. In his letter to Congress, Feb. 19, Washington 
says: "A letter of the nth ulto. from General McDougall contains the following 
paragraph — ' If Congress will order me one thousand dollars in hard cash without 
delay, I will pledge myself to make such use of it as will abundantly compensate for it, 
to the Continent, divert them and the army ' — I have since sent him fifty guineas 
which were all I could spare out of my stock." For an explanation of McDougall's 
purpose, see his letter to Governor Clinton Jan. 20, Clinton Papers, IV. 501. 

[110]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 " 24. Mr. R. Temple from Massa. Bay arrived here" (Samuel Holten, Diary), 
See the Journals, Feb. 27, Mar. 6. 

3 See no. 69, ante, and no. 158, post. 

* " 25. Congress sit late. Mr. R. Temple, Governour Morris, Genl. Mifflin and 
Colo. Webb from Connecticut dined with us" (Samuel Holten, Diary). 



82 Continental Congress 

Fryday Fcby. 26th. Commercial Committee Congress. Letter from 
General Lee to Nego[t]iate in N York some Bills of Excha. for Gold to Pur- 
chase Negroes Vote pas'd in the Negative.^ Report for Masachusets and 
Rhode Island, to send for Flour to the Southern States, agreed under 
Restrictions of their several Governors etc.^ 6 PM. Attended the Com- 
mittee on foreign Affairs, agreed to Mr. Laurens, Mr. Paca and Mr. 
Burk drawing a Report.^ 

Saturday Fcby. 2'/th ///p. Commercial Committee Congress. Letter 
from General Lee, Referrd to the Treasury Board. Order of the Day. The 
house went in to a Committee of the whole.** Coll. Frelinghuysen went 
home 

III. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 28th Feby. 1779 
My Dear Sir 

Your favor of the 28th Ulto. is now before me I expected the calling 
in so considerable a sum would produce convulsion, but hope will even- 
tually have salutary effects, the Emission of may 1777, 16,500,000 and 
that of Apl. 1778, 25,000,000 The Gentn. of the Treasury inform me 
they have given perticular direction to the Loan Officers respecting this 
Business, but as those directions did not go from this City till late in Jany. 
they could not have reached N. H. the 28th. I hope the collectors will be 
very careful to avoid counterfeits, there has been more discovered in 
those Emission [s] then any other and some of them so well immitated 
that it is very difficult to distinguish them from the true Bills. I am not 

apprehensive that Mr. D s ^ publications will be attended with very 

bad consequences, but expect the operation will be very different from 
his expectation, it is highly probable they will be the means of bringing 
to light such of his conduct as will by no means redound to his Honour 
and will convince every honest man that he was totally unworthy of 
the trust reposed in him; You ask if "there can be any body that can 
justify his Conduct " if you mean his publications, I answer there are 
none that dare do it publickly but I have not a doubt that there are some 
who were well acquainted with his intentions before he appeared in print 
and perhaps advis'd to the measure, but finding him unsupported by truth 
think it prudent to keep behind the scene Your own knowledge of the 
charecters now on the stage will lead you to form an opinion whether he 
has supporters; You know that the greatest Villains that ever lived 
(especially in public life) have found Friends you are also sensible that 
integrity and uprightness will meet with opposition, it is therefore by 
no means wonderfuU that these different charecters should meet with 
Friends, and Opposers, when so wide a field is open for the display of 
genious in the different modes 



s See the Journals, Feb. 22, 26, 27. 

fi See the Journals, and nos. 84, 86, loi^ ante, 112, 175, post. 
^ The report was brought in Mar. 24, and was taken into consideration from 
time to time during the next several months. See no. 46, note 5, ante. 

s That is, on the question of the uUimatum. See no. 98, note 4, ante. 
[iii]i Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. II. 
2 Silas Deane. 



March, ///p 83 

I hope the genl. Court in their next session will choose Delegates for 
it will be of great importance that the state sho'd be represented in Con- 
gress the insuing summer, my Colleague is determined to go home early 
in Apr'l and it will be impossible for me to tarry the summer 

I am Your affec'te Friend etc 

Wm. Whipple 

Observations on the American Revolution by a Committee of Congress is 
just come from the Press ^ it being too bulkey to go through the Post 
office I shall send you one by the first oppor'y 

112. The Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the 
Massachusetts Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia March 1, 1779 
Sir, 

We have the honor of your favour of the 15th Feb'y.^ .... 
That part of your Letter which respects the fortifying Boston and 
Disposition of the continental army, we shall communicate to Congress, 
who having already appointed a Committee to consider the first, and 
another Committee in conjunction with Gen. Washington to determine on 
a general plan of operation for the next Campaign, will of Course refer 
your propositions to their Consideration.^ 

We have the honor to be, with much Respect for the honorable assembly 
and Yourself, 

your most obedt. and very hum servants 

Samuel Adams 
E. Gerry 
James Lovell 

S. HOLTEN 

' See the Bibliographical Notes, in the Journals, XV. 1452 ; cf. ibid., Apr. 5, 
May 5, June 21, and no. 79, ante. John Henry wrote to Governor Johnson of Maryland 
Mar. 9 : "I have sent you by this post a pamphlet called observations on the American 
Revolution as drawn up by a Committee of Congress. It is little more than connecting 
and throwing together in one point of view the proceedings of Congress" (Md. Hist. 
Soc, Red Book, V. 16). Its author was Gouverneur Morris. Cf. no. 127, post. 
[i12]iMass. Arch., CC. 331. 

2 Holten recorded in his Diary Feb. 27, " Doctr. Crague arrived here from 
Boston and brought a letter from the Gen. Court to the delegates from Massachusetts 
Bay" (Essex hist. Hist. Colls., LV. 252). 

The omitted part of this letter pertains principally to the matter of scarcity of 
bread. The question had been brought before Congress Jan. 13, in a letter of the 
Massachusetts council dated Dec. 18, and action was taken on it Feb. 26. Samuel Adams 
wrote to the Massachusetts board of war Feb. 16, " A Com« of Con have under Con- 
sideration a Letter from M B [Massachusetts Bay] on the Subject of provisions, 
and I am informd they are ready to make Report" {Writings, IV. 125). See no. no, 
ante, and no. 175, post. 

3 A letter of the Massachusetts council, Dec, 15, 1778, relative to fortifying 
Boston, was read in Congress Jan. 13 and referred to the marine committee. Cf. the 
Journals, Jan. 30. See also nos. 113, 188, 189, post. Concerning the committee of 
conference with General Washington, see no. 25, ante. 



84 Continental Congress 

113. James Lovell to Horatio Gates/ 

March 1st 1779 
Dear Sir 

.... As to the fortifying of Boston I must own to you I have not 
been distressed at the Delay which that Business has had in Congress. If 
the proposal should be complied with beyond fortifying the Harbour only, 
I should never wish to live in the City. If the Continent are to fortify they 
will claim the Right to garison, which I should be sorry ever to see. I do 
not want my native Place to be turned into a Wapping or even a Portsmo. 
Plym'th or Chatham. As to Du Portails Plan for the Continent at large 
the whole Treasury of Spain is essential to it.^ .... 

I am afraid of the Arts that are using to hurry us into a rash [ulti- 
matum].^ We are told that such is our first Business tho' your Letter and 
the Observation of a blind man may convince us to the contrary; but 
forsooth [France and Spain] are of that opinion fully as say the Lick 
spittles of [the Plenipo].* There will be no puzzl about [south bounds]. 
But shall neither [Canada Nova Scotia] nor [fishery] be in the 
[ult].'^ .... 

114. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[March 1, 2, 1779.] 
Monday March ist. Commercial Committee Letter from Genl. Wash- 
ington, inclosing one from Genl. Maxwell at Elizabethtown, that the 
Enemy had left that place after a fruitless Incursion. Memorial from 
Mr. Holker offering a Million of Doll's on Loan.' Referrd to Mr. R. H. 

[113]! N. Y. Hist. Soc., Gates Papers, XIV. 262. 

2 See no. 112, ante, and nos. 188, 189, post. 

3 The words in square brackets in this passage are written in cipher. The 
abbreviations " plenipo " and " ult " are of course for plenipotentiary (of France) 
and ultiynatum, respectively. For an explanation of the type of cipher used in this 
letter, see the note on "Ciphers of the Revolutionary Period", in Am. Hist. Rev., 
XXII. 229. For other letters in_ which the same sort of cipher is used, see Lovell to 
Airs. Abigail Adams, June 26, Aug. 10, Sept. 15, Dec. 4, 1781, and to John Adams, 
July 21, 1781, in the next volume of these Letters. 

^ See no. 202, post. 

5 See the Journals, Feb. 23. Cf. nos. 114 (note 5), 155, 189, post. 
[114]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

' Holker's memorial (in translation) is in S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, 
Congressional, and is dated Feb. 27 (the date on which it was first read in Congress). 
He intimates in the outset that in offering his proposition and accompanying remarks 
" he fulfills the wishes of his Prince and the instructions of his ministers ". He then 
discusses the depreciation of the currency, its causes and consequences, contending 
that depreciation is largely due to the paralysis of commerce, which must be reanimated, 
by better protection against the enemy's privateers and by the removal of other 
obstacles, as an essential means to the realization of funds in Europe and the facilita- 
tion of public loans. His proposition is embodied in the following paragraphs : 

" In order to arrive at the end proposed, it is necessary either to obtain such 
Convoys as may repel every attack or find means to diminish the Risques and at the 
same time m^ke returns to Europe which may be depended on. as the former method 
is not within the line of the underwritten he will take notice of the latter only : For 
this purpose he proposes that the Committee on the Treasury or Treasurer, should 
be authoris'd to make out quadruplicate Bills or notes for the sums which shall be 
brought in payable to the party or his order : that these Bills or notes should be 
registered in Books to be kept by the Committee, the treasurer or treasurers of loans — 



March, ly/p 85 

Lee, Laurens and Alorris.^ Committee of the Assembly of Pennsylvania, 
desire a Conferrence with a Committee of Congress, relating to the Emi- 
tions call'd out of Circulation, Gerry, Carmichael, Duane Motion for 
the Committee to whom was Referrd the Letters and Papers from Presi- 
dent Reed, etc. be Requir'd to send and Examine on Oath Mr. iMitchell 
DOM Gener[al] respecting the Waggons, said to be employd per Genl. 
Arnold.* Congress went in to a Committee of the whole House, Respect- 
ing the fixing the Bounderies of the United States.^ 

Tuesday March 2d. Commercial Committee. Congress, some Letters 
read, and a ^Memorial from the Board of Warr, about clothing the Army 

Report for Raising a Lone in Europe, and the Propriety of Paying 
Beaumarchies Debt, debated till 4 o Clock.*' 6 P M. Attended the Marine 
Committee (first time [).]'' 

115. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (Willl\m Greene).^ 

Philadelphia March 2d 1779 
Sir, 

Inclosed is a resolution of Congress which we hope with the recom- 
mendation already given to the States of New York and Connecticut may 
enable our State to procure a supply of bread for its poor.- .... 

Pennsylvania w^as not allowed to stand in the report because the army 
which is in its neighbourhood will want more flour than it can spare. 

We have moved Congress frequently on the Subject of our proportion 
of the Tax for the current year but have not been able to procure a deci- 

that they should be in the Name of those in Europe who shall have hazarded their 
Property to this Country : that the Interest should be payable in America during the 
war, and from the Conclusion of it by the Banker of Congress in France, and that 
the Capitals should not be payable till the expiration of five, ten, fifteen or twenty 

years, at the option of Congress, after the establishment of Peace 

" It is needless to point out the advantages resulting to the public or to draw a 
Picture of it's necessities : The underwritten will only announce that he is ready 
by a loan of a million of Dollars to support his proposition; that this or a similar 
arrangement will Inspire the French Alerchants with confidence and activity, and that 
they will immediately send hither considerable Quantities of European merchandise 
particularly of those Kinds which are most necessary." 

3 The third member of the committee was not Gouverneur Morris, but Meri- 
wether Smith, although Morris and Carmichael were added to the cornmittee Mar. 20, 
when a second memorial was presented. See note 2, above, also the Journals, May 22; 
see also note 6, below. 

* See no. 58, note 2, ante. 

5 A report of the committee on the communications of the minister of France. 
See nos. 98, 108, no, 113, ante, and nos. 119, 133, 138, 143, 151-153, 155, 159, post. 

^ The Journals do not mention that the question of a loan was under considera- 
tion this day, but do record the consideration of. " the report of the Committee of 
Conference" (an order of the day set Mar. i). This may have been the report of 
that committee dated Feb. 2 and found in the Journals under Feb. 4, which accords 
with Fell's entry. For the disposition of this report see the Journals, May 28. The 
consideration of the report at this time was probably induced by the appearance of 
Holker's memorial. 

'■ Fell was placed on the marine committee Feb. 24. 
[115]! R. I. Arch., Letters tp the Governors, 1778-1779; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 210. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 26; cf. ibid., Feb. 1, 8; also nos. 84, 86, lo1, no, 112, 
ante. 



86 Continental Congress 

sion. The members are very loth to counteract their resolution and 
thereby lessen the whole sum to be collected. We have a prospect of get- 
ting So. Carolina to take off fifty thousd. dollars and assume it to them- 
selves. I hope we shall be able to struggle through the tax thus reduced. 
The more we pay now the less we shall have to pay hereafter when the 
money may be appretiated .... we continue with the warmest attach- 
ment to your excellency, 

Your Excellencys most obedient hble Servants 

William Ellery 
John Collins 

P. S. — I had spoken to the Secretary for a Copy of the Resolution on 
supplies but it hath been forgotten and the Post being just about to set 
out, will not admit of our Waiting for a Copy. However you will receive 
a copy of it through the President. We have obtained a resolution for 
taking off fifty thousand dollars from our proportion of the tax, and put- 
ting it on South Carolina, since we wrote the paragraph respecting that 
subject.^ The Secretary is so busy that he cannot give us a copy of it. 
We will send it by the next post. In the mean time, the Assembly may pro- 
ceed to taxation, if they should think proper. 

We write in Congress. 

William Ellery. 

i16. The Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Assembly.^ 

Gentle7)ien 

We consider it as our Duty to write you during the present Session of 
the General Assembly such Intelligence as Congress are possessed of and 
which no Injunction to Secrecy forbids our Communication. 

We are sorry the particular Circumstances of the Case will not suffer 
us to give you a Detail of the Intelligence lately received from Europe, 
it is truly important and favourable to America : but whether the Train 
our Affairs are in points to Peace or War it is absolutely necessary that 
every Exertion be made to have a respectable Army in the Field." .... 
We have the Honor to be Gent. 

Yr. most Obedt. hble Servts. 
Geo. Plater 
Wm. Paca 
Wm. Carmichael 
J. Henry Junr 
Phila. March 2d 1779. 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 19, Mar. 2, and no. 130, post. The resolution apportion- 
ing the taxes was adopted Jan. 5. 

[i16]iMd. Hist. Soc., Red Book, V. 44. 

2 See nos. 81, 83, 90, 99, 105, ante, and no. 117, post. John Henry wrote to 
Governor Johnson Feb. 23, " The IntelHgence which Congress has received shall be 
communicated to you as soon as I am at Liberty" (Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 43). 



March, lyy^ 87 

117. The President of Congress (John Jay) to 
George Washington/ 

Philadelphia 3d March 1779 
Dear Sir 

The opinion that greater advantage results from communicating im- 
portant Events to the People, in an authentic Manner, than by unauthor- 
ized Reports, is certainly just, tho often neglected 

The Intelligence alluded to is unfortunately of such a Nature, or rather 
so circumstanced, as to render Secrecy necessary-. As Congress with the 
Consent of the Minister of France, have directed it to be communicated to 
you, further Remarks will be unnecessary. Doctor Witherspoon, who 
lately returned to Jersey, promised to do it in a personal Conference.^ 

A Committee was appointed this Morning to prepare an address to the 
People on the present State of our affairs, if properly executed. Benefit 
may be expected from it. 

Two Letters, one of the 3d the other of the 6th Deer, from Mr. J. 
Adams, were delivered to Congress this Morning. They mention no Facts 
of Importance, but strongly express his apprehensions, foimded princi- 
pally on the Kings Speech and the Debate of both Houses on the Subject 
of it, that great and vigourous military Exertions will be made to reduce 
us 

118. The Marine Committee to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry ).^ 

Philadelphia, March 3d, 1779. 
Sir: 

Your letter to the delegates of the 29th of Feb.^ has been laid before the 
marine committee, in consequence of the business of retaliation on Marine 

[117]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXX. 283. 

2 Jay is replying to a letter from Washington Mar. i ( Writings, ed. Ford, 
VIL 347, ed. Sparks, VL 178), in which Washington wrote: 

" I have been a little surprised, that the several irnportant pieces of intelligence lately 
received from Europe, (such parts I mean, as are circulated without reserve in 
conversation), have not yet been given to the public in a mamier calculated to attract 
the attention and impress the minds of the people. As they are now propagated, they 
run through the country in a variety of forms, are confounded in the common 
mass of general rumors, and lose a great part of their effect. It would certainly be 
attended with many valuable consequences if they could be given to the people in some 
more authentic and pointed manner. .... Congress may have particular reasons for 
not communicating the intelligence officially (which would certainly be the best mode 
if it could be done;) but, if it cannot, it were to be wished, that as much as is 
intended to be commonly known, could be published in as striking a way, and with as 
great an appearance of authority as may be consistent with propriety." 

The allusion was evidently to the rumor to which the expected adherence of Spain 
to the alliance had given rise. See nos. 81, 83, 84, 93, 99, 105, 116, ante. Sparks, 
strangely enough, interprets the allusion as being to an entirely different matter. See 
his note appended to Washington's letter. 

{ii%Y Letters of Richard Henry Lee (ed. Ballagh), IL 37. 

2 Henry's letter here referred to has not been found (r/. OMcial Letters of the 
Governors of the State of Virginia, vol. L, p. 359), but the date assigned to it must 
be an error. A letter despatched from Williamsburg Feb. 28 or Mar. i (there was 
of course no Feb. 29 in 1779) could scarcely have reached Philadelphia in time for this 
reply on Mar. 3. 



88 Continental Congress 

prisoners having been referred by Congress to that committee, as you will 
see by the resolve of July 27th last, which is inclosed. The committee 
make a distinction between such prisoners as properly belong to a par- 
ticular state, and such as are continental being made so by the arms of 
the U. S. The former each state will avail itself of for the benefit of their 
own people in the power of the enemy, as a Cartel can be agreed on with 
the enemy by such state, as hath been frequently done by the Eastern 
States. Or such prisoners may, at the pleasure of the state to whom they 
belong, be delivered to the Continental Commissaiy for common benefit. 
At present no Cartel has ever been, or could be, settled with the enemy 
for American prisoners in G. B. They bemg unwilling there to recognise 
us in such a light as Cartel would place us, and therefore their exchanges 
have been confined to prisoners in America only. We have however some 
reason to expect that the exchange may shortly extend to Great Britain. 
In the meantime, sir, the State of Virginia will see, by the resolve of Con- 
gress enclosed, what are the sentiments of this body on the subject of 
retaliation, and will adopt their mode, if it shall be thought proper, with 
such prisoners as belong immediately to the State of Virginia.^ 

119. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[March 3, 4, 1779.] 
Wednesday March jd. Commercial Committee Congress. This day 
spent in Debates, on the Report of the Committee on Appeals." The State 
of Pennsylvania being of Opinion the Court of Appeals, Established by 
Congress, had no Authority over Courts of Admiralty where the Jury 
were Judges of Facts. Congress say they have a Right of Sovereignity 
in all Admiralty affairs whatsoever in the last Resort. 

Thursday March 4th. Commercial Committee Congress, went in to 
a Committee of the whole house, to consider the Boundery Lines to be 
fixt for an Ultimatom.^ Adjourn'd till tomorrow 6 PM. Marine 
Committee. 

120. William Paca to George Bryan.^ 

Sir, 

We are appointed for the Purpose of enquiring into the Grounds of 
certain Charges against General Arnold contained in a printed Paper pur- 

3 This leUer was written by Richard Henry Lee. A personal letter from him 
to Governor Henry, Feb. 28, is in Letters (ed. Ballagh), H. 36. In the latter Lee 
remarks : " The enemy have published some curious letters of Mr. Braxton's which 
they have intercepted. I am informed they will be republished here, and when they 
are I will send you the paper." Cf. ibid., pp. 64, 68, 71, 102, 122, 150, and the Journals, 
July 16, 21. The Pennsylvania Packet of Mar. 18 has a communication from M. S. 
(Meriwether Smith), furnishing extracts of Braxton's intercepted letters and defending 
Braxton. See especially the letter from Braxton to John Ross, Dec 26, 1778, in N. Y. 
Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, III. 128, and Arthur Lee's retort, May 22, 

ibid., p. 465- 

[ 1 19] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 69, 91, ante. 

3 See no. 114, ante. 

[12o]i N. Y. Hist. Soc. MSS. of Joseph Reed, vol. V. Addressed, " The Honble George 
Bryan Esq Chairman of the Committee of the Council ". 



March, lyyg 89 

porting to be Resolves of the Executive Council of Pensylvania and are 
directed to report the Result of our Enquiries to Congress. Whether Con- 
gress will order a Court Martial or not on those Charges will we presume 
depend on the Evidence we shall be able to report and their Judgment of 
its Sufficiency. 

In your's of the 25th of February you " explicitly declare that the 
Council is possessed of Evidence to support the Reasons alledged for their 
Resolves if the Congress chuse to found Charges upon them." We cannot 
see the Propriety of the Congress founding Charges upon Allegations 
the Evidence of which is known to you but not known to them. 

As to the Delay which you reprobate as unprecedented permit us to ob- 
serve that fourteen Days have elapsed since our application to the Execu- 
tive Council for Assistance in the Execution of our Enquiries which 
Assistance we have not yet been able to obtain. 

We mean to close our Enquiries to Morrow Evening : we have directed 
General Arnold to attend us and we doubt not your Zeal for public Jus- 
tice will induce you to furnish us by that Time with all the Evidence you 
are possessed of relating to the Subject of our Enquiry." 
I have the Honor to be 

Yr. most Obt. Hble Servt. 

Wm. Paca 
Chairman. 
4th March 1779. 

121. The President of Congress (John Jay) to 
George Gustave d'Ugglaa.^ 

Philadelphia 5th March 1779. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed an Extract from the Minutes of 
Congress on the Subject of your Memorial, from which you will perceive 
that as the States were equally divided on the Question, your Request is 
not complyed with. 

I have Reason to believe Sir, that the objections to your Apf>ointment 
arose from the Number of Supernumerary Officers in the American 
Service, and were by no means of a personal Nature.^ 

2 The charges against Arnold were brought before Congress Jan. 26 through a 
letter of Joseph Reed, president of Pennsylvania, dated Jan. 25. For the course of pro- 
ceedings in the matter see no. 58, note 2, ante. The prosecution of the case against Arnold 
immediately resulted in charges being brought against his aide-de-camp, Maj. Matthew 
Clarkson (see the Journals, Feb. 1, 10, 18, 24, and nos. 69, no, ante, 158, post), and this 
matter having been disposed of, Congress resumed consideration of the Arnold affair 
Mar. 1, by empowering the committee to send for persons and papers. This letter from 
Paca, who was chairman of the committee appointed Jan. 26, appears to have been the 
first step taken in consequence of that order. The Journals do not mention the letter of 
Bryan to which Paca refers. See no. 129, post, and the report of the committee in the 
Journals, Mar. 17. Some account of the episode is to be found in Life of Reed, II. 49 
et seq. 

[12i]i Library of Congress, Presidents Letter-Book, p. 63. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 2 (pp. 265, 269). Cf. ibid.. May 25, June 5, 1780. 



90 Continental Congress 

122. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

Friday March ^th I "/yg. Commercial Committee Congres[s]. Report 
from the Board of Warr. Recomen[d]'d a Mode of Payment, to the In- 
habitants, for what has being [^ic] taken from them per Officers in the 
Army agreed to be PubHsh'd. A Report from a Committee to empower 
the Commander in Chief, to setle a Cartel with the British General for 
the Exchange of Prisoners, for the Convention Troops or others as he 
may Judge Best. A number of Letters Read etc. 6 PM. Marine Com- 
mittee. £62456 ^ 

Saturday March 6th 1779. Com. Committee Congress. Committee 
of 3 to conferr w'th a Committee of the State of Pennsylvania relating to 
the Court of Appeals. Several Memorials, Letters etc. A Warrant for 
500,000 D's for the use of Commercial Committee to Procure Cloathing 
for the Army.^ 

123. Robert Morris to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia March 6th 1779 
Sir, 

.... My character has been infamously attacked on the subject of 
the Secret Committee business, but as it has no other foundation than 
envy malice and party spirit, the odium intended for me has already in 
great measure and will totally fall to the share of my accusers, for my 
conduct has been too upright, and every thing being on paper, can be too 
easily proved, to admit their shafts to make any impression to my preju- 
dice as our friend- Genl. Whipple will inform you.^ 

124. The New Hampshire Delegates to the President of New 
Hampshire (Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia 7th March 1779 
Sir, 

We are Honoured with Your Letter of the 4th Feb'y with sundry in- 
closures, to which we shall pay due attention, and endeavour to answer 
fully per next Post. 

A Petition from the officers of the Connecticut line to the Legislature 
of that state, simaler to that you inclose was some time ago layed before 
Congress, on which there is now a report of a Committee under consid- 
eration, we flatter ourselves something will be done in the matter, but 
what we cannot at present say.^ 

[122]i Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

- There is no due to the meaning of these figures. 

2 Fell's entry for Sunday is, " Last night, Snow, and this morning Cold and 
very disagreeable ". 

[123]^ Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, 1/77-1779, p. 635. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 9, 11, 15, 19, Feb. 9, 10, 11, and nos. 19, 20, 30, 31, ante. 
[124]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VL 47. 

2 See no. 9, ante, and no. 156, post. If the New Hampshire petition was presented 
to Congress the record of it has not been found. 



March, ly/p 91 

The Legislatures of Massachusetts Bay and Connecticut have taken 
measures to quiet the uneasiness of their Troops. Perhaps simaler mea- 
sures might be adopted with success by the Legislature of New Hampshire 
We have the Honour to be with the most Perfect Esteem and Respect 
Sir Your most obet. and very Huml. Sert. 

Geo : Frost 
Wm. Whipple 

125. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 7th March 1779 
My Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the 6th Feb'y came to hand the 3d inst I won- 
der much that a court of Law should be in doubt whether a Resolution 
of Congress can superceed the Law of a Sovereign State however I hope 
in time N. H. as well as the other States will feel the importance of 
Sovereignty 

You seem very desirous for peace ; in that I most heartily concur with 
you. But in order to obtain such a peace as will establish happiness in 
America, we ought to make the most Strenuous exertions for war we 
ought to be United in Council and Formidable in the Field. I hope this 
will be the case, and that this Campaign will put an end to the cruel ravages 
so distressing to every humane heart 

[P. S.] I have inclosed a paper conta'g Gov. Johnstons Speech in Par- 
liament to Col : Weare an American answer is in the press." 

126. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia 7th March 1779 
My Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the 8th Feb'y I rec'd a few days ago the contents I 
believe were answered in my last; I hope before this time you have rec'd 

[125]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Signers, I. 39. 

2 An abstract of Johnstone's remarks in the House of Commons Nov. 27, 1778, 
defending his conduct as peace commissioner, appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet Feb. 11, 
in an account of proceedings in Parliament. An extended extract of the speech was 
printed in the Packet of Mar. 9. Whipple's postscript must therefore have been added not 
earlier than Mar. 9. The "American answer " is a reply at some length (three and a half 
columns), signed "An American" (a signature used frequently by Gouverneur Morris), 
and appeared in the Packet of Mar. 11. The article discusses every aspect of Johnstone's 
speech, but two paragraphs in particular may appropriately be quoted here : 

" You aver, that the treaty with France is not ratified in a constitutional manner. You 
are mistaken even on your own ground. Still more are you mistaken on the ground 
assumed by your government ; for they confessed the authority of Congress to form 
treaties, by the very application which brought you hither. 

"You are equally wrong in supposing, that the objects of your commission were 
frustrated by delay. The draught of the bills arrived in season, and the sentiments of Con- 
gress were expressed on them so early as the twenty-second of April, previous even to the 
knowledge, much less the ratification of a treaty with France. They were expressed with 
a unanimity which, on such occasions, is not singular." Cf. vol. HI., no. 420, note 2. 

Concerning Joseph Reed's " Remarks on Governor Johnstone's Speech in Parliament ", 
and Mrs. Elizabeth Ferguson's response to Johnstone's references to her, see ibid., no. 421, 
note 2. Mrs. Ferguson's statement of Feb. 16 appeared in the Packet of Feb. 20. See also 
Life of Joseph Reed, p. 394 et seq. 

[126]i Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 637. 



92 Continental Congress 

such a sum as will make you easy for a while on that score. I wish every 
evil you complain of were remedied, but we must have patience. I wish 
Congress had a sufficient degree of Omnipotence to gratify the virtuous 
desires of every one, but they have not — that Assembly are composed of 
mere men you know — men that are subject to all the frailties and imper- 
fections of human nature, and stand in need of the assistance of their 
fellow citizens and I should be glad if their fellow citizens would assist 
them, so far as to cut the throats of a few of these pests to society, who 
under the character of speculators are at this time doing more mischief 
than ever was done to a community, by any set of villains since the crea- 
tion ; to these people three fourths of the evils complained of are owing — 
if a way can be found out to extirpate this race of infernals, I believe all 
things would go on very well 

127. Francis Lewis to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Phila. 8 March 1779. 
Dear Sir 

I had the honor to write you the 20th ultimo, and now embrace the 
opportunity of transmitting a Pamphlet lately published,- together with 
the newspapers ; 

By the latter you will perceive that animosities run high, between Genl. 
Arnold and the Executive branch of this State, ^ in so much, that I fear it 
may form parties in the Congress, and thereby injure the Public Weal, 
especially at this critical juncture, when their whole thoughts should be 
employed in collecting force to oppose the common Enemy the ensuing 
Campai[g]n. which I think will be the severest we have hitherto had, 
unless Spain sh'd soon acknowledge our Independency 

This year must one way or the other determine our fate. G. B. if un- 
successfull this Campai[g]n, will not be able to carry on another in 
America to effect, their resources both of money and Men are greatly 
exhausted, and it is my opinion that ours is in the same predicament 

128. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[March 8, 9, 1779.] 
Monday March 8th.^ Commercial Committee Congress. Speaker of 
the Assembly of the State of Pennsylvania, Letter to Borrow money for 
the use of the State. Referred to a Committee of 3.^ Letters from Genl. 
Washington, Govr. TurnbuU etc. Report of the Committee concerning 
Lievt. Hale * and the crew of the Hotlmni — and a Letter to Adml. 
Gambier 

[127]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 49, I. 174 (original). 

2 Probably Observations on the American Revolution. See nos. 79, in, ante, 
also Richard Henry Lee to Jefferson, Mar. 15, Letters, II. 38. 

^ See no. 120, ante. 
[128]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The entry for this day in Samuel Holten's Diary is: "Congress adjourned 
before 3 o'clock. I dined with the president " {Esse.v Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 252). 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 8, 17, 18, 20, and no. 143, post. 
* Lieut. Christopher Hele. See no. 34, note 2, ante. 



March, ///p 93 

Tuesday March pth. Commercial Committee This day chiefly spent 
on the Report, for Recruting the Army of 80 BatalHons.^ 6 P M Marine 
Committee. 

129. William Paca to the Pennsylvania Council.^ 

Gentletnen 

We are exceedingly unhappy in finding, that our Letter of the 4th 
Instant " excited Emotions of so singular a nature : be assured, we did 
not mean to wound your feelings in any Degree, much less to such an 
Extreme. 

No Proofs were wanting to convince us of your Disposition to observe 
respectful attention to Congress and every Member of it; and we con- 
sider your's of the 5th instant which we received on the 6th as a clear 
Confirmation of it. 

On the 15th of February General Arnold's Letter to Congress praying 
an Enquiry and Trial on the Charges contained in the printed Proceedings 
of Council were referred to us: on the 18th we informed his Excellency 
the President of it, and solicited the Assistance of Council in the Execu- 
tion of our Enquiry. It is now the 9th of March, and we have not yet 
been able to obtain any Assistance or Evidence from you. 

You request us to peruse impartially and attentively your's of the 25th 
of February, which, you say, contains Reasons for not furnishing us with 
the Evidence on the above Charges. We have complied with your Re- 
quest, and find that nothing escaped our first Consideration of it: we did 
not then, nor do we now, see the force of your Reasoning. You say " the 
Resolves of the Board were framed and transmitted to the Members of 
Congress as to other Persons of Rank and Consequence not as forming 
a Complaint against General Arnold." Be pleased to recollect, that your 
Resolves were accompanied with the Reasons, on which you founded 
them, each of which is a specific Charge against the General : These Re- 
solves and Reasons or specific Charges were, by Order of Council, printed 
and published : and by Order of Council printed Copies were put into 
the Hands of the Delegates of Congress : in Consequence of which Meas- 
ure of Council, and by means of General Arnold's Letter. Congress be- 
came possessed of Information, that the General stood charged in the 
printed Proceedings of Council with Misconduct in no less than Eight 
Instances. Under these Circumstances, altho' your Conduct, as we have 
already stated it, clearly demonstrates, that you did not mean to form a 
Complaint against the General, yet as there was no Disavowal on your 
Part, or detraction, of the Charges contained in your Proceedings under 
the Description of Reasons, public Justice required that Congress should 
direct an Enquiry ; and surely public Justice required that you should 
furnish the Evidence which you were possessed of. 

You say, the Proceedings and Publication of Council in General Arnolds 
Case are not Charges, but Judgments to which you are fully competent. 

^ See no. 134, post. 
[129]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, MSS. of Joseph Reed, V. 
2 No. 120, ante. 
II 



94 Continental Congress 

We do not comprehend the Legality of such Judgments. Common Justice 
requires, that a Trial and Conviction should precede every Judgment 
of Condemnation, and common Humanity reprobates all Convictions 
founded on Ex parte Evidence behind the Back of the party accused. But 
as you say you are fully competent to the Judgments in General Arnold's 
Case, we cannot doubt their Legality. 

If we have called upon you authoritatively for Evidence, we can only 
say, that our Letter of the 4th instant must be exprest in Terms very 
different from what we find in the original Draught of it. We were fully 
apprized of the Delicacy of your feelings, and perfectly knew what ex- 
alted Ideas, you had, of Rank Dignity and Power: whatever therefore 
may be the Expressions of our Letter, we could not possibly mean to 
address you in the Stile of Authority. 

As to the Complaint about the Waggons, which was made by his Excel- 
lency the President to Congress in his Letter of the 25th of January, we 
finished our Enquiries on that Subject, made up our Report, and offered 
it to Congress, in less than ten Days after you gave us the Evidence. We 
made up this Report with all the Expedition, we possibly could, consis- 
tently with the Attention due to other publick Business. But before Con- 
gress could receive it, the Council of Pensylvania thought proper to make 
a fresh Exhibition of Charges against the General, in which was in- 
cluded the Complaint about the Waggons. General Arnold immediately 
addressed Congress and prayed an Enquiry on those other Charges : we 
were thereupon directed by Congress to take the same into Consideration, 
to make a general Enquiry and to report the Result of such Enquiry. 
There being now a general Reference of the whole Charges we conceived 
it improper to report partially, and therefore laid aside the Report on 
the Complaint about the Waggons with an Intent to include it in one 
general Report. 

What Ideas you mean to hold out, by charging the Majority of our 
Committee and the Members individually with private Interviews and 
ex parte Examinations of General Arnold, it is difficult to say: we beg 
Leave however to deny your Charge in the most explicit Terms. Both of 
us cannot be right : as you make the Charge, the Onus prohandi lies upon 
you. If you have any Evidence to prove, that your Charge is founded in 
Truth, considering how flatly we contradict it, you will certainly take the 
earliest Opportunity of vindicating the Honor and Reputation of Council 
by producing it. 

You seem to have taken up an Idea, That we consider you as Parties 
and Complainants prosecuting before Congress the Charges contained in 
your printed Proceedings : we never considered you in that Light ; we 
consider you merely as Accusers possessed of Evidence to prove a publick 
Offence. We know of no Parties or Complainants to Congress in the 
present Case but the Publick and General Arnold : for publick, not pri- 
vate Justice, public, not private Reparation is the Object of all Prosecu- 
tions for Offences of a public Nature. 

Our Conduct is by no Means opposed to what should be obser\'ed by 
Grand Inquests : for altho' we deny, that we took the Ex parte Exami- 
nation in favour of the party accused, which with so much Decency you 



March, ///p 95 

charge upon us, yet we say, it is the Right of the party accused to have 
an Examination of his Witnesses by the Grand Inquest before whom he 
is charged. 

Having observed in our last, that fourteen Days had elapsed, since our 
Application to you for Evidence, You are pleased to reply " As to the 
fourteen Days you mentioned this Delay surely cannot be attributed to us, 
when you recollect how great a Part of that Time has been employed in 
hearing General Arnold and his Aids with other Evidence without notice 
to this State as Parties and Complainants ". We perfectly recollect the 
Reverse of what you alledge, and in express Terms declare, that no Part 
of that Time was employed in Hearing General Arnold and his Aids or 
in taking other Evidence. General Arnold was never heard on the 
Charges contained in your printed Proceedings, and referred to us on the 
15th of February, till the 5th instant, which was the Day after our Letter, 
to which you have made your Reply, and of Consequence not within the 
Fourteen Days you mention. The Committee tired out with fruitless 
Applications to you for Evidence and repeatedly prest by General Arnold 
for a Hearing, with all the Anxiety and Sensibility of a Soldier, injured 
in his Honor and Reputation, we resolved on the 3d instant to close our 
Enquiries on the 5th : both you and the General were notified of it, and 
you were told, that we did not doubt but your Regard for public Justice 
would induce you to furnish us by that Time with the Evidence you were 
possessed of. 

We wish for your own Sakes you had spared your solemn Protesta- 
tion : it is no Prooff [sic'\ of Dignity of Conduct. Vehement Declarations 
and violent Protestations are sometimes the Result of Passions roused on 
the telling of Truths or the Apprehension of it. We shall certainly make 
no Report derogatory to the Rights and Interests of Pensylvania: such 
a Report would only disgrace ourselves. As to the Honor of Council we 
shall report the Truth : and therefore, if you yourselves have done Noth- 
ing derogatory to the Honor of Council, you have Nothing to fear from 
our Report. 

I have the Honor to be Gentlemen 

Your most Obedient humble Servant 

Wm. Paca 
Chairman. 
9th March 1 779. 

130. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia March 9th 1779 
Sir, 

.... It was not intended by Congress that the apportionment of the 
former or present tax should be considered hereafter as their precise just 
quotas of these taxes. It was impossible to adjust our equitable propor- 

[130]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 211. The letter is written in the plural but was signed only by William EUery. 



96 Continental Congress 

tion of the present tax. If it should turn out that we have paid more than 
our just quota, we shall have credit for the surplusage, and the interest 
thereof; if it should be less we must pay the deficiency with the interest, 
perhaps in an appretiated currency." .... 

131. Samuel Adams to Benjamin Austin.^ 

Philade. Mar 9 — 79 
My dear Sir 

.... You ask my opinion of two Men who have lately appeard on the 
publick Stage ; and with your usual Frankness, express your own opinion 
without a Doubt, that Congress will soon convince the one of his Folly 
and the other of his Weakness. But have you not misunderstood the 
Characters of these Men? Has not the first by his artful Address con- 
ceald his Weakness from the publick Eye, while the other, by an improper 
Use of the Weapons in his hands, has given Advantage to his Adversary, 
and thereby discoverd his Folly. Mr. Dean had in his first Publication 
said so much as to make it necessary that some other Person should say 
more. Common Sense undertook the Task and producd stubborn and 
undeniable facts, but not contenting himself with relating such facts only 
as were pertinent to his Argument he gave occasion to the Swarms of 
Writers against him to avail themselves, by diverting the Attention of his 
Readers from the proper Point. I will mention an Instance. After he 
had provd to the Satisfaction of every one, that the Cannon and Stores 
forwarded to America by Mr. Deane, had been negociated by Mary 
Johnson and Beaumarchais before his Arrival in France, and consequently 
that the Merit of the Negociation did not belong to Mr. Dean, what 
Necessity was there for Common Sense to mention them as a Present? 
It was nothing to his purpose ; and it was too delicate a Subject for him 
to touch upon, or to attempt to prove if it had been true. His prudence 
therefore and even his Veracity was called in Question by his Adversaries, 
and his Authority and Influence as a Writer of facts lessend. The faith- 
ful Historian however, will hereafter unfold the secret Politicks of the 
present Day. The Newspaper Writings of these two Men, have drawn 
not only the Conduct but the Characters of others into Dispute.^ Had 
Mr. Dean been only called upon explicitly to state his Charges, if he had 
any, against Dr. Lee, I believe he would not have attempted it. and a 
Scrutiny of any Mans Character but his own would have been unneces- 
sary. Although he has insinuated many things against the Doctor, and 
steppd aside from the Line of Propriety and Decency to bring in Invec- 
tive, yet I do not recollect that he has explicitly criminated him in either 
nor do I believe it is in his Power. If no one steps forward to accuse him, 
why should his Integrity be doubted? .... 

2 Cf. no. 115, ante. 
[131]! Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 132; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Dcane Papers 
III. 398. 

2 The whole course of the newspaper controversy, together with many other docu- 
ments of this period pertaining to the Deane case, may best be followed in N. Y. Hist. Soc, 
Collections: Deane Papers, III. 



March, ly/p 97 

132. William Duer, Statement.' 

Camp on Rariton March 9th 1779. 
To the Public 

In Mr. Dunlap's Paper of the 2d March, I find myself mention'd by a 
Writer, under the Signature of T. G. as a Person, who, during the Time I 
had the Honor of representing the State of Newyork in Congress, had 
officiously interfer'd in the Politics of Pensilvania ; in Consequence of 
which, I had become the Hatred, and Contempt of many of the Inhabi- 
tants.^ .... 

[132]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS., Duer; ibid., Emmet Coll., no. 669. This statement 
was evidently prepared for the press and probably appeared in the Neiv York Journal, 
but no issues about this date have been found. 

2 The communication of " T. G." in the Pennsylvania Packet of Mar. 2 was 
primarily an attack upon Gouverneur Morris and was inspired by an address " To the 
Quakers, Bethlemites, Moderate Men, Refugees and other the Tories whatsoever and 
wheresoever dispersed ", which had appeared in the Packet of Feb. 27, and may be found, 
in part, in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, III. 387. The address was 
signed "An American ", a nom de plume which Morris had frequently used. In his intro- 
ductory remarks " T. G." says : 

" Your late colleague, William Duer, Esquire, by intermeddling with the state politics 
of Pennsylvania, raised jalousies concerning him which subjected his conduct to close 
inspection, and, in the end, brought him to the hatred and contempt of many people of this 
state. If you follow his footsteps they will lead you to the same situation." 

To Morris he says : " The art with which the main design of that piece is covered 
points to you : It is truly Machiavelian. But to those who know, that your favorite objects 
are, to disgrace Pennsylvania, insult the President of its Council, and to support General 
Arnold, the design stands naked and detested." 

The controversy with the authorities of Pennsylvania, and particularly with the presi- 
dent of the council thereof (Joseph Reed), did indeed grow warm. The principal phases 
of this controversy are discussed by Morris in a letter to Reed Apr. 9 (no. 198, post). As 
touching conditions in Congress some parts of the article by "An American " above re- 
ferred to may appropriately be quoted here. 

" I am led to these reflections and to this " address ", he says, " partly from perceiving 
and more from being informed, that you derive pleasing hopes from the following cir- 
cumstances. First, the taking of Georgia. Secondly, the calumnies against Congress, and 
supposed divisions among them. And Thirdly, the symptoms of discontent, lately exhibited 
by the Executive Council of Pennsylvania. I shall take notice of them in their order, 
make some short observations on public affairs, and then leave you to judge. I exhort you 
to read with attention, and to determine with that coolness which is due to a subject so 
important to your welfare, perhaps your existence." 

Discussing the taking of Georgia, he adduces several reasons why these people cannot 
draw large hopes therefrom. 

"As to the calumnies against Congress and supposed divisions in that body ", he remarks, 
"you are greatly tho' not altogether mistaken in the latter fact, and at any rate draw 
from it very false conclusion [s]. The late abusive writings shew indeed the illiberality of 
the respective writers, but by no means impeach those against whom they are directed. 
Being equally indifferent to the several performers, I wish not to balance their respective 

merits From some acquaintance and good information I will venture to add, that 

the present Congress considered in the double view of abilities and integrity is at least 
as respectable as any which hath yet been assembled." 

" To say there are divisions in Congress", he continues, " is only saying in other words 
that it is a popular Assembly. Different views of the same subject naturally lead men to 
differ in sentiments. Personal connections excite personal emotions, and the conflict of 
such emotions sometimes produces personal altercations. The heats inevitable on such 
occasions seldom evaporate within the walls of one house, but stimulate to bitter observa- 
tions easily credited, because they flatter a self-importance which is uneasy at any kind 
of superiority. Perhaps you will ask how it happens that such things did not exist 
formerly? They did; but the public dangers and distresses taught men to keep more 
secret those things which they readily divulge in an hour of greater security. The ap- 
pearance of such divisions therefore in personal matters are striking marks of national 
prosperity, and you will find that, however the members of Congress may disagree about 



98 Continental Congress 

I shall mention the material Instances, which, I have been inform'd by- 
reputable Citizens of the State, have been made Use of to Strengthen the 
Suspicion, that I have officiously intermeddled in the Politics of Pensil- 
vania, together with the Motives of my Conduct ; and I shall then leave 
it to the dispassionate Judgment to determine, whether the Part I acted 
as a Trustee for the general Interest of America was reprehensible or 
praiseworthy. 

The principal Circumstances of this Nature, which I have heard al- 
ledged, was my promoting a Measure in Congress for Exercising certain 
Acts of Power in the State of Pensilvania, during the Recess of the 
Executive Authority in [the]^ Spring 1777. The simple Account of this 
Transaction is as follows. 

Soon after I took my Seat in Congress as a Delegate from the State of 
New York,* the Enemy meditated an Attempt upon the City of Philadel- 
phia through the State of New Jersey. The legislative Authority of the 
State of Pensilvania was adjourn'd, and by the Absence of some of the 
Members of the Supreme Executive Council, a sufficient Number were 
not left in the City to Exercise Powers, essential to its Safety, and to 
the general Wellfare.^ Representations were frequently made to Congress 
and to Individual Members of vast Quantities of Provisions and other 
Articles being stor'd in the City, which, if it fell into the Hands of the 

who shall be in and who shall be out, they will be firmly united in refusing to accept the 
independance Great Britain is about to offer, and insist on a clear, explicit and pointed 
acknowledgment of it in the most extensive sense previous to any treaty whatsoever." 

Touching the dispute between the executive council of Pennsylvania and Congress, 
while he defends Arnold, he reminds the people whom he is addressing that this dispute 
is, " as far as your views may be served by it, the most trifling of all trifling things .... 
this little feverish ebullition, and the ridicule which many have attempted to cast upon it, 

can do no good to you And depend upon it, whatever your leaders may flatter you 

with, the Whigs of Pennsylvania will not engage in any dispute with the representative 
body of America to the prejudice either of the acknowledged rights of that body, or of 
the privileges of those brave citizens who have drawn their swords in the cause of 
Freedom ". 

The principal observations upon public affairs promised in the preliminary programme 
are a brief discussion of the depreciation of the currency (from which, he remarks, these 
people have as little ground for hope as from these other sources) and a more detailed one 
respecting the attitudes of foreign powers, arguing that it is " manifestly the interest of 
every court in Europe to foster our independence". Preliminary to taking up the latter 
topic he remarks : " Not pretending to great knowledge of national secrets, and little 
desirous of communicating whatever of this kind it hath fallen to my lot to know, I shall 
reason with you on these things as I have reasoned for myself, and I trust the event will 
verify my conclusions." 

An article by " T. G." respecting General Arnold had appeared in the same issue of the 
Pennsylvania Packet (Feb. 27) with Morris's article which he attacked in the issue of 
Mar. 2, and another in the issue of Mar. 6. The former was reprinted in the New York 
Gazette and Weekly Mercury of Mar. 15. " T. G.", doubtless the same writer who, as 
" Tiberius Gracchus ", later attacked Morris as the supposed author of an article signed 
"Americanus " (see nos. 360, note 4, 401, note 2, t9^0y was probably Timothy Matlack. 
For instance, Richard Henry Lee, in a letter of July 30 to an unidentified correspondent, 
speaks several times of " our friend T. M.", and then remarks, " I observe that Mr. T. M. 
and Mr. P — n — e are both attacked by a scribbler in your Evening Post, of July 9th under 
the signature of Cato ". And " Cato " himself seem.s to point in the same direction when 
he asks the question, "Timothy, art thou that man?" (N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: 
Deane Papers, IV. 8). 

3 The " the " is found in the Emmet copy. 

4 Duer took his seat Apr. 7, 1777. 

5 The Emmet copy has " Weal ". 



March, I'j'jg 99 

Enemy, would greatly benefit them, and be materially miss'd by our 
Army. A Removal of these Stores was strongly urg'd by General Wash- 
ington to Congress and by them judg'd Expedient." The Question then 
arose how this Measure was to be Executed, as there was no Authority in 
the State vested with Powers adequate to the End. On Motion made in 
Congress (I beleive by myself) a Committee was appointed to confer 
with the President of the State the Members of the Pensilvania Board 
of War, and Such Gentlemen of the Executive Council as were in Town, 
on the Mode of Authority necessary to be Exercised in the State of Pen- 
silvania, during the Recess of the Executive Council. The Committee 
consisted of the Delegates of Pensilvania, Mr. John Adams, Mr. R. H. 
Lee, and myself." After a mature Deliberation, it was determin'd in the 
Committee of Conference, without a Disentient Voice, to report, " That 
Congress should declare it as their Opinion that, considering the threat- 
en'd Invasion of the State, and the Recess of the Legislative, and Execu- 
tive Powers, the President of the State, the Members of the Pensilvania 
Board of War, and Such of the Executive Council as were in the City 
should Exercise such Acts of Power, as were essential to the Safety of the 
State, and to the general Weal : and that it should be earnestly recom- 
mended to the Inhabitants chearfully to Submit to this Authority." Upon 
these Principles, a Report was drafted, and Submitted to Congress ; and 
Such was the Conviction of the Propriety of the Measure at that Time, 
that (if my IMemory does not deceive me) it pass'd without a Division; 
certain I am, if there was any, it was very insignificant in the Negative. 
If any Censure can with Propriety be thrown out against the Promoters 
of this Measure, why not extend it to all the Members of the Committee? 
Why not, to the Gentlemen of the State, with whom they Conferr'd, and 
who were Unanimous in the Report? Why not to Congress, who Con- 
curr'd in it. The Truth is, there is no just Plea for Censure : and, though 
there is no Person more tenacious than myself of preserving from the 
Encroachment of Congress the Exercise of the Internal Polity of the 
respective States, I will venture to give it as my Opinion, that if Congress, 
during what I may call this Interregnum in Pensilvania. and when the 
State was hourly threaten'd with an Invasion, had actually Exercised by 
themselves, or a Committee, every Power in that State necessary for its 
Safety, and for the common Interest, they would have been strictly justi- 
fied — I will go further, and Say, that if they had neglected adopting this 
or a Similar Measure, they would have been unworthy the high Trust 

^ See vol. II. of these Letters, nos. 328, 2)77 , 386, 395, 432, 440, and note 7, below. 

^ There were two committees. The first was appointed Apr. 11, 1777, to take 
measures, in conjunction with the Pennsylvania board of war, to prevent the provisions 
stored in Philadelphia from falling into the hands of the enemy. The committee, con- 
sisting of William Duer, Samuel Adams, and Abraham Clark, made a report Apr. 14 
recommending the appointment of a committee to confer with the executive council of 
Pennsylvania with regard to the mode of executive authority to be exercised in the state. 
This committee consisted of Samuel Adams (not John), William Duer, and Richard 
Henry Lee. It may be presumed that Clark was left off the new committee for the 
reason that he was takiijg leave that day. The committee made its report Apr. 15. Duer's 
account of the proceedings does not keep entirely distinct the work of the two com- 
mittees. See Duer's letter, Apr. 17, 1777 (vol. II., no. 445), and notes thereto; also the 
letters of the New York delegates, Apr. 21, 29 {ih%d., nos. 453, 464). 



100 Continental Congress 

vested in them by the People of America. Their Powers were not Hmited 
by any Article of Confederation; their Object was to carry on the War 
in the most effectual Manner against the Common Enemy, and to Super 
Intend the general Weal. I remember that in the Conversation, and 
Writings of some Persons at that Time, who disapproved of the Consti- 
tution of Pensilvania, this necessary Interference of Congress was made 
Use of to the Prejudice of the Government, and of those who Exercised 
it ; and as I was intimate with many, who were open in their Disapproba- 
tion of the Constitution, it is not to be wonder'd that Jealousies should 
be Entertain'd against me in particular, as being Active in promoting a 
Measure, which the Partisans of the Constitution consider'd as an Engine 
of Opposition. 

This Transaction, I beleive, laid the Foundation of those Suspicions, 
which the Writer under the Signature of T : G. mentions. Other Cir- 
cumstances occurr'd in the Discharge of my public Trust, which, I am 
told, were perverted to Strengthen them. It will sometimes happen that 
the Legislatures of the respective States (however pure, and patriotic 
their Intentions may be) pass Laws, which in their Operation not only 
defeat the very Object they have in Veiw [sic], but often clash with the 
general Weal. In the latter Case I conceive it to be the indispensable Duty 
of Congress to recommend to the Legislatures of the States enacting such 
Laws, a Repeal, or Revisal of them. Of this Nature I considerd the Laws 
of Pensilvania allowing the Commutation of personal Service, in the 
Militia, by the Hire of Substitutes, and that relative to the Quarter Masters 
Department enacted in the Winter 1777-8. The first Law, in its Conse- 
quences naturally tended to impede the Recruiting Service for the Con- 
federal Army, and to Encourage Desertions from the Quotas of other 
States, by tempting the Soldiers to follow the profitable Trade of a Militia- 
Substitute. I shall not insist on the Evil of its introducing a Mercenary 
Principle, in lieu of that Ardor Patriae or Love of Country, which ought 
to animate the Militia, and which is the only Basis, that can render it 
formidable. Frequent Representations were made of the ill Effects of this 
Law by many Officers of Repute in the Army, particularly, Several in the 
Pensilvania Line. In Consequence of which, it was determin'd by the 
Board of War (of which I was a Member) to report a Resolution to 
Congress, recommending the Repeal of it.® This Resolution I was desir'd 
to draft ; and, as I knew the Jealousy which the Government of Pensil- 
vania entertain'd of Congress ^ animadverting on their Laws, particu- 
larly when they chanc'd to originate from me, I drew up a general Reso- 
lution, recommending to the Legislatures of all the States a Repeal of 
such Part of their Militia Laws, as permitted the Engaging of Substi- 
tutes. In the Course of the Debates on this Subject, the Generality of 
the Resolution was objected to particularly by some Members of the 
Eastern States, who said that Laws allowing Substitutes in the Militia 
Existed in the States, they represented ; but that they were so qualified as 
not to produce those ill Consequences, which flow'd from the Pensilvania 

** The resolution was reported and adopted Dec. 4, 1777. 

9 The Emmet copy has " of the resolutions of Congress animadverting ". 



March, ij'jg 101 

Law ; [These Ideas prevailing, the Resolution was amended accordingly, 
and confined to the State of Pensilvania;]^° a Circumstance which I am 
informed gave Umbrage, and Subjected me to fresh Jealousy. 

The Law respecting the Quarter-Master's Department (though prob- 
ably meant to prevent those Abuses, which I am sorry to say too many 
of the Citizens of these States have Suffer'd from Persons Employ'd in 
the Subordinate Branches) rendered the Process of procuring Teams so 
Extremely tedious, as. by an Adherence to it. to subject the x\rmy to a 
precarious Supply. IVIany Representations were made of this to the Board 
of War. and at one Time in particular, the Critical State of the Army 
for Want of Provisions was such, as to give just Ground of Alarm, that 
they would be obliged to disband, unless the most Speedy, and Vigorous 
Measures were adopted for their Releif \sic'\. In Consequence of this, 
Congress pass'd a Resolution, directing the Board of War to take the 
most Effectual Measures for forwarding Supplies to the Army.'' The 
Board immediately order'd out Parties of arm'd Men under the Command 
of discreet, and Active Ofiicers in the Pensilvania Line to impress a Num- 
ber of Waggons (particularly from the disaffected ) in Lancaster, and the 
Adjacent Counties, and to forward them loaded with Flour, and other 
Provisions for the Use of the Army. The Order was Executed with 
Spirit, Prudence, and Diligence ; and in Consequence of it, a Considerable 
Supply of Flour arrived at a Time, when the Army had been Compell'd 
for some Days to range the Country, and distress the Inhabitants in order 
to procure a Scanty Subsistance. This Measure, I confess, was a Violation 
of the Law of the State; but if there is any Crisis in the Affairs of a 
Nation in which Laws must Sleep; (and Experience proves there is) that, 
which has been mentioned, was one. The Situation of the Army was 
desperate ; an immediate, and Vigorous Remedy was necessary. The 
Powers then Exerted by the Board have been frequently Exercised on 
less urgent Occasions in the different States, without Exciting those Mur- 
murs, which, from the Jealousy then Existing in Pensilvania, were at that 
Time Exprest against those, concem'd in the Execution of this Measure: 
notwithstanding the Safety of the State of Pensilvania, which depended 
on the Army's keeping Embodied, was so immediately involved in it. 

The last Circumstance I shall mention (on which it is said great Stress 
has been laid) is the Uniform Opposition I have lately given in Congress 
to Advances of Money, being made to the State of Pensilvania from the 
Continental Treasury. This has been misrepresented as flowing from 
a Desire to obstruct the Execution of the present Government : Nothing 
was more foreign from my Intention. The Object I had in Veiw was 
general, not partial. Since the Commencement of the present War, the 
different States in the Union have, from time, to time, applied for Ad- 
vances of Money out of the Continental Treasury, for the Purpose of 

1° The words in brackets are found in the Emmet copy. 

11 It is not quite certain to what resolution Duer refers. Such an order to the 
board of war was adopted Sept. 27, 1777 (at the one session of Congress held in Lan- 
caster). Cj. an order of Feb. 21, 1778. See also the Journals, Sept. 17, Oct. 6, 13, Nov. 24, 
28, Dec. 8, 10, 1777. Numerous letters pertaining to the matter of transportation in this 
period are in Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. (see particularly the index, Wagons). 



102 Continental Congress 

paying Debts contracted on Continental x\ccount, and, in some Instances, 
the Contingent Expence of their Government. The Sums which have 
been advanced to the different States are prodigiously unequal ; and none 
of these Accounts have been adjusted. It appear'd to me of infinite Con- 
sequence, in order to maintain that Harmony between the States, so Essen- 
tial to their Union, and Safety, that all these Accounts should be liqui- 
dated without delay ; and, that instead of applying to Congress for further 
Advances of Money, the States ^" should have Recourse to deep Taxation, 
the only radical Cure for the grand political Disease. These Ends I knew 
would be best Effected, by not making any further Advances to the re- 
spective States; and, upon this Principle, I opposed Grants of Money for 
some Time past, not only to Pensilvania, but to the other States in the 
Union. 

This Conduct of mine, and my Reasons for it must be well known to 
many Members of Congress ; and must be particularly remember'd by 
the Honble. Mr. R : Morris, as an Application which not long Since he 
made to Congress for an Advance of Money to the State of Pensilvania, 
I pertinaciously opposed this Advance,^^ and if my Opposition had been 
founded on the disgraceful Principle imputed to me, it is not to be pre- 
sum'd I should have Continued it, when the Measure was advocated by a 
Gentleman, openly averse to the present Constitution, and with whom I 
was intimate both in private, and political Life. 

Every Person, who has been a Delegate to Congress, must know that 
it is utterly impracticable to discharge, with a becoming Firmness, and 
Integrity, that Duty, which a Person, vested with so high a Trust, owes 
to America in general, without oftentimes giving Offence to Individuals, 
and Sometimes to States. When I accepted of the honorable Trust reposed 
in me, I never Expected to avoid giving Offense — my only Study was 
not to give just Grounds for it. I therefore spoke, acted, and voted with 
Boldness ; and left it to others, who might have Sinister Purposes to carry, 
either for their States or themselves to shew a Temper of Forbearance, 
and Complaisance, at the Expence too often of the Treasure, and Repu- 
tation of the United States. 

I have thus laid before the Public a plain State of those material 
Points, which I have Reason to think have been made an Artful Use of 
to confirm the Suspicion, that I had been x^ctive in the Political Disputes 
of the State of Pensilvania. There may perhaps be some others, which 
I have not heard of, that have been perverted to the same End. I solemnly 
declare, that I never was concern'd directly, or indirectly in any Writing, 
or Publication, whatsoever, relative to the political Differences in the 
State of Pensilvania, or in any meeting or Conference with any Indi- 
vidual, or Body of Men, on the Subject of those Differences. Though I 
oftentimes exprest my Sentiments with Freedom on, the Form of their 
present Constitution, it was in the Company of those, whose Way of 

1- The Emmet copy has here " they ". 
Improbably Sept. 11, 1778. See the Journals. 



March, lyyg 103 

thinking was very Similar to my Own, and therefore not calculated (had 
I been even inclin'd) to make Proselites 

W DUER 

[Endorsed, apparently in the writing of John Jay:] 
Mr. Duersj 

V ^'indication ^^ 
T. G. J 

133. John Fell, Diary/ 

[March 10, 11, 1779.] 
Wednesday the loth. Commercial Committee Congress. After the 
Treasury Reports being Read Went in to a Committee of the whole 
House, on fixing a Boundery Line to the Missasipy 7 for 5 agst. No ^ 

Thursday March nth. Commercial Committee Congress. Went in 
a Committee of the whole House, That if Our Allies would Support us 
we should Insist on Novia Scotia being declar'd Independant. Long de- 
bate, No carried in the affirmative.^ 6PM Marine Committee.* Dined 
w'th Mr. Jay. 

NB Coll. Frelinghuysen Came to Congress 

134. The President of Congress (John Jay) to the 
Several States.^ 

Circular 

Philadelphia, 12th March, 1779. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of 
the loth Inst, for recruiting the Army. 

The Virtue and Perseverance displayed by the Citizens of America in 
the course of the War leave no room to doubt of their determination to 
obtain the great Objects of it. Force and Power in the field are necessary 
to render us safe at Home, respectable abroad, and successful in Nego- 
tiation. 

As there is great reason to expect that this Campaign, if successful, 
will be the last, I am persuaded the different States will the more chear- 
fully adopt every measure which may be necessary to render the Issue of 
it honorable to the American arms, and auspicious to American Liberty 
and Independence. 

!■* This document also contains the following endorsement : " Found among the 
Papers of the late John Jay, and given to me by his son Peter A. Jay. Jany. 15th 1830. 
W. A. Duer." 

[133]!^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 114, ante, and under Alar. 11, below; cf. nos. 138, 143, 151-153, post. 

3 The meaning is evidently that the committee of the whole voted in favor of 
not insisting that Nova Scotia be declared independent. Cf. the Journals, Feb. 23 (p. 
242), Mar. 22 (p. 348), and nos. 113, 114, ante. 

■* See the marine committee's report respecting the cutter Revenge, in the Journals, 
Mar. 12 ; also no. 135, note 4, post. Cf. nos. 64, 108, ante. 

[134]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 65; Pa. Arch., first sen, 
VIL 243. 



104 Continental Congress 

135. John Fell, Diary/ 

Fry day March 12th lyjg Commercial Committee Congress. Letters 
from Major Genl. Lincoln, with Proposals of Exchange of Prisoners, 
between his Officer and Leivt. Coll. Prevost. Referrd to a Committee 
of 3." Report of the Committee on the Business of setling the Payment 
of Goods takeq from several Persons in Phila. agreed to Pay them at 
the then Current Price when taken. Long Debate.^ 6PM Marine 
Committee * 

Saturday March i^th 1779.^ Spent this day at the Commercial Com- 
mittee. 

136. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[March 12. 13, 1779.] 
12. Congress received a letter from Majr. Genl. Lincoln, giving an 

account of a battle with some part of his army, which terminated in our 

favor. 

jj. I dined with the Hon. Mr. Paca and about a dozen members of 

Congress. 

137. A Committee of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia March 15th 1779 
Sir 

The inclosed papers are referred to us by Congress, and we wish for 
the assistance of your Ideas to enable us to make a more perfect report. 
We request you therefore to take the trouble of committing to paper your 
Opinion on the proposed terms for the exchange of Prisoners in the south- 
ern department, and also any thing which you think will conduce to that 
End without contravening your general arrangements or general policy 
and utility. 

[135]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 12, Apr. 8, and no. 137, posl. 

3 See the Journals, July 23, 31, Oct. 22, Dec. 8, 16, 1778, Jan. 16, 19, 20, Feb. 2Q 
Mar. 12, 13, 1779. 

* See no. 133, note 4, ante. A letter from the marine committee to President Reed 
of Pennsylvania, Mar. 12, in compliance with the instructions of Congress with regard to 
the Revenge, is in Paullin, Out-Letters, II. 52. Cj. ibid., pp. 51, 70. The letter of Mar. 12 
is also in Pa. Arch., first ser., VII. 241. An earlier note from the committee to Reed, 
dated Feb. 9 (but probably should be Mar. 9), is ibid., p. 187. Concerning a subsequent 
chapter in the history of the Revenge, see ibid., pp. 281, 288, 309, 310, 318, 322. 

^ In a letter to Henry Laurens, written from Freehold, New Jersey, Mar. 13, 
Nathaniel Scudder wrote : " is Common Sense like to obtain a Seat in Congress according 
to my prediction about the 7th or 8th of January, or is the House like to continue longer 
without it? 

" I am very anxious to hear how our affairs stand in Georgia, and what may be depended 
on from Europe. We have such a Variety of contradictory Accounts, that I can place no 
Confidence in any Thing I hear, and I scarce see a News-paper in a Month" (copied from 
the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels). 

[1^6]^ Esse.v Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 253. 

1 137]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXX. 378 (in the writing of 
Burke, autograph signatures) ; N. C. Hist. Comm. (draft in the writing of Burke) ; A^ C. 
State Recs., XIV. 2>7 (printed as from General Washington to Governor Caswell). 



March, ///p 105 

We deem it inconvenient, in an in[a]dmisable degree, to permit an 
exchange of mere Citizens. The facility with which our Enemy can make 
Prisoners of our Citizens, the difficulty of our making adequate reprisals, 
and many other circumstances incline us to this Opinion. It seems even 
better to suffer the captivity of such as unfortunately fall into their hands, 
for tho' this is a calamity which greatly affects our Sensibility, yet it is 
far short of what we apprehend from admitting such exchange. We 
think it must necessarily prove an incentive to the making a greater num- 
ber of prisoners of that order, and that the Efforts for making them 
would be attended with an increase of ravage and horror which we are 
not in a condition to prevent or chastise. 

We shall also be very glad to be informed by you whether any rein- 
forcements of regular Troops can be spared to the Southern department 
and if in your Opinion any be Necessary. At the same time we suggest 
that North Carolina is making very considerable Exertions for raising a 
reinforcement of Militia, both Cavalry and Infantry. We think you con- 
cur with us in Opinion that Militia forces ought to be employ'd only in 
Cases where they cannot be dispensed with. 

We are Sir with the greatest Respect and Esteem 

Your obdt Servants 
Tho Burke 
Henry Laurens " 

138. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Monday March 75 Commercial Committee. Congress Letter from 
Genl. Washington and Genl. Maxwell. Imagine x\dmiral Gambier is going 
to New London. Genl. Putman has sent 400 Men there. Letter from 
Mr. Deane. Long debate, the Committee on forreign affairs to Report on 
Friday. Congress went in a Committee of the whole House to consider 
Bounds etc. 

Tuesday March 16th 1779. Commercial Committee Congress. After 
Reading Letters etc. Went in to a Committee of the whole house, to 
consider of Bounderies etc. 6 P M. Marine Committee. 

139. James Duane to George Washington.^ 

Philad. 1 6th March 1779 
Dear General 

Your Favour has been presented to the Committee of Conference." 
I beg you will do me the Justice to believe that my Zeal for the publick 

2 Mar. 12 Congress referred to Burke, Laurens, and Meriwether Smith some 
letters from General Lincoln respecting matters in the Southern department. A draft of 
Washington's reply, Mar. 18, is in the Washington Papers. The committee made a 
report Apr. 8. 

[138]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

[139J1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXX. 383. 

2 Duane appears to refer to Washington's letter to Congress Mar. 15 {Writings, 
ed. Ford, VIL 363, ed. Sparks, VL 195)- The Journals record that letter to have been 
read in Congress Mar. 18 and in a manner that suggests that it had already been in the 
hands of the committee of conference. 



106 Continental Congress 

good — and may I be permitted to add — my Respect and Affection for 
your Excellency, will never suffer what you have at Heart to languish 
for Want of my best Exertions : Yet must I ask for Allowances for 
your Representatives, who are too much incumberd with a Weight of 
Business, always to act with the necessary Vigour and dispatch, you will 
find that most of the Acts you recommended are passed in Congress : 
Such as remain will I flatter myself be pushed thro' by the End of the 
Week. The Provision for the Waggoners is that which I like the least, 
being expensive beyond Bounds : it may however be necessary, and we 
must at so critical a Time submit ; I do it the more chearf ully as much is 
left to your Excellency. 

140. Richard Henry Lee to Baron de Knobelauch.^ 

Phila. 16 March 1779 
Sir, 

I am much concerned that the state of my health prevented me from 
seeing you when you did me the honor of calling at my lodgings, and my 
concern is very greatly increased by knowing that it is absolutely out of 
my power to promote your views. H Sir my powers were equal to my 
wishes which are founded on the conviction I have of your merit, most 
certainly you would be gratified in your desires. But I should think 
myself much to blame if I encouraged hopes where I was convinced 
that none can be entertained. The state of the army, the opinions of 
Congress on such cases, and the fact being that there are many more 
Officers of all ranks than Men to be commanded, will I fear render it 
impossible for you to succeed — Your situation affects me greatly, but 
how to better it, is a difficulty that I know not in which way to remove.^ 

141. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, March 16th, 1779. 
Sir, 

The following agreeable news from So. Carolina, given to us by 
Col. Laurens since we came into Congress this morning is so agreeable 
and may be attended with such happy consequences that we have snatched 
a flying minute to communicate it to your excellency. Sunday, about 
I o'clock in the morning, (Feb. 14th,) Col. Campbell having previously 
destroyed the flat bottomed boats in which he had intended to have 

[i^oY Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 40. 

^ Lee is replying to a letter from Knobelauch, Mar. 15. See ibid., p. 40. Colonel 
the Baron de Knobelauch was a Prussian nobleman, who applied to Congress in July, 
1778, for service in the American army and was permitted to serve as a volunteer (see the 
Journals, July 28, Aug. 7, 12, 18, 29). At this time he was asking for assignment to the 
active service. Such an appeal to Washington, dated Mar. 1, is in the Washington Papers, 
and a draft of Washington's reply, Mar. 7, is ibid. In a letter to Washington, written 
about Sept. 2, 1778, he gives some account of his career. For the later proceedings on his 
case, see the Journals, Apr. 13, 16, May 4, 13, Aug. 7, 12, 26, Sept. 4, 16. 

[141]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779; Staples, R. I. in Cant. Cong., 
p. 215. 



March, ///p 107 

crossed Savanna river into So. Carolina, quietly retired from Fort 
Augusta leaving behind him all his sick and wounded with a polite note 
recommending them to the care of Brigr. Genl. W^illiamson, who had 
prepared to attack the fort the next day.- .... 
W^e are, with great respect, 

Your Excellency's Most obedt. hble Servants 

William Ellery 
John Collins 

142. Henry Laurens to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 16th March 1779. 
Sir, 

I had the honor of addressing Your Excellency under the 2d Inst, 
this is chiefly intended to convey extracts of Letters which I received 
last night from Charles Town.^ these shew our affairs in the Southern 
department in a more favorable light, than we had viewed them in, some 
few days ago — nevertheless the Country is greatly distressed and will 
be more so unless further reinforcements are sent to its relief, had we 
Arms for 3000 such black Men as I could select in Carolina I should 
have no doubt of success in driving the British out of Georgia and sub- 
duing East Florida before the end of July.^ 

The Packet which Your Excellency sent to go by Capt. McQueen * 
rests in my hands, probably it will pass through Camp under the pro- 
tection of Mr. Gerard who intends a journey through New Jersey in 
a few days, and tis equally probable Your Excellency will continue it 
under the same care, where Mr. Gerard is going to, is a subject not to 
be talked of at present, and yet 'tis two to one Sir. that you have heard 
it.=^ .... 

Capt. McQueen is determined to return to Charles Town he agrees 
with me in opinion, that the Packet will be in a fairer way for safety and 
dispatch in the Minister's hand than in his 

143. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Wednesday Mar. i/tJi. Commercial Committee Congress Motion 
to Publish the Acct. that the King of the 2 Scisellys would open his Ports 
for the Vesells of the United States, And also to Publish as much of the 
Information from the french Minister as is necessary for the Public to 

2 See no. 142, post. 
[142]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXX. 387. 

2 The extracts were from a letter of General Williamson, Feb. 16, and a letter of 
John L. Gervais, Feb. 23. Cf. no. 141, ante. To the extract of Gervais' letter Laurens 
appends a note upon the information given by the man who brought his letters. 

3 Concerning the use of negro troops, see Washington's reply Mar. 20 (Writings, 
ed. Ford, VIL 370, ed. Sparks, VL 203), and nos. 159, 163, 168, 183, 203, 375, post. Cf. 
Life of Laurens, pp. 356, 448-451, 475, 488. 

* Presumably Capt. John McQueen, commander of a South Carolina vessel. See 
Moultrie, Memoirs, I. 446, 447. Cf. no. 182, post. 

5 Washington replied that he had not theretofore had the slightest intimation of 
Gerard's coming or the reasons for it. See no. 227, post. 
L143]i Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



108 Continetital Congress 

be acquainted with." Report of the Committee on Genl. iVrnolds affair 
Postponed till Monday.^ Letter from the Speaker of the Assembly for 
the Loan of 2 Million of Dollars.* Committee of the whole to take in to 
consideration the Bounderies etc. 6PM Met the Committee on foreign 
affairs. 

Thursday 18th. Commercial Committee Congress. Letter from Genl. 
Washington Reccomending a better Plan for Cloathing and Recruting 
the Army. Letter from Genl. Schuyler to Resign 7 No 5 Ay Negati\e. 
Report from the Committee, to the Request from Pennsylvania that the 
Treasury could not comply with their Request Memorial Read from 
Mr. Girrard.^ 6 P M Committee on foreign affairs. 

Friday Mar. ipth i/yp. Com'l Committee Congress. Sundry Letters 
Read. Went in to the Consideration of the sundry articles agreed for an 
Ultimatom in setling Bounderies. long Debates till 4. 6 P M Attended 
the Marine Committee 

Saturday March 20th. Commercial Committee Congress. Letters 
from General How, Govr. Rutledge, So. Carolina, Govr. Henry of 
Virginia. 

Report of G Morris for a Fast, to be on the first Thursday in May.*' 

144. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

[March 20? 1779.]' 
Dear Sir 

Congress have declined accepting your Resignation. It woud be too 
great a Gratification to malevolence and too great a Sacrifice of the In- 
terest of the Publick and the Security of your own state. We are not yet 
out of the Woods tho' we begin to see our Way. Men of publick Spirit 
and great Abilities cannot be spared : The Operations of the War will 
lead where you have most Experience : But the Reason which ought to 
satisfy you is that the Commander in Chief expressed the Strongest 
Aversion to your leaving the Service, giving you high Commendation 
and urging your Genius and your Experience and that he greatly relied 
on them .... 

The Delegates from New York were unanimous in their Resolution 
that they woud not Vote to accept your Resignation ^ As our State ex- 

" Cf. the Journals. 

2 See no. 58, note 2, ante. 

4 See the Journals, Mar. 8, 17, 18, 20, and no. 128, ante. 

5 The memorial, dated Mar. 17, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr.. III. 85, and urges 
Congress to expedite its determination respecting the foundations for peace negotiations. 
" Every day's delay ", he says, " increases the obstacles to the success of the advantageous 
plans which the king has communicated to the United States. To prolong the deliberation 
upon peace may be to reject it." See no. 103, ante, and no. 167, post. 

•* There is a marginal note, probably intended for Mar. 20 : " Rain all night." 
The entry for Sunday, Mar. 21, is, " Dined with Mr. J. Searle". 

[144]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 553; ibid., Bancroft Coll., Schuyler Papers, 
no. 723 (copy) ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., LX. 157. 

2 This letter may have been written as early as Mar. 18, but the letter dated 
Mar. 20 (no. 145, post) is actually a continuation of this one. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 18: cf. no. 106, ante, and nos. 145, 146, 241, post. April 2 
Schuyler again offered his resignation, which was accepted by Congress Apr. 19. 



March, ///p 109 

tends from Lake Xipissin to the source of the Missisippi, or a[t] least 
along the 45th d. of N. Latitude from Connecticut River to the Missi- 
sipi : how necessary will it be for Us that your military Knowledge 
shoud be kept alive and your Authority undiminished ! I hope you will 
chearfully submit to what is done, and drop the Correspondence, at least 
with Congress, on this Subject. If more must be said let it pass thro' 
your Friends : and whenever you Resign let it be after the Impressions 
so cruelly attempted to be inculcated are effaced : At least let it not be 
said that you was obligd to give Way to those who persecuted you with- 
out a Cause. 

Congress have orderd the Articles for Onei'a and Tusc'o presents to 
be sent as you request : * The Commiss's are to be reported upon by the 
Board of War, and you will hear of them in good Time.^ .... 

145. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philad 20 March 1779 
My dear General 

Much as I have said on the Chapter of Resignations in the Letter which 
accompanies this - I totally forgot to answer two of your Queries. Know 
then that neither General Lee nor General St. Clair have resignd 

General Glover sent in his Resignation three weeks ago on Account of 
his private affairs : but Congress declind receiving it : allowing him 
however a furlough for I think Six Months."^ you will be allowd every 
Indulgence which you require on Acct. of your Health : . . . . 

146. John Jay to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philadelphia, 21st March, 1779. 
Dear Sir: 

.... Congress has refused to accept your resignation. Twelve States 
were represented. New England and Pennsylvania against you. The 
delegates of the latter are new men, and not free from the influence of 
the former. From New York south you have fast friends. Mr. * * *'s 
disposition is at least questionable.^ Delaware was unrepresented. 

\\'hat is now to be done? You best can answer this question. Were 
I in your situation, I should not hesitate a moment to continue in the 
service. I have the best authority to assure you that the commander-in- 
chief wishes you to retain your commission Would it not do you 

* See the Journals, Mar. 18. The Oneida and Tuscarora Indians are not specifically 
named in the resolve. See, further, the Journals, Mar. 24 (resolve originating in a report 
of the board of war dated Mar. 20). 

5 See the Journals, Apr. 3 (p. 411). 
[145]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 552. 

2 The preceding letter (no. 144). 

3 See the Journals, Feb. 27. 

[146] 1 Corr. and Public Papers of John Jay, I. 193. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 18, and nos. 144, 145, ante. The three votes Mar. 18 on 
the question of Schuyler's resignation do not clearly show who was the person of ques- 
tionable disposition, but Witherspoon, Burke, and Laurens uniformly voted in opposition 
to the New York delegates. A public letter to Schuyler of the same date (Letter-Book, 
p. 71) merely informs him of the action of Congress Mar. 18. 



110 Continental Congress 

honour to inform Congress that, while in their opinion your services 
ought not to be withheld from your country, neither the derangement of 
your private affairs, the severities you have experienced, nor regard to 
your health already impaired in their service, shall restrain you from 
devoting yourself to the execution of their commands; but that when- 
ever the situation of our affairs may cease to call you to the field, you 
hope they will permit you to retire and attend to the duties you owe your 
family 

147. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton)/ 

Philad. 2 1st March, 1779 
Dear Sir^ 

.... Congress have been under a necessity of leaving it to the 
States to fill up their quotas of the Army in their own way; ^ Virginia 
having taken her measures without consulting us, and their Assembly 
being adjourned before the account reached this City.^ She has been 
so excessively liberal as to grant 400 dollars and 300 acres to every 
volunteer who shall enlist in her battalions during the war. While States 
thus interfere no general system can be adopted ; but each must be left 
to its own prudence. Our plan was to give a sufficient bounty and recom- 
mend it to the different Legislatures to refrain from partial bounties. 
I think it would have been wise. As we are still under a necessity of 
emitting money, the people being averse to loans, we are called upon 
from all quarters to recommend a large additional tax. Nothing else can 
aid our currency. I wish to know the opinion of our State. We are 
seldom favored with their directions, and therefore have not so much 
confidence as the gent, who are more frequently instructed by the sense 
of their constituents. 

148. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee.^ 

Philadelphia March 21. 1779 
My dear [BrotherY 

I refer you to mine by Capt. Robinson written when I was on my way 
to this place. I found when I arrived here that the [author] of [Com- 
mon Sense] had pursued his [blows] so [eft'ectively] that without 
[doors Deane] and his [faction] have lapsed into [general contempt]. 
A more [wicked set] I realy think never [disgraced] and [injured so- 
ciety]. [With] in [doors] the [faction continue] to [exert themselves], 
but I do not think [they] can [succeed]. However [they] are [numer- 
ous] and [arrogant], therefore [you] will not be surprised let [happen] 

[147]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 69. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 23, Mar. 9, and no. 149, post. 

3 The reference is presumably to the Virginia resokition of Dec. 18, mentioned in 
the Journals, Jan. 26. 

[148]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VI. 37. 

2 The words in square brackets (excepting the instance mentioned in notes 4 
and 5, below) are written in cipher. See no. 87, ante. 



March, lyjg 111 

what [may]. But provide all possible [proofs] of [Deane's libel]. 
His [charges against you] are [suspicion, jealousy, affronting, hate] of 
the [French] and that you [informed Lord Shelburne] of the [treaty] 
on the day of [signing].^ For all this [assertion] alone is [produced]. 
But [against] him [enough] appears to induce the most [violent suspi- 
cions]. This they know and therefore loosing [hope] of [supporting 
Deane] their [hope] now is to make you [fail] also. But here will be 
the puzzle. Their [role] is not less [against William]. The [charges] 
against [him]* are [meannesses] and going [shares] with the [agents] 
he [appointed]. But there is no [proof]. Yet [ambition, avarice, envy], 
and [toryism] can make what they cannot otherways find, and believe 
for gratification things that exist not. Should they act so injuriously 
I hope you v,^ill [appeal] to the public, so that shame and disgrace may 
fall on the wrong doers. With composure therefore [collect] your 
[proofs]. 
Give my best love and respfects where you know them to be due 

[Richard Henry Lee] 

P. S. ]\lr. [John Adams] has [wrote] greatly in [your favor(?)]^ to 
S. [Adams]." 

I can neither send newspapers nor be more large and particular because 
I am not acquainted well with the conveyances and my notice is short. 

149. Thomas Burke to George Washington.^ 

Philada. March 22A lyyg. 
D'r sir, 

When I had the pleasure of seeing you in this city I had a little con- 
versation with you on the subject of re-enlisting such of the North Caro- 
lina troops and levies whose time of service might be nearly expired. 
My colleagues and myself wrote to the state on the same subject, the 
Assembly thereon resolved " that three hundred doll's per man be given 
to each soldier wdio shall re-enlist for one year or more in the N. C. Con- 
tinental service." ^ The delegates are authorized to act accordingly; and 
we are unwilling to take any measures without previously consulting you, 
lest we should contravene some general orders by you given under the 
late regulations for recruiting the army. We are inclined to give the 
state bounty in addition to the continental, to all who shall enlist during 
the war. We deem soldiers obtained on such terms better worth the ag- 

3 This charge against Arthur Lee is discussed in some detail by William Lee 
in a letter to Richard Henry Lee, June 24, 1778 {Letters of William Lee, ed. Ford, IL 
680). See also nos. 12, 87, ante. 

* The pronoun " him " is not in the text, but it is evident that the charges here 
referred to are those against William Lee. 

5 There is no cipher for " favor " in the text, but that or some word of like 
significance, as behalf, defence, was evidently intended. 

6 The reference is probably to the letter of John Adams, Feb. 14, in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., IH. 47. Cf. John Adams's letters to James Lovell and Samuel Cooper, 
Feb. 20 and 28, respectively, in Adams's Works, IX. 476, 478. 

[149] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXL 2)7 (copy) ; Am. Cath. Hist. 
Researches (iQOO), XVIL 109. 

2A^. C. State Rccs., XIIL 718 (Feb. 10, 1779). 



112 Continental Congress 

gregated bounty than soldiers enlisted for one year are worth the State 
bounty; and indeed, Sir, we are disposed to do everything in favor of 
the Soldiers, deeming them the most useful, the most suffering, and the 
most important order of our fellow citizens. My colleagues concur with 
me in requesting your advice on this subject as soon as possible, and in 
assuring you we shall co-operate with you with the greatest cheerful- 
ness.^ .... 

150. Thomas Burke to Benjamin Harrison( ?).^ 

„ ^. Philadelphia, ]Marcli 22nd. 177Q. 

Dear Sir: 

I delayed thus long answering your favour of febry. 18th in hopes 
that every day would bring to a period some important Business on which 
we have for some time been engaged. But delays many of which are the 
Effect of Artifice, have hitherto intervened and prevented me, and at 
this time I am not at liberty to communicate anything. 

I am in sentiment with you on our finances, and our affairs generally. 
but my hopes are more sanguine than yours, perhaps from having a fuller 
information. I have great Confidence in the resources of our People and 
I am persuaded " 

151. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS, PROPOSED MOTION.^ 

T. . . , [March 22? 177Q.1 

Pnnciples / / :7 j 

That the United States have a Common Right to take Fish upon the 
Fishing Banks of North America and elsewhere upon the High Seas. 

That this Right is necessarily adherent to every Sovereign Power and 
consequently within the Guarantee of Liberty Sovereignty and Indepen- 
dence of the United States by the Treaty of Paris. 

That the Exercise of this Right is highly advantageous to these States 
and cannot be interupted without great loss Injury and Danger to them. 

That any such Interruption ought to be considered as a direct Com- 
mencement of Hostilities. 

That in a Treaty of Commerce with G. B. express regard be paid to 
the Exercise of the said Right and articles inserted relative thereto on 
Principles of Equality and Reciprocity. 

That if Great Britain shall not assent to the Insertion of such articles 
no Treaty of Commerce be agreed to on the part of the United States. 

Conclusions and Instructions. 

As Doubts may arise how far the Guarantee of our Liberty Sovereignty 
and Independence extends in Relation to the Fishery that an Explanation 
on that Subject be requested from France. 

3 A draft of Washington's reply to Burke Apr. 5 is in the Washington Papers. 
Cf. no. 147, atite, and see Washington to the President of Congress Mar. 15 (Writings. 
ed. Ford, VII. 363, ed. Sparks, VI. 195) ; also Washington to the board of war June 9 
(ibid., p. 198 n.), and the Journals, June 22. 
[150]! N. C. Hist. Soc, Chapel Hill ; .V. C. State Recs., XV. 738. 

2 The remainder of the letter is missing. The fragment bears a memorandum. 
" Unfinished Letter suppose to Col Harrison ". 
[151]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XV. 



March, ///p 113 

That the United States will not Guarantee the American Dominions 
of Great Britain without an Express covenant from her not to disturb 
them in the Exercise of the Said Right. 

That the United States will not consent that France shall Guarantee 
the said Dominions without such Explanation as aforesaid unless G. B. 
shall make the Covenant above mentioned. 

That if no such Explanations or covenant be obtained the United 
States will not consent to a Treaty of Peace. 

[Endorsed:] Mr. Morris's Proposed Motion on fishery.^ 

152. Henry Laurens, Proposed Amendment.^ 

[March 22? 1779.] 
Principles and inferences for forming Instructions.^ 

The United States of America have a common right of Fishing on 
the high seas and on the Fishing Banks of North America. 

The Inhabitants of the said States had enjoyed such right from their 
earliest settlement in America until they were deprived of the exercise 
of their right, by certain late Acts of the British Parliament, enforced by 
arms. 

That it is essential to the welfare of these United States that their In- 
habitants should recover and re-enjoy the right of taking fish on the high 
seas and on the Banks of North America as aforesaid. 

That this right is also necessarily adherent to every Sovereign power 
and consequently within the design of the 2d Article of the Treaty of alli- 
ance between the Court of Versailles and these States the direct end of 
which is to maintain effectually, the Liberty, Sovereignty and Indepen- 
dence absolute and unlimited of the said States as well in matters of 
Government as of commerce. 

That if Great Britain shall refuse the insertion of an Article or Arti- 
cles in a Treaty of peace, for securing to these States the re-enjoyment 
of the said Fisheries no Treaty of Commerce between Great Britain and 
these States be agreed to. 

That no demand be made respecting the Fisheries which shall tend to 
encroach on the rights of our Allies as settled and restricted in the Treaty 
of Paris of 1763 between Great Britain and France, nor in any degree 

2 Just when this motion was brought forward is uncertain. It is placed at Mar. 22 
for the reason that on that day the question of the fisheries was taken up in Congress, and 
a motion of this character, laj-ing down the fundamental principles upon which the con- 
clusions of Congress and instructions to the ministers should be based, would naturally be 
ofifered at the beginning of the discussion. As the motion is not recorded in the Journals, 
it is possible that it was offered in the committee of the whole during the consideration of 
the subject in the first half of March. See Laurens's Proposed Amendment, no. 152, post. 
.\ motion somewhat similar in language and provisions was offered by Elbridge Gerry 
June 19 {cf. no. 360, note 2, post), and these provisions were, with some modifications, 
embodied in the instructions to the ministers which were finally adopted. See, particularly, 
the Journals, Aug. 4, 14. 

[152]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XV. Another copy, endorsed, " Proposed M'n 
for Fishery Amend, on G. M.", is ibid. 

2 According to the endorsement, this statement of principles upon which claim to 
the fisheries rested was offered by Laurens in lieu of that proposed by Gouverneur Morris, 
no. 151, ante. 



114 Continental Congress 

to violate the Treaty of Paris between the Court of Versailles and these 
States. 

[Endorsed:] Mr. Lauren's Amendment on Mr. Morris's proposed 
IMotion on fishery.^ 

153. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Monday March the 2 2d. Commercial Committee Congress. Order 
of the Day, for considering the Ultimatum for the Fishery. Long 
Debate.' 

Report for Appointing Clothier General etc. to be considered tomorrow 
morning. 6 P M. Committee on forreign Affairs. 

Tuesday March 2^d 1779. Commercial Committee. Congress, w^ent 
in to the Report of having a Clothier General etc. etc. Letter Read from 
Major Clarkson for leave to go to the Southern Army. Motion made by 
one of the Delegates for Pennsylvania, that he have leave to go. long 
debate. Motion to Postpone Yeas and Nas call'd for carried in the 
Affirmitive. Motion per C Morris that Major Clarkson be calld to the 
Barr and Repremanded per the Chair for his Past conduct in writing 
disrespectfull Letters to the Execitive Council of this State etc.^ 6 P M 
Marine Committee. 

154. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

Philada. March 23, 1779. 
My dear Sir, 

I am to acknowledge the Receipt of your Favors of the 12th and 28th 
of February. The Letter you mention in the former came to hand, but 
I am apt to think it will have no Effect at all.' There was an Omission, 

3 In the Laurens Papers (Congressional Letters, etc., 1779) is another memo- 
randum, dated Mar. 22, comprising three items in the proceedings of Mar. 22 and 24. The 
first is a copy of Gouverneur Morris's motion of Mar. 22, as adopted (that is, the " third 
resolution"; see the Journals, pp. 349-352), except that the words "as above described" 
have been left out. At the close of this is a pencilled memorandum of the negative votes 
on the question (six tally marks, with " no" three times above them; there were actually 
seven states in the negative) ; also the notation, " Reconsid. 24 or 25 ". The second item is 
the motion of Burke and Drayton, Mar. 24, to amend article 4 (see the Journals, p. 369) ; 
and the third item is Burke's motion, upon reconsideration of article 3, to strike out certain 
words (see the Journals, pp. 371-372). Laurens's record is: " Mot'n Burke Drayton to 
strike out ' to fish ' and ' provided ' and in lieu thereof to insert ", etc. It is to be noted 
that the name of the member who seconded Burke's motion is not entered in the Journals, 
while Laurens's memorandum shows that it was Drayton. Following this is a note by 
Laurens, " Then came Mr. L's motion in lieu of the whole ". " Mr. L " is evidently 
Richard Henry Lee, whose motion (seconded by Eliphalet Dyer), "as a substitute to the 
whole", is recorded in the Journals (p. 272)- Cf. nos. 113, 114, 119, 133, 138, 143, 151, 
ante, and nos. 153, 159, 167 (note 2), 255, 256, 269, 270, 307, post. 
[153]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 151, 152, ante, and no. 159, post. 

3 See nos. 69, no, ante, and no. 158, post. 

[154]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 238; Writings (ed. Gushing), IV. 139. 

2 Warren's letters of Feb. 12 and 28 are in Warren-Adams Letters, II. 86. 91. 

In that of Feb. 12 he wrote: "The Court is setting, I can tell you but little about 

them Your old Friend {i. c., Hancock] figures away in the Usual Stile. Sometimes 

the pendulum swings one way and sometimes the other. I mean with regard to Whiggism 
or Toryism, but never fails to swing uniformly against all that wont Bow down and 



March, ///p 115 

in the Navy Boards not having Notice officially of the inclosd Resolu- 
tion of Congress, but I hope the Delay has not l)een attended with mate- 
rial Inconvenience.^ 

I do sincerely hope the General Assembly will appoint another Person 
to take my Place here. I wrote a Letter to them last December,* request- 
ing that I might be relievd by one of my absent Colleagues or some other 
Gentleman, and permitted to return to my Family. I find my Health 
declining, and the Air of this Country is unfriendly to it. I am therefore 
for that, and other Reasons which I shall mention to you hereafter, stead- 
fastly determind to get my self excusd in April or May at farthest. In 
doing this, I shall immediately make Room for an abler Man. Such may 
easily be found and, I hope, be prevaild upon to come.^ .... 

155. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

Mar. 23d. 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

You have lived long enough in the World to know that a Man may 
vex himself to death if he lets the little Arts of Envy or Malice affect 
him, therefore you will be thrown into no Convulsions upon reading the 
Remarks made upon Morris and Drayton by Common Sense who meanly 
gives in to an Error of Servility while he corrects the Duumvirate. He 
was affraid to mention any Body but Starke 

worship a very Silly Image, you will have an Instance in a Letter which I am told 
has gone forward lately from a Certain Assembly to Congress relating to the Ships here 
and the Navy Board, this Letter had its rise from him and was Calculated and designed 
to Carry very Injurious reflections on the Board, but was greatly Amended (to his Morti- 
fication) by the other Branch. I believe it contains now but little more than a desire 
to have the Navy Board under* their direction, if Congress think it necessary they should 
have more Masters they will do it, but I hope at the same time they will appoint one new 
Member in the room of one old one." The letter was probably that of Feb. lo from 
Jeremiah Powell, president of the Massachusetts council (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 65, 
vol. I., f. 382), read in Congress March 5 and referred to the marine committee. One 
part of that letter asked that orders be sent to the navy board to send out cruisers to 
operate against the enemy privateers which had been infesting the coast. Against this 
passage is a marginal notation, " Nothing to be done ". 

3 This seems to have reference to the following question in Warren's letter : 
" Has Congress reconsidered their Vote for augmenting our Salaries. We have had no 
official Information of it. I wish to know how the matter stands, if it be on the old Foot 
I must quit or be ruined." The increase of salaries had been voted Oct. 31, and both 
Adams and Gerry had informed Warren of the action (Nov. 3 and 8, respectively, 
vol. III., nos. 602, 614). 

* Dec. 1, Writings, IV. 93. 

5 Cf. the letter to Mrs. Adams Mar. 23 {Writings, IV. 137). Adams is evidently 
writing anent a passage in Warren's letter of Feb. 28 : "I am fully persuaded of the 
Existence of such a Combination as you mention to Doctor Cooper, we have Instances of 
it here with regard to you and my other Friends at Congress, last Winter the Art was to 
hold you up as an Enemy to General Washington now it is to prejudice the People against 
the Lees, and to propagate that you are a Friend to them, and at Last the matter has been 
Carried so far as to obtain a Vote in the House for a Committee to Consider the 
Propriety of recalling three of their Delegates and sending three now here." See Adams's 
further comments on the subject in this letter, also in his letters to Samuel Cooper Jan. 3, 
6 {Writings, IV. iii, 115). Cf. vol. III., nos. 305, 602. A letter of Mar. 24, which ac- 
companied this letter of Mar. 23, and relates entirelv to Arthur Lee, is in Writings, 
IV. 141. 

[155]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIV. 



116 Continental Congress 

A very judicious Foreigner who was at the Camp Celebration of the 
Alliance wished out of pure Regard to Genl. Washington that a Some- 
body in the Assembly could have mustered Magnanimity enough to fill 
a Glass to Genl. Gates when those who died at Saratoga were remembered. 

I wish I was near you [to] talk over the Ultimata suited to the 
Time and supposed State of Things in which Peace may happen to be 
proposed. It would be no Miracle if now hinted. But I own I wish it 
may not be offered but at a Season when we are prepared for War or at 
least preparing." Is that our Case now. 

As to northern Expeditions, I am not in the Secret. 

Is it not impudent to keep only about 6 Thousand Men and no Ships 
at N York ? I do not say it is insufficient, considering all Things. 

No Letters from Boston Today. No man not even a Currier is thought 
to be obliged to behave as formerly when the Money was better. How 
shall we contrive to burn half of it? If Men will not lend we must emit. 
Why is there not so much Patriotism as to enable us to declare solemnly 
that we will not strike a single Bill more ? — But, that Topic adds a Sick- 
ness at my Stomach to the Pain in my Jaw and obliges me to close with 
a Repetition of much Regard. 

James Lovell 

156. William Whipple to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia 23d March 1779 
Sir 

I have the Honour to inclose a Resolution of Congress respecting the 
Exchange of Capt. Green,^ also a Report of the Committee to whom was 
refered your Letter respecting the loss sustained by Sam: Davis.^ The 
poor mans misfortune is to be lamented, but it is necessary that matters 
of this kind should be settled on general Principles. 

I should be happy to have it in my power to transmit you the deter- 
mination of Congress on the Petition of the Officers; a report of the 
Board of war on that subject has been some time on the Table but when 
it will be decided on is impossible for me to say,* in the mean time there 
appears the Greatest necessaty to Recruit and enable the Army to Act 
with Vigour, and I doubt not New Hampshire (who has never been 
behind any of her Sister States in vigourous exertions) will adopt proper 
measures for that purpose, for notwithstanding the Idle Rumours about 
Peace I am confident it will be necessary to prosecute the War with the 
utmost Vigour. The last accounts from our Commissioners in France 
justify this Opinion 

- Cf. no. 113, ante, and nos. 175, 189, post. 
[156]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VI. 55. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 19. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 2, 1778, Mar. 9, 1779. 

* Cf. nos. 9, 124, ante. The report to which Whipple refers is probably one of the 
reports of the committee of conference, that relating to provision for the officers. See the 
Journals, Apr. 12, 13, 14, May 24, June 12, July 14, 30, Aug. 11, 12, 16, 17, 18. 



March, i//p 117 

157. Thomas Burke to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia March 24th 1779 
Sir 

The Governor of South Carolina has pressed the Governor of Virginia 
for an aid of Cavalry, and the latter has recommended to the Several 
Counties of his State which lie contiguous to Carolina to raise Corps of 
Volunteer Cavalry in order to march to the aid of the Southern Army 
and has transmitted his proceedings to Congress, the affair is compre- 
hended in a Business referred to a Committee of which I have the honor 
to be a member, and I am directed to ask you Sir if Colonel Blands or 
any other Cavalry of the Regular Army can be spared to that department.^ 
The Committee are willing to Report that The Volunteers be Counter- 
manded if any other aid of that kind can be afforded, but are unwilling 
to leave the Southern Army without so Necessary an appointment, the 
Report on this particular will be suspended until we are favored with 
your answer. I therefore beg leave to Request it as early as may be 
Convenient. 

I have the honor to be With perfect Respect and Esteem 

Your most obd hum Sevt 

Thos Burke 

[P. S.] 

158. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[March 24. 1779.] 
24. Ma jr. Clarkson was reprimanded by the president of Congress 
for writing a disrespectful letter to the Council of Pennsylvania.^ 

159. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[March 24, 25, 1779.] 
Wednesday Mar. 24th. Commercial Committee Congress. Letter 
from Ma jr. Clarkson Read in which he seems to doubt the Authority of 
Congress's power to send for him. At 12 He came and was Repri- 
manded. After he was discharg'd, it was moved that a Brevet Commis- 
sion of Major be given him, after much debate the mover withdrew the 
Motion ^ Order of the Date for considering the Bounderies. Line to 
be drawn in Lat'd 45. agreed. Gave my Negative to the full and free 
Navigation of the Missasipia, if we must continue the Warr for that to 
be our Ultimatom ^ NB a very great storm of Snow 

[157]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXL 64. 

2 The committee was appointed Alar. 18. It reported Mar. 25 and 29. See also the 
Journals, Apr. 10, 13. A draft of Washington's reply to Burke Alar. 28 is in the Library 
of Congress, Washington Papers. 

[iS^V Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 253. 

2 See nos. 69, no, ante, 159, post, also the Journals, Apr. 14. 
[159]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 69, no, 158, ante. 

3 Cf. nos. 114, 119, 133, 143, 151-153, ante, and nos. 167, 255, 256, 269, 270, 307, post. 



118 Continental Congress 

Thursday March 2§th. Commercial Committee Congress. Debates 
abt. the Clothier Generals department. Post Poned till tomorrow.* A 
Report from the Delegates of So. Carolina and Georgeia, for Raising 
[blank] Battalions of Negroes to be Officerd by White Men and ap- 
pointed by the Authority of the State, to be allowd looo Doll's for Ea ^ 
NB This morning Coll. Freelinghuysen went home ® 6PM Marine 
Committee. 

1 60. John Fell to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

Philadelphia, March 25, 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

I cannot help complaining to your Excellency of the behavior of some 
of the delegates from our state, which is not only disgraceful to the 
state, but in my humble opinion, treating me with the greatest impolite- 
ness ; they take upon them to leave Congress when they please and with- 
out leave, by which the state in course is not represented. Last Saturday 
Dr. Witherspoon went home without ever saying one word to me on the 
occasion." and this day Colonel Frelinghuysen went away in the same 
manner.^ 

No man has the service of his country more at heart than I have; but 
then I should choose to be treated in such manner as I think I have a 

* According to the Journals the ordinance for the regulation of the clothing de- 
partment was adopted Mar. 23, and there is no record of the consideration of the subject 
Mar. 25. Cf. the Journals. Apr. 1, 5. 

^ See the Journals, Mar. 25, 29, Apr. 3, and nos. 142, ante, 163, 168, 183, 203, 
post. 

^ See nos. 160, 238, post. Frelinghuysen presented his account for attendance 
May 31, 1780, wherein he debits himself " To cash drawn from the continental Treasury 
HOC dollars" (see the statement of expenditures for the year 1779, Journals, XV. 1438), 
and credits himself " By attendance at Congress as one of the Delegates for the State, 
from January 19th 1779 to March 14th 1779 both days inclusive at 20 dollars per day 
is — iioo dollars" (Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722). His attendance actually ex- 
tended through Mar. 24. Whether the date Mar. 14 was an accidental error for Mar. 24; 
or was purposely given as a means of omitting a charge for the ten days (Mar. i-io) 
during which he was absent is uncertain. 
[16o]i A^. /. Rev. Corr., p. 141. 

2 Following is an extract of a letter from Witherspoon to a friend in Scotland, 
dated " Tusculum, near Princeton, March 20, 1780 " : "I have now left Congress, not 
being able to support the expense of attending it, with the frequent journies to Princeton, 
and being determined to give particular attention to the revival of the college. Professor 
Houston, however, our professor of mathematics, is a delagate this year ; but he tells 
me he will certainly leave it next November. I mention this circumstance to confirm what 
I believe I wrote you formerly, that the members of Congress in general, not only receive 
no profit from that office, but I believe five out of six of them, if not more, are great 
losers in their private affairs. This cannot be otherwise ; for as none of the delegates 
are allowed to have any lucrative office whatever, either in their own state or for the 
United States, though their expenses should be fully borne, their time is taken up, and 
their own private estates are neglected. At the end of the year 1778, I gave notice to our 
legislature that they must either not chuse me at all, or leave me at full liberty to attend 
only when I could conveniently. They chose me however, and I made a good deal of 
use of that liberty in the year 1779 ; and this year all the delegates were changed but one, 
who had only been in one year, and who has not a house to go home to, his estate being 
in the neighbourhood of New York." Works of Witherspoon (Edinburgh, 1815), 
IX. 171. The delegate alluded to in the close of the extract was doubtless John Fell. 

3 See no. 159, ante, and no. 238, post. 



March, ///p 119 

right to as a gentleman. And I am certain such treatment from my 
colleagues cannot be deemed in that line. Therefore I request it as a 
favor, that I may not be treated in like manner in future ; to make my 
stay here so exceedingly disagreeable. 

I received a letter this week from hon'l Mr. Scudder, dated 13th inst., 
he wrote me he expected to be here in about six weeks from that date. 
When Dr. Scudder comes I hope your Excellency will have no objection 
to my paying a visit to my family for a short time. As I have engaged 
to serve the state for the time of my appointment I undoubtedly shall do 
it, to the best of my power and ability. However, I hope the honorable 
Assembly will pay some regard to the increase of pay for my service, as 
every kind of expense has advanced in this city upwards of 50 per cent, 
since my appointment. It is with great reluctance I am under the dis- 
agreeable necessity to mention a circumstance of this kind, but my pri- 
vate fortune has suffered so much from the great losses I have met with, 
as well as my long, cruel captivity, that I shall not be able to support the 
extraordinary^ expense long. I am certain there is no member in Congress 
does more duty than I do. Every morning at the commercial committee, 
afterwards at Congress, and three stated nights in a week at the marine 
committee, besides occasional committees ; in short, there has been very 
few nights this winter that I have not been engaged in business. And 
not to be able to live in the manner I have ever been used to, without 
spending my own money as well as time, is rather too unreasonable for 
the public to desire of any individual 

161. Hexry Laurens. Notes of Debates.^ 

26 March, 1779.^ 

G.M} 

" By their publications they have directly and positively appealed to the 
Public and stand as the accusers of Congress to their Constituents, there- 
fore {assigning many reasons) we cannot consistently with the honor 
and dignity of this Congress nor consistently with the regard we owe to 
our Constituents confer with the State of Pennsylvania, before they shall 
have made reparation " etc. 

B^^in a second Speech, he compared the powers of the Executive Coun- 
cil with the power of other States — " it was inferior to that of N York, 
and believed it was inferior to the powers of many other States, he had 
known some Corporations of less Limitted powers." 

Qu. what are the States, but. so many self created corporations. 

Gen. Armstrong and Mr. M'Lcan * displayed the constitution and pow- 
ers of the Executive Council. 

G. M. after comparing powers as above — " I ask, if the Governor of 
this State had published such charges against Congress, would you con- 

[16i]i S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Congressional Letters, 1779. The document is 
endorsed, " Speeches in Congress 26th March 1779 against conferring with the Executive 
Council of Pennsylvania ". 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 26. 

3 Gouverneur Morris. 

4 John Armstrong and James McLene, delegates in Congress from Pennsylvania. 



120 Continental Congress 

fer with him; before you had vindicated your honor to the World and 
received some satisfaction. I trust not. I think I may answer for every 
Member present, there is not I am persuaded, a single Gentleman on 
this floor, who would venture to give his voice for descending so far 
below the dignity of this House " " I don't know what the publication 
is. I have heard of it but I have not seen it." 

Mr. Lozr^ reminded him of S. Deane's publication of the 5th Decern, 
and the conduct of Congress thereon. 

G. M. replied — '' the Cases were not similar (or parrallell) but granted, 
a thousand wrongs don't make one right, if we did wrong in that In- 
stance let us take care to avoid doing wrong again." 

M. S.^ " If I have been abused and traduced and held out in print to 
the Public, shall I as an individual submit to a conference with the Man 
or any set of Men who have used me in that manner. No Sir ! I don't 
know the powers of Congress whether it extends to expulsion, but I will 
sooner be expell'd and turned out of that door, than submit to give my 
voice in favor of so disgraceful a measure (or conduct) No Sir, let us 
publish and vindicate our conduct first, to the World, before we talk of 
conference." 

/. P.^ Would any Gentleman in private life, after he has been abused 
by another Gentleman, enter into a conference before he had received 
satisfaction. No ! I am sure I would not. I don't know what other Gen- 
tleman's feelings may be. I speak for my self. I can't answer it to my 
State, consistently with the honor and dignity of those who I have the 
honor to represent. 

G, M. I think, I am sure that publication ought to be taken under con- 
sideration of a Committee and narrowly scan'd, before we talk of 
conferences. 

there are such things as preliminaries to treaties, which are necessary 
to be established before the Treaty is entered upon. 

If we have done wrong let us acknowledge it before we confer, if we 
have been wronged let us not confer before we receive satisfaction. 

I have no idea of compromising quarrels. I am for following Shakes- 
peare's advice, 

" beware of entrance to a quarrel ; but being in, bear't that the opposer 
may beware of thee." ^ 

W. H. D * — supported these doctrines, and voted accordingly talked 
of the duty of every Man to know and to feel his own dignity.® 

162. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Friday March 26th Commercial Committee Congress. Letters, 
from the Chairman of a Committee of the Assembly and Execitive 

° Meriwether Smith. 

" John Penn. 

" Hamlet, Act I., scene 3. 

■^ WilHam Henry Drayton. 

^ Although the manuscript is torn at this point, this is probably the end of the 
notes of this day's debates. The discussion was resumed Mar. 29, and Laurens has left 
notes of the debates of that day. See no. 165, post. 
[162] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



March, ///p 121 

Council of Pennsylvania desireing a Conference with a Committee 
of Congress. Motion for Commiting the Papers Ys 5. Ns 5. 2 devided, 
I not Represented. Motion per G Morris that a Committee be appointed 
agreeable to the Request Mr. Smith moved as an amendmant the Com- 
mittee of Council be struck out. Long debate 5 Ys Ns 5. there ensuid 
a long debate on order till Adjournd an unhappy dispute, Occasioned 
intirely by means of Major General Arnold.^ 6PM Marine Committee, 
Saturday March 2yth 1779? Commercial Committee Congress. 
Letter from Major Genl. Arnold requesting the Report of the Committee 
to be taken up, on which the Report was Read, and the Papers Letters etc. 
that Pased between the Committee and the Execitive Council after which 
a Motion was made that Genl. Arnolds afifair be Postponed, and the Mo- 
tion of Yesterday taken in to consideration for a Committee to meet a 
Committee of the Assembly and a Committee of the Execetive Council 
in Conferrance Ys and Ns Carr'd in the affirmative,^ then M Smith 
moved after a long Speech, that the Chair be requested to call on Each 
Member to know if they have Receiv'd any intelegence from any foreign 
Court, in Europe and Particularly from England Ys and Ns carr'd in 
the Affirmitive. All No '" Mr. Lovell moved for Mr. Aken to Print 
the Journals debate about the Propriety of Printing the Yas and Nas 
etc. the Ys and Ns calld for on the Question carr'd in the affinn'e 
I was No. I think they are very often Ridicolous.'' 

163. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 28th march 1779 
My Dear Sir 

Some days ago I hastily asknowledged the receipt of Your favor of the 
20th Ulto.2 

I am fully of Your opinion, and was at the time that the good effects 
of calling in the two Emissions will be in a great Measure Marred by 
Exchangeing them, but you know the best Political systems are often 
destroyed by one stroke of bad Policy 

2 See nos. 58, 95, 143, ante, and under Mar. 27, below. 

3 In the Pennsylvania Packet of Mar. 27 is a communication from "A Customer ", 
prefaced with these remarks : " I have sometimes seen speeches that never were spoken, 
and sometimes speeches intended to have been spoken. I hope there will be no impropriety 
in publishing a speech which OUGHT to be spoken in Congress." He then delivers a 
discourse upon the financial situation and advocates a foreign loan. Cf. vol. I., no. 148, 
note 4 (A Speech never Intended to be Spoken). See also no. 385, note 2, post. 

■* See note 2, above, and nos. 180, 183, 208, 23^, post. 

" This appears to mean that, in response to the question required by the resolution, 
all answered that they had not received such private intelligence. The Journals record 
only the adoption of the resolution, with an elimination of a part of the proposed preamble. 

® Cf. the earlier views of James Lovell, who voted aye on this occasion, and those 
of Henry Laurens, vol. H., nos. 585, 766. Cf. no. 172, post. 

[ 163] 1 Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. H. ("No. 11"). 

2 Whipple's letter, dated Mar. 23, is in the Bartlett Correspondence. In it he said : 
" I wish to have your opinion of an additional Tax. You know large sums must be still 
issued for the support of the Army, which will still sink the Currency unless more is 
called in by Tax. should such a measure be under consideration I sho'd be happy to know 
the sentiments of my constituents for the Government of my own Conduct." 



122 Continental Congress 

2pth. Your favor of the 27th Feb'y is just come to hand, the Report 
of dispatches with proposals of peace etc. is without the least founda- 
tion, this is only a Tory Tale calculated to put people off their guard 
and slaken their exertions in the insuing Campaign.^ I believe I informed 
you in some of my former letters that the last acco'ts from Europe 
Breathed nothing but War, Tho' I do not believe they would persue the 
plan were it not for the unhappy scituation of our Currency and the Flat- 
tering acco'ts they have had of our dissensions, these circumstances en- 
couraged them to try another Campaign : but I hope notwithstanding the 
many difficulties we have to encounter we have still virtue enough left to 
withstand their utmost efforts — Indeed I have not a doubt but we shall 
succeed but still every exertion is necessary to recruit, and put the Army 
on a respectable footing. 

Mr. Frost intends to leave me in about a fortnight I wish to know 
who is to take his place, also when I may expect to be releived. My 
anxiety, for the determination of some important matters will induce me 
to tarry as long as my constitution will bear this climate, but I do not 
think it possible for me to tarry longer than may. 

The last acco'ts from S. Carolina were favorable a recommendation 
is gone thither for raising some regiments of Blacks this will I suppose 
lay a foundation for the emancipation of those poor wreches in that Coun- 
try, and I hope be the means of dispensing the Blessings of freedom to 
all the Human Race in America.* 

164. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia 29th March 1779 
My dear Sir 

.... I am very sorry you declined (or that it was out of your power) 
to comply with the requisition of this Navy Board ; my view in procuring 
the order was that you might be furnished with a supply of provisions 
for public service and that the inhabitants in case of necessity might also 
derive some benefit from the occasion. 

The situation of the paper medium is a matter of very serious con- 
cern ; there is no one, but views it in that light and are sensible of the 
necessity of a remedy for the evils ; but the great difficulty is to persuade 

3 Bartlett wrote to Whipple Feb. 27 (Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, 
p. 627) : "Report here says, that the MiMin, privateer that arrived at Boston some time 
since from France, had brought some important dispatches for Congress, containing 
proposals of peace and such as could not be rejected by Congress. I heartily wish it may 
be true as I am tired of the war but doubt the truth of the report." 

Again, March 13 (ibid., p. 639) he wrote: "We have reports here which are credited, 
that Congress have rec'd very interesting and agreeable intelligence from Spain : Common 
Fame says Alliance, Ships of War and money are offered you, and on the rnost liberal 
terms : if it be true this is very agreeable news, but if the pride of the British Tyrant 
would permit him to offer us peace with Independence etc it would be more agreeable to 
me: in short I grow perfectly weary of the war; it is enough to make one sick of human 
nature to think mankind should be such fools, as to distress, wound, maim, kill and 
destroy one another for no other reason but to gratify the will and pleasure of Tyrants, 
who will take care to keep in a whole skin themselves." Cf. nos. 212, 444, post. 

4 See the Journals, Mar. 29, also nos. 142, 159, ante, and 168. 183, 203, 375. post. 
[164]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 647; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft 

Coll., Langdon-Elwyn Papers (copy of part). 



March, lyy^ 123 

a sufficient number of men to think alike on the subject — this I trust 
may some time or other be got over and I still feast on hopes that in due 
time we shall surmount every difficulty 

165. Henry Laurens, Notes of Debates/ 

CM. absent. 29th March. [1779.] 

Mr. M. S., J. P. and W. H. D.^ repeated almost verbatim their former 
words in the opposition, at Length it was intimated to them — 

H. L^ " the danger of refusing to confer — that to appoint a Commit- 
tee of the Council would convey an afront more gross than a total 
rejection 

that it was to be feared the Council had causes to complain of some 
deficiencies, some delinquencies on the part of Congress — that Instances 
might be recollected. 

danger of shifting the ground of a dispute. 

Gentn. had talked of an offensive Publication by the Council, at the 
same time confessed they had not seen it, but admitting they had and 
that each Member had read it, and Congress as Congress had never seen 
it. the House knew nothing of it in their Parliamentary capacity, and 
therefore had no ground for conclusions and Resolutions, etc H. L. 

the Question put, see Yea and Nay. 

It is remarkable, these Gentn. who were extremely eager for quarrel- 
ing with the State of Pennsylvania upon a supposed afifront by a Publi- 
cation which they had never seen, were the Men who proposed and car- 
ried the Vote for conferring with Silas Deane Esqr. after having had his 
affrontive Publication of the 5th Decern, laid before them and com- 
plained of in a regular Parliamentary course and which they had refused 
to take under consideration. 

Nothing can more clearly demonstrate Party spirit of the most danger- 
ous tendency than this consistency of conduct * 

166. Richard Henry Lee to John Page.^ 

Philadelphia, March 29, 1779. 
.... 'Tis true the number of privateers that avarice and enmity have 
equipped from N. York and Bermuda to cruise on our trade is very great 
indeed. I think by their list they amount to more than eighty. Some 
Frigates are ordered to clear our Coast of these Rovers, and I hope they 
will be successful. But the destination of our Frigates ought not to be 
made public." .... 

[165]iS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Congressional Letters, 1779. This is a con- 
tinuation of the document printed under March 26, no. 161, ante. 

2 Gouverneur Morris, Meriwether Smith, John Penn, and William Henry Drayton. 
See no. 161, ante, and the Journals, Mar. 29. 

3 Henry Laurens. 

* See, further, the Journals, Apr. 1, 3, 12, 15, 28. 
[166] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 A part of the letter is devoted to defending Arthur Lee from accusations con- 
nected with the treachery of Hezekiah Ford. An extract pertaining to that subject is in 
Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1074, item 177. 



12-1- Continental Congress 

167. John Fell, Dl\ry.^ 

Monday March 2Q ^779- Com'l Committee Congress. Motion for 
taking into consideration the Raising Negroes Troops in So. Carolina and 
Georgia ^ Repeal of the Resolve relating to the Bahama Islands 

Motion for appointing the Committee of Conferrence, with the Execi- 
tive Council and Assembly of Pennsilvania. A Motion per Mr. Smith 
of a very extraordinary nature Respecting himself and the Commercial 
Committee. Over Ruled. ^ Committee appointed to conferr, Mr. Paca, 
Root, R. H. Lee, S Adams and Mr, Laurens 

NB Motion that all the Members of Congress now in Town may be 
Requested to attend this House at 10 oClock on Morning, 

to Consult and endeavour to fix a Proper Plan for Raising the Cred't of 
Our Money. Not Secconded. 

Tuesday March joth. Commercial Committee Congress. A Number 
of Letters, and one from Mr. Gerrard to hasten the Plan for Treaty.* 
Agreed to an Ultimatum for the Fishery, which I am afraid will involve 
us in a Continuance of the Warn Motion per R H Lee 6 Ays 5 Nos 
I devided i not represented NB New Jersey ^ 6 P M Marine Committee 

168. John Collins to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia March the 30th 1779 
Sir 

Congress Passd a resolution yesterday in Regard to the behama Islands 
which you may see in the inclosed paper, on Saterday they Resolved 
to Rais 3000 Black Soldiers out of the States of George and South 
Carolina, and pay one thousand doUers pr head for them, as the State 
of Rhode Island Raisd a Black Regiment the accounts for which I sup- 
pose, are not yet Settld I thought it proper to give you this information." 

[167] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 159, ante. 

2 See the Journals. Cf. no. 225, note 4, post. 

* The letter of Gerard is evidently that found in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 94, 
f. 148, and dated Mar. 31 (printed in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 106). The original, 
though plainly dated March 31, bears the endorsement by Thomson, "Letter from 
M. Gerard minister plenipotentiary of France March 30. 1779 read the same day ". In the 
Laurens Papers, in the South Carolina Historical Society (vol. XXVI.), is a copy in 
Laurens's writing, to which he has appended the following remarks : 

" Directed to the President of Congress, Read in Congress 31st March, 1779. Very 
displeasing to some of the Members, and laid by without debate or any order on it." 
Laurens also endorsed the document: "Mr. Gerard to Congress 31st March 1779 an 
Insult sought for and invited by Members of Congress." Cf. the memorial of Mar. 17 
(Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 85). There were further insistent memorials of 
similar purport May 6, 22, 27 (ibid., pp. 156, 175, 194). Cf. nos. 103, 143, ante, 
225, post. 

5 This indicates that the last vote of Mar. 24 according to the Journals was 

actually taken Mar. 30. Cf. the note under Spencer in List of Members, also no. 256, post. 

[168]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 216. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 29; cf. ibid., Apr. 3 (report of the board of war, p. 417). 
See also nos. 142, 163, ante, nos. 203, 375, post, and the delegates of Rhode Island to the 
governor, Sept. 28, in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 251. 



March, lyyg ' 125 

169. William Ellery to John Sullivan.^ 

Philadelphia March 30th 1779 
Dear Sir, 

I received your letter of the 28th February last with Genl. Prescott's 
certificate. I am satisfied, from the wording of it, that neither Crossing 
nor Corey were, properly speaking, commissioned-officers of the Crown 
of Great-Britain at the time they were employed in the maroding, kid- 
napping Business for which they have been sentenced to die by the judg- 
ment of a Court martial.- The Question with me is not what kind of 
powers those powers were, which they received, and were lodged in the 
possession of Genl. Prescot; nor why they were so lodged; nor how they 
have been always consider'd. The plain Question is whether they are 
commissioned Officers of the Crown of Great Britain in the same sense 
and to every intent [and] purpose as other British Captains and Lieuts. 
are ? As I have already said I am satisfied they are not. I imagine their 
future commissions depended upon circumstances which had not taken 
place at the time they undertook their expedition. I do not mean to argue 
on this subject. They have escaped, and I imagin[e] will neither be re- 
taken or returned. Suppose the Sentence of the Court martial should be 
confirmed : Do you think General Prescott will deliver them up to be 
executed? I should think not. If they have got to the Island they will 
abide there, at least until the determination of Congress shall be known ; 
and when this will be I know not,^ for great and important matters are 
now on the tapis. 

I read that part of your former letter which respected money matters 
to some of the members of the Treasury board, who told me that not long 
before a considerable Sum had been transmitted to the Paymaster. I 
made out an extract from the letter I am now answering and deliver'd 
it to the Treasury board, which produced Money sufficient I hope to 
answer the present exigencies of the detachment, two or three days before 
the arrival of the Paymaster.* I believe it would be well hereafter that He 
should write to the Treasury board, at the same time you write to them 
and point out the Sum wanted and for what purposes. I shall always 
with great cheerfulness execute your requests '^ 

[169]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. III., f. 98 (original). 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 4, and nos. 11, 52, ante. Among those named in the 
court martial transmitted by Sullivan were three men, whose names are first set down as 
Gideon, Francis, and John Coree ; subsequently in the same document the name is spelled 
Corey. The one here referred to was Francis Corey, as the other two were recommended 
for a commutation of sentence. In General Prescott's letters to Sullivan Dec. 23 and 25 
he speaks of these men as Captain Crossing (in the first letter the name appears as 
"Croison") and Lieutenant Corey of the Loyal New England Regiment (Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 160, ff. 235-237, copies). 

3 No further record of the matter has been found in the Journals. 

4 See no. 173, post. 

5 The letter is endorsed : " Letter from Mr. Ellery to General Sullivan Open'd 
by order by Gen : Glover dated Philadelphia 30th March 1779." 

13 



126 Contincntol Congress 

I/O. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Tpiomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 

Sir, 

We are to acknowledge the Receipt of 3'our Excellency's Favor with 
its Inclosnres, to all which we shall pay due Regard.- I hope in a few 
Days to be able to give you the Information respecting the Commissary's 
Department which you and the Council desire, in the mean Time we 
have the Honor to be with great Regard Sir Yr most obt hble Servants 

Geo. Plater 
J. Henry Junr. 
Philadelphia March 30th 1779. 

171. Charles Thomson, Memorandum.^ 

[March 30? 1779.] 
farther evidence in support of the charges 2 ch. agst. Deane 
Copy of a letter from J Thornton dated Paris Feby 1778 offered by 

Mr Laurens 

Copy of a letter from J. Williams Nantes March 26 1778 to Mr 

Deane, offered by Mr R H Lee 

A letter of 26 Feby 1779 from William Aylett to Mr R H Lee, offered 

by Mr R H Lee 

A copy of the sums of money paid by the public banker to Will'm 

Hodge [offered] by Mr R H Lee. 

[Endorsed in the writing of Thomson:] 

farther evidence offered in support of the charges against Mr Deane 

by Mr Laurens and Mr R H Lee viz J Williams letter to Mr Deane 

March 26. 1778 ^ 

172. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Wednesday March ^1st ///p. Commercial Committee Congress. A 
Letter from Thos. Payne Read A do. from Govr. Trumbull, to setle 
his Brother accots. Committee on Commissary Trumbulls accts. Re- 
ported that his Estate be Allow'd as follows to wit 
^ Per Ct. on all the Moneys laid out, Yas and Nas carr'd affirmitive 
2^ Per Ct. on all Purchases made by himself do. do. 
3^ Per Ct. on all the Money lay'd out, do. even Lost. 

[170]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 12. 

2 The letter, dated Mar. 26, is in Arch, of Md., XXI. 328. The principal enclosure 
was an act of the assembly relative to the purchase of flour for the army. 

[171]! Library of Congress, U. S. Revolution. 

- A schedule of charges is set down in the Journals under March 24, and this 
addition must have been made by Thomson shortly afterward. It is placed conjecturally 
under March 30, for the reason that on that date Richard Henry Lee presented to Congress 
an extract of a letter from William Aylett dated Feb. 26, and it is assumed that the letter 
of that date mentioned in the memorandum was doubtless received by Lee at the same 
time. Aylett's letter referred to in the memorandum is in the Library of Congress 
U. S. R., and a copy, in the writing of Henry Laurens, is among the Laurens Papers in 
the South Carolina Historical Society. It is in reply to a letter from Lee dated Feb. 7, 
and relates to the testimony of Mr. Bromfield. See Letters of Ricliard Henry Lee, II. 
9 n. Concerning the letter of Jonathan Williams, see ibid., p. 8 and passitn. 

[172]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



April, 1779 127 

not finish'd Motion made per ]\Ir. Smith that Mr. \hlank'\ be ap- 
pointed Printer for the PubHc and that the Journals ,be Printed in Sheets 
and sent to the Legislatures of the different States ^ Dr. Wetherspoon ^ 

173. The Board of Treasury to John Sullivan. '^ 

r-- Philadelphia 31st March 1779 

No application has been made to the Treasury nor to our knowledge 
to Congress for money to pay the Army under your command untill the 
honorable Mr Ellery presented us with an Extract from your Letter to 
Him.^ In that Extract no sum was specified : as it came to hand at a time 
when from a multitude of Drafts the Treasury was exhausted : This 
Board however did all in their Power to releive your necessities by pro- 
curing an estimate of your wants from the Board of War and reporting 
a warrant for 600,000 dollars to be transmitted by that Board, which will 
we presume be done in a little time, as every possible exertion is making 
for supplying the Army. 

We have the honor to be with great respect Sir 

Your Most Obedient Humble Serts. 

Jas. Duane Ch. 
In the Name of the Board of Treasury 

P. S. The information from Mr. Ellery was received by us the 19th 
Instant, an immediate application was made to the Board of War for an 
estimate of your wants, on the 22d we reported to Congress and on the 
24th a Warrant Issued on the Treasurer for the sum above mentioned."'' 

174. A Committee of Congress to Jeremiah Wadsworth.^ 

9jy Philada. 1st April 1779 

It is utterly impracticable for us to do our Duty to the Public while we 
remain so entirely in the dark as to the Stock of Provisions which you 

- See the Journals, Alar. 27, 31, and no. 162, ante. In the Pennsylvania Packet of 
Apr. 20 is a communication from "A Friend ", furnishing the Packet with a copy of 
Thomas Paine's letter of Mar. 30 fsee the Journals), and maintaining that this letter gave 
rise to the resolution to publish the proceedings weekly. Cf. no. 221, post. Paine's letter 
may be found in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, III. 410. He repeats, 
somewhat arrogantly, a request which he says he had made on the 19th for a copy of the 
proceedings against him January 2 to 16, and grumbles particularly at the action of 
Congress Jan. 12 and Jay's letter to Gerard Jan. 13 (no. 35, ante). "Congress have 
published their judgment ", he says, " in a Resolution of Janry. 12lh and I have a right 
to know the proceedings. That Resolution is prefaced in the Pennsylvania Packet with 
a letter signed 'John Jay ' ; yet as far as I have a right to know, that letter may be 
spurious ; for as I have never been wanting in any duty I could perform, or service I could 
render, to America or her allies, I ought not to believe that the Honorable President of 
Congress would address a letter to the Minister of France, which by a very close laid 
Implication holds me up as deserving the ' Indignation and resentment of both Countries ' " 
(see no. 35, ante). For a supplementary communication on the same subject, see no. 180, 
note 3, post. 

3 " Dr. Wetherspoon " is written in the margin. The purpose of the entry was 
no doubt to record Witherspoon's attendance this day. His name, though absent from the 
earlier votes of the day, appears in the later ones. 
[173]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIV. 315. 

2 See no. 169, ante. 

3 This refers presumably to the warrant ordered Mar. 24 in favor of Joseph 
Carleton. 

[174]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Jeremiah Wadsworth Papers (copy). 



128 Continental Congress 

have on hand. We are therefore to insist that you comply with an Order 
of the Board of War of this day to send a Return as soon as possible. If 
you cannot make it compleat let it be as nearly so as Possible and order 
your several Deputies to send us forthwith Returns of their Stock and of 
their Contracts which we will lay before the Board of War to make out 
your Returns. I shall be glad that you will also inform us what orders 
you have to lay up Provisions in Magazine and what Quantities likewise 
the Demand for the use of the Army and Posts where no special Orders 
are given. 

By order of the Committee ^ ^^^^,^ ^^^^^3 

Col. Wadsworth Com'y Genl. of Purchases. 

175. The Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the 
Massachusetts Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

^•^ Philadelphia April 1st 1779 

We had the Honor of receiving by the Hands of Nathaniel Gorham 
Esqr. and others, a Committee of the General Court, your Letter of the 
1st of March.' Congress had before considered the Subject of it and 
come into Resolutions which we forwarded to you in Season.^ If any 
Thing further can be done for the Relief of the Inhabitants of Massa- 
chusetts Bay from the Distress they are under from Want of Bread, the 
Honble. Assembly may rely upon our utmost Exertions. We have also 
received another Letter by Express inclosing a Resolution of the Assem- 
bly relating to the Necessity of ascertaining the Powers of foreign Con- 
suls in the American Ports. This we immediately laid before Congress 
and the Matter is under the Consideration of a Committee.* .... 

We are with Sentiments of Dutv and Regard to the General Assemblv 

Sir 

Your most humble Servants 

Samuel Adams 

E. Gerry 

James Lovell 

S. Holten 

- The committee on the commissary and quartermaster departments. See vol. III., 
nos. 609, 620; also no. 44, ante. 

[175]! Mass. Arch., CC. 377 (in the writing of James Lovell, with autograph signa- 
tures) ; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (draft) ; IVritings of Samuel Adams 
(ed. Gushing), IV. 145. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 26. 

3 The matter was referred, Mar. 30, to the marine committee, which reported 
June 7. On that day a committee was appointed to prepare an agreement with the French 
minister, who presented to Congress, June 23, a memorial on the subject (see Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 228). Aug. 26 the committee (Laurens, Samuel Adams, and 
Dickinson) was increased by the addition of Thomas McKean. Meanwhile the Holker 
affair had arisen and been adjusted (see nos. 445, 447, 455, 487, note 2, post). It does not 
appear that this committee ever made a report. July 26, 1781, the French minister, 
Luzerne, submitted to Congress the draft of a consular convention, which was under 
consideration of Congress for six months, a convention being finally agreed to Jan. 25, 
1782. See the Journals, July 27, Aug. 9, 23, 28 (pp. 914, 916), 31, Oct. 15, 1781, and 
Jan. 9, 21, 25, 1782. 

4 Samuel Holten records in his Diary, under Mar. 26 : " Mr. Gorham, Mr. Wales 
and Mr. Inches a committee from the General Court of Massa. Bay arrived here." 
The entry in his Diary for Apr lis: " The coms. from Massa. Bay set out home. I wrote 
with my colleagues to the court. I rode out." {Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 253.) 



April, 1779 129 

176. John Fell, Diary/ 

Thursday April 1st 1779. Com'l Committee Congress. Letter from 
Genl. Washington. Do. from Leivt. Coll. Zedwitz Referrd to the Board 
of Warr. Letter from Lt. Govr. and Speaker of the Assembly of New 
York to Raise 1000 Men for a Western Expidit[i]on against the Indians 
agreed. Memorial from A Edwards, to Join the Southern Army. B'd of 
Warr. Leivt. Coll. Bradford and Lt. Col [Yeates]- Muster Masters 
have leave to Resign and nominated H Rutgars Esqr. and [blank] in 
their Room. Report from the Board of Warr to appoint a Clothier Gen- 
eral with a Sallery of 10,000 Doll's per annum to have 12 Rations, and 
forrege for 3 Horses. Postponed Governor Trumbulls Proposal for 
taking Sailsbury [sic'] Iron Works, not agreed to. Mr. Whiting to be 
Paid his Expences per the Treasury Board. 

Report from the Treasury Board for an Emission of 5,000160 D's 
Mr. Paca informd Congress of v^diat Pasd at the Conferrence with Presi- 
dent Reed Accounts from New York say they have taken to Soi[uth]- 
ward Genl. Egbert, Coll. Mcintosh, 33 Officers, 300 Prisoners 300 
Field and 7 Peices Cannon. NB Marine Committee did not meet 

Friday April 2d. Commercial Committee This being Good Fryday, 
Congress met an[d] adjourn'd. NB. Marine Committee did not make 
a Board. 

177. The North Carolina Delegates to the South Carolina 

Delegates.^ 

(No. ly 

Gentlemen, 

Considering that your State is always deemed so feeble in internal 
Strength and resources, that her defense when attacked must chiefly be 
performed by the Neighboring States, and must fall more immediately 
on North Carolina from her circumstances and contiguos situation. 

Considering also that a Question now before Congress involves the 
continuance of hostilities, even tho' our Liberty sovereignty and Inde- 
pendence, absolute and unlimitted, as well in matters of Government 
as Commerce shall be acknowledged and secured, unless Great Britain 
will acknowledge a right of fishing on all Banks and Coasts of North 
America which were exclusively reserved to Britain by the Treaties of 
Utrecht and Paris, as fully as the Inhabitants of the Countries now Com- 
posing the United States of North America enjoyed when Subjects of 
Great Britain : a right which we deem more extensive than can with 

[176]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Inserted in pencil, but not in Fell's writing. 
[177]^ S. C. Hist. See, Laurens Papers, Promiscuous Letters, vol. XXVIIL, no. 14 
(in the writing of Laurens). 

2 This correspondence, primarily between the delegates of North Carolina and the 
delegates of South Carolina, continuing from Apr. 2 to Apr. 8, originated in the action 
of Congress, Mar. 22, 24, in making the Newfoundland fisheries an ultimatum in the 
negotiations for peace (see nos. 151- 153, ante), together with the resolutions relative to 
the defense of South Carolina and Georgia (see no. 178, note 3, post). The other letters 
in the correspondence are nos. 178, 181, 184, 185, 186, 187, 195, 196, post. See also nos. 255, 
256, 269, 270, post. 



130 Continental Congress 

Justice be insisted on, and which our Allies by their engagements are not 
bound to assist as in contending for, and which the Minister Plenipoten- 
tiary of France assures us his Court cannot agree to continue the War for. 

Considering also that in a late Vote upon the Question attended to 
Mr. Laurens one of the Delegates from your State gave his voice for 
continuing hostilities for the aforesaid object, even tho' our allies should 
not be in a condition to assist us, from which we infer, that he relies on 
a degree of strength and resources in your state which is unknown to us, 
or on a mistaken Idea of the strength and resources of North Carolina. 
His long experience, and intimate knowledge of his own County induce 
us readily to admit the former as the ground of his opinion. But we 
esteem it our duty to inform you that in case of the continuance of the 
War for the aforesaid object North Carolina is not in a condition to 
make any exertions for the defense of South Carolina, nor do we be- 
leive she will be inclined to make any. 

We beg you to consider that in the event of a continuance of the War, 
your Country will probably experience all the calamities, which can be 
apprehended from an Insolent, relentless, irritated and rapacious Enemy, 
from your own Slaves armed against their former Masters, from the 
Savages excited to more bloody and merciless dispositions and conducted 
by leaders who have inclination and abilities to make their force and 
ferocity as effectual against you as possible. 

Upon general matters we would not presume to lay our thoughts thus 
before you ; how inadequate the resources of the Continent are to a con- 
tinuance of War without allies, and what must most probably be the 
event we suggest not to you, your participation in the public Councils 
make it unnecessary and improper; but when a matter so supremely In- 
teresting and which so peculiarly affects the Lives and properties of the 
States which you and we have the honor to represent, in which may be 
involved, desolation to our Countries and the most unbounded ravage and 
Carnage to their Inhabitants of all Ages and Sexes, and which may fall 
with peculiar weight and injury on the State we represent, upon such a 
matter we cannot disjjense with offering you this Official memorial, and 
we hope you will consider our expostulation as flowing from the anxious 
concern we feel for our Country and that it will have with you its due 
weight. 

We enclose a Copy of a Letter which we mean to address to the Gov- 
ernor of our State.^ we wish the conduct of your delegates on this im- 
portant affair may supersede the necessity we deem ourselves under of 
sending it forward. 

We have the honor to be Gentlemen 

Your very obedt Servants 
J. Penn 

Whitmell Hill. 
Tho Burke. 

A true Copy carefully compared and examined with the original, which 
I believe to be in the handwriting of one of the signers J. Penn 

James Lovell. 

3 The letter next following- (no. 178). 



April, 1779 131 

[Memoranda by Henry Laurens:] 

Neither of these Letters dated, they were brought from the Presi- 
dents House by one of his servants, to mine, Friday 2nd April 1779. I 
informed Mr. Penn and also Mr. Burke I would consider and answer 
them on Monday the 5th or sooner if possible. 

Answered the 4th having in the mean time been fully employed in 
Congress and in Committees. 

The Honble. Henry Laurens and \Vm. H. Drayton Delegates for South 
Carolina. 

178. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 

North Carolina (Richard Caswell).-^ 

(No. 2)- 

[ April 2, 1779.] 
Sir, 

Altho' the Congress a few days ago have passed several Resolutions ^ 
stating the situation of South Carolina and Georgia to be such, that they 
are incapable of any adequate efforts for their own defense, and recom- 
mending to Virginia and North Carolina to make every further possible 
effort to raise forces for their assistance, and altho, it appears exceed- 
ingly clear, that no succors can be sent to them from the Main Army, or 
any other state, and altho we have been since the beginning of the War. 
very much harrassed with efforts for our Southern Neighbors, under an 
Idea that they were internally too weak for their own defense, yet Sir, 
a late Vote in Congress has inclined us to believe, that our Country has 
been very much mistaken. 

Mr. Laurens who from his long experience and intimate knowledge 
of South Carolina, for which he is a Delegate, must have the clearest and 
most adequate Ideas of her strength and resources, has not scrupled to 
vote, that no Peace shall be made with Great Britain even should our 
Independence be secured in the most unlimitted manner, unless the latter 
will acknowledge to the United States the right of fishing everywhere on 
the Banks and Coasts of North America, where France has no right, in 
as extensive a manner as when connected with the British Empire, altho' 
this includes not only all the Banks and Coasts of the United States, but 
also, all that extend from the limits of these States, as far as Britain has 
dominions or claims; He has voted also, that, even if our Allies shou'd 
not be in a condition to assist us in carrying on the War, yet we shall not 
make Peace without the above Concession. Under the Ideas we always 
had, and which the Delegates from that State so very lately taught us to 
entertain of her weakness, we cannot account for such a vote. To prolong 
the War in which his Country if defenceless, as she has been represented, 

[178]iS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Promiscuous Letters, vol. XXVIII, no. 15 
(in the writing of Laurens). 

2 See no. 177, and note 2, ante. It does not appear that this letter was actually sent. 
See no. 184, post. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 29; cj. ibid., Jan. 22, 30, Feb. 2, Apr. 10, 13, 17, May 7, 
July 12. Cf. no. 311, post. 



132 Continental Congress 

must be exposed to constant ravages and horrors, appears to us inconsis- 
tent with good sense or humanity. We therefore conclude that his Coun- 
try is strong and powerful in resources, which are unknown to us, and 
that confident of this, he defies all these difficulties which arise from our 
decayed and almost anihilated Finances, our ruined Commerce, our want 
of manufactures, our obstructed agriculture, our wasted forces, and our 
slaughtered fellow Citizens, from our want of resources of Men, Arms, 
ammunition provisions or equipments, difficulties which appear to us 
almost ready to overwhelm our exhausted Country. 

Deeply regretting the many Evils to which our own particular State 
is exposed by her frequent efforts, for the defense of her southern 
Neighbors, and by no means willing to continue or increase them by new 
efforts, which may not be absolutely necessary, and persuaded from the 
above Vote of Mr. Laurens that the strength and resources of S. Caro- 
lina must be equal to exertions necessary for carrying on the War, inde- 
pendent of our ally, even for objects not immediately necessary, to the 
whole, and but remotely if at all interesting to her; under the pressure 
of all these considerations we venture to suggest to you, Sir, that, any 
further exertion of our State may be very well dispensed with. 

It is well known to you, Sir, that our State is in no Condition to make 
unnecessary exertions, that she is not able to carry on the War for ob- 
jects which are not absolutely necessary, that her exertions for what are 
essentially necessary, have already exhausted and distressed her exceed- 
ingly- 

We hope that you will concur with us, in opinion that our Militia may 
return home as soon as may be, and that no more Battalions should be 
raised in our State for the purpose of being sent thither. 

We were not surprised on this occasion to see the New England States 
vote for the proposition above mentioned. The object is to them pecu- 
liarly important, their Country from its situation and strength is secured 
in a great measure from the danger of ravages to which the Southern 
States from contrary circumstances are exposed, and nothing but a con- 
viction of our being unable to carry on the War without the assistance of 
our Allies, who by their engagements are not bound to assist us in ob- 
taining it, could induce us to decline it. But we were much surprised to 
see Pennsylvania and Delaware vote for it, who of all the States are most 
injured by the War, and are as little as any Interested in Fisheries, the 
Improved state of Agriculture and the more flourishing circumstances 
of those States have made them the objects more immediately of military 
operations. Their Commerce which in Peace is exceedingly flourishing is 
entirely ruined by the War, their Husbandmen are harrassed with mili- 
tary services, their agriculture much decayed and their frontiers wasted 
or deserted. The necessaries of life at the most enormous prices, and a 
considerable part of their Country desolate and in ruins, yet those States 
thus circumstanced vote for the continuing of the War, without Men, 
Money, Arms clothing or provisions ! This must be infatuation or some- 
thing worse. 'Tis time. Sir, for every State not thus extravagant to 
reserve her exertions for her own particular defense. 



April, 1779 133 

We thought it our duty to give Your Excellency the above informa- 
tion, relying on your good sense that you will make such a use of this 
Letter as its importance deserves. We have the honor to be with the 
greatest Respect 

Your Excellency's Most obedt. hble Servts. 

John Penn 
Whitmell Hill, 
Thos. Burke 

A true Copy carefully compared and examined with the Original, 
which I believe to be in the handwriting of one of the Signers John Penn. 

James Lovell 

179. Samuel Holten, Diary/ 

[Apr. 2, 3, 1779.] 
2. Congress met, but it being what is called good friday, Congress 

adjourned without doing business. 

5. Congress sit late. I rode out with the Hon. Mr. Gerry and Mr. 

Whipple. 

180. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[April 3, 1779.] 
Saturday April ^d Commercial Committee Congress. Letter from 
Commissary General of Prisoners to Exchange Leivt. Hale.^ Letter 
from Capt. Willing to be Exchangd Refer'd to the Marine Committee. 
Board of Warr Reccomend Lt. Col Fleury and 3 others to a gratuity of 
1000, 600, 500 and 400 Doll's not allowd Motion for taking in to con- 
sideration the Report of the Committee on foreign affairs on Tuesday 
next in consequence of a Letter from Mr. Deane. Board of Warr Re- 
ported that 12 Commissions be sent to Major Genl. Schuyler for the 
friendly Indians agreed. An Inspector to be appointed for the Batal- 
lions of Negroes to be Raisd in South Carolina and Georgia. No. A 
very impertinent Letter from Thos. Payne stileing himself Historian — 
orderd to lay on the Table. ^ Committee appointed to conferr with a Com- 

[179]! Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 254. 

[18o]i Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Lieut. Christopher Hele. See no. 34, note 2, ante. 

3 Paine's letter of Apr. 3 is mainly a reiteration of his contention of Mar. 30 (see 
no. 172, ante). " I admit " he says, " the right of Congress to have dismissed, or suspended 
me without assigning any reason, or affording any hearing .... But I deny the right of 
Congress to pass Censure without a hearing, because Censure is a judgment supposed 
to proceed from a comparison of Evidence and reasons for and against." " The Resolution 
of Jan'ry 12th ", he continues, " directs the President to inform the Minister of France 

of their disavowal of my publications The Resolution likewise directs the President 

to disapprove, which is a Matter of State Convenience .... but the Resolution nowhere 
directs the President to inform and publish a judgment of Motives which induced me to 
make those publications, yet the letter signed John Jay of Janry. 13th addressed to the 
Hon'ble Sieur Girard, after repeating the full extent of the Resolutions, adds, ' Nor have I 
the least doubt but that every attempt to injure the Reputation of either or impair their 
mutual Confidence, will meet with the Indignation and Resentment of both'. 

" Therefore in addition to my application for the papers etc. I humbly beg Congress 
to inform me whether the extra Judicial Sentiment in the letter is the Sentiment of Con- 
gress applied to me as one who deserves the Indignation and Resentment of both Countries." 



134 Continental Congress 

mittee of the Assembly and a Committee of the Execitiv^e Council of the 
State of Pennsylvania. Reported that they had finished the Conferrance. 
(Happily) and that they had 4 different charges against Major General 
Arnold, which the Commander in Chief is directed to have try'd by a 
Court Martial vizt. for an abuse in ordering the Shops of this City to be 
Shut, for sending a Malitia Sargant for a Barber for his Aid for Em- 
ploying the Public Waggons for Private use for [blankY 

181. Henry Laurens to William Henry Drayton/ 

(No. 3) = 
Dear Sir Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, 3 April, 1779 

You will find under cover with this, the Letter from the Delegates of 
North Carolina to the Delegates of South Carolina, and also their Ad- 
dress to Governor Caswell respecting and animadverting [upon] my con- 
duct in Congress. You had some knowledge of these Letters before we 
read them yesterday morning, therefore I request you will honor me 
with an explicit and candid opinion on the propriety of the measure which 
North Carolina has adopted on this occasion, if you Sir, approve of 
their proceeding I shall be glad of a conference with you on the important 
Subjects alluded to. 

I am open to conviction, and will change my late sentiments when rea- 
sons shall be oiTered outweighing those which influenced the vote on my 
part which has given ofifence to the Representatives of a Neighbouring 
State 

As the first mentioned Letter although directed to us jointly, respects 
only myself, you will be pleased to return it to me when you shall have 
again perused it, the other Letter you will send or deliver to the Gentle- 
men of North Carolina, or enable me to do so by transmitting it to, Sir, 

Your Most Obedient Humble Servant 

The Honble. W. H. Drayton, Esqr. 

At one point in the letter Paine remarks : " It is my design to furnish the United 
States with a History of the Revolution, and it is as necessary that my Character should 
stand fair as that of any Member of this Hon'ble House. Neither can I suffer a blemish 
to be thrown on me which I am conscious I do not deserve, or desire a defection to be 
concealed which I can be proved guilty of." 

In September following Paine was stirred once more to a disquisition upon the matter 
(^Pennsylvania Packet, Sept. 14). The article may be found in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collec- 
tions: Deane Papers, IV. 91 ; the articles which gave rise to it are at pp. 83-87. Cf. nos. 
221, 501, post. 

* The committee's report is found in the Journals under Mar. 17, but was not 
acted upon until Apr. 3. Cf. the Journals, Apr. 14, 15, and nos. 58, 95, 143, 162, ante, 183, 
208, 234, post. The " eight specific charges " mentioned in the report are in a resolution 
of the Pennsylvania council Apr. 3, and may be seen in the Trial of Arnold, pp. 4 et seq., 
and I. N. Arnold, Benedict Arnold, p. 243. The missing charge in Fell's record is number i 
in the list, and relates to the permit given to the Charming Nancy, a vessel belonging to 
persons said to be disaffected to the United States, to come into port. 

For some reason which is not apparent President Jay did not transmit the mollifying 
resolutions of Apr. 3 to the president of Pennsylvania until Apr. 13. See Pa. Arch., 
first ser., VII. 312, 313. 

Fell's entry for Sunday, Apr. 4, is merely, " Warm Rain ". 

[181]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Promiscuous Letters, vol. XXVIII. , no. 16; 
Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers (copy) ; Collection of the late Adrian H. Joline, New York 
(copy). The copies are all in the writing of Moses Young, Laurens's secretary. 
- See nos. 177, 178, ante, and no. 184, post. 



April, I//P 135 

182. Henry Laurexs to John Laurens/ 

,, r-> o Philadelphia 3d April 1770. 

My Dear Son, ^ ^ ^^^ 

From you yesterday I went immediately to the important Committee 
appointed to confer with the State of Pennsylvania. I did not get to Bed 
till J4 past one this Morning, this being the third successive break upon 
my Rule of life. I feel this Morning as if my life was breaking. 

Were I to attempt to write to Mr. Gen'ais or to you fully on the sub- 
ject which occupies your IMind James ^ would not get away these three 
hours I shall therefore in a few words authorise you to do every thing 
respecting my Negroes that Mr. Gervais and your self shall coincide in. 
I shall write by a Public Messenger on Monday who will probably over- 
take you in eight or ten days. 

My Compliments to Capt ]\lcQueen ^ assure him of my best wishes in 
every thing that respects his honor and happiness, I have written as he 
desired to Governor Rutledge 

My Dear Son I pray God to bless and protect you 

Henry Laurens. 
take great care of this News Pa [per] for Mr Gervais 

183. John Armstrong to Horatio Gates.^ 

r^ ^ , Philada. 3d April 1770 

Dear General ^ ^ ^ '^ 

.... The great depreciation of our ^loney is truly allarming, a sub- 
ject that must again be immediately taken up." That of the Army has also 
long called for farther consideration. These three topicks ^ require equal 
dispatch, yet have their constant interruptions not only from the daily 
dispatches on one branch or another of the publick busines, but also from 
the spurious sources of Pride, Ambition or intrigue for one purpose or 
another, whereby annimositys, divisions and destruction of time must 
ensue — so that compared to Congress in it's present attitude, I call the 
Army a Bed of ease, a Pillow of Down. General Arnolds affairs with 
the Civil powers of this state, has lost much of the Publick time, when 
half a dozen of polite or wise words, or a short plain and candid answer to 
the Supreme Council (authorized by Congress as they were to ask the 
questions) wou'd have prevented the whole at first. This disagreeable 
matter tending to interrupt the necessary harmony betwixt Congress and 

[182]! L. I. Hist. Soc., Laurens Papers. 

2 Presumably James Custer, an employee of Laurens. It was by his hand prin- 
cipally that Laurens's letters were during the earlier months of his presidency copied into 
the letter-book. Cj. nos. 504, 510, post. See also Wallace, Life of Laurens, p. 62 n. 

3 See no. 142, ante. 

[183]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIV. 323. 

2 Elias Boudinot, sometime commissary-general of prisoners, and recently a 
delegate in Congress from New Jersey, who was then in Philadelphia endeavoring to 
obtain a settlement of some accounts, wrote to his brother, Elisha Boudinot, Apr. i : 
" God only knows where the depretiation of our money will End. I am racking my Brain 

upon a Plan to be laid before C for appretiating it, which I have vanity to hope will 

answer a valuable Purpose" (Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Members of the Old Con- 
gress, I. 47). Just what hand Boudinot had in shaping the measures presented to Congress 
is not known. See the Journals, Apr. 13, 22, 27. Cf. no. 540, post. 

2 The first part of the letter discusses foreign relations. 



136 Continental Congress 

this important state is I trust chiefly settled by means of a free confer- 
ence requested by the Assembly and held betwixt a Committee of Con- 
gress and one formed out the assembly and Council of the state, in which 
for the publicks sake, the Council generously gave up what they had 
considered as an insult agst. them, some other matters are refered to a 
Court Martial, to be appointed by the Commander in Chief.* Mr. Dean 
is now Urgeing a final determination on his affairs, which I apprehend 
will prove vexatious. Common sense ^ if permitted has lately challenged 
him (Dean) to the Bar of Congress and that the doors be Open. Open 
doors will not be allowed, yet perhaps both may be heard. Poor Pane, not 
the most prudent man in the world, is execreted by a numl^er and much 
out of the books of Congress, yet has most certainly brought various 
things neither reputable nor salutary in our affairs, at least to a probable 
point of view, which otherwise wou'd have remained dormant. We must 
also have a sudden struggle on the point of sending new Commissioners 
to Europe; some are for recalling the whole that are there, others not, 
nor is it improbable that some may wish to be sent from hence, who will 
not have the general suft'rage of the House.*' Congress have passed a re- 
solve to raise and emansipate three thousand negroes in S. Carolina and 
Georgia, pay feed and cloath them during the war. The proprietors to 
have from Congress looo dollars for each Negroe — also to raise more 
troops in N : Carolina and Virginia for the southern aid. a Regiment 
of Horse I presume Blands or Bailors will also be sent and if in servise 
will soon be melted down. The affair of the blacks is optional and sub- 
mitted to the Govt, of S : Carolina, it was moved by their own dele- 
gates. Young Coll Laurens is appointed the first Lt. Coll of the blacks 
which I consider as a noble proposal in that young Gentleman.' You 
have seen the generous lead taken by the Assembly of Pennsa. in allow- 
ing aid in cloathing etc. and half pay during life to the officers of their 
line. I wished this measure to have taken its rise in Congress, but that 
Body have lost the hon'r of it, yet must every state in my opinion now 
come into it. Two Excursions or Expeditions if you will I believe are in- 
tended. Northward and Westward, but the particular objects etc. are yet 
secrets to me, the General being gone out of Town before I arrived — The 
Seneca Indians etc. and perhaps Niagarra I fancy to the North, and 
Detroit to the West.^ this last I predicted against last year, nor are my 

* The affair appears to have been brought up in Congress Jan. 26, through a letter 
of Joseph Reed, governor of Pennsylvania, dated Jan. 25. See, further, the Journals, 
Feb. 15, 16, Mar. 17, 27, Apr. 1,3, 15, 16, 28; also nos. 58, 95, 143, 162, 180, ante, and 
nos. 198, 208, 234, post. 

5 That is, Thomas Paine, author of the pamphlet Co>nmon Sense, and more 
recently of some articles concerning the Deane affair. See tlie Journals, Jan. 6, 7, 8, 11, 
12, 16, and nos. 7-12, 18, 87, 148, ante. 

6 See the Journals, Apr. 15, 20, 21, 22, 26, 30, May 3, and passim (index, Foreign 
Affairs, Ministers). 

^ See nos. 142, 159, 163, 168, ante, 203, 375, post. 

s With regard to the expedition against the Senecas, see the Journals, Apr. I. 
Cf. nos. 260, 294, post. These expeditions were among the matters considered by Wash- 
ington and the committee of conference (see no. 25, note 2, ante), and preparations for 
them were at this time being made by Washington. An expedition specifically against the 
Senecas was assigned to Col, Daniel Brodhead (see Washington to Brodhead Mar, 22, 
Apr. 21, IVritings, ed. Ford, VII. 372, ed. Sparks, VI. 205, 224), and one against the Six 
Nations to General Sullivan (see Washington to Sullivan ]May 31, ibid., p. 264, ed. 
Ford, VII. 460), 



April, 1779 137 

eyes much clearer yet. I don't think the object adequate at present to the 

certain expence etc 

Nothing from you has yet appeared in Congress, if any thing here- 
after shou'd, convinced as I am you will ask nothing incongruous to 
reason and the publick good, I shall with pleasure contribute to your 
wishes, the present I consider as an unfavorable moment to ask any 
thing that can be omitted. We are deluged in business and other impedi- 
ments, which at present require a friendly and political Vail. All the 
members even of your state, do not put up their Horses in the same 
stable 

184. William Henry Drayton to Henry Laurens.^ 
(No. 4)^ 
Sir, 

Your letter of yesterday, was delivered to me, too late last night to be 
considered and answered before this morning. You do me the honor to 
request my explicit and candid opinion on the propriety of the measures 
which North Carolina has adopted, in consequence of your Vote in the 
affair of the Fishery: but, as the subject is new, of high importance, and 
you are well able to form a judgment, I beg leave to decline giving an 
opinion which there is no necessity I should hazard. 

As to a change of your late sentiments upon the fishery, I cannot pre- 
sume to expect it from any thing I can say. The subject was so fully 
handled in Congress, that there is nothing new to be said upon it : and it 
was with concern that I found the arguments in the negative did not, with 
you, outweigh those reasons which influenced you to support the affirma- 
tive. I return the letter to us jointly, as you desire. I shall to the Dele- 
gates of North Carolina present the copy of their letter to their Governor. 
And, I beg leave to add, that yesterday I answered, on my part, the offi- 
cial memorial, ardently requesting that the Delegates of North Carolina 
would not send their intended letter to their Governor ; and assuring them. 
that South Carolina when attacked as she now is, absolutely stands in 
need of the Sisterly aid of North Carolina, and that in a powerful degree. 
I am Sir. 

Your most obedient humble Servant, 

W'm. H'y Drayton 
Philadelphia, April 4, 1779. 
The Honorable Henry Laurens Esqr. 
[Endorsed :] 

Wm. H'y Drayton Esqr. 4th April 1779 Reed, and answered 
the same day. 

[ 184] 1 Haver ford College, Roberts Coll., 732; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers. 
Promiscuous Letters, vol. XXVHL, no. 16 (copy) ; Collection of the late Adrian H. Joline 
of New York (copy) ; Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers (copy). These copies are all in the 
writing of Moses Young. 

2 The number is not found on the original, but the copy in the Laurens Papers 
is so numbered. See nos. 177, 178, 181, ante, and nos. 185. 186, 187, 195, 196, posi. 



138 Continental Congress 

185. Henry Laurens to William Henry Drayton/ 
(No. 5)^- 

Chestnut Street, 4th April, 1779. 
Sir 

In the moment your Letter of this Morning was brought to my House, 
I was going abroad, the moment of my return I sit down to make a proper 
acknowledgment of the receipt. 

In my address of last night I requested you would honor me with 
explicitude and candour in your answer. You are pleased to give a prefer- 
ence to illusion and ambiguity. You have declined giving an opinion, 
or holding a conference, which evinces that you not only " vote " but act 
" systematically ".^ here you have drawn a line between us. hencefor- 
ward, I will neither receive from you, nor trouble you with a letter of 
controversy but I will never withhold my voice in confirmation of any 
motion of yours in Congress, nor any utmost support to your measures 
out of doors where we may be jointly concerned, which shall appear to 
be conducive to Public good. 

You have on " your ouni part ardently requested the Delegates of 
North Carolina not to send their Letter to their Governor ", from an 
assurance that " South Carolina absolutely stands m need of the Sisterly 
aid " of her Northern Neighbour. These Gentlemen have expressed senti- 
ments which seem to be diametrically opposite to your assurances, and 
they have made the conduct of the Delegates of South Carolina the Sine 
qua non of their own. 

Did the measures adopted by the Gentlemen of North Carolina point, 
in your view, Sir, to no higher an object than aid to a Sister State, which 
it is neither in their power to direct or restrain ? Were you less afifected 
by an attempt of violence upon the suffrages of free Citizens, as well as 
upon the honor of all these Independent States, than you were by ground- 
less apprehensions of temporary evils to your own ? Do you think. Sir, 
that your ardent requests can lull the Resolutions of those Gentlemen or 
warp their inclinations from the pursuit of a duty which they hold indis- 
pensibly necessary? Did you not feel a little for the breach of plighted 
faith and honor to keep secret deliberations upon a point, the disclosure 
of which may dash our infant Independence against the Stones? Or did 
you think me blind? Think, speak, and act. Sir, as you shall judge most 
convenient. I shall persevere in acting in all respects with propriety 
towards you, with diligence and fidelity in the Common Cause of Amer- 

[185J1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Promiscuous Letters, vol. XXVIIL, no. 16 bis; 
Collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York (copy) ; Univ. Va. Lib., Lee 
Papers (copy). These copies are all in the writing of Moses Young. 

2 See nos. 177, 178, 181, 184, ante, and nos. 18Ci, 187, 195, 196, post. 

^ The following note in the writing of Laurens is appended to this copy of the 
letter : 

" Mr. Drayton being asked by Mr. Adams how it happened that he always voted contrary 
to his Colleague, replied — 'We vote systematically '. As I always voted first and could not 
possibly determine on which side he would give his Voice, the System must have been 
Confined to himself." 



April, 1779 139 

ica. and with the most inviolable attachment to that State whose particular 
Ser^-ant I am. 

I have the honor to be. Sir, 

Comprehending all proper Ceremonies 

Your faithful Colleague 

Henry Laurens 
The Honble \\'illiam Henry Drayton Esqr. 

186. Henry Laurens to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 
(No. 6)^ 
<-•• Philadelphia 4th April 1779. 

The Honorable the Delegates of North Carolina now in Congress, 
have shewn me a Letter intended by them to be addressed to Your Ex- 
cellency.^ in which they display very freely and as I apprehend very 
vmjustifiably an Instance of my conduct in that Assembly. " I will hear 
the other party " has ever been a governing principle in my mind.* No 
Man more convinced of the truth of this assertion in my own favor, than 
the Honble. Mr. Burke. Your Excellency will believe it too when you 
recur to my Letter of the 27th April 1778. I am persuaded Sir, that I 
shall not find Your Excellency less impartial. 

Were I in the present moment to attempt a vindication of that part 
of my conduct which has given the Gentlemen offence, I should Copy the 
bad example set by the Honorable subscribers of the Letter alluded to; 
I should join in the disclosure of a momentous subject now under delibera- 
tion, which I have pledged my faith and honor to keep secret. 

But admitting, as the Gentlemen allege, that I am in error, admitting 
that my supposed mal-conduct arises from " Infatuation or something 
worse " does it follow that one State in our Union should be devoted to 
carnage, and the Interests of the other twelve essentially injured because 
South Carolina is so unhappy as to have one of her Delegates wrong 
headed or foul hearted ? Can we discover no medium ? To speak a little 
freely Sir, in my turn, these Gentlemen of North Carolina appear to be 
under the government of Passion, I will not say any thing worse. Are 
Men to be driven into measures by sophistry, misrepresentation and 
menaces? Could I have expected such attempts from Gentlemen whose 
daily and laudable boasts are, 

" I am accountable to my own State and will be governed by my own 
Judgement." 

" fiat Justitia ruat Coelum." 

" I have my own feelings and I am not answerable to any J\Ian or set 
of Men but to my self and my Constituents." etc. etc. etc. etc. etc. One 
moments reflection Sir, I am persuaded will determine your Excellency's 

[186]i Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. III., p. loi (original); S. C. 
Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Promiscnous Letters, vol. XXVHL, no. 17 (copy) ; Collec- 
tion of the late Adrian H. Joline of New York (copy) ; Univ. of Va. Lib., Lee Papers 
(copy) ; A''. C. State Rccs., XIV. 57. All the copies are in the writing of Moses Young. 

2 See nos. 177, 178, 181, 184, 185, ante, 187, 195, 196, post. 

3 No. 178, ante. 

* See no. 30, note 5, ante. 



140 Continental Congress 

" good sense " to make " such an use of the Gentlemen's Letter as the 
importance of it deserves." 

Were I to presume to give an additional hint, it would be to keep in 
Your Excellency's own breast a secret which the Gentlemen have ob- 
trusively and unnecessarily thrust into it. 

It is possible I may have erred in judgement, the Gentlemen in their 
attempt to correct the supposed error, have committed Acts, which ap- 
pear to me in the glare of heino[u]s Crimes. They have attacked the free- 
dom of debate and suffrage. They have menaced a free Citizen in order 
to bias his vote. They have advised the abandonment of an Innocent 
people to the rage of a powerful and merciless Enemy. They have recom- 
mended measures which if adopted will endanger the safety of the United 
States. And have they not sacrificed their sacred faith and honor to 
pique and resentment ? 

But Sir, I will disclose to Your Excellency a secret which I never 
promised to keep. It is a settled Plan and has been for some time past 
" to hunt me down ". were there any just cause, unjustifiable means for 
accomplishing the pious purpose would not be resorted to. 

The " vantage ground of truth " says lord Bacon, " is an incomparable 
pleasure, 'tis an Hill not to be commanded and where the Air is always 
clear and serene " and believe me Sir, I do consistently with truth add. 
that I have seen from thence, particularly in late Instances. " the Errors, 
and Wanderings and Mists and Tempests in the Vale below." 

All this if my Address arrives alone will be a riddle; If the honorable 
Gentlemen shall think proper to send forward their Letter to Your Ex- 
cellency, that will produce explication. 

I have the honor to be With the highest Regard and Esteem Sir 
Your Excellency's Most obedient and Most humble Servant 

Henry Laurens. 

187. Henry Laurens to the North Carolina Delegates.^ 

(No. yr 
Gentlemen, Chestnut Street, Apr 4, 1779- 

On the 2nd Instant a Packet was brought from the President's House 
to mine, by one of His Excellency's Servants, containing your Official 
Memorial without date, directed to the Delegates of South Carolina, and 
a Letter, also undated directed to Governor Caswell. 

After our adjournment Yesterday, and not earlier, I found leisure to 
take those Papers under Consideration. I have attentively perused, and 
have Copies of them, and I have the honor of assuring you Gentlemen, 
their several contents have their " due weight " with me. 

I sent those excellent Performances last Evening to my honorable Col- 
league, not merely for his information, because / knew he had a fore- 
knowledge of them, but in hopes of obtaining from him what I had a 
right to expect, an explicit and candid opinion on the propriety of the 

[187]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Promiscuous Letters, vol. XXVIIL, no. 17 bis 
(copy) ; Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers (copy) ; Collection of the late Adrian H. Joline of 
New York (copy). The copies are in the writing of Moses Young. 

2 See nos. 177, 178, 181, 184, 185, 186, ante, and nos. 195, 196, post. 



April, 1779 141 

Measure in which }-ou have committed yourselves, but my honble. Col- 
league judged it most convenient to decHne hazarding an opinion, or 
holding a Conference on the subject, with me. 

He has returned me the Official ]\Iemorial. and promised to deliver 
the Governor's Letter to yourselves. 

I have no inducements to offer which can possibly " supercede the 
necessity " for sending forward the Letter. Your ozvn " good sense " 
will probably supply the deficiency. 

In return Gentlemen for your candor in shewing me your calculations, 
I shall present to you under this cover a rough Copy of a Letter which 
I shall transmit to Governor Caswell tomorrow, in order to anticipate the 
poison by the antidote, unless your intermediate conduct shall render the 
measure unnecessary. I have the honor to be Gentlemen 

Your verv Obedient Servt. 

HL. 
The Honble. John Penn, Whitmell Hill, Tho. Burke, Esqrs. 
Delegates in Congress from N. Carolina 

188. The President of Congress (John Jay) to Horatio Gates.^ 
^^y Philadelphia 4th April 1779. 

Your Favor of the 15th Ulto. will be considered to morrow, and I 
shall immediately transmit to you whatever Resolutions Congress may 
enter into on the Subject.^ Every Act of Congress respecting the East- 
ern Department has been duly sent, and you may rely on my Punctual 
attention to this as well as other Parts of my duty.'^ 

I am not authorized to say any thing of the Intention of Congress rela- 
tive to the proposed Fortifications at Boston.* .... 

189. James Lovell to Horatio Gates. ^ 

Dear General ^P^' 5th [ 1779.]^ 

.... Yr. Favors are come to Hand by Doctr. Brown. I doubt whether 
any great Matter will come from their Contents being read in Congress. 

[188]iN. Y. Hist. Soc., Gates Papers, XIV. 326. Library of Congress, President's. 
Letter-Book, p. 78. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 5 ; cf. no. 189, post. Jay transmitted to Washington, 
Apr. 6, an extract of Gates's letter, with no comment other than that it was " in a certain 
degree interesting". This drew from Washington a long letter (Apr. 14), in which he 
discussed frankly the questions which Gates's letter had raised, namely, the Canadian 
expedition and Gates's conduct respecting Washington; and these letters led to further 
correspondence between the two. See Correspondence of Jay, I. 196-21 1, Writings of 
Washington (ed. Ford), VII. 393, 404 n., 415, (ed. Sparks), VI. 214, 227, and no. 225, post. 

3 This is " the retort courteous " to Gates's opening remarks in his letter of 
Mar. 15 : " Persuaded that your Excellency punctually attends to every Thing which may 
respect the Eastern Department, as you declared in the first Letter I have been honoured 
with from you, since you are in the Chair, I hope all my Letters, since my Arrival in 
Boston, will be answered as far as it may be necessary for my Conduct." 

•* See the Journals, Jan. 30, and nos. 112, 113, ante. Gates had remarked in his 
letter, " I do not yet know what Congress intend to do towards fortifying this City and 
Harbour ". 

[189]! N. Y. Hist. Soc Gates Pajjers, XIV. 329. 

2 This date-line is in the manuscript, but it is not in Lovell's writing. Moreover, 
the endorsement reads, " Letter from Mr. Lovell dated Philadelphia 16th April 1779 ". 
Apr. 5 would seem to be correct, as the communications from Gates were read in Congress 
on that day. 

14 



142 Continental Congress 

They are referred to the Board of War. They will serve, as the Lord's 
Protests, to show yr. Sentiments. We have done our best Endeavors 
except in the matter of Fortifications at Boston.^ .... 

Your Sentiments about Nova Scotia touch my Heart and will make 
me industrious to forward them. This very Matter, if known would pre- 
vent some others from giving them any Expedition.* 

I will not write to you in Figures.' There are Men here in too great 
Plenty who think a stark naked Acknowledgem't of the /j United States 
under territorial Limits which Britain will not dispute is all that we are 
warranted to demand and all that our Allies will support us in the Claim 
of. Two European Powers have fancied that they could claim the Fishery 
of the Banks and Gulphs of America not only against their european 
Nations but agst. all weaker People ever bordering on their Sease. A 
private Party pretend to know possitively that Gr Br. will not be thought 
to set up a strange Claim if she persists to demand all that she has not 
given to France. I mean all eastward of the Bounds of Massachusetts. 
He therefore that says we ought to demand and fight for the same Rights 
of Fishery as we have always had, is the willfull Murderer of thousands, 
because Allies will not support us beyond the professed End of the 
Treaty. 

To be sure every Thing looks on our Part like Unpreparedness for 
even Defence. But if we may not demand what the Deity intended for 
us we will not formally or impliedly relinquish it. We must at least de- 
clare that we mean not by any Words or Treaties [to] be supposed to 
foreclose future Claims of our Right to catch Fish in all open Seas if we 
cannot cure them but on our own Lands.^ .... 

190. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Monday April ^th J 779. Commercial Committee Congress. A Num- 
ber of Letters Read. Clothier Generals Pay. the Report was 1000 D's 
12 Rations and forrege for 3 Horses long debate carr'd for 50000. 
State Clothier to be appointed and Paid by the State Commissary Turn- 
bulls affair came on but not finish'd. 

Tuesday April 6th. Commercial Committee Congress. Mr. Rutgars 
and Mr. Horton appointed Deputy Muster Masters. Mr. McPherson 
nominated. Order of the Day. Long Debate about Mr. Dean and the 
Commissioners abroad, on the Report of the Committee on foreign Af- 
fairs. P M Marine Committee. 

191. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 
Sir 

We had the honor of receiving in course of Post your several letters 
of the 26th ulto. with their respective inclosures and immediately made 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 5, and no. 188, ante. 
* See no. 194, note 2, post. 

5 That is, in cipher. See no. 113, ante. 

6 See nos. 113, 114 (note 5), 151-153, 155, ante, and nos. 202, 212, post. 
[igoji Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

ligi]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 13; Arch, of Md., XXI. 337. 



April, 1 779 143 

the necessary application to enable us to give you the information you 
desire. The inclosed letter from Mr. Governur Morris Chairman of a 
Committee of Congress for superintending the Quarter Master and Com- 
missary Generals departments will point out the present demand for the 
army.^ We are sorry that in fixing the quota of troops for the service of 
the present year the distressed and exposed situation of some other States 
prevented us from availing ourselves of the circumstances pointed out 
in your letter. Our Endeavors shall not be wanting to obtain the same 
discount for recruits raised in the State as hath been allowed to others.^ 
We find by a resolution of Congress inclosed to us by your Excel- 
lency, that the amount of the damages sustained by the inhabitants of 
the State from the irregularities of the 4th Georgia Battalion * com- 
manded by Colonel White, is payable to your order, we therefore return 
the resolution and estimate and intreat you to favor us with an order, 
which we will transmit to the Auditors of the army, for payment with 

instructions to forward the Money as you shall direct 

We are with much respect Your Excellencys 

Most Humble and Most Obedt. Sevts 
Geo. Plater 
Wm, Paca 
Wm. Carmichael 
John Henry. 
Philadelphia April 6th 1779 

192. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 6th Apl. 1779 
My Dear Sir 

.... I have no news to give you, there are flying reports, but as such 
are not to be relied on they are not worth relating ; we have had no in- 
telligence from the Southward this 6 weeks nor from Europe since the 
beginning of Deer. 

Mr: Frost talks of leaving me next week; I have not had the least inti- 
mation who is to take his place, firmness and Intrepedity were never 
more necessary than at the present day, I therefore hope no one will be 
sent here who are not fully possessed of these Qualities. I shall endeavour 
to write to you fully per Mr. Frost on subjects that it may not be proper 
to trust by the post. 

2 An earlier letter from the delegates (Mar. 30), acknowledging the council's 
communications, is in Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 12. The council's letter to the 
delegates, Mar. 26, is in Arch, of Md., XXL 328; cf. the letter to Washington, same date, 
ibid., p. 329. The letter from Morris to the delegates. Apr. 2, is ibid., p. 338. Wash- 
ington's reply to Governor Johnson is ibid., p. 339. See also the council to Congress and 
to the delegates, Apr. 21, ibid., pp. 357, 358, to Gouverneur Morris and to the delegates, 
Apr. 30, ibid., p. 374. A letter from John Henry, jr., on the subject, Apr. 20, is in Md. 
Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 13, and letters from Morris, Apr. 21, Alay 4, are, ibid., Red Book, 
XXIV. 68, 71- 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 9, 15; cf. ibid., Dec. 7, 14, 16, 18. 

■* See the Journals, Oct. 8, 10, 1777; also vol. H. of these Letters, no. 679. 
[192]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Etting Coll., Signers, p. 95. 



144 Continental Congress 

193. The President of Congress (John Jay) to the 
Several States/ 

Phh-adelphia 7th April 1779. 
Sir, 

Herewith enclosed are Copies of two Acts of Congress, one of the 23rd 
Ulto. for regulating the Cloathing Department, the other of the 5th Inst, 
providing for the Pay of the Officers employed in it. 

You will perceive that the first refers the Appointment of the Sub, or 
State Cloathiers to the different States, the second leaves their Salaries 
to be ascertained and paid by the States appointing them. 

Such has long been the deranged State of this Department, and such 
is the Importance of immediately carrying the present System into Exe- 
cution, that Congress hope it will meet with the earliest Attention. 

194. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

Wednesday April yth 1779. Commercial Committee. Congress. Sun- 
dry Letters Read. Motion for 15000 D's to be Paid to Captains McNutt, 
Nevers and Rogers, they are to endeavor to open a Road in to Novia 
Scotia.^ Order of the day, for examening in to the conduct of the Com- 
missioners abroad, and foreign Affairs, great and warm debates, agreed 
to Read all the Letters. 

Thursday April 8th 177g. Commercial Committee. Congress. Report 
from the Board of Warr to allow Barron Stiuben 4000 Doll's Long 
Debate Report of the Committee concerning the dispute abt. Prisoners 
between Major Pinkney and Lt. Coll. Prevost agreed that Genl. Lincoln 
should appoint a Commisary of Prisoners to the Southern Army. Marine 
Committee directed to Sell the Hulks of the Washington and Effiingham 
Frigates. P. M. Marine Committee NB Dined with Mr. Jay. 

[193]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 82; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, 
VIIL 60; Mass. Arch., CC. 389; N. J. State Library; A^. C. State Recs., XIV. 63; 
Clinton Papers, IV. 701. 

[ 194] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Alexander McNutt had for some time been engaged in eflforts to bring about 
a union of Nova Scotia with the United States. Sept. 29, 1778, he had presented to 
Congress a memorial (dated Sept. 17) in behalf of twenty-one townships of Nova Scotia. 
This was referred to a committee (Lovell, Marchant, and Bartlett), who reported Oct. 28 
against further proceedings in the matter at that time. Dec. 16 McNutt, together with 
Phineas Nevers and Samuel Rogers, presented another memorial (dated Dec. 14), in 
which, among other things, they bring up the question of opening a road between 
Penobscot River and St. Johns. If the committee (Lovell, Whipple, Witherspoon) to 
whom this memorial was referred made a report, it is that found under Apr. 7. There is, 
however, among the Washington Papers a letter which McNutt wrote to that committee 
Dec. 23, wherein he speaks of the steps taken in Nova Scotia to form a government and 
refers again to the matter of the road. On Jan. 12 a further memorial from McNutt was 
laid on the table. This may have been the memorial of Jan. 5 from Alexancjer McNutt and 
others, taken into consideration Apr. 8. Meanwhile, on Jan. 4, McNutt had written to 
Washington, transmitting copies of his memorials and of his letter to the committee, and 
offering to furnish a true state of his colony. Once more, on Mar. 15, McNutt, Nevers, 
and Rogers perferred a memorial to Congress (read Mar. 17), and it appears to have been 
this memorial that was immediately under consideration Apr. 7, but the action taken was 
no doubt in view of the memorials as a whole. Indeed, the report printed in the Journals 
of that day probably emanated from the committee of Dec. 16, of which Lovell was chair- 
man. See, further, nos. 319, 325, post. 



April, ///p 145 

195. The North Carolina Delegates to Henry Laurens/ 

(No. 8)=^ 

[April 8, 1779.] 
Sir, 

We had no Intention or Expectation of entering into a Correspon- 
dence with the Delegates of South Carolina, individually, when we offi- 
cially laid before them our thoughts and purposes relative to a certain 
measure depending before Congress ; which seemed greatly to depend on 
your vote, and from the manner in which you gave it, on an Interlocutory 
motion, threatened, in our opinion, distressing Evils to those parts of the 
Continent which are not secured by internal ^ Strength and inaccessible 
situation; and which, for that reason, threatened the State we represent 
with very Interesting and dangerous Dilemmas. 

We are sorry to find that your honorable Colleague and you do not 
harmonize in this business, and that, instead of your Joint answer, we 
are to receive only separate letters which convey very different senti- 
ments. What foreknowledge your honorable Colleague may have had 
of our measure we know not, but we assure you it was the result of ma- 
ture thinking, and of our own judgments only. 

We return you our thanks, Sir, for enclosing to us the Copy of your 
intended letter to Governor Caswell, the rather as it affords us an Oppor- 
tunity of attempting to remove some mistaken Opinions which you have 
therein advanced. 

We meant not, sir, to condemn or even censur-e your Conduct. We saw 
you vote for making a very extensive claim of a right of Fishing, an 
ultimatum on a treaty of peace, even tho' our Allies should be in no con- 
dition to give us assistance ; and we could not reconcile this vote, given 
by a Delegate from a State which has hitherto been considered as a very 
rich and alluring object to the Enemy, but unable to make any effectual 
efforts for her own defense, and which appears but too probably to have 
of late engaged the Enemy's most hostile Intentions. We say. Sir, we 
could not reconcile this Vote on any other presumption, than what we 
have suggested in our Memorial. 

Our View, in that Memorial, was not as you suggest to Governor Cas- 
well, " to attack the freedom of debate and suffrage, to menace a free 
citizen in order to bias his Vote ", but to inform the Delegates of South 
Carolina, that the presumption of exertions to be made by the State we 
represent is mistaken; and, if it had any Influence in causing you to vote 
for an object, as an ultimatum, which we all think highly important, 
but not absolutely Necessary, to remove all ground for such Influence. 
Relying on your Candor, we doubted not, that if your vote was founded, 
in any degree, on such presumption, you would retract it on the infor- 
mation we gave; and we preferred giving you this Information officially, 

[195]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Promiscuous Letters, vol. XXVIIL, no. 18 
(copy, in the writing of Laurens) ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee ^1SS., VL 44 (copy, in 
the writing of Moses Young). 

2 See nos. 177, 178, 181, 184, 185, 186, 187, ante, and no. 196. post. 

3 This copy has " international ", but the copy in the Lee MSS. has " internal ", 
which is doubtless correct. 



146 Continental Congress 

and in writing, that it might form a proper and honorable Ground for 
your change of Opinion, as well as a Justification for ourselves. We can- 
not understand this to be a menace ; and we beg leave to assure you, we 
are incapable of such motives as you assign : and clear in our Opinion, 
that threats would be very ineffectually applied to you. Should we see 
you persist in the Vote, after the information we gave, we should con- 
clude you to be determined by the Idea you have, of adequate force in 
South Carolina; and, in that event, intended to send forward the letters 
to the Governor of our State ; believeing it our duty to spare the Exer- 
tions of our People as much as possible. 

We hope we have not misrepresented. We certainly have no such In- 
tentions. Nor, do we conceive, that our Conduct, on the present Occasion, 
is contrary to our declared maxims, which we sometimes use in debate. 

The Measures we recommend, cannot have the efifect of " an abandon- 
ment of an Innocent People ", or " endangering the safety of the United 
States ", if the strength and resources of South Carolina be such, as to 
warrant her Delegates to vote for a continuance of the War, without 
Allies, for an Object not absolutely necessary to the whole, and, but 
remotely, if at all, interesting to her. And such strength and resources 
make the Efforts of other states, which are made with great difficulty, 
unnecessary in her present situation. We may attribute too much to your 
Opinion ; but we think ourselves Justifiable, from your eminent character 
for experience. Industry and Intimate knowledge of your Country, in 
relying on it, so far as to induce the Measures we propose. 

The public secret, which you allude to, is kept on our part. In the 
Event, that the Fishery claim shall be made an ultimatum, even without 
Allies, we shall feel ourselves under a Tie to our Country, Superior to 
any which Congress can lay us under; and, foreseeing from it nothing 
but desolation, or absolute Submission, we shall follow the example of 
some other Gentlemen, who declare they will hold themselves bound to lay 
the matter before the state they represent. 

The secret of a " Plan to hunt you down " is utterly unknown to us ; 
and we hope you are mistaken. We cannot deem any individual amongst 
our Body so dangerous, as to be the object of a Justifiable combination, 
nor do we know any one, of importance sufficient, so much to engage our 
efforts and attention ; and, we wish you to do us the Justice to believe, we 
are incapable of so unworthy a Measure. 

The Paragraph in your letter, beginning with the quotation from Lord 
Bacon, is too figurative, and misterious for our Comprehension. 

We are sorry you deem us under the Influence of Passion, or that we 
feel any pique or resentment against you. permit us to assure you, that, 
in both, you are mistaken. We are sensible of no personal Injury from 
you, and have therefore nothing to resent, we cannot persuade our- 
selves that you are conscious of having ever designed an ill office to us, 
and suppose the word resentment was a slip of your pen. We have not 
observed in you anything unfriendly or disrespectful to us; and know of 
no pique or cause for one to exist. 

The manner in which we address you. notwithstanding the asperity of 
some expressions in your letter to Governor Caswell, applied to us, may 



April, 1779 147 

sufficiently, convince you of our good temper. We attribute those asperi- 
ties to the mistaken sense in which you understand our memorial ; and 
therefore, excuse them. 

In truth, sir, the importance of the object, and its peculiar Consequence 
to our own particular state, were the only considerations that moved us 
to address our Memorial to the Delegates of South Carolina; and, we 
expected to inform, but not menace thereby.* 

The letter to the Governor contains sentiments which we now enter- 
tain Hypothetically, and which will be established, or removed by the 
event of the Question before Congress, and the votes thereon. 

We are much concerned that you have so widely mistaken us, but we 
shall be much more so, if your vote shall fix as an Ultimatum those Ex- 
tensive Claims to Fishing Contended for by the Eastern States. 

We leave the subject entirely to your own good Sense, and cool, dis- 
passionate reflection.^ 

Having the honor to be with due respect. 

Your obedt. Servants 
John Penn 
Whitmell Hill 
Thos. Burke 

196. Henry Laurens to the North Carolina Delegates.^ 

(No. 9).^ 

Chestnut Street Philadelphia 8th April 1779. 
Gentlemen, 

The explanations contained in your Letter of this Morning afiford me 
the satisfaction of feeling myself once more a free Agent. I have, in the 
course of a two Years acquaintance given you repeated proofs of my 
abhorrence of that temper which leads some Men to take unfair advan- 
tages of the rashness or inadvertency of others. I have the honor of 
adding another in the present instance, and of assuring you Gentlemen, 
your confidence in my candor shall not be abused. 

Be persuaded Gentlemen, my late Vote, you know what I refer to, 
and to be more minute would be dangerous, because our correspondence 
may perchance fall into improper hands, was the effect of as deep medi- 
tation as my mind could produce, after listening to, and impartially ar- 
ranging every good argument, pro and con; casting aside such as were 
"misty" or "tempestuous". The reasonings in Congress and Con- 
science, were my Oracles. I neither consulted, nor received advice out 
of doors, directly or indirectly, from any Man. had you been pleased to 

* The remainder, which is missing from the copy in the Laurens Papers, is 
taken from that in the Lee Papers. 

'•> On the copy in the Lee MSS. is the following marginal note, in the writing of 
Laurens : " Not examined for want of time but I believe there is no error I mean the 
copyist says he is not conscious of error." 

[196]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Promiscuous Letters, vol. XXVIIL, no 19; 
Library of Congress, Laurens Papers, Miscellaneous ; Collection of the late Adrian H. 
Johne of New York (copy). All in the writing of Moses Young. 

- See no. 195, note 2, ante; also nos. 197, 207, post. 



148 Continental Congress 

address me in Person, you would have found me, as 3^ou will now find me, 
determined to pay a respectful attention to the voice of decent expostu- 
lation, in full possession of a maxim which has governed my conduct 
thro' life, " never to determine on important points until the proper mo- 
ment "; that moment in one stage of the business before us, is past, but 
the judgment being interlocutory, another, for final decision will arrive, 
the mean space shall be employed in reconsidering the subject upon the 
principles of justice, policy, expediency, and even necessity, should I, 
Gentlemen, eventually diflier in opinion with you, let my welfare here and 
hereafter be forfeited, if my vote be the effect of criminal pertinacity. 

Methinks I could in this place administer salutary advice in return for 
your favors, but it is not my duty nor my wish to catechise, or to put my 
friends to pain by an application of causticks. My honorable Colleague 
without my knowledge commenced the seperate correspondence which 
you regret. I am equally blameless for that circumstance, and for the 
late general and visible want of harmony with that Gentleman. My own 
heart is in proper tone. So sensible am I of the critical situation I stand 
in, that I would give half the fragment of my Estate for the purchase of 
positive instructions from my Country upon the momentous question 
which has occasioned you and me the trouble of so much writing. I am 
almost provoked to add, that I would give it for the pleasure of a con- 
fining fit of the Gout ; but, while I am in health, I dare not meanly turn 
my back upon duty, from a fear of consequences. I have no overweening 
Ideas of my own abilities, such as they are, my countrymen after long 
experience, sent, and have been pleased to detain, here. They know what 
they have to rely on respecting myself — whether my vote hereafter shall 
receive their plaudit or otherwise, I am sure they will never question my 
integrity. 

If there be traits of asperity in my former Letter, which I did not 
intend, you will be pleased Gentlemen, to consider them as the product of 
an unexampled outrage on your part, and for which I admit your present 
Address to be a mark of apology. Here I intreat our correspondence on 
this subject may expire, and that you will believe me to be, very respect- 
fully, Gentlemen 

Your faithful fellow Labourer, 

and Obedient Humble Servant 

(signed) Henry Laurens 

To the Delegates in Congress from North Carolina,^ 

8th April 1779. 

No. 9. which put an end to the Farce and produced much politeness 
and many assurances of good will and esteem, from the Delegates of 
North Carolina to Mr. Laurens, whether they sent their Letters to 
Gov. Caswell or not I can't tell. I did not give myself the trouble to 

3 The copy in the Library of Congress has at the foot, " The Honble John Penn, 
Whitmill Hill, Thos. Burke Esquires Delegates in Congress from North Carolina ". The 
names are in Moses Young's writing, but the descriptive phrase was added by Laurens 
himself. 



April, lyjg 149 

enquire, but I had kept my word and sent mine, because their apology did 
not come in time to prevent it.* 

197. Henry Laurens to John Laurens/ 

Philadelphia 8th April 1779. 
My Dear Son, 

.... You will see by the inclosed Copies of correspondence," all that 
I know at this moment of the delicate subject which you left me engaged 
in. The Censors from the Land of Turpentine took four days to devise 
an answer to my first Letter, found themselves hobbled and their reply 
proves they were a little humbled too. they felt the pressure of the Cord 
in which they had entangled themselves; at first they kicked violently, 
for I saw one of them writing the morning after my Letter was deliv- 
ered, two hours and an half with that Letter before him, which had been 
previously scan'd by my Colleague and the Circle, who were all much 
agitated, three days Calm succeeded and then came forth a Letter of 
this date, expressing a " reliance on my Candor " and leaving room for 
the exercise of my generosity, to demand more than reasonable satisfac- 
tion is to shift the ground and to commit an Offence, under the influ- 
ence of this sentiment I scribbled over my answer of the present date; if 
the Gentlemen enjoy feelings similar to my own, the affair will not come 
before Congress. I had every advantage over them that could have been 
wished for by a vindictive mind, and have disdain'd to insult Men who 
have surrendered. 

.... the business which employs me daily seven or eight hours or 
more at the State House and here is of a secret nature therefore I have 
no News to offer but such as may appear in the printed Papers which I 
send to Colonel Gervais and to which I refer you 

I pray God to bless and protect you 

Henry Laurens. 

P. S. nth. since writing as above No. Carolina has been silent, and 
what is more extraordinary my Colleague has called upon me to confer 
on business of our Constituents, he met a cordial reception and a frank 
communication of sentiments on my part.^ 

198. Gouverneur Morris to Joseph Reed.^ 

Phila: 9th April 1779. 
Sir 

I this Morning, for the first Time, have seen the Points stated, by your 
Excellency, on Behalf of the joint Committees of Council and Assem- 
bly.^ I had previously heard a Part of the Substance, together with some 

* This note, in Laurens's own hand, is found only on the copy in the Laurens 
Papers. 

[197]! L. L Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers. 

2 See nos. 177, 178, 181, 184, 185, 187, 195, 196, ante. 

3 See no. 207, post. 

[198]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, MSS. of Joseph Reed, V. 
2 See nos. 57, 58, 60, 91, ante. 



150 Continental Congress 

other Things which I shall take Notice of in the Course of this Letter. 
As you must know that Congress has no Control over the Conduct of 
it's Members, other than what may be necessary for the Order and De- 
cency of Debate, and the better conducting of public Business; you 
would not be ignorant that any Offence which I had been so unfortunate 
as to give your State, was by no Means chargeable on the Body I have 
the Honor to belong to. You will pardon me then, Sir, if I consider 
every Thing which is personal of me, as having a Tendency to injure 
me without a Possibility of Doing Good to any Man or Body of Men 
whatsoever. I shall not enquire into the Motives. I hope they are 
honorable, because I most sincerely wish, that every Person in Office 
under the Whigs of America may, at a late Day, have the Consolation 
of an approving Heart. Let me assure you that it is not in my Litention 
to cast the slightest Reproach upon you. I know well how much the Con- 
duct of Men is influenced by Circumstances, how open public Men are 
to Misinformation and the Design of others, and how very difficult it is 
not to be swayed by Heats on some Occasions. At present I do not write 
for the Press. It is in your Power to prevent me from harboring the 
slightest Intentions to do you an Injury. It is also in your Power to 
compel me to take Measures for my Defence. I shall write to you with 
Freedom, and I shall expect that you will vindicate me from such Asper- 
sions as you know to be groundless. I ask no more. 

Your first Complaint is grounded on my Letter of the 24th of January 
1778. Of that Letter I never kept a Copy, but from Memory I state the 
Matter as follows.^ The hon'le Mr. Harvie and myself were, at Lan- 
caster, applied to by some british Officers, who complained that they 
came out under the Protection of the united States pledged by their 
Generals, that they had paid on the Road for every Thing they pur- 
chased in Specie agreable to the Order of Congress ; that they had paid 
their Bill at Lancaster in the same Manner; but that, by Reason of a 
Law of the State of Pensilvania, the executive Council had compelled 
the Innkeeper to make out a new Bill and charge them of a new for the 
same Articles at an exhorbitant Rate, because he charged others so who 
were to pay him in Paper; which they considered as a Violation of the 
public Faith. I saw at once the Advantage which our Enemies would 
take of such Circumstances, and how much our national Character for 
Probity might be injured by their artful Representations. At the same 
Time, convinced that the Legislature could not possibly have had this 
Case in Contemplation which indeed was alone to be determined by the 
Law of Nations, convinced also (and I appeal to your own Good Sense 
for the Truth of the Position) that Persons in their situation were not 
subject to the municipal Laws of the seperate States so long as they de- 
meaned themselves consistently with the Terms they had either tacitly or 
expressly agreed to, I wrote the Letter in Question. That Letter I be- 
lieve supports such Sentiments, tho as it was written in the public Room 
of a Tavern in Haste while on a Journey from York Town to Camp 
it may want both Accuracy and Precission. Till this Moment I did not 

3 See vol. III., p. 49. 



April, 1779 151 

know that the Council had complained of it to Congress, nor shall I now 
make any Remarks on that Complaint. You mentioned the Letter to me 
at Camp. You censured it as imprudent, urging- that the same Senti- 
ments might with great Propriety have been delivered to the President 
personally ; to which I answered, with Truth, that I had not the Honor 
of his Acquaintance. We had a longer Conversation about it than I 
thought the Letter deserved. The tedious Altercation was at length 
closed by an obliging Observation which you uttered with a Smile, " That 
you was confident I would not have written it had I taken Time for 
Consideration and would not do it if it was to do again ["]. I make no 
Comments on this Transaction. I think the Council have paid more 
Attention to the Letter than it was worth. The Rest I leave to you ; with 
an Assurance, however, that if the Use made of it contributed in any 
Manner to extricate your Council from a Dispute with Congress, which 
however ridiculous may have been the Causes, might in the Consequences 
have been very pernicious; if this I say was the Case, you are heartily 
welcom^. For I am well content to be the Peace Offering on this Occa- 
sion, saving always my Reputation which I will not part with 

The third Ground of Complaint against me is the Letter of Robert 
Lettis Hooper, on which you say " Which Letter was puhlickly shewn by 
the said Mr. Morris to the Commander in Chief and others but being 
demanded by the Delegate of Pensilvania as a high Insult to the State 
was refused upon the Allegation of it's being a private Letter." The Op- 
position between publick and private you will I dare say take Notice of. 
A private Letter may be publickly shewn without the Fault of the Writer. 
Nor ought he to be prejudiced by the Imprudence of him to whom the 
Letter is directed. Let me remind you Sir that upon the Receipt of this 
Letter I shewed it as containing a Piece of News on the one Part, and a 
very extraordinary Determination on the other. That you pressed for it 
in Order to lay it before the Council. That I then told you I did not 
imagine Mr. Hooper meant by Writing that Letter to publish such De- 
termination. That I did not think it written to me as a Delegate but 
meerly in my private Capacity, That there was Something dishonorable 
in using such a Communication to the Prejudice of a Man who might 
have entrusted it confidentially. And that if he really intended to publish 
such a Determination other Evidence would not be wanting against him. 
Sir I refused to deliver that Letter, because I think it wrong to turn to a 
Man's Disadvantage private Communications. I entreated you to con- 
sider it as such and by no Means to publish the contents of that Letter, 
and I believe you know that it was not shewn by me after your Demand 
of it. I do not take Notice of the Matter as before the Board of War 
who I am told can fully exculpate themselves, but I must call to your 
Remembrance that I chearfully cooperated with you and Doctor Wither- 
spoon in collecting Evidence against this very Mr. Hooper.* 

* Concerning the Hooper matter, see the Journals, Feb. 16, 17, 21, 25, July 10, 
1778; Pa. Arch., first ser., VI. 242, 266, 284; and these Letters, vol. III., no. 97. The 
specific investigation to which Morris here refers was doubtless that of the committee 
(Morris, Reed, and Witherspoon) appointed Aug. 17, 1778, on General Mifflin's resigna- 
tion as quartermaster-general. For the action of this committee, with regard to Hooper, 
see the Journals, Dec. 22, 1778, and Jan. 23, Apr. 15, 1779. 



152 Continental Congress 

I have heard, but I do not recollect my Informant for I cannot believe 
the Fact, that you asserted to the Assembly, that in a Conversation with 
me, I had not only declared my Intention to procrastinate a Determination 
on General Arnold's Case but even pointed out the Mode I would pursue. 
It is possible that you may have mistaken or forgotten some Part of that 

Conversation You then complained of the Part I had taken in 

your Dispute with Genl. Arnold. I told you, and I told you truly, that I 
had been so unwell for several Days that I could not attend Congress, and 
consequently had taken no Part in the Business ; and further that I had 
not seen any one Paper relating to it, which was also a sacred Truth. 
You told me that the Council had Evidence agt. Genl. Arnold which 
Gentlemen of Congress little dreamt of, and that those who supported 
him would be injured by it. I replied that whenever Evidence offered 
against him or any other Man, no Member of Congress would exert him- 
self more to see that public Justice was done. I appealed to your own 
Knowledge of me in the Affairs of Hooper etc. and to the Part I had 
acted on Mr. Laurens's Representation against Mr. Robert Morris.^ You 
pointed at some Resolution (tho I really forget what) which you thought 
Congress ought to pass. I did not like it and candidly told you so and my 
Reasons. You proposed to me the Question how I would act if the Motion 
was made and the Yeas and Nays called. I told you that I did not be- 
lieve Congress would give either Yea or Nay upon any such general 
Proposition. And that for my own Part I should in such Case propose an 
Amendment. But this had nothing to do with Procrastination, and it 
would be very singularly hard if a Man should be chargeable with pro- 
crastinating public Business, when he proposes to amend what in his Con- 
science he cannot approve. You observ'd to me that I was wrong in sup- 
porting the army for that those Gentlemen were quite assuming enough 
without any Encouragement. I told you that I could not charge myself 
with giving them improper Encouragement; and that I was confident 
they would never be dangerous to the Liberties of America unless from 
a groundless Distrust of them. You mentioned to me my Vote in the 
affair of Genl. Thompson and Mr. McKean as a Slight upon Pensilvania.® 
I told you, that on that Occasion Mr. McKean the Delegate of Delaware 
was concerned, and not Mr. McKean the Chief Justice of Pensilvania. 
That Congress had no Right to protect the Privileges of your Chief Jus- 
tice, however they might have a Right to protect those of their Own Mem- 
bers. And that my Vote, in the Consequences of it, might be more in- 
jurious to myself than it possibly could be to the State of Pensilvania. 
I desired you to tell me the Reason of a Coldness and Distance in your 
Behaviour which I had observed. You assured me that you was not 
yourself sensible of it. That there was no Cause except what you had 
mentioned. That you was fully satisfied, and that if any thing should 
turn up which gave you Dissatisfaction, you would candidly mention 
it before you suffered it to make any Impression on your Mind. Some 
general Conversation on public Affairs ensued, and among other Things, 

5 See nos. 20, 24, ante. 

« See vol. III., nos. 662, 680, 695. 



April, I J J 9 153 

as we both agreed in our Idea that the Publications about that Time had 
a pernicious Tendency (particularly as they might create and certainly 
had the Appearance of Disunion) I told you that at the first Leisure 
Moment I would write a Paper to prevent the 111 Effects of them, which 
you strongly urged me to do 

Another Insinuation against me no less cruel is. that I support Mr. 
Deane from interested Motives. If by supporting Mr. Deane is meant the 
just and honorable Support which is due from a Representative of Amer- 
ica to a Servant who asks for Justice, I am proud to declare that I have 
given and will give it, tho I disdain to sell it either for Price or Condi- 
tion. But if by Support is meant Assistance in Fraud or Guilt I repel 
the Calumny and I despise the Calumniator. While Mr. Deane was a 
Petitioner to be heard, I maintained his Right to a fair and a candid 
Hearing, with the Warmth, not of an advocate but. of an honest Repre- 
sentative whose Duty it was to do Justice to the Public and to Individuals. 
If he shall appear to be guilty I will condemn and prosecute him and if 
innocent I shall endeavor to place that Innocence in it's proper Light. 
But the supposition that I forward his Views (if any he has) to future 
foreign Employment is ridiculous. Mr. Deane considered in himself is 
not the Negotiator I should chuse under his present Circumstances, tho 
compared with some now employed and others who wish to be employed 
he has an infinite Preference 

I have mentioned above a Publication "' which you urged me to make, 
but which hath as I have been informed given you Offence. How this 
can be I know not. My Object was to prevent our Friends from being 
alarmed and our Enemies encouraged by the Appearances of Disunion. 
Similar Motives appear to have prompted your Measures for Healing 
the Dispute of your Council with Congress. Between the Time of con- 
versing with you and that of Writing the Publication, this Dispute had 
begun to take a serious Turn, and the Honor and Justice of Congress 
were impeached. I think it essential to the Safety of America that her 
Representatives should be properly respected, which cannot be while 
their Conduct is marked by Folly or Iniquity. To justify them was a 
Duty. I know of no Principles of Friendship or Regard by which I was 
bound to treat your Council with peculiar Tenderness. I have spoken of 
them in that Publication not disrespectfully, and perhaps the Moment 
will arrive when they will do Justice to the charitable sentiments which 
it breathes 

"^ The publication to which Morris alludes was probably that in the Pennsylvania 
Packet of Feb. 27, signed "An American ", and addressed " To the Quakers, Bethlemites, 
Moderate Men, Refugees and other the Tories whatsoever, and wheresoever, dispersed " 
(see no. 132, note 2, ante). A further note respecting William Duer had been sounded 
in the Pennsylvania Packet Apr. 3 by "Argus ". He calls attention to the fact that a few 
days before Duer had been at Frankfort, five miles from Philadelphia, had conferred 
with Mr. Constable, owner of the Lovely Nancy (the schooner concerned in the Arnold 
affair), and had retired without coming into the city. It behooved Duer's friends, " if he 
has any here ", Argus contends, to account for this mysterious conduct. 



154 Continental Congress 

199. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[April 9, 1779.] 
Friday April pth Commercial Committee Congress. After the Let- 
ters etc. The order of the Day In the Report of the Committee on for- 
eign Affairs. NB Dr. Weatherspoon went home. P M. Marine Com- 
mittee.^ 

200. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[April 10, 1779.] 
10. We had a letter from the Governor of S. Carolina, inclosing ord'r 
from Genl, Lincoln, the news not very agreeable. I rode out with Mesrs. 
Gerry and Whipple. 

201. Henry Laurens, Statement.^ 

[April 12, 1779.] 
The inclosed Letters and Papers were brought up to my House Satur- 
day Morning the loth April 1779 by the Hon'ble Mr. Drayton in a few 
minutes after a Letter from Mr. Gervais had been sent to me by the 
Pres't of Congress. Mr. Drayton and myself perused them and agreed 
to present them excepting a few parts which we judged improper to be 
made public to Congress, when Congress was collecting I asked Mr. D. 
who with the President of Congress and myself were standing together, 
and had been conversing of Carolina affairs, from whom he had rec'd 
the Papers, he replied, from the President of the State, I answered, the 
President of the State, that's extraordinary. Then the Express must have 
come to him. The President of Congress said nothing and we seperated. 
in the Evening Durst the Express called on me, I asked him if he had 
been sent to the Presd't of the State, he answered " No I don't know the 
Presd't of the State I carr'd all my Letters every one to the Presd't of 
Congress here the next Door to you["]. Mr. Drayton had Kept the 
Papers in his pocket till Monday Morning, and when he then delivered 
them to me in Congress Room I said to him in presence of Col. F. L. Lee, 
Mr. Drayton you told me on Saturday that you had rec'd these Letters 
from the President of the State, Yes says he, I thought so. but you rec'd 
them I find from the Presd't of Congress. Yes I find I did but I thought 
on Saturday they came from the President of the State — I withdrew full 
of contempt for Man capable of so much Meanness and Mean Quibbling. 
N. B. The President and myself live under one Roof, he sent in the 
Letter to me from Mr. Gervais. The Dispatches to the Delegates he 
chose to send in to Walnut Street - altho I am the Eldest D.^ The first 

[199]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Fell's entries for the next three days are : 
" Saturday loth Went to Mr. Gills in Bucks County. 
"Sunday nth. At Mr. Gills Very Hott. 
" Monday 12th. Returnd to Town. Windy and Cold." 
[200]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 254. 

[2oi]i S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XV. (Promiscuous Letters, 1778-1780), 
marked, " The Delegates of So Ca In Congress ". 

- That is, to Drayton. 

^ Delegate. 



April, lyyp 155 

Named in the Delegacy from So Carolina. Moreover he heard Mr. D. 
tell me he had rec'd the dispatches from the President of the State, and 
by his silence discovered a consciousness of an unjust and affrontive 
partiality. 

[Endorsed :] Mr. Drayton's and Mr. President Jay's tricks.* 

202. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

April 13th 1779. 
Dear Sir 

I do not like Post Conveyance well enough to continue my former 
Topic. I will only say that the Figures which Doct'r G left unex- 
plained were to designate the Plcnipo whose Spittle does not fall to the 
Ground.^ .... 

I hope you are situated more en militaire than you was lately. I do not 
perhaps know all the moving Causes of your Destination. But you must 
meet with many more unpleasing Turns than I am yet acquainted with, 
before I shall place a single Pavement to lead you to your Farm. Let 
us not thus forward the Views of ill designing Men. They must be 
watched, not left to play their full Game 

* Although this statement is marked as if addressed to the delegates of South 
Carolina, it is scarcely probable that it ever left Laurens's hands. He and Drayton 
were at that time the only delegates from South Carolina in attendance. 

The following memorandum of Moses Young, who had served as Laurens's secretary 
when he was President of Congress, is indicative of the relations between Laurens and 
Drayton in this period. It is in S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XV. : 

" Philadelphia loth March 1779 

" In the Month of May 1778 The Honorable Henry Laurens Esquire then President of 
Congress, proposed to me that I should act as Secretary to the South Carolina Delegation 
besides doing my duty in his Office, and therfore desired that I would wait upon 
Mr. Drayton at his lodgings some time that Evening, which I did, when he gave me the 
rough draught of a long letter in his own name, to be sent to different parts of South 
Carolina, and directed me to make one and twenty Copies of it, with all possible expedition. 
I immediately set about it, but found it was impossible to do so great a quantity of ^yrit- 
ing * in the short space of time which Mr. Drayton seemed to think was sufficient ; besides, 
he made several alterations and a considerable addition to it after I had finished a number 
of Copies, so that I had the whole to begin again. In this manner I was entirely employed 
for several days, Mr. Drayton sending repeatedly for me, and complaining that the work 
was not finished, The President having writing for me to do, and finding my time wholly 
taken up by this business, desired to see the Letter, which when he found to be a private 
one, forbid my further attendance on that Gentleman, expressing his surprise that 
Mr. Drayton would attempt to employ me in copying his own private Letters, to the total 
neglect of my principal duty, when he (Mr. Drayton) knew perfectly well that the 
intention of the President in giving up so much of my time, was, that I should Copy such 
Letters and other Papers only, as was done in the name of the South Carolina Delegation. 

Moses Young. 

" N. B. I satisfied the Young Gentleman who assisted me, but have never receiv'd my 
compensation from Mr. Drayton for that nor my own trouble. 

" * With Mr. Drayton's permission I employed a Person to assist me in making those 
Copies, who was very closely employed at it for two days." 

[202] 1 N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIV. 

2 The reference is to the phrase in cipher, "Lickspittles of the Plenipo", in 
Lovell's letter to Gates Mar. i (no. 113, ante). In the same letter (omitted passage) Lovell 
wrote, "Ask Dr. Joseph Gardner, one of my best earthly friends, to let your clerk copy 
an alphabet which he had from me ". The alphabet was doubtless the key to the cipher. 



156 Cojitinental Congress 

203. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene)/ 

Philadelphia April 13th 1779 
Sir, 

We have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of yours of the nth 
and 15th of March." Notwithstanding it is so long since they were wrote 
yet they did not come to hand until the last evening owing perhaps to the 
Route of the post being alterd. 

We shall embrace the first favorable opportunity for laying the re- 
quests of the State before Congress, and will hope they will be complied 
with.' 

Congress have under consideration further measures for the defence 
of South Carolina. They have recommended to that State to purchase 
and form two battalions of black men, the purchase money to be paid by 
the Continent.* They have also recommended to the States of Virginia 
and North Carolina to inlist a body of militia for the defence of the 
Southern States, the bounty money to be paid by the continent etc. These 
examples will be in favour of the application of our State; but the large 
Sums of money which this bounty, and the bounty for recruiting the 
quotas of the Several States, the purchase money before mentioned, and 
the necessary supplies for the main army require will be in our way. 
However we shall exert our best abilities on this occasion, and if we 

cannot command Success we will endeavor to deserve it 

Yr Excellency's most obedt. Servts, 

William Ellery 
John Collins 

204. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Tuesday i^th Commercial Committee. Congress. A Number of Let- 
ters, Reports of Committees etc. etc. Report from the Treasury to be 
Printed P M. Marine Committee 

Wednesday April 14th 1779. Commercial Committee Congress. Sun- 
dry Letters Read. On Motion for supplying the Officers with sundry 
articles at the Price things were when they Enterd the Service and 
whether by the State they belong to, or by Congress long Debate. 

205. The Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the 
Massachusetts Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia April 14th 1779 
Sir 

Mr Cumberland Dugan having represented to us, that he was author- 
ized by the Board of War of Massachusetts Bay to purchase a Quantity 

[203] iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779, p. 86. 

2 The letters are in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., pp. 212, 214. 

3 See no. 214, post. 

4 See nos. 142, 159, 163, 168, 183, ante, 375, post. 
[204]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

[205]iMass. Arch., CC. 397 (in the writing of Gerrv, with small emendations by 
Lovell). 



April, ly/Q 157 

of Flower in Virginia and Maryland on the publick Account, and that 
he could not pass the Notes issued by the Treasurer of the State for that 
purpose, We have requested Michael Hillegas Esqr. continental Treasurer 
to exchange sixty thousand Dollars agreable to the Tenor of the inclosed 
Copy of a Letter to him, in Expectation, that the honorable assembly will 
approve thereof, and authorize a proper person to receive the Notes so 
exchanged in Part payment of the Warrant issued the 5th Instant by 
Congress in Favour of the State for one hundred and fifty thousand 
Dollars. 

Mr Dugan having also informed us, that the executive Council of 
Maryland had refused to permit him to export Flower, unless upon the 
express Application of the executive Council of Massachusetts Bay, We 
have this Day applied to Congress on the Subject. To remedy the Objec- 
tion, they have passed the Resolution inclosed; notwithstanding which, 
it may be expedient for the honorable Council to transmit to Mr Dugan 
such an Application to prevent further Delay." .... 

We remain, etc. 

Samuel Adams 
E. Gerry 
James Lovell 

S. HOLTEN 

206. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[April 15. 1779.] 
Thursday April ijth. Commercial Committee Congress. Letter from 
Major Genl. Lincoln March 7, per His Aid Major Mead. Letter from 
President Reed and the Resolves, relating to the Conferrence between 
the Congress and the Execitive Council and Assembly of the State of 
Pennsylvania to be Printed.^ Memorial from Sundry Surgeons and 
Doctors, Referrd to the IMedical Committee. Letter from Lt. Governor 
of Virginia Reccomending Coll. Bland to be allowd a Table, Refer'd to 
the Delegates of the State. President Reed sent in a Letter from St. Eus- 
tatia with an acct. that Spain had acknowledgd the Independence of 
America. Report of the Board of Warr, Relating to the Regulating 
Waggons, Not determind Order of the Day for Consideration on for- 
eign affairs which occasion long Debates, and to very little Purpose 

Dr. Wetherspoon at Congress. (Dined w'th Mr. Lewis) PM Marine 
Committee. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 14, and no. 230, post. A letter on the subject from the 
Massachusetts delegates to the governor of Maryland, Apr. 16, is in Md. Hist. Soc, 
Red Book, V. 21, a copy is in Mass. Arch., CC. 403. A letter from Dugan to S. P. Savage, 
Apr. 20, relative to his mission, is in Force Trans., Mass. Recs., Letters (2d ser.), p. 501. 
Letters from the delegates to Michael Hillegas, Apr. 14, 26, on behalf of Dugan, are 
ibid., p. 504. 

[206] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 14, 15. With the report of the joint committee (the 
"points stated", etc.), in Papers Cont. Cong., Misc. (Journals, Apr. 15), are the "Reso- 
lutions reported by the comee appointed to confer with the joint comee of the legislature 
and council of Pensylva. April 14, 1779. The last acted on" [Thomson's endorsement]. 

15 



158 Continental Congress 

207. Henry Laurens to John Laurens/ 

Philadelphia 16th April 1779. 
My Dear Son, 

.... The Delegates of North Carolina have continued perfectly 
silent since my address to them of the 8th altho' I know they had essayed 
a reply, but second thoughts are sometimes best, for two or three days 
they seem'd to gnash, placidity followed and yesterday free conversation 
and harmless. 

These Gentlemen have roused me to look into the business which was 
the ground of their first rude resentment. I have discovered such records 
as had not been thought of by any body else, or to speak more certainly, 
had not been introduced, and I am confirmed in my original opinion. 
Justice and sound Policy, forbid receding from the Vote which has given 
those Gentlemen offence Expediency and necessity, which I do not ad- 
mit, may with equal propriety, be urg'd as good reasons for surrendring 
our Liberty and Independency. I had viewed the detention of the Con- 
vention Troops, in the light of a great stroke and as great a trial, the 
Resolution of the 226. April 1778, another, this like the Sailor's gale of 
Wind, feels the heaviest but I am confident I shall weather it." ... . 

It having been intimated to Mr. Langworthy that he had been sitting 
in Congress the last two Months without authority, he first examined 
very narrowly his old credentials, then said he had a new appointment 
at home, but has not exhibited his appointment, nor himself since the 12 or 
13th Inst. If it should be, as we believe it to be, that he has not a new 
mission, what shall be done with that Gentleman's important Yeas and 
Nays from the ,^ of February last? some people are so ill 
natured as to say, what I will not at present repeat 

[207] 1 L. I. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers. Addressed, " Lieutt. Colo. John Laurens South 
Carolina ". 

2 See no. 197, ante. 

3 Langworthy's election was Feb. 26, 1778, " for the year ensuing ". The credentials 
are in the Journals, under July 13, 1778. He was probably present Apr. 12, for he obtained 
a warrant on the treasury that day. His name is, however, absent from the one record 
of yeas and nays of the day. He does not appear to have resumed his seat in Congress. 
See nos. 256, 401, 443, note 2, post. 

As these materials were coming from the press Mr. Burton Alva Konkle, of Swarth- 
more, Pa., brought to the attention of the editor a letter of Edward Langworthy which 
he had not hitherto seen. It is dated Apr. 5, 1779, was written to John Houstoun of 
Georgia (at that time a refugee from his own state in South Carolina), and is in the 
Gratz Collection, Genealogical Society of Pennsylvania. The letter was written pri- 
marily to introduce Maj. Matthew Clarkson and Maj. David S. Franks, who were pro- 
ceeding to join General Lincoln; but he remarks: 

" I cannot express to you my distress for the misfortunes that have attended the 
Inhabitants of our Country. It was always my Opinion, tliat something of this kind 
would happen, unless decisive measures were adopted against East Florida and I was 
highly pleased when I perceived that you were convinced of this point. I am conscious 
of what Efforts you have made to save an unhappy People, the difficulties you have 
encountered and what Chagrin you must have felt on being disappointed in your expec- 
tations — however, I would not have you despair, for I have abundant reason to assert, 
that I make no doubt of your being again restored to your Country. 

" Inclosed I have sent you some Newspapers, and the Resolves of Congress respecting 
some Negroe Battalions. I should be extremely happy to be favored with a Line from 
you and you may command me to any thing in my power in this part of America. I 



April, 1779 159 

I pray God to give you success in all your laudable purposes * and to 
bless you with health 

Henry Laurens. 

208. John Fell, Dl\ry.^ 

Friday April 16th. Commercial Committee Congress Letter from 
Major Genl. Arnold relating to his being tryd per a Court Martial. 
Motion to lay on the Table Yas and Nas taken carried in the affirmi- 
tive. Treasury Report for loooooo D's to Dr. Potts, strongly opposd all 
agreed there was great abuses in the Department Yas and Nas taken 
carried in the Negative. Motion for 800000 Yas and Nas. Negative. 
Motion then for 500000. Yas and Nas carried in the Affirmitive. Report 
from the Committee of the Post Office Rais'd the Price of Postage 
double and advanced the Sallerys of the different Officers. P M Marine 
Committee.^ 

Saturday April 17th Commercial Committee Congress. Long 
debate about the manner of Genl. Lincoln's leaving the Southern Army, 
on account of his III State of Health. Alotion from the Delegates 
of Rhode Island to Raise 1500 Men, long Debated etc. etc. Report from 
the Treasurey for 50,000 D's in speicea to be sent to the Commissary 
General of Prisoners. Adjoumd P M. M. Committee on special Busi- 
ness. Dined w'th Mr. Jay. 

Sunday April 18th. 1779. Last night very cold and this morning thick 
Ice. Dined with Moses. ^ 

shall leave Philadelphia with Mrs. Langworthy in a few days, so that if you write, 
direct to the Care of Charles Thompson Esqr, who will send the Letter to me." 

The last sentence here quoted naturally raises the question whether Langworthy's 
decision to leave Philadelphia was taken prior to the intimation to which Laurens alludes, 
or in view of it. Laurens's statement gives the impression that Langworthy did not 
return to Congress after the question had been raised with regard to his right to sit 
there, although that is not the necessary implication of his language. If he did con- 
tinue to occupy his seat and to vote for several days after the finger of doubt had been 
pointed at him, it was an unusual and rather bold proceeding ; for in other cases of 
record, when a doubt arose resp.ecting the authority of a delegate to retain his seat, 
an explicit expression was sought from Congress. See, for instance, the case of Dray- 
ton, Journals, Mar. . 10. There is a sketch of Langworthy by Mr. Konkle in the 
Georgia Historical Quarterly, XL 166 (June, 1927). 
* See the Journals, Mar. 29. 

[208] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Some accounts transmitted by William Bingham, in a letter of Mar. 27, were 
this day referred to the marine committee. A paragraph in a letter from Robert Morris 
to Bingham Apr. 21 was probably written with knowledge of Bingham's correspondence 
with Congress and of the action taken by that body : 

" I confess I am sorry to find you have been obliged to draw bills on France without 
being properly authorized and fear they will be returned to you unpaid. I have spoke 
to some Members of Congress on the Subject and they tell me you have reimbursed your- 
self in part by the Sale of a Portuguese Vessel! sent into Martinique as a Prize for which 
restitution must be made however I believe orders are given in favour of your bills." 
(Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels.) See the Journals, 
Feb. 22, Apr. 12, 16. 

3 Presumably Isaac Moses. See vol. III., no. 654. 



160 Continental Congress 

209. Henry Laurens to John Laurens/ 

Philadelphia 18th April 1779. 
My Dear Son, 

.... The Marquis Britaigne ' who will be the bearer of this is 
anxious that I should recommend him to Governor Rutledge. that will 
be done Marquis, in pursuance of an act of Congress by the President. 
Ah ! but I am not acquainted with Mr. Jay. 

I then promised him to write to Mr. Gervais and to you although he is 
personally acquainted with both, which gave him satisfaction; certainly 
if I were in Charles Town and the Marquis there too, I would shew him 
every mark of civility and attention, and I am persuaded my friends will 
answer for me. 

This Gentleman's zeal in our cause must have cost him several Thou- 
sand Louis d'ors, besides much personal suffering; he has been waiting 
upon Congress almost a whole Year in humble dependence, free from that 
inquietude which from almost all his Countrymen we have been wit- 
nesses of, and yet, there has been great stumbling at a proposition for 
allowing him 5000. Paper equal to about 400. Silver Dollars, nor did we 
surmount the difficulty in one slip, first 3000, then 2000, carefully ad- 
ding " he to be accountable ". we swallow Camels and strain at gnats.^ 

Our friend Baron Stiiben intimated expectations of pretty large pe- 
cuniary compensation, for his expences coming to and in America over 
and above the pay of Major General, and also for his own expences and 
those of M'r * Fleury, M'r L'enfant and M'r Duponceau, a Report was 
thereupon introduced from the Board of War. the whole seemed to me, 
to be incongruous with his propositions at his arrival in York Town. 
I was therefore induced to call for certain documents and Papers rela- 
tive to the subject in order to enlighten such of our Members as would 
otherwise have been ignorant, but I made no opposition to the Report.^ 
Some busy Body must have taken an advantage of my conduct and mis- 
represented me to the Baron, otherwise the following dialogue three days 
ago when he dined with me could never have happened. 

What is the reason Mr. Laurens that Congress will not allow me my 
expences. I told them I was not Rich and I am sure the Committee at 
York Town promised me. Why " Baron I cannot answer for the conduct 
of Congress, for my own part I would recommend to you not to press 
that subject at the present moment, every Member of Congress is sensi- 
ble of your merit and deserving. I cannot just now so fully assign rea- 

[209]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, John Laurens Papers. Addressed, " Lieutt. Colo. John Laurens 
Aid de Camp to His Excellency the Commander in Chief of all the American forces — 
South Carolina"; S. C. Hist. Mag., VI. 140. 

2 The Marquis de Bretigney. See vol. HL, pp. 385 n., 494 n. Wallace, in his Life 
of Laurens (p. 319), attributes the expression, "Ah! but I am not acquainted with 
Mr. Jay ", to Laurens himself. On the contrary, it seems certain from the context that 
Laurens is quoting Bretigney. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 13, 17 ; cf. ibid., Jan. 5, 7, 12, 20, 22, 27, May 13. 

* In each instance here the M has a horizontal stroke through it, which is often 
used by Laurens in abbreviations. The " M'r " before the names of Frenchmen must be 
understood as standing for " Monsieur ", not for " Mister ". 

5 See the Journals, Feb. 18, Mar. 29, Apr. 3, 5, 12, 16. 



April, 1779 161 

sons, as I may at a future time, but if I were to advise, you would delay 
your demands until our affairs shall be a little better arranged. 

his declarations to me at York Town were that he would expect noth- 
ing till the end of the War his running expences excepted — Congress gave 
him two or four Horses and a commission of Major General, paid all his 
Expences at and travelling from Boston at York Town etc. etc. 

Well replied the Baron, for myself I will take your advice I will ask 
nothing yet. I will go to the Army and proceed in my duty — but why will 
they not do something for Fleury and the other young Gentlemen who 
have assisted me in my work? 

Congress Sir, will undoubtedly do everything that is just and reason- 
able, there is no Man who has a greater esteem and affection for Colo. 
Fleury than I have, but let us consider a little Baron is not M'r Fleury 
now within one grade of Generalship, how long must he have served 
in his own country before he would have arrived at this eminence, with 
large and honorable testimonials in his pocket. 

But my dear Mr. Laurens, Mr. President he cannot live by his appoint- 
ment, and he must go home if you do not do something for him. 

You very well know Baron, the state of our Army and the state of our 
finances — if the case be so, that Colo. Fleury cannot stay with us unless 
Congress will do something more for him and that Congress cannot do 
anything more for him, the consequence will be that he must go home. 
I shall be very sorry for it. 

The Baron, in no small shew of Choler and rage, although in presence 
of 4 or 5 other guests, answered. Then, I will go home. I will not stay. 

O Baron Baron, you had just determined the contrary, excuse me 
for saying, this is really taking advantage of my candor, you will make 
me more cautious hereafter if you persist in these sentiments, what else 
could I have said, speaking as an honest Man. if Colo. Fleury cannot 
continue with us upon his present appointments and Congress will not 
because they cannot, with propriety, enlarge them — and he himself points 
out the alternative, what else could I have said, but I hope. Baron you 
will not make me answerable for all the determinations of Congress, 
when I am there I am an individual and speak my sentiments or give my 
voice without fear prejudice or partiality. I pray you Baron think better 
of this matter. \\'e went to dinner, the Baron looked grave. I made 
attempts to raise him. he retired earlier than usual, and if I do not mis- 
take with a consciousness of a little transgression. The Deanites are in- 
cessant in their endeavors to raise a dis-esteem for me in the minds of 
foreigners, but they make no more impression upon mine than they would 
upon adamant with a Goose quill. I will endeavor to do right, if I do not 
gain their applause, I shall nevertheless enjoy an assurance of having 
deserved it — to be an honest Statesman produces a Man some troubles, 
but not so many I believe as attend a dissembling knavish one, therefore 
ril pursue the old track. I could recite another conversation with a 
greater Man than Baron Stuben which would more than equally aston- 
ish you, but, it wont do, and I think the irregular measures which are 
adopted are arguments, proving, why it ought not. 



162 Continental Congress 

When Baron Stiiben first addressed Congress he produced a Letter 
from Mr. Deane announcing him Lieutenant General and Quarter Mas- 
ter General in the King of Prussia's Army, hence I was led to give him 
the Title of Excellency, in my early correspondence; sometime after he 
went to camp at Valley forge I was well informed that he had never ad- 
vanced near the Rank of Lieutenant General, the Baron did not say to 
me that he had, but he did not disown it. Mr. Deane intimated that at 
some former time, he had seen his Commissions, but that when he was 
about to leave Paris in order to embark for America he was not pos- 
sessed of them, having left them in Germany, and this moment it strikes 
me, that the Baron might have misconstrued and misapplied my ques- 
tion. How long must Colo. Fleury have served ? etc. but upon my honor 
I had no design to touch him nor, as I have said above, did I ever think 
of the subject in this light until the present Instant, however if he has 
committed himself it is not my fault, if he felt anything like an attack, 
it was from within his own Breast, neither duty nor inclination could 
possibly have misled me to upbraid a Man with whom I wished to have 
continued in friendship, but the times are distempered and the Devils of 
avarice and ambition are indefatigably improving them to their own 
advantage. 

20th 

'Tis rumored the Enemy have taken the town of Providence. I do not 
believe it — You will see the News Papers in Mr. Gervais's hands — tell 
me if my Country Men wish me to remain here, I dont mean a few of 
them, but generally. 

I pray God bless and protect you 

Henry Laurens. 

2IO. Richard Henry Lee to William Shippen, jr.^ 

Shippen Hall in 4th Street Phila. 18th April 1779 
My dear Sir, 

.... The party seem long since to have abandoned all thoughts of 
supporting Deane, but they are determined to sacrifice the Mr. Lees and 
Mr. Izard to the Manes of their dear unprincipled friend. The doctrine 
is, that it is too expensive and not necessary to have any Minister at 
Vienna or Berlin or Tuscany, and that it will never do to try a Man in 
his absence. Therefore we will damn his reputation with a recal, and let 
him recover it if he can, in the meantime our Junto will be supplied with 
places. It is in vain to say that thus to destroy the reputations of Men 
against whom no shadow of offense appears, and who on the contrary have 
honestly and ably served the public at every risk to themselves, merely to 
gratify the wishes and accomplish the views of avaricious and ambitious 
men, will exhibit such an example as must deter every Man who has char- 
acter to loose, and means to be honest, from entering into the public 
service — That so the public business must of necessity be committed to 

[210]^ Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 44. 



April, 1779 163 

unprincipled Men, and avaricious plunderers — By the aid of a certain 
little great whispering politician ^ this point of sacrifice will I think be 
carried — Fine reward, excellent encouragement to give up all pro patria — 
On a late motion to give a million to the Hospital department much vio- 
lent debate took place and it was insisted on that infinite abuses prevailed 
and demanded immediate enquiry — It was alledged that great quantities 
of Stores were charged for Geese, ducks, chickens etc., etc., etc.. etc. — that 
the wine was all drank by the well, and not by the sick — All this ended 
in reducing the sum to 500,000 dollars — The Southern Chief, ^ who you 
know is a most excellent character, said he hoped soon for an enquiry 
into the conduct of the Director General and all the rest — Therefore a 
prospect of encountering so great a personage makes it necessary to say 
Cave quod Agis 

211. Henry Laurens to the Governor of New Jersey 
( William Livingston ) } 

New Jersey, 19th April, [1779.] 
Dear Sir, 

.... But let us turn Sir, to Congress where you " hope things go 
on smoothly and that all are patriots in the ancient sense of the word ". 
Upon my honor Sir, scarce as such jewels are, I believe that taking into 
consideration numbers and circumstances of wealth real or imaginary, 
there are as many patriots now on this Land as History can shew to have 
been in any Country, at any one period of time. Reduce us all to poverty 
and cut off or wisely restrict that bane of patriotism. Commerce, and we 
shall soon become Patriots, but how hard is it for a rich or covetous Man 
to enter heartily into the Kingdom of Patriotism? 

As to the " smoothly " I may reply, we are sliding downwards, in 
which there is no great difficulty. We have learnt to depreciate the value 
of our Paper by Financeering. One thing may save us. This can only be 
accomplished by our Constituents. Order the doors to be opened that 
every citizen may know what his sen^ant is doing, particular cases ex- 
cepted, or clamour until the Journals are printed and published vi;eekly. 

C 

Our Chaplain had so long prayed to God to bless — ^ whom he had set 

over so great a People, as perhaps had intoxicated some of us into an 
opinion of being actually set over the People, But I gave the Doctor a 
hint t'other day, and he now prays " for whose service they are ap- 
pointed ".* .... 

2 The allusion is evidently to Gerard. See no. 229, post. 

3 The " Southern Chief " was probably Henry Laurens. He, with William Ellery, 
John Jay, and Meriwether Smith, voted against even an appropriation of 500,000 dollars. 
See the Journals, Apr. 16. 

[2ii]iS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Copies of letters mainly to Laurens, p. 320. 

2 See the Journals, Mar. 31. 

3 As written the " C ", stands above " us ", evidently meaning Congress. 

4 There were two chaplains to Congress, Rev. William White, of the established 
church, and Rev. George Duffield, a Presbyterian. It was probably the former to whom 
Laurens alludes. Neither of them had, however, at this time received the degree of D. D. 



164 Continental Congress 

212. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

April 19, 1779 
Dear Sir 

.... I am in hopes Rh : Island will be allowed to raise a Body of 
Men for a Year. But they must not be raised on such terms of pay as 
to give just Cause of discontent to the continental Battallions. I expect 
great opposition to the Scheme here and at Pluckamin " where the Artil- 
lery is ".' .... 

You seem to have a deal of News in yr. eastern Gazettes about Peace, 
where do you receive it from ? ^ I imagine that we might have it for 
asking for if we would not only give up what we have no claim to, Canada 
Nova Scotia and the Floridas, with what we have a right to. I mean Cod 
and Haddoc* But we assuredly have had no Proposals from Britain. 
I admire the Thought of writing the Treaty of Peace with the Bayonett. 

I wish you to give every Advice where there is any Chance of succeed- 
ing to show Britain that she will hold a discontented Province of Nova 
Scotia. ° I hope what we have lately done here may be an entering Wedge 
to substantial Work. I will be more particular by a safer Conveyance 
than the Post 



213. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Monday ipth. Apl. Commercial Committee. Congress. Letter from 
Genl. Green reccomending many alterations in his department. Letter 
from Deane Letter from Genl. Irwin and other Prisoners Referd to the 
Board of Warr. Memorial with a Flag from Bermuda for Provision, 
committed to 3. Vizt. Ellery, Laurens and Fell.^ Letter from Major Genl, 
Schuyler for leave to Resign his Commission, granted, and Reccomen- 
ding Blankets to be sent to the Indians Referrd to B'd of Warr. 

Report from the Board of Warr Reccomending when a Colonel is on 
Brigade Duty, that he be allowd 6 Rations extraordinary, agreed. Treas- 
ury Report for i Million for Coll. Flowers's department allowd 500,000 
Motion for Rhode Island to Raise 1500 Men for a Year to be allowd the 
Cloathing etc. and £ 6 per Month and 200 Doll. Bounty Ys and Ns car- 
ried in the Negative then 150 D's Ys and Ns affirmitive 5 Ys 3 Ns 
2 divided. Long Debate. 

Tuesday April 20th 1779 Com'l Committee Congress. Letter from 
Govr. Clinton, that the State of New York would Raise 1000 Men by 
Drafts from the Militia Order of the Day on foreign Affairs. Very 
warm loud and long debate, relating to the Commissioners, lasted till 
5 oClock. (Dr. Wetherspoon gone home) P M Marine Committee 

[212]iN. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIV. 228. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 17, 19, and nos. 213, 257, post. Gen. Henry Knox, in com- 
mand of the artillery, was stationed at Pluckemin, N. J. 

3 Cf. no. 163, ante, and no. 444, post. 

* An allusion to the contention for the fisheries in the ultimatum. See nos. 151-153, 
15s, 189, ante. 

5 Cf. no. 189, ante. 
[213]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

- See the Journals, Apr. 19, 23, May 6, 7, 17, 18, and nos. 222, 253, 279, post. 
Cf. Washington to Jay, Apr. 23, Writings (ed. Ford), VU. 415, (ed. Sparks), VI. 227. 



April, I J 79 165 

214. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene)/ 

Philadelphia Apl 20th 1779 

SlYy 

After having made the necessary preparations we moved Congress, 
agreeably to your direction, on Saturday last. Our motion met with 
great opposition, owing principally to the States offering an additional 
pay of six pounds pr. month. If this was allowed it was said that Con- 
gress would be obliged to advance the pay of the contl. battalions, which 
would occasion such a large sum of money to issue as would intirely over- 
whelm and destroy the sinking Credit of our Currency. We were obliged 
to submit to an amendment to this purpose, that the said brigade should 
be " intitled to contl. pay, cloathing, subsistance, and to a bounty not 
exceeding two hundred dollars." Congress adjourned before the Amend- 
ment passed. Yesterday we brought the matter on the carpet again, when 
the bounty was objected to, it being the same as the bounty given to contl. 
Soldiers, who should inlist during the War. After much debate it was 
reduced to 150 doll's, which is the bounty offered by the State. The 
reason why two hundred dollars bounty was proposed was because that 
was the bounty which was allowed to the troops to be raised in N. Caro- 
lina and Virginia. We imagined that we had got through all our diffi- 
culties; but now it was contended that the resolution did not restrain 
the State from giving the additional pay, and that it ought to be re- 
strained, and therefore an Amendment was proposed — that after ap- 
proving the raising a brigade, to be cloathed, paid, subsisted and to be 
allowed a bounty not exceeding one hundred and fifty dollars, words like 
these should be added, " upon these Conditions, that the State should not 
give any additional pay to the contl. pay. ["] Here a debate arose which 
was cont'd until the time arrived for an adjournment. How this matter 
will be decided or when I cannot tell. We are determined to attempt 
bringing it on this day again. 

While I was writing the last Sentence an Opportunity offer'd. We em- 
braced it but it was obligd to give way to the order of the day. We will 
continue to urge this matter to a conclusion, until it be finished. 

Since this motion hath been on the carpet, We have received a letter 
from the Lieut. Gov., in which he desires that Congress might determine 
which they would choose — the Continental battalion should be filled, or 
the proposed brigade. We have not proposed that Question, because it 
would, in our opinion, entirely defeat the design of the Assembly ex- 
pressed fully in your excellency's letter, and we were uncertain whether 
his Honor's letter was private or official. Mr. Ellery hath written fully 
to the Lieut. Governor on this Subject and begs your Excellency to be 
referred, for want of time and on account of the situation he writes in, 
to that letter.- 

[214]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779, p. 88; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 218. 

2 See no. 203, ante, and the Journals, Apr. 17, 19, 23, May 3, 4, 7. 



166 Continental Congress 

We have laid the business of the Alteration of the Route of the Post 
through our State before the Post office Committee and the Comm^^ have 
directed Mr. Hazard to take measures immediately for the Posts pro- 
ceding in his usual route. I saw Mr. Hazard this morning and he as- 
sured me that he would immediately pursue the orders of the Com- 
mittee 

Your Excellencys most obedient humble Servants 

WiLiJAM Ellery 
John Collins 

215. Henry Laurens, Statement.^ 

[April 21, 1779-]' 
P the subscriber do Certify, that in a conversation which the Honor- 
able Mr. Gerard honoured me with, at my own House, and which he 
introduced on Sunday the Decem. 1778, He informed me that 

Mr. Arthur Lee had given much dissatisfaction to the Ministers at the 
Court of France by his manner of enquiring into and interfering in trans- 
actions at that Court relative to America, that he had at different times 
discovered such jealousies and suspicions as had obliged the King's Min- 
isters or Mr. Gerard himself to signify to Mr. Lee that his conduct was 
disagreeable but in other respects Mr. Lee stood fair, that there had been 
reports circulated of Mr. Lee's too strong attachment to the English and 
an equal dislike to the french Nation and that such reports had made an 
impression upon the minds of several persons of Rank about Court and 
had even reached the King and his Ministers and caused some uneasiness, 
that the King or His Ministers had thereupon caused the fullest enquiry 
to be made (had taken the proper means for enquiring) the result of 
which was, the Court were perfectly satisfied the Reports were ground- 
less, this was repeated, as I understood it, to impress my mind. 

On Friday 16th April 1779, I received in Congress a Note from 
Mr. Gerard intimating that he had just called at my House and request- 
ing I would give him an opportunity of speaking one word to me. I im- 
mediately waited on Mr. Gerard, who told me he had been informed 
Mr. Samuel Adams had said in Congress, " he had the highest authority 
for beleiving that Mr. Arthur Lee was in the full confidence of the Court 
of France ", that he should be sorry to meddle in that matter, but if he 
was called upon, if he was forced, he would speak out, that he wished 
to have nothing to do with it, but if he was forced he should declare 
very plainly what he knew, the same terms were often repeated by Mr. 
Gerard, in a manner which discovered that he was more than a little 
affected. 

[215]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XXVI. 

2 The account by Laurens of his interviews with Gerard is appended to a 
translation of the latter's statement of Apr. 21 (see under note 3, below), and was no 
doubt written out in view of that statement. The date, Apr. 16, attached to the second 
of these statements is understood therefore as merely indicating the date of that inter- 
view. Cf. the statement of Richard Henjy Lee, no. 217, post. 



April, 777P 167 

I reminded Mr. Gerard of what he had done me the honor of com- 
municating to me in December, as above recited. Mr. Gerard replied, 
" you are \try right, it was precisely so ". 

If I understand you rightly Sir, said I, your representations concerning 
Mr. Lee amount to this — " Here is a Gentleman in my House whose 
manners do not please the family, therefore it is necessary he should 
withdraw from it, but if I am asked the cause of the sepe ration, I will not 
say he is a Rogue, I will say his dispositions were not pleasing to me, 
I found it therefore necessary we should live under different Roofs, but 
I beleive him nevertheless to be an honest Man. ["] 

Mr. Gerard said, " you understand me perfectly and have explained 
the case according to my meaning." When I was taking leave Mr. Gerard 
repeated that he should be sorry Mr. Saml. Adams should force him to 
speak, he wished to have nothing to do in the matter.'' 16th April 1779. 

Henry Laurens 
Remarks. 

It is easy to account for the Reports of Mr. A. Lees anti-gallicanism. 
Mr. Deane was in Paris. 

Mr. Lee had, as much as in him lay, been a Check upon Mr. Deane's 
schemes of private Trade and of too freely fingering public Money 

Mr. Beaumarchais, who was in all appearances a Partner of Mr. 
Deane's was also in Paris, Mr. Lee had also been a check upon him and 
he could with equal facility and Success, help Mr. Deane to circulate 
Reports. 

3 According to the information of Paca and Drayton presented in Congress 
Apr. 30, Samuel Adams asserted in Congress, Apr. 15, "as from the highest authority 
in America", that Arthur Lee was "possessed of the confidence of the Court of 
VersaJlles " (see also no. 216, note i, post). Gerard was evidently " forced to speak out" 
and accordingly addressed to Samuel Adams the following signed statement : 

" The undersigned certifies that in a conversation which he had the honor of holding, 
sometime after his arrival at Philadelphia, with Messrs. Colo. Lee and Samuel Adams, 
the latter spoke to him of reports which circulated that Mr. Arthur [Lee] was Antigal- 
lican and averse from the Alliance of France with the United States ; that the answer 
of the Underwritten was that in fact a great number of persons, among whom were 
some of distinguished rank, were persuaded of it, and had strove to inspire the Kings 
Ministers with the same sentiments. That the Underwritten had recounted to Messrs. Lee 
and Adams the principal facts upon which that opinion was founded. But that the 
Ministers of his Majesty had not adopted that mode of thinking in regard to the 
attachment of Mr. Arthur Lee for the cause of America and for the Alliance. It is 
proper to add that there was no mention, in that conversation, of the confidence, or 
of the full confidence, of the french Ministry in Mr. Arthur Lee. 

" Mr. Samuel Adams may at his will make such use of the present certificate as he 
shall judge proper. At Philadelphia the 21st of April 1779 

" (S. S.) Gerard 
" True Copy 
" R. H. Lee. 

" Mais que le Ministere de sa Majeste n'a pas adopte cette fagon depenser sur 
I'attachement de Mon'r Arth. Lee pour la cause Americaine et pour I'alliance. 
" Directed A Monsieur. 

" Monsieur Samuel Adams Delegue au Congres de le part de I'etat de Massachusetts 
Bay." 

The text here given is that of a copy in the writing of Richard Henry Lee (Univ. of 
Va. Lib., Lee Papers). The translation in the Laurens Papers uses the word " subscriber " 
instead of the words " undersigned " and " underwritten ", but otherwise differs little 
from this. Cf. the statement to Burke and Nelson, no. 216, post. 



168 Continental Congress 

Reports were accordingly circulated and had made impressions so 
deeply as to reach the King. 

Mr. Lee to whose prejudices the whispers had gone around, was put 
into the Court Alembick, what came forth ? a Jealous troublesome, but, 
Honest Man. 

Dare Mr. Deane stand such a trial, I should say, such an ex-parte 
Inquisition? No, he has told you he would not answer questions which 
might tend to criminate himself. 

But why was Mr. Lee troublesome? because he checked the unfaith- 
ful acts and attempts of Mr. Deane and his Partners, and because he was 
faithful to the United States of America and insisted upon making a 
better Treaty with the Court of France than Mr. Deane had submitted to. 
Mr. Deane was therefore a favorite, a dispicable one indeed ! even in the 
Eyes of those who Palmed him. Air. Lee was comparatively, a trouble- 
some Man to the french Court; but the French Court do him the justice 
and the honor of saying, he was faithful to his constituents and that they 
had found him to be so upon the fullest investigation. 

Qu. Who informed Air. Gerard that Mr. S. Adams had in Congress 
said, so and so? Mr. Adams had not quoted Mr. Gerard, as his authority. 
Unless therefore some Alember of Congress had asserted or insinuated 
a falsehood, or, if you please, a Lie, to Mr. Gerard, he could have not 
made the application or drawn the inferences he did in his conversation 
with me.* 
[Endorsed:] 

Mr. Gerards conversation with Mr. Sam, Adams. 

216. Thomas Burke, Account of Interview with Ger.\rd 

RESPECTING ARTHUR LeE.^ 

[Cfl April 21, 1779.] 
I declare upon my honor that I never said one word to any person 
in this World, neither in Europe, neither in America which would give 
a Just foundation for asserting that Mr. Arthur Lee had the full Con- 
fidence of the Court of France. 

Soon after my arrival in America I was questioned on this subject 
in course of Conversation and in an Indirect manner by Mr. R. H. Lee 

4 See Wallace, Life of Laurens, pp. 320, 325. 
[216] 1 N. C. Hist. Comm., in the writing of Thomas Burke. In a report of the pro- 
ceedings of Congress from January to August, which Burke made to the North Carolina 
assembly in October (the report will be found under August, 1779. no. 474, post) he 
remarks: "Mr. Burke, in company with General Nelson a delegate from Virginia, paid 
the Minister of France a visit, in which the Conversation [concerning Arthur Lee] being 
introduced, the minister delivered himself to the purport which is contained in a paper 
hereto annexed. Mr. Burke reduced it to writing, and comparing it with Mr. Nelson 
both agreed that the substance of the Conversation and almost the words were recited." 
Burke does not give the date of the interview, but states that it was sought in consequence 
of the declaration of Samuel Adams in Congress (Apr. 15) that he had it " from^ the 
highest authority in America " that Arthur Lee " was not denied the full confidence " of 
the court of Versailles ; that he himself had requested Adams to name his authority, and 
that that gentleman had declined to do so. Burke further remarks that other delegates, 
impelled by the same motives, made more direct application to the minister, among them 
Paca and Drayton (see the Journals, Apr. 30). 



April, I//9 169 

and Mr. Samuel Adams. Perceiving some attachment in them to Mr. A. 
Lee, and apprehending some thing Hke a party respecting him to susbsist 
[sic], and unwilling to say any thing that might be made use of on 
either side, I answered with caution and reserve, and only said in general 
that he v/as considered as a man of parts. ^ that this Idea of him was 
founded more on the reputation he had brought with him from England 
than on any thing he had done amongst us. several attempts were made 
to get me to declare whether he had the full Confidence of the Court 
of France, and I waived answering as much as good manners would per- 
mit, and only said generally that the Congress had confided in him, and 
therefore the Court of France paid him all due respect, in short what- 
ever good I could with Justice say of the Gentleman, I said expressly, 
when Questions were put to me which might be answered against him, 
I observed a reserve and silence from whence a man of sense might 
easily conclude that the answers which must in truth be given to them, 
if I was pressed to it would not be in his favor. I was determined to 
this manner of conducting myself in the conversation by my sense of good 
breeding, and my reluctance to speak evil of any person. 

Mr. Saml. Adams afterwards pressed me closely, and directly to this 
point, finding I could no longer avoid it without rudeness, I determined 
to be candid and explicit with him, and accordingly delivered myself to 
him at large upon the subject to the following Effect.^ 

I must confess that Mr. Arthur Lee was suspected by People of all 
ranks, and even of the highest in France, of being unfriendly both to 
France and America, and the Ministry were solicited to exclude him from 
all Negotiation. The Ministry observed that he was confidentially en- 
trusted by the Congress, and therefore that there ought to be good proof 
of want of Integrity before a resolution should be taken openly to exclude 
him. they for this reason desired to know what proofs could be given, 
the following circumstances were then adduced, and much Insisted on. 
Mr. A. Lee kept up a continued connection with several Principle men 
in England who were intimate with the Cabinet, those persons came fre- 
quently to Paris and conversed with him privately, and unknown to the 
Ministry, and to his collegues. he frequently sent his Secretaries and 
Messengers to London, unknown to his Collegues and the Ministry, and 
they returned again without their business or the result of their Journies 
being known either to his Collegues or the Ministry, he had no Intimate 
in France but Count Loriga * who was a man of high spirit, high for- 
tune, and high birth, and from the misfortune of some malady or disap- 
pointment had conceived great disgust against the French Court, Minis- 
try, and Nation, had removed his Fortune chiefly into England, had con- 
nected himself with Charles Fox, and several of the English Politicians 
and usually railed against France in the manner of the most enraged 
Englishman, this man was generally observed to speak of the Conver- 

2 The words " which he had given proof of rather by what his " are here erased. 

3 See Gerard's statement to Samuel Adams, no. 215, note 3, ante, and the state- 
ment of Richard Henry Lee, no. 217, post. 

* Louis Leon Felicite de Brancas, Comte de Lauraguais. See no. 217, note 4, 
post. 



170 Continental Congress 

sations which Mr. A. Lee had had with the Ministry, and to pubHsh the 
particulars without reserve, also to use the same angry and contemptuous 
Language which Mr. A. Lee had been frequently hear'd to use against 
the French Nation and Ministry. 

The Ministry however considering all these circumstances did not 
think them proof sufficient to warrant their excluding a man who had 
been trusted by Congress from all knowledge of the Negotiations which 

related to them, and the Count ° observed that he found there 

was some things which he had communicated to Mr. A. Lee which he 
found Count Loriga was not informed of, and he therefore Concluded 
that Mr. A. Lee observed some reserve to this Indiscreet man and that 
he might still be safely trusted with some confidence. 

Mr. Laurens also conversed with me on this Subject, and I observed 
the same Conduct as I did in conversing with Mr. Lee and Mr. Adams. 
Mr. Laurens observed it, and told me he saw I was willing to say all the 
good I could but no evil.® 

upon the whole the conclusion that Mr. A. Lee had the full confidence 
of the Court of France could only be drawn from my not denying it possi- 
tively which good breeding, and a reluctance to say any thing which 
might be used by his Enemies, if he had any, against him, prevented me 
from ^ 

[Endorsed:] Conversation with Minister of France in presence of 
General Nelson relative Arthur Lee. 

217. Richard Henry Lee, Statement.^ 

[April 21, 1779?]^ 
At the time that Mr. Adams and R. H. Lee waited on Monsr. Gerard 
the Minister plenipotentiary of France to the United States in order to 
notify him of the time and place of his audience of Congress ^ after the 
immediate business of the Committee was over and other conversation 
being taken up, Mr. Adams observ^ed that he was concerned to find it had 
been reported that Dr. Arthur Lee was Antigallican — Since he was known 
here to have been among the earliest and firmest opposers of G. Britain. 
On which the Minister replied to this effect. I assure you gentlemen it is 
not the opinion of the Court of France that Mr. Lee is Antigallican. 
There have been some idle people who have talked in this manner, and 
the reason was supposed to be, because Dr. Lee was intimate with Count 
Languois [Lauraguais] with whom he came frequently to Court. That 
the Count was a Man of fortune and very talkative, that he was fre- 
quently speaking on American subjects, and the proceedings of the Court 

5 Vergennes. 

^ See no. 215, ante. 

7 The manuscript as it now exists ends here, but a part of it may be missing. See 
the Paca-Drayton Information in the Journals, Apr. 30, and no. 240, post. 

[217]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (in the writing of Richard Henry Lee) ; 
Letters (ed. Ballagh), IL 43 n. 

2 This account by Lee of the interview with Gerard, like that of Laurens, was 
probably drawn up in view of Gerard's statement of Apr. 21 (see no. 215, and note 3, ante). 

3 The committee, consisting of Richard Henry Lee, Samuel Adams, and 
Gouverneur Morris, was appointed July 14, 1778, and reported to Congress July 16. 



April, 1779 171 

relative thereto. But as Men of information discovered that in all the 
Counts conversations he never hit upon the true designs of the Court, so 
they were satisfied that what he said was, merely the conjectures of his 
own mind and could not come from Dr. Lee, who being well informed, 
if he had made communications to the Count, his frequent conversation 
must sometimes have discovered the truth.* 

218. John Jay to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 21 April 1779 
Dear Sir 

Accept my Thanks for the long and friendly Letter of the 14 Inst.^ 
which I have had the pleasure of receiving from you. It was for many 
Reasons grateful to me. I value the Esteem of the wise and virtuous, and 
had wished to know the particulars of Transactions, respecting which 
only vague and unsatisfactory Reports, had come to my Knowledge. 
Delicacy forbad my breaking the Subject to you when here. I was sure 
of your Politeness, but not certain of a more than usual Degree of Con- 
fidence. The latter has now become manifest, and permit me to assure 
you it shall be mutual. 

The Impression attempted to be made, has not taken. It passed without 
a single Remark. Your Friends thought it merited nothing but Silence 
and Neglect. The Same Reason induced me to take no Notice of it in my 
Answer.^ 

I have perused the several Papers with which you favored me. The 
Delicacy, Candor and Temper diffused thro' your Letters, form a strong 
Contrast to the Evasions and Design observable in some others. Gratitude 
ought to have attached a certain Gentleman to the Friend who raised him. 
A spurious Ambition however, has it seems made him your Enemy. This 
is not uncommon. To the Dishonor of human nature the History of Man- 
kind has many Pages filled with similar Instances; and we have little 
Reason to expect that the Annals of the present, or future Times will 
present us with fewer Characters of this Class. On the contrary there is 

* In a letter to the committee of secret correspondence Aug. 18, 1776, Silas Deane 
relates the following from a conversation with Vergennes : " He then told me that the 
Count Laureguais was perhaps a well-meaning man, but not sufficiently discreet for 
such purposes as this; that Mr. Lee (meaning Mr. Arthur Lee, of London) had con- 
fided, he feared, too much in him, and wished me to caution him on the subject, and that 
if I would write to him he would inclose it in a letter of his by a courier that evening" 
(Wharton, Rcv.Dxpl. Corr., II. 118). A letter from Arthur Lee to Deane, July 28, 1776, 
accepting Deane's caution with regard to communicating with Count Lauraguais, is among 
the Auckland MSS. (Stevens Facsimiles, no. 469). A testimonial from Lauraguais, 
Feb. 8, 1778, relative to a conference between Lee and Beaumarchais, was transmitted by 
Lee to the committee of foreign affairs Feb. 15, 1778 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IL 494, 
495). See also the note on " Lamargais ", ibid., 1. 390. Cf. nos. 240, 244, 250, post. 

[218]i Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXL 367; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), II. 268; Corr. of Jay, I. 204. 

2 Washington's letter to Jay Apr. 14 is in Writings (ed. Ford), VII. 393, (ed. 
Sparks), VI. 214; Corr. of Jay, I. 196. 

3 Jay had sent to Washington Apr. 6 an extract of a letter from General Gates 
to the President of Congress Alar. 15 (read in Congress Apr. 5), in which Washington 
thought Gates had sought to make an impression on Congress unfavorable to him. The 
extract of Gates's letter is in Washington's Writings (ed. Sparks), VI. 214 n. 



172 Continental Congress 

Reason to expect they will multiply in the Course of this Revolution. 
Seasons of general Heat Tumult and Fermentation, favor the Produc- 
tion and Growth of some great Virtues, and of many great and little 
Vices. Which will predominate, is a Question which Events not yet pro- 
duced, nor now to be discerned, can alone determine. What Parties and 
Factions will arise, to what Objects be directed, what sacrifices they will 
require and who will be the Victims, are matters beyond the Sphere of 
human Prevision. New Modes of Government not generally understood, 
nor in certain Instances approved, Want of Moderation and Informa- 
tion in the People, Want of Abilities and Rectitude in some of their 
Rulers, a wide Field open for the Operations of Ambitious Men, raised 
from low Degrees to high Stations, and rendered giddy by Elevation and 
the Extent of their Views, Laws dictated by the Spirit of the Times, not 
the Spirit of Justice and liberal Policy, Latitude in Principles as well as 
Commerce, Fluctuation in Manners, and public Counsels, Suspension of 
Education, indifference to Religion, and moral Obligations etc. etc., are 
Circumstances that portend Evils which much Prudence Vigor and Cir- 
cumspection are necessary to prevent or controul. To me there appears 
Reason to expect a long Storm and difficult Navigation. Calm repose 
and the sweets of undisturbed Retirement, appear more distant than a 
Peace with Britain. It gives me Pleasure however to reflect that the 
Period is approaching when we shall become Citizens of a better ordered 
State; and the spending a few troublesome Years of our Eternity in 
doing good to this and future Generations is not to be avoided or re- 
gretted. Things will come Right, and these States will be great and Flour- 
ishing. The Dissolution of our Governments threw us into a political 
Chaos. Time Wisdom and Perseverance will reduce it into Form, and 
give it Strength Order and Harmony. In this work you are (in the Stile 
of one of your Professions) a master builder, and God grant that you may 
long continue a free and accepted one. 

Thus my dear Sir! I have indulged myself in thinking loud in your 
Hearing, it would be an Hybernicism to say in your Sight though in one 
Sense more true. It is more than probable that I shall Frequently do the 
like. Your letter shall be my Apology and the Pleasure resulting from 
Converse with those we esteem, my Motive. I am Dear Sir with perfect 
Esteem and Regard 

Your most obedt. Servt. 

John Jay. 

219. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[April 21, 22, 1779.] 
Wednesday 21st April. Commercial Committee Congress. JMotion 
made per R H Lee and Secconded per Mr. Carmichal, the doors of Con- 
gress should be open some very severe remarks on the impropriety of 
the motion, agree'd to Committ it to 5 vizt. Mr. Lee, Mr. Adams, Mr. 
Lovell, Mr. Laurens and Mr. Ellery. Letter from T. Payne (lay on the 
Table) Order of the Day for foreign Affairs. Report of the Committee 

[219]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



April, I//9 173 

that all the Commissioners be Recall'd amended per seperating the names, 
and that the Name of Dr. B. Franklin Minister Plenopitentary be first 
put. long debate about his Carractor, till 4 oC and then adjournd 

Thursday 22d Apl.- Commercial Comm. Congress Letter from Genl. 
Mullenburgh about Rank Do. from Colonels Van Courtland and Ganse- 
voort abt. do. Referrd to the Board of W^arr. Letter from Genl. Wash- 
ington. Do. from Genl. Green in Town, Referrd to Whipple, Morris and 
Armstrong. Judge McKean.^ 

Order of the Day on foreign affairs, after long debate till Past 4 the 
Question was put whether Dr. Franklin should be Recall'd. Yas and Nas. 
Car'd in the Negative P M Marine Committee 

220. William Henry Drayton to the Secretary of the 
Pennsylvania Council (Timothy Matlack).^ 
Sir, 

In obedience to the order of Council this day published, I do without 
delay return into your hands the first and second Vols, of " State Tracts " 
which I had removed from the State Library, where I had not time to 
use them to my lodgings where, after Congress hours, 1 had time to turn 
them over with attention. 

These are the only books which I ever removed from the Library. If 
I could have thought that such an use of the Books would have given 
offence, I should not have taken such a liberty. However, I shall not 
repeat a conduct which I find is disagreeable.^ 
Eleven, A. M, April 22nd, 1779. 

221. Charles Thomson, Statement.^ 

April 22, 1779, I was called out of Congress Finding Mr Paine at the 
door I asked him what is your pleasure ? On which he said I sent a letter 

2 Samuel Holten's entry in his Diary under Apr. 22 is : "I dined with the Chief 
Justice of the State of Pennsy^. Congress sit late." {Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 254.) 
The chief justice of Pennsylvania was Thomas McKean. 

3 This doubtless means that McKean attended. There is such an entry in the 
Journals, although it stands erased, and McKean is twice recorded as voting that day. 
According to Fell's Diary of Apr. 23 (no. 222, post) the motion of Samuel Adams for 
the cancellation of the entry was defeated, therefore the erasure would appear to be 
an error. With the exception of what must have been a very brief attendance Apr. 22, 
McKean has no record of attendance between Feb. 24 and June 11. 

[220] 1 Pa. Arch., first ser., VII. 328. 

2 Matlack replied the same day : " The State Tracts came to hand. It was not 
the intention of Council to prevent the delegates of Congress from the use of the State 
Library, but so great a number of books being abroad, without any account of them, it 
became absolutely necessary to publish them, in order to call them in. I shall, without 
hesitation, at any time, send you any books you shall have reason for" (ibid., p. 335). 
Following is the council minute referred to : 

" Whereas, divers books belonging to the State Library are missing, and there is reason 
to apprehend that the same are in the hands of persons who have had recourse to the said 
Library, and who have neglected to return them, therefore 

" Ordered, That Public notice be given to all persons having Books belonging to the 
State, to return the same to the Secretary without delay, otherwise the Council will be 
induced to think they are detained from improper motives, and to take further measures 
for the recovery of them" (Pa. Col. Recs., XL 755). 

[22i]i Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 55, f. 59. This memorandum is 
also found in the Journals (ed. Ford), p. 500. 

16 



174 Continental Congress 

yesterday to Congress, is there any answer or have Congress given any 
answer? I answered, No. 

This is all that passed, and on which Mr Paine says. On enquiry of 
Mr Thomson your secretary I find that no answer is given to any of my 
letters, etc.' 

Chas Thomson 
April 2^. 1779 

222. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[April 2S, 24, 1779.] 

Friday April 2^d. Commercial Committee Congress. Mr. S Adams 

moved that Mr. McKean being Enterd on the Journals as attending, might 

be cancelld and a Debate insued agreed to stand. Letter from T Payne, 

and extract inclosed. Read." Letter from Capt. Albouy Read. Committee 

2 A letter from Paine Apr. 21, read in Congress the same day, requested that the 
whole of his letters to Congress pertaining to his case be inserted in the Journals. Thom- 
son's quotation is from a letter of Paine dated Apr. 23, read in Congress the same day. 
The quotation is correct, except that the word " yesterday " should be inserted after 
" enquiry ". Cf. no. 180, note 3, ante. 

[222]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 In a postscript to his letter of Apr. 23 Paine says : " The enclosed is part of an 
original letter which was sent to me about a month ago, and if it is of any use to Congress 
I offer it for their consideration. I never corresponded with the writer, neither have 
I yet answered it." Below this postscript (signed " T. P.") he adds: "I shall be obliged 
to any of the Pennsylvania delegates that will return the enclosed to me." The enclosure 
(which was apparently not returned to him) was probably the fragment in Papers Cont. 
Cong., no. 55, f. 61, and is as follows: 

" Sir, I flatter myself from your writings and conduct that you mean the general good, 
and I am persuaded that must be promoted by the detection and publication of self- 
designing men, whether in or out of congress. There has been always in it a party which 
hath proved a dead weight against the common cause, and who have been aiming to make 
the most and best for themselves in the contest. I wish that every individual of that party 
may be fully known ; and in order to assist you have sent you the following advertisement 

" ' A Necessary Caution 

" ' It is natural for many persons to measure a mans principles by his employment : 
but all citizens have not discernment enough to investigate the designs of artful 
Traitors, who sometimes even pass for the best of Patriots. Their public conduct 
counteracts their real principle, which always speaks its proper language with reserve. 
I beseech you my fellow Citizens, for your own sake, to be on your guard against 
lurking foes. What would be your apprehensions, for instance, should a Honorable 
Deligate of Congress for the State of New York have said — Thank God, we of this 
State hold the keys of the thirteen States in our own hands, and it is in our power, to 
give them up to the king of Great Britain, if they wont secure to us those lands that 
we so justly claim. The majority of the members of Congress are truly worthy of 
great veneration; but remember the fate of Cato's virtuous Senate — A word to the 
wise is suflRcient. 

" ' An Impartial American.' 

" The gentleman who left this Caution in his own handwriting, and meant that it should 
be published ; told me tliat the person referred to was Govr. Morris ; that he said it before 
he was chosen a delegate; and that would Congress call upon him, he (the writer) would 
make oath of it* * he being present and hearing him [this clause is in the margin]. If 
ever it becomes necessary I am at liberty to declare his name. 

" Your last letter (that I have seen), of Feby 13. to Silas Deane has had its effect. The 
eyes of people begin to open. In a large seaport not far from [Boston] they were rather 
in favour of Deane, now they are changing. Can you bare a hint. It was said by one of 
your converts that in the former letters you was somewhat arrogant and took too much 
upon you, but that there was much less of that cast in your last. This is meant in good 



April, 1779 175 

Reported on the Petition from Bermuda for Provision, against granting, 
the Yas and Nas being call'd and 5 for and 5 agst. the Question was lost. 
Recommitted. Report from the Committee appointed to Conferr with 
General Green. Rhode Island Motion for Raising 1500 Men long De- 
bate (J. Dickenson from DeLaware) P. M. IVIarine Committee 

Saturday April 24th. Commercial Committee Congress. Letter from 
the Claimants of the Sloop Active being Read, after Debate, Motion to 
deferr the consideration to the 15th Sepr.^ The Assembly for the State 
of Pensylvania being to meet in August. Board of Warr Report that 
Ewing Commissary of Hides, have his Risignation accepted, and con- 
tinue in Office till another Person be appointed. Reccomitted. 
NB. Dr. Benjn. Franklin Minister Plenoptenary, fixt. 
Silas Deane. 

Arthur Lee. Court of Madrid (Never has been there) 
Ralph Izard Court of Tuscany No use 

Will'm Lee Courts of Viena and Berlin No use 

J Adams Private. 

222). Richard Henry Lee to John Adams.^ 

Philadelphia April 24th 1779.^ 
My dear Sir, 

.... We shall soon transmit our plan for foreign affairs, and in the 
mean time, we are very impatient to hear from you, not having done so 
for three months past. We hope Spain will join France which will indeed 
make decisive work. We are preparing for the ensuing Campaign with 
all possible vigor, but the enemies and our troops yet remain in quarters 
this way, and it seems probable that the former will be glad to continue 
so all the Summer as they have not more than 10 or 12,000 men both in 
York and Rhode Island, which force, if collected, would not be sufficient 
to take the field. The enemy has made a successful impression on Georgia 
this winter, but I consider this in the same light of mere temporary effect, 
as we have seen all their former operations. Measures are taking to re- 
move them from that State, and tho the Climate wars against us, it will 
not fight for them.^ I see, with you, the importance of the Confederation, 
and I am not without hope that it will, eer long, be completed. All have 
agreed except Marj^land, and that State it is thought will come in at the 
next meeting of their Assembly, which will be in a few months. The 

part, and I trust will be so taken. I am glad to find you have got so many secrets, but you 
have not got all, or reserve them for a further fire. If you know not what I refer to." 

The sheet has been severed at this point, leaving only a few of the upper strokes of 
letters of the next line. The place-name in the last paragraph was originally inserted by 
the writer and then erased, but " Boston " can be made out with a fair degree of certainty. 
The writer of the letter has not been identified. 

3 See nos. 57 (note 2), 60, ante, and nos. 234, 611, post. In the Pennsylvania 
Packet of Apr. 22 "An American" (Gouverneur Morris) discusses the case at some 
length, chiefly from the point of view of the law of nations. 

[223]! Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 46. 

2 Samuel Holten records in his Diary for Apr. 24, " Congress adjourned at 
2 o'Qock". Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 254. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 10, 13, 17, May 7. Cf. nos. 200, 203, ante, 233, 243. 252, 
post. 



176 Continental Congress 

Assembly of Virginia have directed their Delegates to move Congress 
to fix a day for closing this great Compact between such of the States as 
have consented, allowing either a given or indefinite time, as to Congress 
shall seem best, for dissenting States to become Members. We shall 
shortly move Congress for this purpose.'* The Currency is an object of 
the last importance. Tax we do, and very largely indeed, but this is still 
inadequate. Some aid, by foreign Loan, is indispensable by way of ab- 
sorbing the immensity of the Mass. Two Millions of pounds Sterling 
applied this way would, with the aid of Taxes, so restore us as to put the 
remainder of our Money on a good foundation, and then, Taxation with 
oeconomy will do the rest.^ .... 

224. The President of Congress (John Jay) to the Minister 

OF France.^ 

To The Sieur Gerard 

Philadelphia 25th April 1779 
Sir, 

I shall do myself the honor of communicating your Favor of this day, 
together with the memorial accompanying it, to Congress this morning. 

The Importance of the Subject, as well as the Respect due to the Ap- 
plications of their good and great Ally, will, I am persuaded, induce Con- 
gress to place it among the first Objects of their Attention.^ 

225. John Jay to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 26 April 1779 
Dear Sir, 

The Questions contained in your favor of the ^ Day of April 

Inst, are as important, as the Manner of introducing them is delicate. 

While the maritime Affairs of the Continent continue under the Direc- 
tion of a Committee they will be exposed to all the Consequences of Want 
of System Attention and Knowledge. The Marine Committee consists 
of a Delegate from each State. It fluctuates, new Members constantly 
coming in and old ones going out. Three or four indeed have remained 
in it from the Beginning, and have a proportionate Influence, or more 
properly Interest in it. Very few of the Members understand even the 
State of our naval Afl:"airs or have Time or Inclination to attend to them. 

■* See the Journals, May 20, 21, and nos. 285, 291, post. 

^ See the Journals, Apr. 22, 27, and index, Finance. 
[224]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 94. 

2 What Jay here refers to is no doubt Gerard's communication of Apr. 24, accom- 
panied by a memorial of Don Juan de Miralles dated Apr. 21, which were read in Congress 
Apr. 24 (see the Journals). They are in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 134-136. As 
Apr. 25 was Sunday, Jay's letter should probably bear the date Apr. 24. Nevertheless, in 
the letter-book it follows a letter of Apr. 25 to Washington, which was, without question, 
written on Sunday. 

[225]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXIL 41 ; Letters to Washington 
(ed. Sparks), IL 283; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 137; Corr. of Jay, I. 209. 

2 The draft of Washington's letter is dated Apr. 23. It is printed in IVritings (ed. 
Ford), VIL 415, (ed. Sparks), VL 227; Corr. of Jay, I. 207; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
III. 132. 



April, ly/p 177 

But why is not this System changed ? It is in my opinion convenient to 
the Family compact.^ The commercial Committee is equally useless. A 
proposition was made to appoint a commercial Agent for the States under 
certain Regulations. Opposition was made. The ostensible Reasons were 
various. The true Reason was its Interference with a certain commer- 
cial Agent in Europe, and his Connections.* 

You will if I mistake not find Mr. Gerard disposed to be open and 
communicative. He has acquired an extensive knowledge of our Affairs. 
I have no Reason to believe he will use it to our Prejudice. There is as 
much Intrigue in this State House as in the Vatican but as little Secrecy 
as in a boarding school. It mortifies me on this occasion to reflect that 
the Rules of Congress on the subject of Secrecy which are far too gen- 
eral and perhaps for that Reason more frequently violated, restrain me 
from saying twenty things to you which have ceased to be private.^ 

The State of our Currency is really serious, where or by what means 
the Progress of its Depreciation will be prevented is uncertain. The 
Subject is delicate, but the Conduct of some men really indicates at least 
great Indifference about it. It will not be many Days before measures 
having a great tho not immediate Influence on this Subject will be either 
adopted or rejected.*' I shall then have an opportunity of being more par- 
ticular. I am my dear Sir with perfect Esteem and Regard 

Your most obt. Servant 

John Jay. 

226. Henry Laurens, Notes.^ 

[April 26, 1779.] 
" Mr. Paca's motion for enquiring of Mr. Gerard concerning the Con- 
fidence of the Courts of Fr. and Spain in A. Lee Esqr." ^ . . . . 

3 That is, the interests of the Lee familj'. 

■* The "certain commercial Agent " was William Lee. The proposition to appoint 
a commercial agent for the states is not recorded in the Journals, but see the motion of 
Meriwether Smith Mar. 29 (Journals, ed. Ford, p. 390). Efforts had indeed been made as 
early as the autumn of 1776 to place not only the commercial but all other executive busi- 
ness in the hands of others than members of Congress, and Smith's motion was but 
symptomatic of the dissatisfaction which had manifested itself from time to time with 
the prevailing method of doing executive business by means of cumbersome committees 
of Congress (see vol. IL, p. 211 n., vol. IIL, pp. 168, 239, 379, 403, 476). 

5 Washington had written : " The rumor of the camp is, that Monsieur Gerard is 
about to return to France. Some speak confidently of its taking place. If this be a fact, the 
motives doubtless are powerful ; as it will open a wide field for speculation, and give our 
enemies, whether with or without real cause, at least a handle for misrepresentation and 
triumph." The rumor doubtless arose from Gerard's letter to Congress Mar. 31 [30] 
(Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., IIL 106). See nos. 103, note 5, 167, note 4, ante. Con- 
cerning the visit that Gerard was about to make to headquarters, see no. 227, post. 

^ See the Journals, Apr. 22, 27, and index. Finance. 
[226]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Promiscuous Letters, vol. XXVIII, no. 5. 

- Following this heading, Laurens has given an outline of the preamble to the 
" Motion of Mr. Paca, seconded by Mr. Burke ", embedded in the Paca-Drayton Informa- 
tion found in the Journals under Apr. 30 (p. 534), to which he has appended this note, 
" the above is the substance of the preamble, the following is verbatim the resolution 
moved for ". He then quotes the resolution, " That the Sieur Gerard be requested ", 
etc. (Journals, p. 535). The date attached to this item of the Paca-Drayton Information 
is "April 28, 1779 " ; but the date attached to these notes of Laurens, and more particularly 
the further notes of proceedings found under Apr. 30 (no. 240, post), show clearly that 
Paca's motion was made Apr. 26. 



178 Continental Congress 

26 April 1779. Moved by Mr. Paca. Secon'd Mr. Drayton or Mr. 
Burke or both long debated. Congress adjourned. 

I had moved to put the Question, w^ithout debate and I called for Yeas 
and Nays. 

[Endorsed:] Mr. Paca's Motion for inquiring of Mr. Gerard con- 
cerning the confidence of the Courts of Fr. and Spain, in A Lee Esqr, 
and Mr. Gerard's Letter to Congress on appointment of foreign Ministers. 

Concerted, the Motion founded on the Letter. 

Govt. Morris. " Some Gent, have enquired who should succeed Mr. 
Lee if he is recaled 

this enquiry will come time enough after we shall have recaled him." 

227. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO GeORGE WASHINGTON.^ 

Philada. 26th April 1779. 
Dr Genl. 

You must permit me most heartily to congratulate you upon the very 
important Intelligence which Monsr. Gerard will confidentially communi- 
cate to you. It is and indeed ought to be a Secret even from Congress 
for which I need give you no Reasons as you are but too well acquainted 
with them. Measures have already been taken for obtaining the necessary 
Supplies which the Minister will detail to you. These you will undoubt- 
edly assist as far as may fall within your Line.^ .... 

You will see the Necessity of opening yourself fully to M. Gerard upon 

your designs and taking with him all proper Measures You will 

have the Advantage on this Occasion at least to be sure of your Secrets 
and indeed such Steps may be taken that in the Ignorance of the Enemy 
as to the State and Probable State of Things in the West Indies it will 
be impossible for them to develop the Combination of Incidents so dis- 
tinct as those which may be necessary at once to fulfill the Object in View 
and blind them 

228. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia 26th April 1779 
My Dear Sir, 

.... The successes of the Warren, Ranger and Queen of France has 
given such credit to the M. C.^ that we have been able without any diffi- 

[227] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXIL 43; Letters to Wash- 
ington (ed. Sparks), IL 281. 

2 This letter was conveyed to Washington by Gerard. See the reply May 8 
{Writings, ed. Ford, VIL 449, ed. Sparks, VL 249) ; also Washington to Greene Apr. 24 
(ibid., p. 229), and Washington to Gerard May 1,together with extracts from letters 
of Gerard to Vergennes {ibid.,_ pp. 237-241). Greene had written to Washington Apr. 22 
of Gerard's intended visit, again Apr. 24, and on the 26th he wrote : " I dined yesterday 
with the Minister of France, and find him still determined to set out for camp to-morrow. 
He sets out at seven in the morning, and intends lodging at Trenton. On Wednesday he 
will be in camp, if no accident attends him " {Letters to Washington, ed. Sparks, IL 273, 
279). Upon his return Gerard presented some memorials to Congress touching the ques- 
tions involved. See Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 156, 161 ; cf. nos. 253, 255, 259, post. 

[228]^ Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 663. 
2 Marine committee. 



April, 777P 179 

culty to obtain a grant of 500,000 for the Eastern Department which will 
be sent forward as soon as possible, this sum together with the proceeds 
of the prizes will I hope carry you through the summer. I hope some of 
those prizes will get into your hands. ^ 

I am sincerely yours 

Wm. Whipple. 

229. Richard Henry Lee to Francis Lightfoot Lee.^ 

My dear brother Vnii^K. April 26, 1779 

.... We go slowly on in foreign affairs. It has however been re- 
solved not to recall Dr. Franklin, and so far the party have failed, be- 
cause the plan was to recall them all to make room.^ This day I have 
beared all the artillery discharged with great vehemence against Dr. Lee, 

and prodigious aid is derived from the whispers of G d.^ A doctrine 

quite new in the history of politics is broached now, which is, that it be- 
comes the dignity, and consists with the interests of Sovereign powers 
to consult foreign Courts, and less than that, foreign Ministers who the 
first shall send to represent them abroad. And this altho such resident 
Minister shall clearly and unequivocally engage in faction, and party 
doings, to support a Man whose conduct is insupportable. What will such 
things lead to in the end ? I see nothing but disgrace, contempt and ruin. 
Perhaps the Man * whose understanding, zeal, and spirit, prevented the 
1 2th article from being closed upon this Country may have been, on that 
account not quite so agreeable, but surely we have no cause to complain of 
him — and to this may be added that an host of plunderers have been dis- 
concerted in the Mercantile way, which has raised a prodigious cry — But 
this Great evidence ' has given it from under his hand that the Court of 
France. did not adopt the sentiments of those who represented Dr. Lee as 
antigallican or favoring England and being averse to the Alliance. Mr. 
Laurence said in Congress, the whole convinced him that Dr. Lee was an 
honest, faithful, able and diligent Servant of the United States 

230. The Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the 
Massachusetts Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

^^y Philadelphia April 26th, 1779 

The repeated accounts which are brought us concerning the Want of 
Bread in Massachusetts Bay have induced us to promote the Business on 

3 Such a grant was made May 11. Cf. the marine committee to the navy board of 
the Eastern department Apr. 27. Paullin, Out-Letters, II. 67. 

[229]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VI. 52; ibid. Sparks MSS., LIV. 243; Letters 
(ed. Ballagh), II. 49. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 22. 

3 Gerard. In his letter to WilHam Shippen (no. 2io, ante, Apr. 24) Lee alludes to 
Gerard as the "little great whispering Politician". 

■* Arthur Lee. See his letter to Franklin and Deane Jan. 30, 1778, in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 481. Cf. ibid., pp. 482, 483, 485, 497 (Izard to Laurens, Feb. 16). See 
also these Letters, vol. III., no. 590. 

^ That is, Gerard. The allusion is to his statement to Samuel Adams (see no. 215, 
note 3, ante). 

[230]! Mass. Arch., CC. 415. 



180 Continental Congress 

which Mr. Dugan was sent by the Board of War, so far as to put into his 
Hands the remaining Part of the Money which we obtained from Con- 
gress on the 5th of this Month. He represented to us that he was at a 
stand in his purchases for Want of current Money, and that his Prospects 
of obtaining Flower were now good. It was really on the Score of his 
Representation of the unserviceableness of the Notes which he brought 
from Boston that we obtained the Grant from Congress, and we hope that 
our after proceedings will not disappoint any Views of the honorable 
Assembly which may have originated from the Information we gave of 
the Money in the treasury here being liable to their Order. We have 
thought that we were conducting for the best, under a Pressure of Sev- 
eral Necessities.^ .... 

Your most obedt. etc. 

S. Adams 
E. Gerry 

J. LOVELL 
S. HOLTEN 

231. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[April 26, 27, 1779.] 
Monday 26. Commercial Committee Congress. A Number of Letters 
Read etc. Order of the Day, Whether Mr. Arthur Lee should be Recall'd, 
which Occasiond very warm Debates indeed, continued till 5 oClock. 
P M Marine Committee. (Dr. Wetherspoon and Dr. Scudder) 

Tuesday 2ytJi. Com'l Committee Congress. Petition from General 
Arnold Letters from S. Deane, Genl. Gates, Genl. Heath, General Wash- 
ington, order on the Treasury for 2000 Guineas Letter from Lt. Hale,^ 
Committed Auditors 8 D's per Day. Jos Howell Nominated This day 
too much like many others, spent in Debate to answer no valuable Purpose. 
P M. Marine Committee 

232. James Duane to George Washington.^ 

Philada. 27th April 1779 
Dear Sir 

I beg Leave to recommend the enclosed papers transmitted by Gover- 
nour Clinton to your Excellency's Attention. As you have full power to 
conduct the Exchange of Prisoners it is needless to lay them before Con- 
gress. Permit me to request your Excellency to favour Governour Clin- 
ton with the Directions you may think proper to give on this Subject.^ 

2 See no. 205, ante. The delegates had written to the council Apr. 24 : " Mr. Purvi- 
ance informed us that Gentlemen in this City were desirous of purchasing the Draughts of 
his Brothers on the Board of War; but we thought it more eligible to order the Bills 
to be negotiated by the Treasurer, lest they should be presented to the Board of War at 
a Time when they were not in Cash to answer the Draughts. We hope for the Concur- 
rence of the Assembly in this Affair." (Boston Pub. Lib., Chamberlain Coll., E. 8, 42.) 
[231]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 34, note 2, ante. 
[232]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXIL 63. 

2 See Clinton's letter to the delegates, Apr. 11 (Clinton Papers, IV. 710), and 
Duane to Clinton, Apr. 27 (ibid., p. 761). Washington replied May 3 (draft in Wash- 
ington Papers). See nos. 273, 277, /'o.y^ 



April, 1779 181 

233, Richard Henry Lee to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia April 28th, 1779 
Sir, 

The inclosed letter from the Lieutenant Governor of South Carolina, 
committed by Congress to the consideration of a committee of three, ^ and 
which, in the name of the committee I have now the honor to inclose your 
Excellency, will shew you the extremity to which our affairs in that quar- 
ter are driving. The Committee find a choice of difficulties in this business, 
because the reliance on Militia from Virginia having in great degree 
failed, there appears no remedy but such as will lessen the force you had 
a right to expect from Virginia for reenforcing the main army. We 
have no reason to suppose that a greater force than 1400 militia, perhaps 
not more than 1000 will go from North Carolina, and of the 1000 ordered 
by the government of Virginia, we learn that not more than 350 have 
been obtained. In this state of things, the Committee submit to your Ex- 
cellencies wisdom, and better knowledge of military affairs and intended 
operations, the following measures. 

That the 2000 new Recruits now in Virginia be forthwith regimented 
and ordered to join the Southern Army. That a sum of money be sent to 
Colo. Bland, with orders to reinlist the men of his regiment, and proceed 
without delay to the same destination. If Sir, this plan should meet your 
approbation, the Committee are of opinion that the sooner it were carried 
into execution the better. 

Your Excellency will be pleased to return the inclosed letter, and the 
Committee wish to be favored with your opinion of the eligibility of this 
measure, and if there is a probability of its being soon executed ; or what 
additional or other method may occur to your Excellency for relief of the 
southern States, which we find by conversing with General Howe (who is 
just arrived here) demands speedy and powerful assistance. 

I have the honor to be, with the highest sentiments of esteem and re- 
gard. Sir your Excellencies most obedient and very humble Servant 

Richard Henry Lee 

234. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[April 28, 29, 1779.] 
Wednesday Apl. 28th. Com'l Committee Congress Letter from Ber- 
muda for Indian Corn, Ref'd to the same Committee as the last. Memorial 
from General Green on behalf of himself and Deputys Referrd to the 
Committed [.yic] appointed to Confer with General Green Memorial of the 
Sloop Active. This Sloop gives a great deal of trouble, committed to the 
15 Sepr.^ Letter from General Arnold, relating to Papers to be furnishd 
him for his Tryall. A Letter from Govr. Reed, complaining exceedingly 

[233]! Library ot Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXIL 87; Letters (ed. Ballagh), 
IL 52. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 26, May 7, and nos. 243, 252, post. A draft of Wash- 
ington's reply to this letter, Apr. 30, is in the Library of Congress, Washington Papers. 
[234] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 
- See no. 57, note 2, and no 222, ante. 



182 Continental Congress 

of Congress with Respect to their 111 useage as a State, and neglect shewn 
them in a Particular manner, and the Old afifair of Genl. Arnold Renewd 
a very serrious Letter indeed. Motion to Committ it, to the same Commit- 
tee who held the Conferrence with the Committee of Council and Assem- 
bly before.' P M Commercial Committee met by order to consult abt. 
Purchasing a Cargoe of Goods from France NB One Invoice 45 and 
another 60 for i advance. 

Thursday Apl. 2Qth. Com'l Committee. Congress. The chief of this 
day spent in consideration on the Subject of Finance, and to Tax largely. 
P M. Thunder Lightening, Hail and Rain Went to Marine Committee 
No Members. 

235. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Philada. April 29th 1779 
Sir • 

As the Books and Papers of the Com'tee of foreign affairs remain on 
the Table of Congress to be used in the public Deliberations which still 
continue upon a fruitful Subject begun last September you do not at this 
Time receive any official Letter from that Committee. But I will not omit 
the good opportunity by Mr. Smith, ^ Son of the Commissioner of the 
Loan Office here, to assure you individually of my Regards. I hope you 
have long before now received yr. Credentials as minister Plenipotentiary 
from the United States. There was a disagreable Lentor in the public 
Proceedings at first, and in the sending forward yr. Testimonials after- 
wards. From this Source it is, I suppose, that confidential Communica- 
tions have not been made to you by the french Court, so as to furnish 
matter for yr. Dispatches to Congress, while such have been made to us 
in another Channel. Sir, it behoves you much to let yr. Constituents hear 
often from you, lest it sh'd be fully credited among us that there is but one 
Man in the Universe that can be pleasing to the Court of France as a Min- 
ister from hence.' The Recall of Mr. Deane has given Birth to very singu- 
lar Writings and measures. You have escaped all considerable Injuries, 
tho you have been comprehended in some Propositions not altogether 
honorary, as you will shortly see by the Journals which are to be printed 
weekly. I ought, however, now, to give you the Satisfaction of knowing 
that the Question about yr. Recall was only a Kind of necessary Conse- 
quence flowing from the Adoption of a Fact on which to found a Princi- 
ple that might destroy the Commissions of Messrs. Lees and Izard par- 
ticularly Mr. A Lee's.* 

In my Opinion the improper triplicate Appointment for the Court of 
France produced, in very natural Consequence, ^' Suspicions and Ane- 

3 See nos. 58, 95, 143, 162, 180, 183, 208, ante. 
[235] 1 Univ. of Pa., Franklin Papers, III. 15 (copy, in the writing of Lovell) ; Harvard 
Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VL 54; ibid., Sparks MSS., LIV. 245; Library of Congress, Papers 
Cont. Cong., LXXIX. i (letter-book copy). 

2 Samuel Smith. See the postscript to this letter and no. 533, post. The com- 
missioner of the loan office in Pennsylvania was Thomas Smith. 

3 The allusion is to Silas Deane. 
■* See the Journals, Apr. 15-30. 



April, 1779 183 

mosities ". But these Evils ought not to be made Reasons for depriving 
the public of the Services of Men whose great Abilities Integrity and In- 
dustry may be exerted in distinct Trusts without the like future Incon- 
veniences. Disappointed Views have generated an Implacability against 
the falsely supposed Cause of that Disappointment. Nothing short of the 
Ruin of the Reputation of Arthur Lee will glut the malice of a party 
formed against him by that Spirit of assassinating Innuendo which so 
eminently governs his Arch Enemy. 

I expect to be able in a few days to communicate to you the Decission 
of Congress in Regard to the other Gentlemen, and some particular In- 
structions for your own Government. I refer you to the Gazettes for a 
general State of military Proceedings, and to common Fame for the ill 
Condition of our Currency. 

I am Sir 

Your most humb. Servt. 

James Lovell 
Honble. Doctr Franklin 

P. S. Sepr. 17 I have only this day heard of the Capture of Mr. 
Smith, and I do not find by my Memoranda that I have sent any copy 
of what he carried, which I find to be thus minuted at the time of his sail- 
ing, Apr 30th. 



4 plic : 7I . 

3 plic: SJ^^P^^"^^" 



my own To J Adams 28th 

To A Lee 28 

To Doct. Franklin 29 

To Jona. Williams 29 

Mr. Jay's To Doct. Franklin 

To Marq. 'Fayette 

Pamphlets and Gazettes to the Doctor 

236. Henry Laurens, Notes of Proceedings.^ 

Thursday 29th April, 1779. 

" Resolved therefore that these L^nited States be called upon in addition 
to the sum required by Resolution of Congress of the 2nd January last for 

their respective quotas of Million of Dollars to be paid into the 

Continental Treasury before the 1st January next." vizt.^ 

Motions were made for filling the blank 1st with fifteen, 2nd eighteen, 
3rd thirty. The question to be put on the highest sum. 

I rose and said Sir, the largest sum is to be put to question first, it is a 
very large sum. I perceive I have no Colleague present, and I think it 
necessary to consult my Colleague before I giv'e my voice for taxing my 

[236]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XV. (copy); ibid., vol. XXVII. (Congres- 
sional Letters). 

2 jhis resolution appears in the report of the board of treasury (no. IV.), printed 
in the Journals under Apr. 22. See also the Journals, May 19, 21. The other manuscript 
of these notes begins with the paragraph " I rose and said ", but above it is this note, 
" See overleaf the introduction taken from the treasury report ". 



184 Continental Congress 

Constituents so heavily as their quota of thirty Millions will be. I will not 
take an advantage of my Colleague by calling for the yeas and nays in his 
absence. I shall therefore move in right of a state for postponing the de- 
termination of this question, unless the house will agree to postpone the 
question more generally. 

Having seen my Colleague a little time before take his hat and Cane, I 
apprehended he had gone home, but it appeared he was only in the Library 
Room where he was presently informed by J. P ^ of what had passed, he 
came in and sat by me, I repeated what I had said, he replied I leave that 
matter entirely to you and shall aquiesce in whatever you determine, you 
know I dont understand these matters so well as you do. then retired 
again to the Library. I rose again and addressed the Chair : 

Sir, 

I have had some conference with my Colleague in the business before 
us. He is pleased to do me the honor of leaving the matter wholly to me, 
and as it is a subject of great importance, and the transaction devolved 
upon myself, I find it incumbent on me to deliberate and to take time for 
reflection^ more especially when I consider the present circumstances of 
my Country. I could for these reasons wish the further consideration of 
this article may be postponed, it is near our time for adjourning. We 
may fill up the remainder by reading public Letters and giving away a few 
Millions under the Report of the Board of Treasury. 

The consideration postponed and the House adjourned.^ 

[Endorsed :] Anecdotes on Mr. Drayton's manners on questions for 
Taxation. Apr. 29. 

[The text in vol. XXVH. bears the following endorsement and memo- 
randa:] Minutes on the Motion for Taxing the States 15, 18, or 30 Mil- 
lions Dollars. 

Vide Report of Board of Treasury, Art. No. 4. 

Vide additional Note 19th May within. 

237. Samuel Adams to Samuel Cooper.^ 

Philade. April 29, 1779 
My dear Friend 

.... No Terms have yet been proposd by Britain. She possibly may 
offer them soon, and her proposals possibly may be insidious and inad- 
missible. I do believe she is at this Moment employing her secret Emis- 
saries to find out the Disposition of America and what would be her Ulti- 
matum. Should not the People then speak the Language which becomes 
them and assure her that after so virtuous and successful a Struggle they 
are determind to demand enough for the Purpose of securing their own 
internal and external Happiness. This is the Aim of the Revolution and 

3 John Penn, delegate from North Carolina. 

4 Cf. the Journals, Apr. 29. Further notes on the same subject, JMay 19 and 
June 12, are printed under their respective dates (nos. 282, 340, post). 

[2Sj]'^ Writmgs (ed. Gushing), IV. 148; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 



April, J//P 185 

the Extent of the \\'^ishes of our good and great Ally, who I dare affirm, 
is invariably determind not to seperate his Interest from that of America, 
and to support the Cause of the United States as his own. Our Happiness 
depends upon Independence. To be prosperous we must have an extensive 
Trade. This will require a respectable Navy. Our Ships must be mannd, 
and the Source of Seamen is the Fishery, x^mong those who ought to see 
the Importance of the Fishery, I am affraid there are some who think that 
in insisting upon that we should insist upon too much. Nova Scotia and 
Canada would be a great and permanent Protection to the Fishery. But 
these, say some, are not Parts of the United States, and what Right should 
we have to claim them ? The Cession of those Territories would prevent 
any Views of Britain to disturb our Peace in future and cut off a Source 
of corrupt British Influence which issuing from them, might diffuse Mis- 
chiefe and Poison thro the States. Will not then the Possession of Nova 
Scotia and Canada be necessary, if we mean to make Peace upon pacifick 
Principles? If we are to have no overtures this year, and Providence 
blesses us with the Spirit of Enterprise, would it not be better for us, pro- 
vided it be practicable, to wrest those Places from the Hands of the 
Enemy than trust to the Uncertainty of Treaty? I confess we have a 
Choice of Difficulties. I pray God we may surmount them all! None 
however reach the Pinnacle of Eminence and Glory but the virtuous and 
brave. Adieu my dear Sir. I hope to see and live with you shortly ; but I 
shall expect another Letter from you before I leave this Place. 

238. Frederick Frelinghuysen to the Speaker of the 
New Jersey Assembly.^ 

Trenton, April 29th, 1779. 
Sir, 

Agreeable to the appointment of the Legislature, I repaired to Phila- 
delphia in the month of January last, and have since that time attended 
Congress, until the public business entrusted to my care in the county of 
Somerset rendered my absence unavoidable. 

It is needless for me to remind the honorable Legislature, that I did 
with great reluctance accept of the appointment of a delegate for this 
state in Congress. I was then sufficiently sensible that the trust was too 
important for my years and abilities. I am now fully convinced that I 
should do injustice to my country did I not decline that service. 

In doing this, I am conscious to myself that I am actuated merely by 
motives for the public good, well knowing that whatever may be my 
abilities, they will l3e useless to the state in the supreme council of the 
Nation, and that the other appointments with which the Legislature of 
New Jersey have been pleased to honor me in the county of Somerset, are 
more than sufficient to employ my whole attention. 

I might add some other circumstances which render my situation there 
peculiarly disagreeable, but I fear the evils which might arise from my 
opening myself on this subject, would more than counterbalance any good 

[238] 1 N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 155. 



186 Continental Congress 

it might probably answer. I trust, however, the representatives of New 
Jersey will not think it impertinent in one who has faithfully endeavored 
to serve his country, to declare to them that the interests of America 
loudly call on them for extraordinary vigilance. 

I shall say nothing respecting the amazing expense of attending Con- 
gress, and my inability to support it. I am determined not to complain 
till the last farthing of my little property is spent in the service of my 
country; and then, perhaps, I shall have the consolation to see poverty 
esteemed as the characteristic of an honest man. 

I conclude with observing, I am particularly moved to wish for a re- 
lease from the appointment, as it has been hinted to me that my colleague 
Mr. Fell is exceedingly uneasy that he is so often left alone to manage the 
weighty affairs of state, and that he has even expressed himself with 
warmth and temper on the subject in his letters to the Legislature.^ I 
shall only say I am ready at all times to give an account of my conduct to 
those who appointed me. 

I trust the Legislature will take into consideration and gratify my re- 
quest of being excused from the farther attendance at Congress. 

I am, sir, your most obedient and humble serv't, 

Fred'k Frelinghuysen. 
Hon'ble Caleb Camp, Speaker of the Assembly. 

239. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Friday April ^oth 1779. Commercial Committee Congress. Order of 
the day, on the Report of the Committee on foreign affairs. Motion for 
Recalling Mr. Arther Lee. On which Mr. Paca and Mr. Drayton moved 
for a Paper being Read and Enter'd, containing a Conferrence with Mr. 
Gerrard, concerning Mr. Lees Conduct at the Court of France and Spain. 
Objection being made caused long and warm debate, on both sides. I 
moved for an amendment instead of Recalling Mr. Lee, to have his Com- 
mission Vacated, debate lasted till near 5 oClock.^ P M Marine Com- 
mittee. 

240. Henry Laurens, Notes.^ 

[April 30, 1779.] 
On the 30th April Mr, Paca observed that congress had agreed to re- 
ceive such information respecting our Commissioners as any Member 
might have to offer and had called upon the Members to give in informa- 
tion, that he had in his hand important information respecting the char- 
acter of the Honble. A Lee Esquire and desired the House to receive it. 

- See nos. 159, 160, anie. 
[239]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Samuel Holten's entry for Apr. 30 is, " Congress spent this day debating a 
motion for recalling Doc'r Lee ". Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 255. 

[240] ^S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Promiscuous Letters, vol. XXVIIL, no. 30 
(drafts). 



April, lyyp 187 

after much debate the Paper was read and laid on the Table.^ it was re- 
marked that the consideration of that Paper (Signed Will'm Paca, Will'm 
H'y Drayton) could not take place immediately, because the order of the 
day was " to proceed upon the report of th-e Committee of /j on foreign 
affairs immediately after reading the Journals "/ and that until we had 
entered upon that business no question but for committing or postponing 
could be put, that when we had entered upon it, the Gentn. might with 
propriety call for the reading their information as apposite to the subject. 
After various opinions had been delivered in tedious debates, it was 
agreed to proceed upon the Report The President said " the Question be- 
fore you Gentn. is whether you will recall Mr. Lee ". Mr. Laurens re- 
plied, " No Mr. President, the question is, whether the Sieur Gerard shall 
be requested to give information etc. upon the Motion made on Monday 
the 26th Inst by the Honble. Mr. Paca, which had been under debate near 
two Hours when adjournment was called for and carried, what did we 
adjourn from? surely from prosecuting the business then before us to 
another day. the day is now arrived, we must resume the consideration 
of that business ". the President acquiesed. Remarkes were then made 
on the impropriety of the conduct of the Gentlemen who had now pro- 
duced information from Mr. Gerard on a certain point, while a question 
was pending, whether such information should be applied for? 

N. B. . 

Mr. Paca's motion was made on the 26th the House adjourned that 
day at ^ p. 4 P M Mr. Gerard went out of Town at 9 oC. A M the 27th. 

the information therefore which Mr. Drayton and M>r. Paca had ob- 
tained from Mr. Gerard must have been delivered them between 5^ p 4 
Monday afternoon and 9. Tuesday IMorning .... 

the Gentlemen, when they heard Mr. Laurens call for the adjourned 
motion on the 26th Moved for leave to withdraw the said adjourned mo- 
tion the House in general consented. Mr. Laurens objected and called 
for the Yeas and Nays the President said, as not one whole State ob- 
jected, the motion might be with drawn. Mr. Laurens denied the doctrine, 
he said it could not be determined who objected until the House should be 
called over, that he had an indubitable right to the Yeas and Nays, which 
would bring the motion on the Book and that such measures, such extra- 
ordinary measures ought to appear to our Constituents. Mr. President 
made some little objection to the right of Yeas and Nays. M-r. Laurens, 
who was by no means surprised at the President's leanings, appealed to 
the Rules, and said nothing less than violence would * deprive him of his 
right and that he trusted there would be no appearance of violence in 
that House. Mr. Duane rose and delivered a soft intriguing address, 

' The Paca-Drayton Information is in the Journals under Apr. 30. It is also 
found in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Dcane Papers, III. 437; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., III. 147. There are numerous manuscript copies, e. g., Univ. of Va., Lee Papers; 
Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VI. 55; ih\d; Sparks MSS., LIV. 246; S. C. Hist. Soc., 
Laurens Papers; N. Y. Hi^t Soc, Gates Papers, XIV.; Paris, Arch. Afif. Etr., E. U., 
10: 60. Cj. nos. 215-217, ante, and nos. 244, 250, post. 

^ See the Journals, Apr. 28. 

* The other manuscript in the Laurens Papers has " could ". 



188 Continental Congress 

talked of leaving Congress, not because such infamous measures had been 
adopted and pursued respecting the application to the French Minister, 
but because, such measures were likely to be properly held up to public 
view. Mr. Laurens said since he saw Gentlemen were distressed, he was 
inclined to be good-natured and would not insist upon the Yeas and Nays, 
the question was then simply put for leave to zmthdrazv.^ Mr. Drayton's 
voice was heard in a Bravado, No. his sincerity may be determined by his 
first opinion for withdrazving , and by the President's declaration that 
there was not one whole state against it. the Motion was withdrawn. 
a true Copy of it is however preserved, and accompanies this Memoire; ** 
Mr. Drayton who has been a very principal actor in these illicit practices 
with the french Minister [end of MS.]^ 

241. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philad. 1st May 1779. 
My Dear Sir 

You may wish to know the Proceedings on your last Letter repeating 
your determination to resign. They were concise. The President read 
your Letter among the other dispatches I had not then mine from you 
on the same Subject : nor was I in Congress. Indeed not a member was 
apprized of it. On reading your Letter a motion was made to comply 
with your Request: It was seconded, and passed without a single Re- 
mark or Dissent. Thus you have your Wishes." I feel a strong temptation 
to expostulate with you on this Subject — but what End will it answer? 
My Views and Expectations which were honourable for yourself and 
important to my Country are disappointed: and I own, and feel, the 
Superiority of the Planet which governs you, over my feeble Star. Here 
let it rest. It gives me, however, great Consolation that you can still be 
highly serviceable to your Country, even with respect to military Opera- 
tions : and eminently so in the Cabinet : In the military by advice, and 
private Exertions ; In Council, by asking your seat in this House to which 
you can now have no Objection. To retire to private Life, before the war 
is terminated, you cannot reconcile to your Reputation, or to your Feel- 
ings. It is needless to enlarge on a point so evident ; and of which you are 
so good a Judge ! , . . . 

I have nothing material to add, nor time to spare, writing this in the 
Course of a Debate, present my respectful Compliments to Mrs. Schuy- 
ler, the young Ladies, and the whole Circle of our Friends. 

242. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Saturday May 1st 1779. Commercial Committee Congress. This day 
intirely spent in debate, concerning Mr. A. Lee. 
Sunday 2d May. Dined with Mr. Steward. 

5 The other Laurens manuscript has " to be withdrawn ". 
^ Cf. Burke's statement, no. 474, post. 

'■ On the reverse of the manuscript is the following incomplete memorandum : 
" 14 the only person willing to venture a considerable ". 
[241] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 554. 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 5, Mar. 18, Apr. 19; also nos. 5, 37, 104, 106, 144-146, 
ante, and no. 352, post. 

[242]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



May, 1779 189 

243. Henry Laurens to John Laurens/ 

Philadelphia 2d May 1779. 
My Dear Son, 

.... Mr. Girard and Don Juan ^ are on a visit at Middlebrook. my 
worthy friend the former Gentleman, has been ensnared by certain Men, 
into such Acts and concurrences as will hereafter appear as blots in his 
administration. I am exceedingly grieved by such conduct.^ you know 
I mention such things in perfect confidence to yourself and Mr. 
Gerv-ais 

Pray excuse me to His Excellency the Governor for not writing by 
this opportunity. I have no proper subject at this moment, the Lieutt. 
Governor's Letters of the 3d and 5th were committed to Mr. Lee Mr. 
Burke and Mr. Laurens, we have written to General Washington on 
Carolina business and hope to hear from him this day. we shall hasten 
a Report and nothing in my power will be omitted for the service and In- 
terest of my Country."* I most earnestly wish she had here a servant more 
adequate to the Duty 

244. William Carmichael, Statement concerning Silas Deane 

and Arthur Lee.^ 

The Committee appointed by Congress to examine into the State of 
their Foreighn affairs having thought proper to refer to the underwrit- 
ten for information on the charges they reported against some of the Pub- 
lic ser'ts abroad, and Some Gentlemen having expressed a desire he should 
reduce to writing the information he gave the House in his place, when 
these charges were read, He is induced to indulge their wishes as well as 
to show more explicitly the reasons which determined his voice on the 
decision of a question on which he thinks the honor and interest of the 
United States highly depends.^ 

He has frequently declared that Mr. A. Lee had not the confidence of 
the court of France. His reasons for this declaration are among others, 
that he was repeatedly told this by Messrs. De Beaumarchais, Ray de 
Chaumont, the Chevalier Grand and his Brother Mr. Grand, Gentlemen 
who all at various times acted as secret agents between the Commissioners 

[243]! L. I. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers. 

2 The French minister, Gerard, and Don Juan de Miralles, Spanish agent in the 
United States. See no. 227, ante. 

3 The allusion is evidently to Gerard's statements respecting Arthur Lee. See 
nos. 215-217, ante. 

* See no. 233, ante, and no. 252, post. The lieutenant governor of South Carolina 
was Thomas Bee. 

[244]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 49, I. 25 (" Duplicate ", in Carmichael's writ- 
ing) ; ibid., Lee MSS., VL 62 (copy), VL 60 (copy of part) ; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collec- 
tions: Deane Papers, HL 440. 

2 The Journals, May 3, quote Carmichael as stating that he had prepared such a 
paper, with the further record that the paper was delivered in at the table and read. 
Samuel Holten's record of the proceedings of the day is merely, " Congress sit till five 
o'clock" {Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 255). Wharton (Rev. Dipl. Corr., 111. 152 n.), 
after mentioning that this statement was missing from the papers of Congress, then in 
the Department of State, quotes some remarks concerning it from a letter of Carmichael 
to Franklin Apr. 22, 1780. Cf. nos. 215-217, 240, ante, 246, 250, post. 

17 



190 Continental Congress 

and the court of France, in whose assertions he placed confidence, because 
he saw that the Court intrusted them with secrets of the highest impor- 
tance, and because he never found Himself deceived by these Gentlemen 
in any other information he had the honor to receive from them, while 
imployed by the Commissioners abroad. He was informed and beleives, 
that this want of Confidence arose from information given by Mr. Gar- 
nier Charge des Affaires for the court of Versailles at London. That Lxi. 
Shelburne and Mr. A. Lee left London in concert to visit France imme- 
diately after the arrival of Mr. Deane in that Country. He believes that 
the Court was confirmed in these suspicions by Mr Lees visits to Ld. Shel- 
burne while at Paris, and he knows that several of high rank were 
alarmed and apprehensive that the secrets of the court would be betrayed 
from this Connection with the opposition in England, as will appear from 
the following extract of instructions given by the Ct. D'Estaing to Mr 
Deane at the very time Ld. Shelburne was at Paris. A copy of the in- 
structions is in the hands of the Underwritten transcrib'd from the Origi- 
nal by Colonel Nicholas Rogers of Maryland and Himself when he re- 
ceived a Message from the Ct. Estaing desiring Him to return it. 

" L'unite secrette des enterets qui existe entre la France, I'Espagne et 
les Americains etant plus grande plus durable plus necessaire que celle qui 
attache les Anglais de I'opposition au sort de I'Amerique, il en resulte que 
Monsr Deane doit avoir plus de confiance dans ces deux puissances que 
dans des particuliers qui ne veulent uniquement que chasser des Ministres 
pour remplacer. II semble aussi que sa confiance dans les membres de 
I'opposition ne doit pas aller jusq'a leur dire tout ce que la France et 
L Espagne font ou promettent de faire ; L'esperance de causer une revo- 
lution dans le ministre [ministere] anglais sufferait peutetre pour en ren- 
dre la publication aussi avantageux au part de I'opposition qu'elle serait 
nuisible a I'Amerique: rien est plus a redoutter que de voir la bonne 
volonte se changer en mefiance, car en negotiation la mefiance eloigne ceux 
que I'interet reproche [rapproche]. II semble aussi qu'il faut soigneuse- 
ment [evijter de compromettre, d'embarasser une grande puissance sur des 
petits objets [et cela] dans le temps qu'on en espere des grands services. 
C'est encore sur ce point important que les veritables interets de I'amerique 
different de ceux du part de I'opposition. ["] This suspicion was farther 
confirmed by Mr Lees connection with Ct. De Lauregais of whom Ct. 
D'Estaing speaks in the following manner in the peice [sic] above men- 
tioned " Excepte son intime Liason avec Monsr Le Compte De Lauregais, 
et que I'amitie de ce dernier pour my Lor Shelburne dont I'addresse et les 
projets sont connus pourrait faire transpirer ce que le Ministre de France 
voudrait que fut ignore, sans que cet accident arrivat par la Faute ni par 
le canal des charge des Affaires de I'Amerique. ["] Mr. Lee Himself was 
so sensible of this suspicion, that he wrote to Monsr. Le Compte de 
Vergennes or Monsr Girard on the Subject, which letter was carried by 
the underwritten to the Bureau for foreighn [sic] affairs at Versailles, 
and Mr Lee received an answer, a copy of which no doubt he transmitted 
to some one of his correspondents on this side of the Atlantic. Ld. Shel- 
burne is particularly disagreable to the Bourbon courts, because he formed 
the desighn [sic] of exciting a revolt in Mexico and for this purpose pen- 



May, 1779 191 

sioned a French Nobleman, a Major general in the service of France, who 
had offerd his aid to effect this, from his acquaintance with the principal 
Inhabitants of that part of the New World and the underwritten was in- 
formed that the Ct. D'Estaing alluded to this project in the above extract. 
The honorable notice taken of the underwritten in consequence of the 
Strong recommendations of the jMarquis de la Fayette to his Family and 
their connections gave him an opportunity of knowing the Sentiments of 
many persons of high rank and influence and theirs corresponded in- 
tirely with what has been before related. The consideration which the 
underwritten injoyed from their Notice will appear by the letter annexed, 
which he would have blushed to place on the files of Congress had they 
not been already loaded with gross misrepresentation of his conduct and 
as he hopes unmerited Abuse. 

The same Gentlemen and others informed Him that Mr. Lee was 
equally disagreable to the Ct. D'Aranda, and he knows that the Spanish 
Minister at the Hague expressed his Chagrin on hearing that Mr Lee was 
appointed Commissioner to Spain in the Place of Dr. Franklin. Ct. 
D'Aranda declared that Mr Lees intended visit to Madrid was known to 
most of the Bankers there, before he quitted the French Dominions, and 
that this notoriety occasioned the English Ambassador to expostulate 
with the Spanish Ministry which induced the necessity of sending a 
Gentleman to meet Him at Burgos. It was well known in England that 
Mr Lee was gone to Spain, as will appear by the following extract of a 
letter from Edward Bancroft to the underwritten dated London March 
4th 1777 

" Mr Sayre is now out of Confinement and desirous of some kind of 
imployment out of England, probably he will pay our- friends a visit. He 
regrets that Prince Arthur has left France. Ld. Shelburne told Ld. 
Cambden that he was sent to Spain on acct. of his connection with him 
Ld. Shelburne." 

The animosities among the Commissioners are so publicly known that 
the underwritten deems it unnecessary to inlarge on the Subject. He can- 
not however omit observing that Jealousies and suspicions took place 
before Mr Lees appointment between that Gentleman and Mr Deane as 
will appear from a Letter of the Former to the underwritten dated Octo- 
ber 1776 a copy of which is in the Possession of the house being put into 
the hands of the Committee to whom were referrd the Letters of Messrs 
Lee, Franklin Deane and Izard respecting the underwritten. He begs 
leave to produce an extract of a letter in answer to Mr Lee, in which he 
endeavord to remove his Jealousies and He appeals to Mr Deane, if he did 
not write to him about the same time, to remove the cause by writing fre- 
quently to Mr Lee. 

The extract is as follows from a Letter written from Amsterdam dated 
Novr. 1st 1776 ["] Believe me My Dr. Sir that any thing which is likely 
to hurt the common cause gives me as well as yourself much uneasiness. 

I know no other reason for Mr D s silence than the busy life he 

leads or that he trusted while I resided with him he could by my means 
answer with greater security to you your Letters. I believe no difference 



192 Continental Congress 

subsists between him and your Brothers in America, what has happen'd 
since I left Paris, I am ignorant of["], etc. etc. 

The underwritten thought those Jeaulousies and animosities Disgrace- 
full, because they impeded the transaction of Public Business and because 
they were so public as to be known to almost Every Frenchman and 
American who visited either of the Commissioners. Injurious because 
being known to your Enemies if Doctor Berkenhout is to be credited, 
they prevented an application to your Commissioners to bring about a 
reconciliation, untill Mr A. Lee could inform Him that this difference 
would not render an application inneffectual, or to that purpose Injurious 
in another way, because Our Enemies were incouraged to prosecute the 
War on a supposition that these Jealousies and animosities would render 
our Negotiation at the French Court unsuccessfull. This will appear from 
the following Extract of a letter from Matthew Ridley to the underwrit- 
ten dated London Novr. 18th 1777. 

" It has already been held out here that your Councils are weak, that 
dissention prevails among you, that Congress in their appointment of 
Men of such Jarring tempers have discovered a great want of Judgement 
and that this [cirjcumstance must in time without other assistance effec- 
tually ruin your [pla]ns. This is held out without real knowledge or in- 
formation to spirit the people here in prosecuting the War. In some 
measure it has its Effect. If so in this State of it, how much more so when 
they think they have a real foundation " The underwritten is sorry to re- 
peat what abundant Evidence in the possession of the house has already 
told them of the unconciliatory disposition of Mr Lee. tis sufficient to 
know that he has disgusted the French [C]ourt his Colleagues Messrs. 
Franklin and Deane, Messrs. Chaumont Beaumarchais Holker and the 
two Grands and all men in Confidence of the Court, besides Bancroft. 
Moylan, Ross, Williams, Jones, Nicholson ^ and many others whom it is 
needless to mention. The underwritten would be still more sorry to record 
little anecdotes which would disgrace your files, the Persons of whom 
they are related, and even the Relater. If however any Gentlemen are 
interested or desirous of farther Information, He assures them on his 
honor that he will give them in private every satisfaction which such 
curiosity merits. The originals of the copies produced may be seen by any 
gentleman who chuses to apply to the underwritten. 

The late Debates in Congress on the subject of conversations with the 
Minister might excuse the underwritten from Commenting on the attempt 
made to misrepresent his sentiments while abroad. He cannot help ob- 
serving however that it must appear very Extraordinary that he should 
say to men whom he scarce knew and saw but seldom, what several of the 
Gentlemen who were his Friends and Constant Companions at Nantes 
cannot recollect, altho one of them lived in the house with him for some 
time. He will content himself with submitting Copies of their letters to 
Him on the Subject of the extracts and copies of a Letter he received by 

3 Edward Bancroft, James Moylan, commercial agent at I'Orient, John Ross, 
commercial agent at Nantes, Jonathan Williams, Capt. John Paul Jones, and (presumably) 
Capt. Samuel Nicholson. 



May, lyy^ 193 

Thornton from Mr A. Lee with the answer he returned by the Same 
Person who staid but two days at Nantes and leave the Candid to Judge 
whether he could in the temper of mind, he then was, speak in the manner 
he is represented to have done.* 

Wm. Carmichael 
Philadelphia May 3rd 1779 

245. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Monday May ^d. Commercial Committee Congress. The Business 
of this day intirely taken up till 5 o Clock, on the Question of Recalling 
Mr. A Lee 4 Yeas 4 Noes 4 States Divided. (Dined w'th President 
Reed[)] NB For his Recall 22 Yeas. Nays 14. R. H. Lee Excused 
Mr. Plater absent, and Mr. McKean 

Tuesday May 4th 1779. Commercial Committee Congress. Letter 
from the King of France, sent per Mr, Jarrard acquainting Congress, 
with the Birth of a Princess. A Committee of one Member from Each 
State appointed to wait on the Minister in consequence, and a Committee 
of three to write a Letter to the King in answer. A Number of Letters 
and Memorials Read. The request from Rhode Island to Raise Men for 
One Year granted P M. Marine Committee. 

246. Joseph Spencer to Oliver Ellsworth.^ 

Philadelphia 4: May 1779 
Dear Sir 

I have Reed, your Favour of the 26 : ulto : and thank you for your In- 
telegence. the Dispatches you mention have not yet come to Congress 
I Conclude they weare to Monsure Gerrard he has Lately took a Tour 
to Head Quarters, did not return untill Yesterday. I have very Little 
Newes to Tell you, we have nothing Late from Europe, no Dispatches 
from our Forreign Commissioners. Since I came to Congress, much time 
has been Spent in Congress on Forreign affairs, Chiefly Relative to our 
Commissioners the great Question has been wheather our Commission- 
ers Should be Recal'd or not. it was prity Soon determined not to Recall 
Mr. Adams, and after Some day[s'] Examination and altercation the 
Question was decided in favour of the Continuance of Doctor Franklin 
as Plenopotentiary at the Court of France, after Several days more 
Spent on the Question Relative to Mr. Arthor Lee the Question being 
put to the house yesterday twelve States only being present, there was 
four ayes, four noes and four divided, after this history it will be need- 
less to tell you that the affair of Arthor Lee woonderfully Engaged the 
attention of the members of Congress, wheather matters will Rest here 
and Congress will now proceed to finish their Dispatches to their For- 
reign Commissioners without further delay, is to me uncertain, I wish 

* This statement is accompanied in the Deane Papers by letters to Carmichael from 
Henry Newman (Apr. 9) and S. Nicholson (May 2), 
[245]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 
[246] 1 Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 49, III. 106 (original). 



194: Continental Congress 

it may be so.^ Mr. Shearman arrived here Last Wednessday and is well, 
presents his Compliments to you. Mrs. Chearman [sic] and Family are 
also well and She also presents her Compli'nts. 

Your Most Obedient Servt. 

J Spencer 
Hon'ble Oliver Elsworth 



247. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, May 4th, 1779. 
Sir, 

After encountering every obstacle that ingenuity could throw in the 
way of our motion, and after amendments and postponings without num- 
ber at length Congress, this minute came to the inclosed Resolution, which 
was the best that our utmost efforts could obtain.^ The post being just 
about to set out will not admit of our enlarging. 

The only news that we have to communicate, is an Annunciation of the 
birth of [a] princess in a letter from the King of France to Congress with 
fresh assurances of his friendship. We beg leave to renew our expres- 
sions of Regard to the State of Rhode Island, etc., and to your excellency, 
and to assure you that we are 

Your Excellency's most obedt. h'ble servant, 

William Ellery. 

P. S. — Time will not allow my waiting for Mr, Collins to sign this 
letter. 



248. Thomas Burke to the Secretary of the Pennsylvania 
Council (Timothy Matlack).^ 

Sir 

A paper purporting. Instructions from the honorable President and 
Council of the State of Pennsylvania, to their Delegates in Congress, 
stating some supposed Grievances in their Line of Officers in the army 
of the United States, was referred to a Committee, of which the Chief 
Justice of Pennsylvania was a member, upon his declining, or discon- 
tinuing his attendance in Congress some time past, the papers which were 
in his posession have been mislaid, and among them that above referred 
to. we have for some time delayed reporting in hope of recovering the 
papers, that hope is now entirely lost, and I am under the Necessity of 

- See the Journals, Mar. 24, Apr. 15, 20, 22, 30, May 3. Cf. nos. 206, 210, 213, 215- 
217, 219, 231, 235, 240, 244, ante, 250, 255, 295-297, 337, 33S, 343-347, 354. 415, 420-422, post. 
[247]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779, p. 92; Staples, R. I. in Cant. 
Cong., p. 222. 

2 See the Journals, Apr. 17, 19, 23, May 3, 4, and no. 257, post. The Statement 
of the Rhode Island delegates printed in the Journals, May 3, puts the date of the 
motion as Apr. 14, but the Journals record the motion as having been made Apr. 17. 
[248]iHaverford College, Roberts Coll., 722. 



May, 1719 195 

applying to you for a copy of the Essential paper here described. I re- 
quest you Sir to transmit me a copy as soon as convenient." 

I am Sir with due respect 

Your Obt. Servant 

Thos. Burke 
State House May 4th 1779. 

Secretar}- of the State of Pennsylvania 

249. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Wednesday §th May Commercial Committee Congress. Report from 
the Treasury, relating to the setling the late Commissary General Trun- 
bulls accts. long debate, at last agree'd his Brother be impowerd to setle 
them. Agreea'd [sic] that the Troops Raising in Virginia and North 
Carolina, with Blands and Bailors Dragoons, be sent for the defTence of 
Georgia and So. Carolina 

Committee to whom was Refiferd the Petition of the Inhabitants of 
Bermuda, Reported for Indian Corn to be sent them, (not determined 
CHi). Motion to adjour[n] to 5 oClock, to morrow being fast Day, car- 
ried in the Negative 

Thursday May 6th. 1779. Fast Day. 

250. Henry Laurens, Notes of Debates.^ 

Mr, Merrnveatlier Smith who appears in Dunlap's Packet of the 6th 
May 1779, to have call'd for the Yeas and Nays on the question in Con- 
gress " shall Mr. Arthur Lee be recall'd " had on a preceding day press'd 
for the recal of that Gentleman, to the end that he should answer to 
Charges exhibited against him by Mr. Deane in his Narrative.^ 

2 Dec. 29, 1778, McKean, Burke, and Atlee were appointed a committee on the 
question of an additional brigadier for Pennsylvania. The matter came before Congress 
again Jan. 26, through a letter from President Reed, Jan. 20, to the Pennsylvania delegates, 
when Paca, Root, and Henry were added to the committee. Reed's letter is found in 
Pa. Arch., first ser., VII. 162, but the instructions referred to are not with it. The com- 
mittee made a report May 11, and William Irvine was chosen brigadier-general May 12. 

[249]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

[250] 1 L. I. Hist. Soc., Laurens Papers; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XXVIII., 
no. 6 (copy, in the writing of Moses Young). 

2 Meriwether Smith's call for the yeas and nays on the question of recall was on 
May 3 (see the Journals, p. 542). The previous day on which he had pressed for the 
recall was probably Apr. 30, but it may have been earlier. The South Carolina copy has 
" the preceding day ", but the definite article is doubtless an error, as there was no meeting 
of Congress on Sunday, May 2. The fifth article in the report of the committee of 
thirteen on foreign affairs (that the appointments of the several ministers be vacated) was 
taken into consideration Apr. 21, and the vote upon the ministers individually began (with 
the question of recalling Franklin) Apr. 22. The motion for the recall of Arthur Lee 
was taken up Apr. 30. The colloquy between Laurens and Smith would appear to have 
taken place on the day in question. Cf. nos. 215-217, 240, 244, 246, ante. In a brief letter 
to John Laurens, May 4 (L. I. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers) Laurens wrote, "I gain'd 



196 Continental Congress 

Mr. Laurens replied that he knew of no charges against Mr. Lee, that 
there were indeed insinuations, which appeared to him to be frivolous 
or groundless and some of them to be scandalous as well as frivolous, 
But that his view being to obtain justice both to the Public and to indi- 
viduals, he should chearfully give his voice for the recal of Mr. Lee, pro- 
vided his accuser Mr. Deane, were detained in America, in order to sup- 
port what had been call'd his " charges against Mr. Lee " 

Mr. Smith replied he could not consent to detain Mr. Deane, who 
might be allowed to pursue his own affairs and to attend when Mr. Lee 
should be on the spot. 

Mr. Laurens rejoin'd, if this be the Gentleman's scheme for harrassing 
Mr. Lee I shall not consent to his recal. it is not so easy a business as the 
Hon'ble Gentleman seems to conceive to cross and recross the Atlantic 
Ocean in a time of War. Mr. Lee and Mr. Deane upon the Gentleman's 
principle will be reduced to the state of two Buckets alternately going up 
and down a Well meeting only midway. 

On a subsequent day when the same subject was under debate in Con- 
gress, Mr. Laurens repeated his former proposition for detaining Mr. 
Deane, and ad[ded] " at public expence " and for recalling Mr. Lee 

this second overture seem'd to be eagerly embraced and committed to 
writing by a Gentleman sitting and taking Notes at the lower Table.^ 

On the Morning of the 4th May * before the question for the recal was 
put, the Hon'ble Mr. Burke shewed Mr. Laurens a written motion which 
he said he intended to present to Congress that Morning, to the following 
effect Vizt. " Resolved that Mr, Deane be ordered not to depart from 
America until the Hon'ble Arthur Lee shall arrive " etc 

Mr. Laurens viewed ° this intimation by Mr. Burke as a challenge or 
claim of his promise to vote for the recal of Mr. Lee, provided Mr. Deane 
should be detain'd in America to support his pretended charges, and 
therefore he observ'd to that Gentleman, that he should certainly keep 

another victory yesterday by the fairest means against the most foul and disgraceful 
attempts ". 

In Dunlap's Pennsylvania Packet of May 6 appears the following communication, 
unsigned : 
" Mr. Dunlap, 

"As the following state of Votes on an important question may gratify the curious, 
I send it to you for publication. 

" On the question, Shall Mr. Arthur Lee be recalled? the Yeas and Nays being required 
by Mr. Smith, .... 

[Here follows a tabulation of the yeas and nays.] 

" The Hon. Mr. R. H. Lee, from Virginia, was at his request excused. The Hon. Messrs. 
Plater, from Maryland, and M'Kean, from Delaware, were not in the House when the 
question was called." 

3 It is not certain on what day Laurens made this proposition, but possibly May 1,
as the report of the committee on foreign afifairs (presumably on the specific question of 
Arthur Lee's recall) was resumed that day. (See note 2, above, and no. 255, post.) 
May 24 Burke again brought forward his motion, which was seconded by Laurens. The 
motion appears in the Journals June 10. See note 7, below. 

4 Laurens must be in error as to the date. According to the Journals, the question 
of recall was put to a vote May 3, with the result of an equal division of the states, and 
there is no suggestion in the Journals under May 4 that the question was resumed that 
day. Cf. no. 246, ante. 

'" The copy in the South Carolina Historical Society has " received ". 



May, 177Q 197 

his promise if Mr. Deane would obey such an Order of Congress and give 
security for his remaining in America even by a promisary Letter. 

Mr. Burke said " surely Mr. Deane will obey the Order of Congress, 
what security would you require? " 

Mr. Laurens answer'd I question whether Mr. Deane will hold himself 
obliged to obey such an Order. As to security a written promise by 
Mr. Deane will satisfy me. therefore make your motion as you please 
only give me assurance that Mr. Deane will remain here until Mr. Lee's 
arrival and an hearing in Congress and I will vote for the Recal of 
Mr. Lee. 

Mr. Burke offered his motion to Congress, some debates or remarks 
on that side of the Room ensued. I ® rose to speak to it and said " I should 
support the Motion provided the House could be assured Mr. Deane 
would obey their Order I was proceeding and had intended to add, that 
the assurance of the Honorable Gentleman who had made the Motion or 
of any other Gentleman on behalf of Mr. Deane that he would not de- 
part from America until further Orders from Congress, would secure my 
Vote for the Recal of Mr. Lee, but the president, interrupted me by in- 
forming the House, that Mr. Burke had withdrawn his Motion.'' 

These are simple facts. Men of Candor and in the least acquainted with 
the proceedings of popular Assemblies will require no Comment from 
me. such Men will instantly draw proper conclusions and will not won- 
der that I refused to join in a persecution. 

Henry Laurens 
for Lieutt. Colo. John Laurens 
information and at his disposal 
except Publication. So. Carolina. 
6 May 1779.® 

251. The Virginia Delegates to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia May the 6th 1779 
Sir, 

The inclosed letter ^ being referred by Congress to the Virginia Dele- 
gates we have judged it proper to request of you that you will be pleased 
to assist us with your advice upon the occasion, 

6 The South Carolina copy has " Mr. Laurens ", and throughout the paragraph 
uses third personal pronouns instead of first. 

^ See the Journals, May 8, 24, June 10, and nos. 255, 295-297, 227, 338, 343-347, 354, 
415, 420-422, post. 

8 The copy in the South Carolina Historical Society has the date but not the 
signature or the notation following it. It is endorsed, " Memorand'm of Yeas and Nays 
on the proposition for recalling A. Lee. 6 May 1779 ". The date is to be understood as that 
on which the notes were written. There was no meeting of Congress May 6. 
[251]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIL 183. 

2 A letter from Col. Alexander Spotswood, read in Congress May 4. No further 
mention of the matter is found in the Journals. After some correspondence with Wash- 
ington in the summer of 1777, Spotswood had offered his resignation (Oct. 9, according 
to Heitman, Hist. Reg.), which Congress had declined to accept (see the Journals, 
Nov. 29, 1777). In the summer of 1778 he began to make efforts to obtain reinstatement 
(letters to Washington July 16, Aug. 23, Washington to Richard Henry Lee Aug. 9, to 
Spotswood Aug. II, in Washington Papers). Washington replied to this letter from 
the Virginia delegates, May 13, that the reappointment of Spotswood would create trouble 
in the army. 



198 Continental Corigress 

We see this business involved in circumstances of such a nature as to 
create much difficulty and embarrassment. On the one side is presented 
Colo. Spotswoods merit as an Officer his seniority of service, the peculiar 
situation under which he resigned, and that resignation not accepted by 
Congress. On the other hand we see a probable discontent in the army, 
arguments drawn from his resignation, and the measures consequent 
thereupon such as the Office he held being filled by another, and the new 
arrangement having passed him by unnoticed. 

In this state of things we are puzzled to know what report to make. 
We could wish earnestly to do justice to Colo. Spotswoods merit and his 
claims, whilst in doing so, we are unable to foresee the consequent ill 
effects that may be produced by it in the army from dissatisfied ideas of 
injured rank. Whether an adequate provision may not be made for him 
from the circumstance of the new Levies of Virginia (going Southward) 
which will amount to about 2000 men we cannot be certain. 

We have understood from Colo. Spotswood that when that service was 
over, if any rank given him there should create dissatisfaction in the 
army, that he would be willing to resign, after having had that oppor- 
tunity of distinguishing his zeal for the service of his country. But how 
this can be done, unless by his being created a Brigadier is the question, 
and what effect this may have on the arrangement and in the sentiments 
of the army we are greatly at a loss to judge. We wish exceedingly to be 
favored with your sentiments on this subject, for which we shall be much 
obliged. 

We have the honor to be with very particular esteem and regard Sir 
your most obedient and most humble servants 

Meriwether Smith 
Richard Henry Lee 
Cyrus Griffin 
Wm. Fleming. 

252. The South Carolina Delegates to the President of 
South Carolina.^ 

Philadelphia, May 7, 1779. 
Sir, 

It is with the highest pleasure we transmit to your Excellency a copy 
of the Acts of Congress of the 5th and this day, in aid of South Carolina 
and Georgia, upon the Report of the Committee made on the 5th upon 
the letter of the 5th of April from Lieut. Governor Bee. 

A necessary application to the Commander in Chief upon the subject 
of this business, has prevented its being sooner finished.^ (And except 
in the instance of an application in January last by Mr. Drayton for the 
march of the North Carolina troops and the sailing of a naval force to 

[252] 1 Southern Hist. Assoc, Publications, IX. 391. 

2 See nos. 233, 243, ante, and the Journals, May 7. The Journals do not indicate 
that the report had been brought in on the 5th. Besides the report as drawn by Richard 
Henry Lee (Papers Cont. Cong., no. 20, vol. H., f. 361), a copy of it in Lee's writing, with 
some variations, is in Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Transcripts, HL 49, and is printed in Southern 



May, 777P 199 

South Carolina and Georgia, Congress have cheerfully adopted every 
measure in their power which has been advised for the aid of those 
States.)^ 

The pressing calls from the main army, for military stores by a cer- 
tain and short day, still prevents our being able to send off those destined 
for South Carolina : we hope, that within ten days, they will be sent 
forward.* 

\Yt have the honor to be. Sir, 

Your Excellency's most obedt. and most humble servants ^ 
His Excellency 

John Rutledge Esqr. 

Mr. Laurens having desired me to pen a public letter from the Dele- 
gates of South Carolina in consequence of the Acts of Congress of the 
5 and 7, May, in aid of South Carolina and Georgia, I, William Henry 
Drayton, draughted the above ; and offered it to Mr. Laurens for his sig- 
nature. He objected to the second period in the second paragraph saying. 
Congress had not done so and that as we were not called upon to say any- 
thing on that subject, he did not cho[o]se to say anything at present. 
I answered, that I had inserted that period, because I thought it stated 
facts, which should be known in Carolina, as Mr. S. Adams had in- 
formed me, that he had been informed from S. Carolina, that a different 
idea was entertained there which was injurious to Congress and had de- 
sired me to place the matter in its true point of view, and that he had 
mentioned the same circumstances to him, Mr. Laurens. 

Mr. Laurens persisting in his objection to that period in the public 
letter, I wrote over a copy of that letter verbatim, leaving out the period 
objected to, and it was signed by Mr. Laurens and myself. 

However, in order to remove improper ideas respecting the conduct of 
Congress in aid of S. Carolina and Georgia, I think it is proper to desire 
a few members of Congress competent to the subject, to sign this paper if 
they think the period objected to is a proper state of circumstances.*' 

Literary Messenger, XXX. 18o. The introductory paragraphs, the principal part of which 
does not appear in the Journals, are as follows : 

" The Committee to whom was referred the letter from the Lieut. Governor of South 
Carolina having had the same under consideration, have agreed upon a report and come to 
the following resolutions : 

" Your Committee having communicated their sentiments upon the subject of giving aid 
to the States of South Carolina and Georgia to the Commander-in-Chief, and taken his 
sentiments thereupon, and having conferred with Major General Howe, whose opinion 
your Committee find to be, that a considerable and speedy aid is necessary to be sent to 
those States, therefore, 
" Resolved ", etc. 

3 See the Journals, Jan. 30, Feb. 2. Cf. ibid., Apr. 11, 13, 17. 

•* James Pierson, commissary of military stores, sent to Laurens May 30 a list 
of the stores despatched to South Carolina, apparently that day (Library of Congress, 
Laurens Papers). 

s There are no signatures in the printed text, and presumably there were none to 
the draft from which the text was taken. See Drayton's statement. 

^ Laurens's objection would appear to have been to the statement that " Congress 
have cheerfully adopted every measure in their power which has been advised for the 
aid of those States ". If Drayton obtained signatures of other members of Congress to 
his letter, such a document has not been found. This draft appears to have been found 
among a small body of Duane papers, in the possession, at the time of publication (1905), 
of Dr. Thomas Featherstonehaugh, of Washington, D. C. (see Southern Hist. Assoc, 
Publications, VH. 170). 



200 Continental Congress 

253. John Fell, Diary/ 

[May 7, 8, 1779.] 
Friday yth May Commercial Committee. Congress. A Number of 
Letters and Memorials and another Petition from Bermuda, for Bread, 
after long Debate agreed to Reject their Petition alltogether. Letter from 
General Washington enclosing Letters from General Schuyler, that some 
of the Six Nations were suing for Peace, and that intelegence from 
Canada was 1500 Regulars and some Canadiens were expected on the 
Frontiers etc. Letter from Mr. Jarrard that by his last Accounts England 
expected to Act vigorosly and determind to Push the Warr. P M Marine 
Committee. 

Saturday May 8th Commercial Committee Congress. Order of the 
Day on foreign affairs. Question whether a shair of the Fishery on the 
Banks of Newfound Land should be an Ultimatom in case our Allies 
should agree to terms with Great Britain. Long Debate. Letter from 
Mr. Gerrard Presing the necesity of fixing on a Proper Person to be ap- 
pointed Minister Plenoptentary to the Court of Madrid. 

254. Henry Laurens, Motion.^ 

[May 8, 1779.] 
Mr. Laurens Moved that a Letter be written by the President to the 
Minister of France, accounting for the unavoidable delay of a final deter- 
mination of the business alluded to and expressing the sensibility of Con- 
gress on the goodness of their great and good Ally, etc. 

A Motion reduced to writing on this Subject by Mr. Adams.^ 

255. Henry Laurens, Notes of Debates.^ 

8th May 1779. 

Mr. Laurens asked what branch of foreign affairs shall we proceed 
upon, the report of the Committee of thirteen, or what is called the 
U or U 

I think it will be best to finish the former ; I have three times repeatedly 
proposed to give my voice for recalling Mr. Arthur Lee, provided Con- 
gress would order Mr. Deane to remain in America to support his charges. 
I now again repeat the Proposition, 

[253]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 
[254]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XXVL 

- This note is appended to a translation of Gerard's memorial of May 6 (a different 
translation is found in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 156), read in Congress May 7. The 
motion is not recorded in the Journals. 

[255]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XV.; ibid., vol. XXVHL, no. 6 (copy, 
in the writing of Moses Young). The latter text is a continuation of the Moses Young 
copy of the notes of May 6, no. 250, ante, and does not include the last paragraph (see 
note 5, below). In vol. XV. these notes are appended to the notes of the sarne date on 
"The Ultimata" (no. 256, post). This manuscript is, however, somewhat mutilated (see 
no. 256, note 6, post), therefore the text of the Moses Young copy is used so far as it 
extends ; that is, for all except the paragraph beginning, " Mr. Drayton's very ignorant 
harangue ". 

- Evidently " Ultimatum or Ultimata ", or vice versa. 



May, I-/79 201 

Some Gentleman has published the yeas and nays on the question for 
recal — the whole truth should have been published, if publication was 
necessary or right, and the whole truth will be published — and Gentlemen 
remember this repeated offer on my part.^ 

The Ultimata called for/ 

Mr. Drayton's very ignorant harangue on the Article respecting the 
Fishery — we had forfeited the right when we withdrew our x\llegiance — 
of no use to any but 3 or at most 4 States never had been, never could 
be of use to Carolina or Georgia etc. etc.^ 

[Endorsed:] Ultimata and LangAvorthy 8th May 1779. also proposi- 
tion to recal A. Lee and detain S. Deane.® 

256. Henry Laurens, Notes of Debates/ 

8th May 1779. 

The Llltimata 

The substitute agreed to by Yeas and Nays the 25 March ^ being read, 
the following Resolutions prefaced by a long string of argumentation 
offered as a substitute to the substitute/ .... 

Qii.f whether this be in Order. 

Long debate — Yeas and Nays, passed in the Negative, debated the 
Substitute of 25 be adopted as an Ultimatum.* 
Session Yi p. 4P. M.' 

\_Mr. Laiirens~\ moved the House on Privilege that he was informed 
Mr. Langworthy had sat in Congress and voted as a delegate from Geor- 
gia from the 16th Febry. to the 12th or 13th April, when he had no 
right to sit in Congress, that particularly his name appeared six times aye 
and nay in the Articles of the Ultimata, that if it should be found he had 
no right so to sit and vote which the President or Secretary could deter- 
mine, he moved that Mr. Langworthy's name should in these instances be 
rescinded. 

Mr. Mer. Smith said IMr. Laurens should prove it. 

3 See no. 250, ante. 

4 See the Journals, May 7, 8 (pp. 554, 563) ; also nos. 151-153, 159, 167, ante, 
and nos. 256, 269, 270, 307, post. 

^ It was probably through inadvertence that Laurens appended these remarks to 
his notes respecting the recall of Arthur Lee, as the proper place for the paragraph is in 
connection with the notes on the ultimata, no. 256, post. This doubtless explains why 
Moses Young did not include the paragraph in his transcript. 

^ The endorsement applies of course to the two groups of notes bearing date of 
May 8, those here given, and those to be found under no. 256, post. 
[256]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XV. 

2 The date is an error. The substitute referred to is that moved by Richard Henry 
Lee Mar. 24, which is repeated in the Journals May 8. The vote on it was probably 
Mar. 30. See no. 167, note 5, ante. 

3 Laurens quotes here the resolution in the motion of Gouverneur Morris (seconded 
by Thomas Burke), but omits the introductory paragraphs (the "long string of argu- 
mentation"). See the Journals, May 8 (pp. 563, 565). 

* That is, whether the substitute of Mar. 25124] should be adopted as an 
ultimatum. See the Journals, May 8, and cf. no. 255, ante, and nos. 269, 270, post. 

^ The Journals do not record an afternoon session. Samuel Holten's Diary entry 
for the day is merely, " Congress sit late. I took a walk with Mr. Adams" {Essex Inst. 
Hist. Colls., LV. 255). 



202 Continental Congress 

Mr. Laurens answered, No the enquiry was his Duty the Secretary 
or President should satisfy the House by providing Mr. Langworthy's 
Credentials. 

Mr. Loz'cl said many questions had been determined and business 
executed under Mr. Langworthy's Casting Vote and that it was impossi- 
ble to rummage through the whole. 

[Mr. Laurens replied that]® such cases as were irremediable [might 
be] submitted [to], but in every remediable [case the] remedy should 
be applied, that if the [house] would take no notice of his motion the 
[country] should know it and called for the Yeas and Nays. 

Mr. Smith and Mr. Drayton 

Mr. Duane also in a long [harangue object] ed that time should now 
[be taken up when we] were just entring upon Foreign affairs. 

Mr. Laurens said the subject would admit of no debate, if Mr. Lang- 
worthy had not a right to sit and Vote not a minute would be taken up in 
giving the Secretary order to expunge his Yea or Nay, that if time was 
unnecessarily lost it was their fault who debated against supporting the 
privilege and honor of the House, but that he should in order to ease 
Gentlemen's minds withdraw his Motion for the present promising to 
renew and prosecute it before the Ultimata was finally closed.^ 

Memorand[um] Drayton and Langworthy. 

257. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia May 8th 1779 
Sir, 

We had the honour of inclosing in a letter hastily written to your ex- 
cellency last Tuesday, a copy of a Resolution of Congress approving the 
raising of a brigade in the State of Rhode Island, etc. And on Friday 
morning last, received your letter of the 26th of April, inclosing a letter 
to Congress open. We perused, sealed and presented it to the President. 
It was read and referred to General Washington, as you will see by the 
inclosed Resolution. 

We took this opportunity and brought upon the tapis our Motion recom- 
mending to our Sister States to send to and keep up their quotas of mili- 
tia in our State — which passed. A copy of it we now inclose to your 

Excellency We hope that the resolutions of Congress will be 

agreeable to the State, and produce happy effects. The Condition an- 
nexed to the resolution, approving the raising a brigade in our State, we 
would have prevented if it had been in our power, but it was impossible, 
as you will see when the Journals are printed. As to those Soldiers who 
shall be inlisted before the resolution reaches your excellency there can be, 
we think, no difficulty; as to those who may be inlisted thereafter, the 

6 The manuscript (four sheets) of these notes and those of the preceding item 
(no. 255) has the corners torn off, and the missing words have been suppHed by conjecture. 

^ See no. 207, ante. 
[257]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 222. 



May, 1 779 203 

State will add their bounty or devise some other method which will give 
them satisfaction without violating that condition. If Congress should 
have approved of giving additional pay to the Soldiers of our Brigade they 
must have advanced the pay of all the continental Soldiers which, at this 
time, would prove ruinous to our Finances.^ .... we are with the 
highest Sentiments of respect 

Yr. Excellency's most obedt. Servts. 

William Ellery 
John Collins 

258. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philadelphia, May 9th 1779 
Dear Sir, 

.... If we talked, less, and thought more than we do in Congress, 
our business in my opinion would be better conducted. 

I wish with all my heart that we had an Executive ; and agree with you 
in opinion that the want of it, is a strong reason for entering into some 
kind of confederation or other. But it has always hurt me, to think of 
confederating on terms that would not be lasting. I believe that Congress 
are now more disposed to explain the Confederation than it was some time 
ago. The necessity of its being done has opened the Eyes of some of the 
Congress. But at present Business of greater importance takes up all our 
time. God grant us Wisdom to determine with that Judgment and preci- 
sion w'ch the grand object requires, we should do.^ .... 

I had drafted a Letter for my Collegues to join me in, advising the 
Governor and Council to spare at least 5 peices of Cannon to Congress, 
but as we had other matters to mention w'ch required the determination of 
Congress Viz : an order for eight hundred thousand Dollars and the 
opinion of the board of Treasury respecting the Emissions of May and 
April, ^ the Post had set out before we could obtain the order and opinion, 
and for these reasons it happened that you did not receive the joint Letter 
of the Delegates, before this Post 

259. The President of Congress (John Jay) to 
George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia loth May 1779 
Sir 

Enclosed is a Copy of a Letter from the Minister of France to Con- 
gress of the 9th Inst, and of an Act of this Day expressing the Sense of 

- See the Journals, May 7, and no. 247, ante. Governor Greene's reply, June 3, 
to the letters of May 4 and 8 is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 240. 

[258]! Md. Hist. See, Red Book, V. 59; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXIX. 
512; Scharf, Hist, of Md., II. 349 (extract). 

2 See the Maryland instructions in the Journals, May 21. Jenifer had taken his 
seat Apr. 27. In a brief letter May 4 he declared that he had not even had time to get 
settled, " Congress sitting every day on important business ". (The letter was at one time 
in possession of Mr. W. R. Benjamin of New York.) 

^ See the Journals, May 7 ; cf. nos. 267, 298, post, 
[259]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXII. 246; ibid.. President's 
Letter-Book, p. 103. 



I 

204 Conjtinental Congress 

Congress that your Excellency consider yourself at Liberty to direct the 
military operations of these States in such manner as you may think 
expedient. 

The Intelligence conveyed by the Letter from the Minister is impor- 
tant, and may occasion alterations in the Plan for the ensuing Campaign. 
Congress confide fully in your Excellency's Prudence and Abilities ; and 
I am directed to signify to you their wish, that neither an undue Degree 
of Delicacy or Diffidence may lead you to place too little Reliance on your 
own Judgment, or persuade you to make any further Communications 
of your Designs than necessity or high Expedience may dictate.^ 

260. John Armstrong to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia loth May 1779 
Dear General, 

Necessarily as now you must be led to consider on the one hand, the 
various distributions of your Army, I mean the Seneca or Northern Ex- 
pedition — some force at Fort Pitt, together w'th the representation of 
Governor Green on behalf of the Providence Plantations and adjacent 
Country which stands exposed to the contrasted force of the Enemy at 
Rhode Island — And on the other, the intelligence of Mr. Gerrard re- 
specting the return of the Count De Estaing to our Coasts, with a resolu- 
tion of this day, throwing into your hands entirely and afresh the mili- 
tary operations of the opening Campaign, to vary or even recind [^ic] 
former determinations at pleasure, a step this however honorary and con- 
fidential it may be, that must in present Circumstances inevitably embar- 
rass y'r Excellency.^ Indeed Sir I conceive that at best you have only a 
choice of difficulties, but as that too frequently has been y'r case and 
support vouchsafed, the same fountain is open still and unexhausted; here 
(using the very best means we can) must all our expectations rest, for 
truly Sir were you now in the American Cabinet instead of the field, an 
anxious and distressed witness of our conduct, your hopes resulting thence 
must be low indeed : I do not so much complain of the subject matter, as 
of the infatuated manner of doing business, whereby delay alone is suffi- 
cient to defeat us — I mean more particularly the state of our money 

261. John Dickinson to Caesar Rodney.^ 

Sir 

This Morning Congress receiv'd Intelligence from the Commander in 

Chief of a very Considerable Embarkation of Troops I would 

be more particular on this subject but that Congress has this Moment re- 

2 See the Journals, May 10. Two letters from Gerard, dated May 9, are in 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 161, the first being merely explanatory of the second, 
which he calls a memorial. The event of importance was the coming of Comte d'Estaing. 
Cf. nos. 260, 267, 369, post. 

[260] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXH. 253. 

2 See no. 259, ante, and nos. 267, 369, post. 
[261 ]i Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels. Henkels, 
Catalogue, no. 1236, item 324 (extract). 



May, 1779 205 

solv'd to send copies of the Dispatches to the Southward, and Mr Jay 
assures me you shall receive one 

The very important Business of the Quartermasters and Commissaries 
departments demands the most speedy and vigorous Measures. You 
know how much my sentiments correspond with your own on that Head, 
and I have the pleasure to inform you that there appears in Congress a 
hearty Inclination to probe this Disease to the Bottom 

I wish to receive the sense of yourself and as many of the legislative 
Council and Assembly, as can be conveniently collected, as soon as possi- 
ble, on a general Question, which may be of eminent use to my Colleagues 
and Myself in regulating our future Conduct. We have most momentous 
Business to transact. It may happen in managing the Affairs of so ex- 
tensive a Confederacy, that particular States may be more interested in 
certain points than other States, or than the Confederacy in general. 

My Opinion is clear, that the Interests of each State bring objects com- 
prehended within the Confederation, are to be regarded as the Interests 
of the whole, and as such to be contended for and defended. [On] inter- 
ests of this kind. Difficulties, I apprehend, will not arise, but on Interests 
beyond these Limits they may. On these my opinion is also clear, that as 
a Delegate I am bound to prefer the general Interests of the Confederacy 
to the partial Interests of Constituent Members, how many soever they 
be, and however respectable and meritorious; and further that if such a 
Competition should arise, it is my Duty to prefer the particular Interests 
of that State that honours me with her Confidence and invests me with 
a share of her power, to the particular Interests of any other State on this 
Continent. 

I cannot be more particular on these very important Considerations, not 
being at Liberty to disclose the subject of Debate to which they may refer. 
But obviously Just as my Determination seems to myself on the most 
mature Deliberation to be, yet so strangely crooked do the plain lines of 
sound Policy appear by passing thro' some mediums, that I should re- 
ceive great satisfaction in finding myself fortified in the Resolutions that 
will actuate my Conduct, by knowing that the sentiments leading Me to 
those Resolutions are approved by my Country 

Philadelphia May loth 1779 

262. William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia, loth May, 1779. 
Dear sir, 

I wish it were in my power to write you satisfactorily on the state of 
our public affairs. My residence here is of too short a date to enable [me] 
to form a proper judgment of them. There are matters of great concern 
now before congress, of which I am not at liberty to speak freely, tho' I 
am of opinion we may have peace on honorable and advantageous terms, 
in the course of the ensuing winter. I beg I may not be put in nomination 

[262]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second ser., XXXIIL 33. 



206 Continental Congress 

at the ensuing election of delegates to serve in Congress as I find it next 
to impossible for me to serve longer than til August, should my country- 
be disposed to continue me here ; for besides my own loss of time, and the 
long separation from my family, my expences are so enormous that I 
find my fortune quite insufficient to support them. I am in private lodg- 
ings, with only a servant and two horses, which are in the continental 
stable, and I live as frugal as possible, notwithstanding which it costs me, 
at least, 25 £ a week, over and above my wages. If our assembly do not 
determine to support their delegates in congress, they will shortly find that 
none of those of small fortunes will be able to continue here long enough 
to make themselves acquainted with the business they come to transact, 
so as to render them essential service ; for I think I already discover men 
here who have local views highly detrimental to the general good of the 
union 

263. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[May 10, II, 1779.] 

Monday loth May Commercial Committee Congress. This day a 
Letter was Read from Governor Levingston, and also the Memorials of 
the Officers of the State of New Jersey. Letter from Genl. Washington 
with an Acct. of Coll. Van Scacks Expedition to the Onendagos also an 
Acct. of the Imbarkation of 8 Regiments from N York and the Confer- 
rence with the Commissioners for the Excha. of Prisoners at Amboy, 
orderd to be Printed. Letter from the Minister reccomending the finish- 
ing the appointment of a Minister to Spain etc. etc. Expidition rec- 
comended to Genl. Washington. A Letter from Mr. De Franca and a 
long Memorial from Mr. Beaumarsha (not finish'd). Count De Estang 

Tuesday May nth Commercial Committee Congress. Mr. Fran- 
ceys Memorial Relating to Mr. Beamarshe Read after some debate 
agreed to Committee of five to consider and Report thereon vizt. Laurens, 
Smith, Carmichael, Dickinson, Searle Letter from Genl. De Portail Re- 
specting West Point etc. Report from the Board of Warr respecting 
Enginears Genl. DePortail appointed Commandant of the whole. A 
number of other Reports and appointments, in different departments read 
and agreed to. the Minister of France told the President, if Congress 
would write to the King, for the Purpose, he would send clothing etc. for 
the Army to be Paid for after a Peace. A Noble generous Offer P M 
Marine Committee 

264. Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell). '^ 

Philadelphia, May nth, 1779 
Sir 

.... Congress having been informed, that such is the state of health 
of General Lincoln (not from the General) that it was become necessary, 
that he should be permitted to return from that hot climate, to the north- 

[263]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 
[264] 1 Mass. Arch., CCI. 22. 



May, lyy^ 207 

ward, so that his country may not be deprived of his future services in a 
climate more agreeable to his constitution, and have given permission 
accordingly.^ 

I have no further intelligence of a public nature worthy the attention of 
the hon'ble Board, that I'm at liberty to communicate. 

265. Samuel Adams to James Warren.^ 

My dear Sir, 

.... We have had on the Carpet Questions relating to our Ministers 
abroad — Whether they should be recalled. It was agreed that the Ques- 
tion be put severally with Respect to Each. A Majority of Voices were 
against the Recall of Doctor Franklin, though some Gentlemen spoke 
warmly against him.' Tliat, for the Recall of Dr. Lee, met with an equal 
Division, and so it was lost.^ I will only remark to you that after long 
Debates, in which as great Freedoms, I suppose, were used as could be 
consistently with Decency and Truth, his Abilities, his Integrity and warm 
Attachment to America remain unimpeachable. It is unfortunate when 
Attempts are made to remove a Servant of the Publick, whose Fidelity 
shines the brighter, the more his Conduct is sifted, but so it will happen 
when others wish to supplant him. I do not say this is the Case at present. 
I hope there is no Motive more unworthy ; but I will not answer for all 
among the Thousands in America, who may conceive themselves fit for 
important Trusts, and some of them may shortly offer themselves with a 
View of serving such Purposes as may not be agreable to others. I sus- 
pect from a Letter which I have heard publickly read that our Friend 
J. A. is or will be as obnoxious to a Party as Dr. F and Dr. Lee, and for 
the same Reason.* But I will tell you all when I see you. Pray inform 

2 Holten's entries in his Diary for May lo and ii are: " lo. I dined with 
Mr. Smith. I attended the medical com't in the evening, ii. Gen. Howe and a number 
of other Gentlemen dined with us" {Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 255). 

[265] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 241; Warren-Adams Letters, H. 100. 
- See the Journals, Apr. 21, 22. In a letter to Warren Mar. 24 (supplement to the 
letter of Mar. 23, no. 154, ante) Adams says: " There are some of our Friends, who hav- 
ing been long habituated to admire the Wisdom of the Philosopher, cannot easily be per- 
swaded to believe, that in the different Character of a Politician, he may be lyable to 
human Frailties at the age of more than three Score and ten." He is alluding here to 
remarks of John Adams in a letter to him Dec. 5, extracts from which were enclosed in 
this letter to Warren. The letter is found in Warren-Adams Letters, H. 72, but there 
printed as to James Warren. That it was to Samuel Adams is shown by the references in 
the first paragraph to letters written and received. For instance, John Adams's letters of 
May 21 and July 28, 1778, are in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 591, 667, and Samuel 
Adams's letter to John Adams June 21 is in Writings of Samuel Adams, IV. 39. Further- 
more, Samuel Adams included in his letter to his wife Mar. 7, 1779, extracts from this 
letter of John Adams (the date of which he gives, however, as Dec. 7), although without 
mentioning the name of the writer (ibid., p. 128), a few such in his letter to Benjamin 
Austin Mar. 9 (ibid., p. 132), and appears to allude to it in his letter to John Adams of 
the same date (ibid., p. 131). 

3 The vote upon the proposition to recall Arthur Lee was Apr. 30. Cf. nos. 215- 
217, 250, ante, and nos. 337, 338, post. 

* The allusion is probably to the letter of Ralph Izard, Sept. 12, 1778 (Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., II. 710), read in Congress Dec. 7. Cf. the Journals, Mar. 24 (p. 368). 



208 Continental Congress 

Mr. Story that his Petition is referrd to the Treasury and that I expect 
it will have a favorable Issue. ^ Be so good as to let Mrs. A. know that I 
am well, but have not Time to write to her now. Adieu my Friend 

Yr affectionate 

S A 

May nth, '79- 

266. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philadel'a May nth 1779. 
Sir 

.... Your letter of the 30th Ap'l does not clearly express in what 
way the Emissions of May and Ap'l came into the State Treasuries.^ If 
by Taxes for the Continent, there can be no doubt but you may send, as 
soon as it is convenient, the several sums in those Bills to the Continental 
Treasury; for the Resolves of Congress are express that they shall be 
received for Debts and Taxes into the continental Treasury and into the 
State Treasury for continental Taxes untill the first of June. If they came 
in on any other ground than for a continental Tax, (altho not strictly 
within the Resolves of Congress) yet we think the State may, and we are 
of opinion you ought or it will be advantageous to the State, to consider 
them as brought in, in that light ; and when the continental Tax is actually 
raised you may then reimburse the State Treasuries. Congress as they 
have no Authority, so they never will inquire into the manner by which 
the State has raised her quota. If however the Emissions alluded to above, 
were not expressly levied for Continental Taxes, and you do not, as we 
conceive you may, consider them in that light, no way is open but to throw 
them into the Loan office, either on Loan or to be exchanged, the former 
of these alternatives we do not approve of and the latter will deprive the 
State of the use of the money for some time. 

Mr. Harwood's power as a continental Loan officer extends no further 
then to receive these Emissions either on loan or to be exchanged, we 
therefore think he did right in not receiving them in the way you proposed 
to him.^ .... 

We are Sir with highest Respect and Esteem 

your obt. and hble. Servts. 
Geo : Plater 
Wm. Paca 
John Henry 

Dan of St. Thos. Jenifer 
[P. S.] 

^ See the Journals, May 4, June 15. 
[266]! Arch, of Md., XXL 74, also at p. 386; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 4. 

- The letter of Apr. 30 here referred to is in Arch, of Md., XXI. 374. See also the 
council's letter of May 7, ibid., p. 382. 
3 Cf. no. 92, ante. 



May, lyjg 209 

267. William Carmichael to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 

Philadelphia May nth 1779 
Sir 

I hoped we should have been able last week to have sent the further 
supply of money requested by Your Excellency in your Letter of the 
30th Ulto. We obtained the warrant for 800000 dollars on Wednesday 
last, but the state of the treasury is such, that altho' we have been very 
importunate with the Treasurer it hath not been in his power to satisfy 
our demands. This week However we are promised the money which 
shall be immediately forwarded to Your Excellency properly escorted.^ 
The extracts you did me the honor to inclose me enabled me to urge with 
the Board of Treasury the necessity of giving directions to the Treasurer 
to pay the warrant in favor of our state, in preference to many of a prior 
date, and silenced the clamors of some who alledged that the Commis- 
sioners employed by the State to purchase, had raised the Price of flower. 
Inclosed is an extract of a Letter which contains some intelligence of the 
Enemies motions, necessary for your Excellency to be informed of. 
There is no doubt that they mean to prosecute The war vigorously this 
campaighn. The Minister of France informed us of this circumstance a 
few days ago, with the Strongest assurances of the King his Masters in- 
tentions to support us at every hazard, and even in preference to every 
view of conquest which might aggrandise himself. We have also the 
satisfaction to learn that a Company of Bankers has been instituted at 
Paris under Royal authority to pay the interest of the money borrowed 
here which was payable in Europe, and Flatter myself that this is not the 
sole purpose for which this company was instituted. General Washington 
has pressed Congress strongly to take Effectual measures to induce the 
States to fill up their respective quotas and even recommended the mode 
of drafting from the Militia. I hint this to your Excellency, because it is 
probable, that the arrival of an expected reinforcement to the Enemy, 
may oblige Congress to address the States on this Subject.^ 

268. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[May 12, 13, 1779.] 
Wednesday 12th Com'l Committee Congress. Letter from Mr. Bing- 
ham at Martinica. Letter from the first Lievt. of the Dean Frigate, Pro- 
posing a Plan to goe to the Island of St. Johns. Referrd to the Marine 
Committee to take order thereon. Order of the Day on the ultimatom of 
the Fishery. Long debate and several amendments Propos'd. 

Thursday i^th May Commercial Committee Congress. This day 
spent in very triffling debate P M Marine Committee. 

[267]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. ii. 

2 See nos. 258, 266, ante, and no. 298, post. Carmichael had previously, in a letter 
of Apr. 30 (Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 20), set forth the condition of the treasury. 
^ Cf. nos. 259, 260, ante, and no 369, post. 
[268] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



210 Continental Congress 

269. Henry Laurens, Notes on Ninth Article of Treaty 
WITH France/ 

\_Ca. May 12 or 13, 1779.] 
Article 9th. Abstract.^ .... 

Ambiguous meaning somewhat more than is expressed or meaning 
nothing.^ 

This part of the Article, acknowledges an actual posession of Havens, 
Bays, Roads, Coasts and Places on each part. 

How shall we define, Havens, Bays, Roads Coasts and Places? the 
only Rule I can discover is. Usage, Prescription, or Possession. 

has there ever been a descriptive line drawn within which the Inhabi- 
tants of the Provinces of America now of the United States, had been 
confined by G. Britain. 

Yes. an Act of Parliament. 

can this claim, be justly stiled contention for conquest or territory? 

Is not the grand Bank of N. F. L. one of the Places, which the Ameri- 
cans have as good a right to claim, as they have to claim Independence, 
does not the 2d Article of the Treaty of Alliance declare " the essential 
and direct end of the present defensive Alliance is, to maintain effectually 
the Liberty, Sovereignty and Independence Absolute and Unlimitted 
of the said United States as well in matters of Government as of Com- 
merce. Is not the Fishery an article of Commerce, is not the Bank of 
N. F. L. one of the places where America by Prescription has heretofore 
gathered and enjoyed the fruits of this branch of Commerce. Is it not 
stipulated to make effectually and unlimitedly our Liberty and Indepen- 
dence in matters of Commerce? shall we entertain Ideas so degrading 
to the Honor and Magnanimity of our good and great Ally as to admit 
a beleif or a suspicion that he will fail of fulfilling every job and every 
tittle of his engagements. 

As well might we suppose that he would give us up a Prey to our Mu- 
tual Enemy. 

but say Gentlemen, we admit this the claim to a part of the N. F. L. 
fishery to be well founded but we are not in force to continue the War. 
who says the War will be continued in consequence of our just claim 
might not this argument be applied to every claim of the quiet enjoyment 
of our ancient possessions.* 

[269] ^S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Miscellaneous Essays and Projects. 

2 The article is found in the Journals under May 2, 1778. 

2 This comment is written in the margin of the manuscript, against the last 
sentence of the ninth article of the treaty, which Laurens quotes in full : " It is however 
understood, that the exclusion stipulated in the present article shall take place only so 
long and so far as the most christian king or the United States shall not, in this respect, 
have granted an exemption to some other nation." 

^ See the Journals, Feb. 23, Mar. 17, 19, 22, 24 May 8, 12, 13, 27; cf. nos. 15I-153, 
255, 256, ante. These notes probably apply to the proceedings May 12 or 13. Cf. no. 270, 
post. 



May, 1779 211 

270. Henry Laurens, Proposed Resolution/ 

[Ca. May 12 or 13, 1779.] 
That the most strenuous efforts be used for obtaining an acknowledge- 
ment on the part of Great Britain of a common right in these States to fish 
on the Banks of N. F. Land and Gulph of St. Lawrence the Coasts of 
Labrador and Streights of Bell Isle, and that in no case by any treaty of 
Peace the common right of Fishing in those places be given up. If such 
acknowledgement cannot be obtained, all the rights of Fishery designed 
by the 9th and loth Articles of the Treaty of Commerce between France 
and these States are to be required and insisted on ; And also to require 
and insist that these United States shall be entitled unto and enjoy in 
common with their ally such other and further rights and benefits in the 
American Fisheries as may or shall be ceded to their said Ally by any 
Treaty of Peace or any other Treaty between them and the Court of Great 
Britain over and above such rights in the said Fisheries as our said Ally 
were restricted to by the Treaty of Paris of 1763.^ 
[Endorsed :] Proposed article on Fishery in Ultm. 

271. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia May 14th 1779 
S'r 

Congress finding that they Cannot Get the Journal printed so soon as 
they Could wish in the mode heretofore adopted, have Employed a 
printer to begin at January, and print them up as soon as possible, and 
from april to have them printed weekly.^ The Inclosed is the first that is 
come out. I do my Self the pleasure to Direct one for the Hon'ble Presi- 
dent of Senate and one for Mr. Speaker. 

All matters of a Secret nature are put on a Separate Journal and will 
not be printed untill the war is Ended. 

I expect you will be Surprised when you find on the Journal so many 
things that are not of the Greatest Importance, And Do not find that Any 
thing has been Done with Respect to Vermont. But I hope Mr. Jay in his 
Correspondence with you has given you the Reasons why that matter has 
been so Long, and so unexpectedly Delayed ^ . . . . 

[270] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XV. 

2 This resolution was probably offered May 12 or 13. See the proceedings of those 
days. In the same volume of the Laurens Papers is a copy of the motion of Gouvemeur 
Morris (seconded by Meriwether Smith), May 12, as amended May 13 (motion of Smith, 
seconded by Sherman), "That an equal share of the fisheries .... between France, 
Spain, and America " ; and also a copy of the motion of Elbridge Gerry, seconded by 
Richard Henry Lee, May 13, " That a common right .... United States " {Journals, 
pp. 586-587). Cf. nos. 255, 256, 269, ante, and nos. 307, 317, 360, post; also the Journals, 
index. Fishing rights. 

[271]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 2738. 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 12, Mar. 31. William Whipple wrote to President Weare 
May 18 : "I shall send you by this opportunity a few of the Journals of Congress for the 
month of January last, they will come monthly from the press, from the first of Jany. to 
the first of April ; and after that time weekly. The volume for 1777 will be out in a week 
or two, when I shall take the earliest opportunity of transmitting it to you " (Force Trans., 
Weare, p. 300). 

3 See the Journals, May 22. 



212 Continental Congress 

2y2. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[May 14, 1779.] 
Friday May 14 Congress. Letter from Govr. Johnson of Mary Land 
advising Mr. Hollinshead at the Head of Ellk of a Fleet of between 30 
and 40 Sail being in Chesapeek Bay.^ Mr. Smith introduced a Paper 
of Rivingston of the 5th with a Letter said to be wrote by Mr. Laurens to 
the Governor of Georgia. Long debate whether in order or No Yaes and 
Nayes carried in the Negative.^ P M Marine Comm^ 

2yT,. James Duane to George Washington/ 

Philad. 15th May 1779. 
Dear Sir 

I find myself under the necessity of expressing my wishes that it may 
be agreeable to your Excellency to transfer the non commissioned officers 
and Privates, Citizens of New York, late of Col. Malcolm's Regiment, to 
one of the Battallions of that State. After the Resolution to the same 
Effect in favour of the Pensylvania Companies, of which at the time I 
much disapproved,^ it is difficult to assign any good Reason for a Distinc- 
tion among Troops of the same Corpse [sic'], and under Circumstances 
altogether similar; and we may be censured for not attempting at least 
to put them on an equal Footing. However had not the Men expressed so 
much dissatisfaction at being constrained to serve in the reformed Bat- 
tallion, after so many of their officers had retired, I should have been 
silent ; for your Excellency will do me the Justice to believe that I do great 
Violence to my Feelings, and to the Maxim I have endeavor'd to incul- 
cate, when I in the most distant Degree interpose in a matter to which you 
alone, from a thorough knowledge of all its Consequences, are competent. 
I am uncertain whether a formal Act of Congress is necessary, I rather 
presume your Powers are adequate : but however this may be, from a 
Reluctance to embarrass you on any Occasion, I shoud not reconcile it to 
myself to take any step to accomplish this transfer without having previ- 
ously consulted you. 

If the obstacles are important in your Opinion, I flatter myself that the 
State of which I am a Citizen will be contented, from the unreserved Con- 
fidence they Justly repose in your Wisdom Impartiality and attention to 
the general Interest, as well as from the lively Sense they entertain of your 
unwearied Exertions for their own more immediate Protection.^ 

[272] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

- See no. 283, post. 

3 See no. 274, post. 

4 Fell's entries for the next two days are: " Saturday May 15th. Went to Bristol. 
Sunday May 16th. P M went to Mr. Gills." 

[273] 1 Library of Congress, Washington Papers, XXXH. 329. 

- See the Journals, Jan. 13. 

3 Washington replied May 26 that such a transfer as Duane requested would 
create confusion (draft in Washington Papers). 



May, 1779 213 

274. Henry Laurens, Remarks on Meriwether Smith's Motion/ 

[May 15? 1779.]' 
Sir 

I have reserved to my self a right of Voting on this very extraordinary 
and unprecedented motion, not from any apprehensions of inconvenience 
to myself, because I am sure the contents of my Letter to Govr. Houston 
are not only inoffensive but proper, and breath a Spirit of true patriotism 
and display a becoming Zeal and unshaken attachment to the Interests of 
these united States. I am confirm'd in this opinion from declarations 
which have been voluntarily made to me by several of the most respectable 
Characters in this House, that the Letter even as printed in Mr. Riving- 
ton's Paper deserves the highest praise with the addition of their wishes 
that a Copy were sent to the Governor or President of each State. My 
apprehensions are for the honor and dignity of Congress. 

And my present objections amounting to a Protest against the motion 
are 

Because, it is beneath the dignity of this House to pay attention to such 
Publications by Printers employed by the Enemy. 

[274]! S. C Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XXVII. (Congressional Letters). 

2 These remarks were doubtless prepared to be delivered during the discussion 
of Meriwether Smith's motion concerning Laurens's letter to Governor Houstoun (see the 
Journals, May 14, 15, 18). The remarks would naturally have been made subsequently to 
Laurens's address of May 15, recorded in the Journals of that day (also found in Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 169 ; a copy, in the writing of Moses Young, is in S. C. Hist. Soc, 
Laurens Papers). Smith's reply to Laurens's address, though not permitted to be entered 
in the Journal, is printed in the Library of Congress edition of the Journals under May 18, 
and may also be found in Hist. Magazine, second ser., I. 67. Laurens's letter to Governor 
Houstoun, Aug. 27, 1778, is in vol. III. of these Letters. It was reprinted (from the 
Royal Gazette of May 5) in the Pennsylvania Packet of May 20, 1779, with a communica- 
tion from " Candour " (presumed to be Thomas Paine), who entered the lists in Laurens's 
behalf, evidently with weapons and ammunition provide'd by Laurens himself. " Candour " 
declared that the copy of the Royal Gazette containing Laurens's letter had been brought 
to Philadelphia by Silas Deane and turned over to James Duane; accordingly Deane 
replied, in so far as the matter concerned him, in the Packet of May 25. In the issue of 
May 27 " Phocion " contributed a few ingredients to the mess, declaring, among other 
things, that " the journals of Congress as now published are unintelligible to half the 
world, for whose information they were designed ". Then, in the issue of June i " Lusi- 
tania " took a whack at Deane. These communications are all to be found in N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers. III. 452, 468-474. 

More directly apropos of the controversy between Laurens and Meriwether Smith is a 
communication from " Brutus " in the Packet of May 29. " Brutus " was probably Smith 
himself, for he appears to have furnished the newspaper with the proceedings of Congress 
relative to the affair (see no. 343, post). "Much hath been said", he remarks, "of 

peculation and fraud in the expenditure of public money It behoves all ranks of 

people to assist in detecting and bringing to punishment every such offender. Can it be a 
matter of surprise then, that Mr. Smith should make a motion in Congress evidently de- 
signed to do justice to the public? Is it not rather astonishing that there should have been 
any opposition to the enquiry proposed ! If it be asked what could stimulate him to make 
the motion [he is alluding to a query of "Candour"], I will tell you — it was an inde- 
pendent spirit, the love of justice, and the public good; which led him also to take an 
early, open, active and disinterested part in the present contest with Britain; and have 
established his character upon a foundation not to be shaken by Mr. Laurens or any of 
his adherents 

" Where then are the shining virtues of Mr. Laurens, and the dignity of Congress? The 
following anecdote will show you. It is said that Mr. Laurens, in opposing Mr. Smith's 
last motion, observed ' that he did not expect his address would have been entered upon 
the journal; that entering it was a very imprudent measure; that had he voted upon it, 
he would have voted no ; that when he saw the unanimous vote, he thought the lying spirit 
had got into the House '. Ergo, they had got out of the House." 



214 Continental Congress 

Because, the Letter even as published by them contains nothing Hke 
Treason, or a design in the party said to be the writer to injure these 
States or any faithful Citizen of these States 

Because, it would be dangerous and unprecedented to call upon any 
Member of this House to give up his private correspondencies, or to ex- 
tort from him his private opinions. 

Dangerous, as it would be a direct attempt to deprive the Citizens of 
these States of that freedom and Liberty ever exercised in Great Britain 
from whence they have seperated in order to enjoy greater Liberties, and 
exercised in America even while she was under the dominion of Great 
Britain. 

Unprecedented, Because altho' many Letters have been published in the 
Enemy's News Papers of a criminal nature and said to have been written 
by the Commander in Chief of the Army and by other persons in the 
service of the United States, Congress have always wisely treated such 
Publications with contempt. 

Dangerous, because it will give encouragement to the Enemy to bribe 
Secretaries and Servants to steal the private Letters of Members of Con- 
gress and other free Citizens of these States, to hold out even genuine 
Copies of Letters in order to give improper imployment to Congress and 
to divert them from attending to that Circle of business which it is their 
duty to pursue. 

already Rivington's Publication has employed Congress two whole 
Days without producing any good effect, which time had been assigned 
for business of the highest importance, to wit, 

I. Concluding an Ultimatum for a Treaty of Peace the delay of which 
has exposed Congress to oblique if not direct rebukes from the Minister 
Plenenpotentiary of France, and which threatens the loss of our National 
Character.^ 

2d. The Report from the Committee on the Treasury for appreciating 
the Value of our Paper circulation the neglect of which, is alarming in 
the highest degree to every unmask'd Citizen within and without this 
House. 

3d. An attention to the safety of a Sister State already greatly dis- 
tressed and now in imminent danger of being subdued by the Enemy from 
want of timely and sufficient aid.^ 

I might proceed to shew many other important articles necessary for the 
safety of our Independence, which demand the immed. [sicY but these 
are or ought to be so strongly impressed on the mind of every Member of 

3 See Gerard's letter to Congress May 6, in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 156; 
also the Journals, May 7. At this point Laurens has this marginal note : " Deane etc. 
Inf'd. Partners." See also note 4, below. 

* Laurens inserts here the following memoranda : " draughts of letters to the 
K. of F. Cloathing etc for the Army. State of New Jersey." These memoranda, as well 
as that mentioned in note 3, above, were evidently additional subjects which Laurens 
thought demanded the immediate attention of Congress. 

^ Some words are here lacking. The reading should probably be, " immediate 
attention of Congress ". 



May, 777P 215 

Congress, as to induce me to think a further enumeration would be an 
insult both upon the understanding and the fidelity of Congress.^ 

Because, it is below the dignity of Congress to request in writing a 
copy of the private correspondence of any Member of this House or of 
any other free Citizen '^ 

Dangerous and alarming to the States because it will amount to a pro- 
hibition to the Delegates writing their private opinions to their respective 
States. 

275. Henry Laurens, Notes of Proceedings.^ 

Upon reading Letters t^^^ ^7, 1779?]' 

Mr. Gerry arose, said [the lack of supplies] was greatly owing to the 
conduct of Officers in the [purchasing] department who had been guilty 
of the most bareface[d frauds; that they had] enhanced the prices of 
articles which they were to purcha[se inducing people to] demand higher 
prices than they had at first asked, even [double.] That it was their inter- 
est to do so. 

That Congress had known these things above eighteen Months and had 
taken no notice of them, thence the rapid depreciation of our Paper Cur- 
rency, if Congress do not immediately take proper measures to prevent 
it, our Paper Money will be at an end. 

(Mr. Gerry referred to November 1777 when Congress had been in- 
formed of these things, but I do not recollect his expressions) 

Then Mr. Gerry moved that the Report from the Board of Treasury 
on Finances should be taken under consideration at 2 o'clock on every 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday etc. Amended by Mr. Dick- 
inson to Monday, Wednesday and Friday immediately after reading the 
Journal, and not to be set aside without unanimous consent.' 

I shewed the above Memorandum to Mr. Drayton, Mr. Ellery, Mr. 
Muhlengberg and Mr. Gerry who said he did not care, it was all true. 
I added, that I committed to writing certain declarations to the above 
eflfect, which I believe had been made about eighteen Months ago. 

I also shewed the above Paper to Mr. Dickenson, who obsen^ed that 
Mr. Gerry had said expressly that Congress had been informed, so long 
ago as November 1777 that the present evils or circumstances would come 
to pass, and had taken no notice of them, and I recollect it to have been 
to that effect, altho' his particular words have escaped me * 

8 On the margin of this paragraph is the following : " In the same Paper 
Willing etc involv's honor of Cong." The reference is to the " Copy of a letter from 
Robert Ross, of Pensacola, relating to the conduct of Mr. James Willing, addressed to 
Thomas Symonds, Esq ; Commander of His Majesty's Ship Solebay, on that station ". 
The letter is dated Mar. 27, 1779. 

■^ On the margin of this paragraph Laurens has this remark, " disgust Many will 
be disgusted therefore dangerous ". 

[275]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XXVH. (Congressional Letters). 

2 A corner of the manuscript, probably containing the date, is torn off. The date 
appears, however, to be established by the reference, in the third paragraph below, to 
Gerry's motion, " amended by Mr. Dickinson ". Although the motions are not recorded 
in the Journals, a resolve fixing Monday, Wednesday, and Friday for consideration of the 
treasury report was adopted May 17. Cf. ibid., Apr. 27, May 13. 

3 See the Journals, May 17. The report of the board of treasury, dated Apr. 21, 
is found in the Journals under Apr. 27. Cj. no. 303, post. 

* See, for instance, Gerry's letter to Joseph Trumbull, Nov. 27, 1777 (vol. H., 
no- 757) • For the views of Laurens himself, see especially ibid., nos. 627, 763, 766. 



216 Continental Congress 

276. The Virginia Delegates to the Governor of Virginia 
(Patrick Henry), ^ 

Philadelphia May 17th 1779 
Sir, 

We beg leave to explain to you some difficulties that occur to us in 
executing the instructions contained in the inclosed paper No. i directing 
the Delegates to inform Congress of the resolutions of assembly respect- 
ing Indian purchases. We suppose this must have reference to some 
other Resolve than the single one next following upon that subject. If 
Sir, there are any resolves declaring the sense of the assembly concerning 
such purchases, and anouncing their invalidity, we pray to be furnished 
with them at this time such a declaration seems necessary, as will appear 
by the paper inclosed No. 2, extracted from a Talk lately delivered to 
General Washington by some Chiefs of the Delaware nation, and trans- 
mitted to Congress by the General.^ These Indians are come down under 
the conduct of Colo. George Morgan, who is at once public agent for 
Indian affairs in the middle department, and private agent for the Van- 
dalia company pretending to claim a large territory within the chartered 
limits of Virginia under purchase from the Indians. As this Talk has 
come, and the Indians with Colo. Morgan are coming to Congress; we 
shall endeavor to prevent the success of this manoeuvre. 

There is some reason to suppose that these Purchasers from the In- 
dians wish to have their right of so doing submitted to the judgement of 
Congress, and as we conceive that our execution of the 5th resolve in the 
paper No. 1,will coincide with such views, we have suspended an appli- 
cation to Congress upon the subject, until we can get the further sense 
of our Constituents thereupon. Lands that are clearl}^ within the char- 
tered limits of a State have been hitherto understood to be. at least, in the 
preemption of that state; and certainly such purchases would contravene 
our whole system of laws respecting the mode of acquiring ungranted 
Lands in Virginia 

We have the honor to be Sir your most obedient Serv^ants, 

Meriwether Smith 
Richard Henry Lee 

2^2. James Duane to George Washington.^ 

Philad 17th May 1779 
Dear General 

I am honoured with your Favour of the 3d Instant and have communi- 
cated it to my Colleagues. When I wrote to your Excellency respecting 
the Exchange of Citizens in the power of the Enemy, I did not attend 
to the Distinction between Civil and military Prisoners : but conceivd 
your Authority competent in all Cases." I cannot think it adviseable to 

[276]^ Library of Congress, Virginia, Miscellaneous. 

2 A letter from Washington May 14, enclosing a copy of a letter of Col. George 
Morgan, May 9, together with an Indian speech, and Washington's answer, was read 
in Congress May 17 ; and a letter of May 16 from Morgan, enclosing the speech and 
answer, was read in Congress May 18. Cf. no. 281, post. 

[277]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXIL 327. 
- See no. 232, ante. 



May, 1779 217 

leave the Negociation of the Exchange even of Citizens to Commis- 
saries appointed by the several States : it may be productive of Confu- 
sion and mischief : Nor can there be any possible Inconvenience in con- 
sulting the Commander in Chief on the manner and Terms of such 
Exchange ; while it will at least keep up a Consistency and propriety in our 
Transactions with the Enemy: It can be no Encroachment on the Civil 
Authority of any State : because a Citizen in Captivity is treated and 
considerd as a Prisoner of War, and the whole Business on the part of 
the Enemy conducted in the Military Line. However it is obvious from 
your Excellency's Remarks that the Concurrence of the State is neces- 
sary — to remove all difficulties I shall prepare a Resolution " to author- 
ize the Commissioners of Indian Affairs for the northern Department 
with the Concurrence of the Commander in Chief and the executive Au- 
thority of the State where Citizens respectively shall be the subject of the 
proposd Exchange, to negociate and settle the manner and Terms of the 
Exchange ".^ This will I think answer the present Purpose, and I hope 
will meet with Approbation. 

27^. James Lovell to the Deputy Secretary of the 
Massachusetts Council (John Avery). ^ 

Philad'a May 17, 1779 
Sir 

.... I beg you to communicate to the Hon'ble Council the inclosed 
Copy of a Letter from Grovernor Reed.^ 

" In addition to my wishes personally that a sort of Debt supposed to 
be contracted on my account might be readily liquidated, I have strong 
political Reasons, just at this Time, for desiring that a State Civility may 
be discovered between Mass'ts and Pensylva. the Published Journals will 
in part explain my Grounds ; the Secret ones would fully do it." .... 

Mr. Lowell is still delayed ; S'th Carolina ^ and Connecticutt have ap- 
plications, like what he brought, depending; and which were yesterday 
recommitted to the Treasury.* I shall use my Endeavors with my Col- 
leagues to bring a favorable Speedy Issue to the Business. 

Your most hum Servant 

James Lovell 

3 The resolution was offered and adopted May 22. See the report of the com- 
mittee on Indian affairs (prepared by Duane) upon letters of Schuyler and James Deane 
(read in Congress June 15), found in the Journals (ed. Ford) under June 19. Wash- 
ington replied May 26 to this letter of Duane, and also to that of May 15, no. 272< onte 
(Washington Papers). 
[278]! Mass. Arch., CCI. 33. 

2 The immediate question between the two states appears to have been that of the 
embargo. See the Journals, Apr. 14; cf. Reed to the Massachusetts Council Mar. 8 
(Pa. Arch., first sen, VII. 231). The " political reasons " to which Reed alludes probably 
had their origin in the Arnold controversy, which was at this time in agitation. 

3 Grants of money, similar in terms, were made to Massachusetts, Connecticut, 
and Virginia May 22. Probably it was Virginia rather than South Carolina that Lovell 
had in mind. Concerning South Carolina, however, see the Journals of the same date. 
Cf. no. 280, post. 

* A letter from Jeremiah Powell, president of the Massachusetts council, dated 
Apr. 24, was read in Congress May 15, and one from Governor Rutledge of South 
Carolina, of the same date, was read May 17. " Yesterday " (May 16) was Sunday, and it 
is probable that the letter was written on that day ; but there is no record in the Journals 
under May 15 or 17 that these applications were recommitted to the treasury. 



218 Continental Congress 

2yg. John Fell, Diary/ 

[May 17, 18, 1779.] 
Monday May lyth A M came to Town Congress. A number of 
Letters Memorials etc. from Genl. Washington, Genl. Lincoln, Genl. Max- 
well, Coll. Morgan, Dallaware Indians etc. etc. 

Tuesday 18th May Com. Committee Congress. Several Letters, Pe- 
titions etc. Read. Report of the Committee to whom was Referrd the 
Memorial from Bermuda, agreed to let them have Indian Corn not Ex- 
ceeding 1000 Bushel.^ P M. Went to Marine Committee (did not make a 
Board[)]' 

280. Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia, May 18, 1779 
Sir 

.... The business Mr. Lowell is charged with from the honorable 
court to congress, is referred to the Treasury Board, and I beleive con- 
gress will advance a sum of money to the state, for which they must be 
accountable, but I do not expect it will be expressed for any particular 
purpose." .... 

281. The President of Congress (John Jay) to 
George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 19th May 1779. 
Sir, 

I have been honored with Your Excellency's Favors of the nth, 14th, 
16th, two of the 17th and the one by General Mcintosh with the several 
Papers referred to in them. 

Congress concur with your Excellency in Opinion that an immediate 
Enquiry into the Matters of Complaint, preferred by General Mcintosh, 
would at present be inexpedient.' .... 

[279]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 213, 222, 253, ante. 

3 William Whipple wrote to President Weare of New Hampshire May 18, after 
mentioning the news from Georgia, " If we can be favored with a little Naval assistance 
from our ally, I shall have very flattering expectations of favorable events in that 
quarter " (Force Trans., Weare, p. 300). 

[280]! Mass. Arch., CCI. 41. 

- See the Journals, May 22; cf. no. 278, ante. Holten records in his Diary May 16, 
" Mr Daulton and Mr Lowell dined with us " ; May 20, " I took a walk with Mr. Lowell " ; 
and May 22, " I ride out with Mr Lowell ". 

[281] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIH. 149; ibid., President's 
Letter-Book, p. iii. 

2 See the Journals, May 17, 18. Cf. no. 276, ante. General Mcintosh, writing to 
Washington May 14, referred to " the groundless aspersions of Col. George Morgan in 
the course of Mr. Steeles trial in Fort Pitt — and encouraged by the success of that, his 
barefaced attempt now to arraign the judgment, knowledge and conduct of the Hon'ble 
the Board of War, the late commissioners, myself and others acting immediately under 
the authority and direction of Congress, in a speech he framed himself and put into the 
mouths of a few Delaware chiefs, invited down by him for this purpose ", and asked for an 
inquiry into his own conduct. Hamilton, on the same day, wrote Mcintosh in Wash- 
ington's behalf that an inquiry at the present time would seriously interfere with the 



May, 1779 219 

282. Henry Laurens, Notes of Proceedings/ 

19th May [1779.]^ 

When the question to fill up the same blank was put (40 Million hav- 
ing been moved by Governor Morris) Mr Drayton offered a motion for 
recommending to the States to tax their respective Constituents in as high 
an amount as their circumstances would bear. I said, I would wish to 
second that motion if it were practicable because it would apply extremely 
well to the circumstances of our State, but I apprehended we could not pro- 
ceed in that indefinite mode, and I believed my Colleague was not in the 
secret, alluding to a design of drawing in Gentlemen to a conduct which 
should appear to be contradictory, by combating against a high Tax and 
insisting upon the Fisheries as an Ultimatum for Peace, and there upon I 
put queries to Mr Ellery. 

" If you are in such circumstances as will not admit of Taxation ade- 
quate to lessening the quantity of Paper Money now abroad how can you 
reconcile your demand for the Fishery as an Ultimatum? 

If you are not in circumstances for continuing the War, you will be 
told your Ultimatum should be moderate. ["] 

A motion was presently made by Mr. Dickinson for filling the blank 
with Sixty Million, my Colleague who had formerly confessed his in- 
capacity, and left me to determine even on thirty Million having received 
light by an out-door conference with two or three of the party, voted 
not only without consulting, but in direct opposition to me for 60 Mil- 
lion. This being negativ'd and 45 Million moved, he also voted for that 
sum in opposition to me. 

The circumstances of South Carolina were such as called upon us to 
reflect maturely on the subject. I had previously called Mr. Drayton 
out of Congress into the Court room and delivered my opinion candidly 
on the subject, expressed my apprehensions that the burthen would be 
too much at this time for South Carolina, demonstrated the disadvan- 
tages she lay under by comparing the prices of her staples with those of 
Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, etc. I said I was in favor of taxing 

campaign, as it would also leave Mcintosh in undesirable inactivity. " There are properly 
no charges against you ", he remarked, " therefore a particular examination of your con- 
duct unless by your desire seems to be unnecessary." Mcintosh, in reply, yielded to the 
suggestion, but expressed his readiness, now or at any other time the General pleases to 
give an account of his transactions. Washington then referred the whole matter to Con- 
gress, with the result as recorded in the Journals. 

One note in this controversy was sounded as early as Mar. 14, by Gouverneur Morris, 
who wrote to Washington by the hand of Col. Morgan, whom he had asked, he said, to 
call on Washington. " That Gentleman ", he wrote, " can give you much and important 
Information relative to the state of our western Frontiers. From the first View of the 
Commander in that Department at York Town he struck me as one of those who excel 
in the Regularity of still Life from the possession of an indolent Uniformity of soul. The 
little Eagerness he shewed to go thence when every Thing almost depended on Vivacity 
gave no good Omen of his Success." Morris's letter is in the Library of Congress, Letters 
to Washington, XXX. 376; the other letters are in Papers Cont. Cong., no. 152, vol. VII., 
ff. 345-365- 

[282]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XV. (copy) ; ihid., XXVI. 

2 These notes are a continuation of those of Apr. 29 (no. 236, ante). A further 
continuation is found under June 12 (no. 340, post). 



220 Continental Congress 

as highly as could be home, and that respecting myself I would wish to 
pay off now all my taxes for two years to come etc. etc. 

He replied, " all that could be said was that if we could not pay it we 
* ^ could not pay it," and then voted as I have said, and as the Journal will 
shew.* 

283. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

Wednesday May the iQth 1779. Commercial Committee Congress. 
After reading the Letters, The order of the day on Finance, after long 
debate, the Question was Put for filling the Blank in the 4 article, with 60 
Million of Doll's, carried in the Negative then the question for 45 Mil- 
lion, carried in the affirmitive. 5 Yaes 4 Noes — 2 divided. NB. Dr. 
Wetherspoon at Congress. 

Thursday May 20th Commercial Committee Congress. Letter from 
Seiur Gerrard, relating to 2 Spanish Vessells carried in to the State of 
Massachusets Bay. Referrd to a Committee of three vizt. Mr. Smith of 
Virginia read and Presented a Resolve of their Assembly, relating to the 
Confederation. Order of the day on foreign affairs Whether Mr. Izard 
should be Recall'd, from the Court of Tuscany. Debate whether he shall 
be recall'd, or his Commission vacated, no determination Adjoumd 
to 10 oClock NB A Letter was read from Leesburgh in Virginia that the 
Enemy had Landed there, that Major [Mathews] had defended Fort 
with 150 Men, till he was oblidg'd to leave it that he Spiked up the Guns, 
destroyed all the Stores, Burnt 3. Ships on the Stocks, and that a Party 
of 30 were sent of which he Killed 14 and took 16 Prisoners." 

284. Roger Sherman to Benjamin Trumbull.^ 

Philadelphia May 20th 1779 
Sir 

Having an opportunity by Mr. Erkelens I send you the enclosed Paper 
which contains what News we have here. 

I wrote to you by the Post on the 18th Instant Yesterday Congress took 
into consideration the Subject of the currency which was considerably 
debated. It is the general if not universal opinion to make provision for 
defraying the public expence without continuing to emit Bills — 'tis prob- 
able that the Several States will be called upon to furnish their Quotas 

3 " * determinations worthy a sagacious Patriot" [note in the original]. 

■* Cf. the Journals, May 19. 
[283] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The letter (which was read in Congress May 21) was from Thomson Mason 
(May 17) and related the news, just brought to Leesburgh by Mason's son, of the 
appearance of the enemy in Hampton Roads and the attack upon the fort, and of Major 
Mathews's defense. President Jay wrote to Thomson Mason May 21 : " Your Favor of 
the 17th Inst, was delivered to me Yesterday morning. It contains the first authentic and 
most particular Account of the Enemy's Operations in the Bay that Congress have yet 
received" (President's Letter-Book, p. 113). May 22 Jay transmitted a copy of Mason's 
letter, together with copies of two letters from Governor Henry (see the Journals, 
May 21) to Gerard (ibid., p. 114). For another account of the affair, see Joseph Hewes 
to Governor Caswell May 23, A''. C. State Recs., XIV. 94. See also no. 311, note 2, post. 
[284]^ Library of Congress, Stauffer-Morgan Collection of Signers of the Declaration 
of Independence. 



May, 1779 221 

of the necessary Supplies of Money to be raised by taxes or any other way 
that the Legislatures may think. 

If further Emissions are Stopt, the currency will probably fix at a 
proper rate in proportion to the Quantity and become Stable, which per- 
haps is as much as may be expected while the war continues, unless a 
foreign loan should be obtained which I should not be very fond of if we 
can do without it. 

I am Sir very respectfully 

Your humble Servant 

Roger Sherman 

[P. S.] General Spencer is well and presents his respectful compliments 
to You. He is well pleased with the piece signed Honestus in the enclosed 
Paper. 

R. S. 
The Rev'd Mr. Benjamin Trumbull 



285. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina.'- 

Philadelphia, May 20th 1779 
The Delegates of Virginia have Just now laid before Congress an In- 
strument from that State impowering them to Confoederate with any one 
or more States, and they have offered to do so in explicit Terms, the 
Inclosed is a Copy of the Instrument and we lose no time in transmitting 
it to you to be laid before the General Assembly.^ 

We beg leave to inform you that certain appearances in Congress and 
in our general affairs make it Necessary to come to some conclusive deci- 
sion on the Business of Confoederation. some States seem not very clear 
that they are bound by any thing which has hitherto been done, and others 
scruple not to declare that if Congress should, on a Question for agreeing 
to Terms of peace decide in a manner Contrary to the Sense of those 
States, they will neither submit or Confoederate. It appears to us abso- 
lutely Necessary to have clearly and conclusively known what states will 
consider themselves as bound at all Events to Submit to the decision of 
the united Council, and to go hand in hand with their brethren thro' all 
the Vicissitudes of Events and affairs. The Wisdom of the assembly will 
see the propriety of impowering their Delegates to do some conclusive 
act upon this Solemn Requisition of our favored, and favoring Sister 
Virginia, whose Interests, habits, manners and Inclinations are so similar 
and Consenting with ours, we will not presume to suggest what that Act 

[285]! Library of J. Pierpont Morgan, Signers of the Articles of Confederation, p. 3 
(in the writing of Thomas Burke) ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXVL 503; 
N. C. State Recs. XIV. 88. 

2 See the Journals, May 20. Cf. no. 223, ante, and no. 291, post. 

19 



222 Continental Congress 

should be, but we wish to impress them with an Idea that dispatch is very- 
Necessary. 

We have the honor to be with all due respect 

Your Excellency's obt. Se't 

John Penn 
Thos. Burke 
Wm. Sharpe 
His Excellency Richard Caswell Esqr.^ 

286, Henry Laurens, Notes of Proceedings,^ 

[May 20? 1779.] 
Motion Lee Seconded by Laurens. 
Resohed. 

That the Honorable Ralph Izard Esquire be informed, that as the Court 
of Tuscany hath declined receiving a Minister from the United States of 
America, and not discerning any probability that such Minister will 
shortly be received, Congress have thought proper to discontinue the ap- 
pointment of a Commissioner for the said Court. That Congress enter- 
tain a proper sense of Mr. Izard's zeal in the service of his Country, and 
return him thanks for his attention to the Public affairs, and willingness 
to promote the Public good.^ 

[Endorsed:] Motion by R. Lee Esqr. seconded by Mr. Laurens May 
1779 ^o^ thanking and dismissing Commissioner Izard. 

287. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.* 

Philadelphia the 21st May 1779 
My Dear Sir, 

, . . . The state of the currency is truely deplorable, but not so alarm- 
ing in my judgment as the failure of public Virtue, the former may possi- 
bly be assisted by human means, but we must depend on him who alone 
can control the hearts of men to establish the latter. We are now about 
trying once more what can be done to save the sinking credit of the 
money, the prevailing Opinion is that nothing will do but (I was going 

3 Another letter from the delegates to Governor Caswell, dated May 20 (A''. C. 
State Recs., XIV. 89), relates to some complaints of North Carolina officers of the 
continental troops. One passage of the letter may appropriately be quoted herej_ 

" It may be thought that such redress as the officers pray for ought more properly to 
be administered by Congress, but experience has proved that present provision can more 
conveniently and effectually be made by the States ; and it is not quite clear whether, 
agreeable to the true genius of a Federal Republic the future provision for the Military 
ought to be made by and at the will of the Magistrate, who must have the supreme, united 
executive power. 

" But what makes the immediate interposition of the States necessary is that Congress 
have not time to apply the remedy so early as the inconvenience demands." 

[286]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XXVIII., no. 7. 

2 This motion was doubtless made May 20, in connection with the consideration of 
the case of Ralph Izard that day. Cf. the motions of June 8, following the vote of recall. 
For earlier proceedings touching the question of Izard's recall, see the Journals, Mar. 24. 
Apr. 15, 20. See. further, nos. 344, 345, 347, 354, 415, 421, 422, post. 

[287]! Boston Pub. Lib., Chamberlain Coll., E 9, 46. 



May, 1779 223 

to say) excessive Taxes, but I will soften the epithet and adopt the words 
very high if a sufficiency can be raised by Taxes to support the war, 
farther emissions will be unnecessary, this is part of the plan now under 
consideration. A consequent Resolution past this day to raise 45,000,000 
to be paid in by the 1st of Jany. I must suspend giving you my Opinion 
of this measure for the present, let it suffice to say there was a great 
Majority in favor of the question, and but a small Majority against the 
Question for 60,000,000 this is a bold Political stroke, and I hope will 
be carried into effect, as to all appearance nothing else can save us from 
destruction, the People in this part of the Country are every where 
clamerous for heavy Taxes, the greatest difficulty appears to me is, the 
levying it on the proper persons, if the whole sum could be drawn from 
those speculating miscreants, who have been sucking the Blood of their 
country, it would be a most happy circumstance : and I hope the assessors 
will be particularly attentive to those people. He who increases in wealth 
in such times as the present, must be an enemy to his Country, be his pre- 
tentions what they may. If the Connecticut mode of collecting Taxes, was 
adopted the business would be much facilitated ; In that State five or six 
Taxes are collected in a Year, by that means they collect very large sums 
without produceing the least uneasiness among the people. If the people 
are duely impress'd with the advantages they will derive from paying in 
their money while it is at the present low state they certainly will do it 
with chearfulness. Spirited measures with the Property of the fugitive, 
as well as with the persons of the resident, enemies, to the Revolution, 
would in my humble Opinion have an exceeding good effect, at this par- 
ticular crisis 

288. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Friday 21st May Commercial Committee Congress. Letter from the 
Legislature of N Jersey for an explination of some Resolves of Congress. 
Referrd to the Board of Warr.^ Letter from Genl. Thompson and Coll. 
Webb in behalf of themselves, Genl. Waterberry, Cols. Housecker, Pottor 
and Alison, to let Genls. Philips, Esdale and their aids go to New York 
on Porole. Committed to 3 vizt. Spencer, Atley and Scudder, Order of 
the Day on Finance Agreed to Levy 45 Million of Dollars per Tax this 
Year in addition to 15 do. allready orderd to be Raisd ^ Motion from 
Dickinson to have a Spireted Adress sent to the People at large shewing 
the Necesity of the measure. Committee to draw it up viz Dickinson, 
Drayton and Lee. Letter from Govr. Henry of Virginia dated 12th Instt. 
with an Acct. of the Enemy being at Portsmouth. Petition of Dodge and 
Wood, who have been Prisoners a[t] Detroit. NB Dr. Weatherspoon 
gon[e] home NB the Gentlemen sent with the Letter from New Jersey 
Mr. Elijah Clark and Silas Conduit P M. Went to Marine Committee 
did not make a B'd. 

[288] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The board of war's reply to Governor Livingston and to the speaker of the 
assembly is in A^. /. Rev. Corr., p. 168. 

2 " 21. Congress agreed upon a tax of 45,000,000 dollars to be paid by the 1st of 
Janu'y next" (Samuel Holten, Diary). "Esdale", above, is Baron Riedesel. 



224 Continental Congress 

Saturday 22d May ///p. Commercial Committee Congress. Several 
Letters Read and an affadavit of Particulers relating to the Cruelty of 
the Enemy in Virginia etc. Memorial from the State of New York re- 
lating to the seperation of the State of Vermont PostPoned the consid- 
eration till next Saturday. The order of the day on foreign affairs, de- 
ferrd till Tuesday on account of a Long letter from the Seiur Gerrard.* 

289. The President of Congress (John Jay) to the 
Several States.^ 

^^y Philadelphia 22nd. May, 1779 

You will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 
2 1st Inst, calling on the States for forty five millions of Dollars. 

The late rapid depreciation of the Currency demanded a speedy and 
effectual Remedy While the great purposes for which the Money was 
originally issued are remembered, there can be no doubt that every mea- 
sure calculated to support it's Credit and preserve the public faith will be 
readily adopted. 

290. John Jay to the Governor of New York (George Clinton).^ 

Dear Sir Philadelphia 22 May 1779 

I have now the Pleasure of transmitting you a Copy of certain Reso- 
lutions moved in Congress this morning respecting the pretended State 
of Vermont. They were introduced by Mr. Morris with a proper prefa- 
tory Speech. On Saturday next the House will be resolved into a Com- 
mittee of the whole to take them into Consideration. What may be their 
Fate is uncertain, tho I am by no means without Hopes of Success. They 
are temperate and founded on plain Principles. Opposition will hence be 
more difficult, and their Defence more certain. The Yeas and Nays shall 
be called on every Question respecting them; and I will furnish you with 
a minute Detail of the Proceedings of Congress in every stage of the 
Debates on the Subject. The Delays attending this Business have been 
unavoidable, and rather unpleasant than prejudicial. It will now be 
pressed forward, and you may rely on our utmost Exertions and 
Care.^ .... 

291. The Virginia Delegates to the Speaker of the House of 
Delegates (Benjamin Harrison).^ 

^^y Philadelphia May 22d [1779.] 

Having [ inform] ed Congress on th[e 20th] of our instructions from 
the honorable Assembly the 19th of december last touching a final ratifi- 

* Gerard's memorial (translation) is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 175. 
See no. 167, note 4, ante; cf. no. 326, post. Fell's entry for Sunday, May 23, is, " Fine 
Weather ". 

[289]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIII. in; Library of Congress, President's Letter- 
Book, p. 115 (" circular ") ; N. C. State Recs., XIV. 93. 

[290]! N. Y. State Lib., George Clinton Papers, no. 2309; Clinton Papers, IV. 840. 

2 See the Journals, May 22, 29, June 1,2; cf. no. 313 and note 2, post. 
[291]! Va. State Lib. 



May, /;7p 225 

cation of the confederacy,^ onr motion was followed the next day by the 
inclosed intemperate paper presented by the Delegates of Maryland to 
Congress and at their motion placed on the journal.^ We have the honor 
to transmit this paper to you, that the Assembly may, if they judge it 
proper, direct a counter declaration to be prepared, which being placed on 
the same journal may prevent future arguments derived from a claim 
now set up and not now controverted. We observe that Connecticut has 
furnished her Delegates with instructions * concerning the Confederacy 
similar to those that we have received, and we hope that no State will be 
found to abet Maryland in her unreasonable claim. The declaration, to 
which the inclosed instructions allude, having been some time ago pub- 
lished, we thought it unnecessary to detain the Express for a copy at this 
time. 

We have the honor to be Sir your most obedient and very humble 
servants, 

Meriwether Smith 
Richard Henry Lee. 
Wm. Fleming. 

292. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia May 22. 1779 
Dear Sir, 

I have paid due attention to your favor of April the 21st, and I believe 
there would have been no difficulty in obtaining what is desired for Baron 
de Geismar ^ had not the enemy created the difficulties that do exist. They 
absolutely refuse to admit partial exchanges, and they have lately pro- 
posed such unfair terms for general exchange, that nothing can be done 
in either of these ways. They will not allow one of our Officers to come 
out on parole, if like permission be granted to one of theirs, as appeared 
in the case of Major de Passeren of the Regiment of Hesse Hanau.^ 
Upon consideration of this matter with your friend Mr. Peters, who is 
one of the Board of War, we conclude the way to put this matter into the 
best train will be for the Baron to apply to the British Commander in 
Chief for this parole exchange, and write to Gen. Knephausen to support 
the request — That these letters be sent here to the Board of War, and they 

2 The Virginia instructions, together with a statement of the Virginia delegates 
relative thereto, are in the Journals, May 20. An endorsement by Secretary Thomson on 
the copy of the instructions which he retained, respecting the withdrawal of the original 
by the Virginia delegates, is also recorded ibid. (p. 618 n.). Cf. no. 285, ante, no. 293, post. 

3 The Maryland instructions, Dec. 15, 1778^ are in the Journals, May 21. Con- 
cerning the declaration referred to in the close of the letter, see ibid., Jan. 6. Cf. no. 
298, post, and Schuyler's letter of Jan. 29, 1780, in the next volume. 

* The Connecticut instructions, dated Apr. 7, are in the Journals, May 21. 
[292]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second ser., LI. 26; Letters (ed. Bal- 
lagh), n. 56. 

2 Baron de Geismar, captain of the Raiment of Hesse-Hanau, was one of the 
Convention prisoners then in Virginia. Theodorick Bland wrote to Washington from 
Charlottesville, May 31, concerning his exchange. Washington replied June 28, and July 
22 he wrote to the board of war. These letters are all in the Washington Papers. See 
also Hist. MSS. Comm., Report on Am. MSS. in the Royal Institution, I. 476, 478, IL 5. 

2 See no. 103, note 8, ante. 



226 Continental Congress 

will immediately forward them thro the Commissary of Prisoners ex- 
pressing their willingness to gratify the Baron. An objection is raised 
here to gratifying this Officer without receiving something like an equiva- 
lent from the enemy, as tending to encourage their obstinacy in refusing 
a general exchange on terms of fair equality, by which our captive 
Offic[ers]* .... 

293. William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia, 226. May; 1779. 
Dear sir, 

.... I think we have little to fear but from the depreciation of our 
money; and from that source we have, in my opinion, much to fear. 
There are between 130 and 140 million of dollars now in circulation; and 
congress, to make one bold effort to restore its sinking credit, yesterday 
passed an act to call on the states for their respective quotas of 45 million 
of dollars, by the first day of next January; and this (if it can be effected) 
will not answer the end, without the aid of a foreign loan ; for unless some 
such measure can be speedily adopted, the emissions between this and the 
first day of January, must greatly exceed 45 millions of dollars. The de- 
mand appears large, and doubtless it is so ; but the very critical situation of 
our affairs seems to make it not only expedient, but absolutely necessary ; 
and I am hopeful a plentiful crop this year will enable our people to pay it 
without making sale of much of their property, besides the produce of 
their lands and many will pay it with less than a fourth of that produce. 
On those who have no land it will fall the lightest. An address from con- 
gress to the people of each state, shewing the situation of their affairs, and 
the necessity for the measure, will accompany the requisition.^ .... 

It is of the utmost consequence that the confederation be speedily rati- 
fied. It would in a great degree give force and energy to the proceedings 
of congress, and defeat the hope our enemy entertains of dividing us. 
Maryland is the only state that now refuses to accede tho' many of the 
states have acceded on condition that all the rest come into the confedera- 
tion. The Maryland delegates, a few days ago, delivered in, to congress, 
an instruction from their assembly on the subject; and a very extraordi- 
nary, indecent performance it is : a copy will be sent by the express to our 
assembly for their consideration, and I hope we shall be favoured with 
a proper comment upon it.^ .... 

294. John Armstrong to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philadelphia 22d May 1779 
Dear General, 

.... Neither Niagara nor Detroit are in contemplation, the Seneca 
Indians and their connexions whether Tories or others, are I presume the 

* The word is at the right-hand margin with no room, apparently, for an addi- 
tional word. Probably some such word as " suflfer " was intended. 

[293]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second sen, XXXIII. 37. 

2 See the Journals, May 21, 25, 26. 

3 See the Journals, May 21, and no. 291, ante. 
[294]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XIV. 82. 



May, 1779 227 

only present Object of our Arms to the North." .... Sullivan has asked 
of Congress two Extra Aids De Camp for the Campaign, not yet granted 
nor ought they to be.^ 

The Packet from France to which you alude brought us the news of 
the birth of a Princes of that Nation under the hand of the King! Shortly 
after, we received an intimation from the Minister of the intended or ex- 
pected return of the Count De Estaing to our Coasts for important pur- 
poses taking Georgia and South Carolina in his way.* (Secrecy enjoined 
by Congress) latterly by a letter from Mr. Bingham ° an Agent at Mar- 
tinique we have reason to doubt the coming of the Count. I wish I cou'd 
give you a more favourable relation of sudden and vigorous exertions in 
our House for recovering the expiring credit of our Money and in the 
dispatch of our foreign affairs, whereon depends the Political life of 
America : sometimes our efforts point that way and promise a happy 
progress in the plainest path that ever pure necessity pointed out to man, 
but anon a diversion is made, new and impertinent matter thrown on the 
Anvil under specious Colourings tending at least to such delay as may be 
fatal ; thus like the scale of the beam we rise and fall 

295. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee.^ 

[Congress,]' May 2-^. 1779 
[Dear Brother.'] 

As I shall have occasion frequently to mention [names] in the course 
of [this letter] remember that the [columns] in the [system] of [names] 
are [nunbered] i. 2. 3. 4. 5. — Since my last the [party] have pushed a 
[vote] for [your recall] but they have [failed] the [states] being 
[divided]. Nothing has been done since. But every thing will be at- 
tempted to [injure you] regardless of [truth, virtue], or [public good] 
tho the last is the pretext and forever [protruded] in some [mouths]. 
Tis remarkable that the unifomi, fixed, invariable [Whigs] are for [you]. 
Those against [you] are generally well known in America. The latter are 
[marked] in [the list] " T ". The papers i. 2. 3. 4. will [show you] the 
[ground] they [were] on. What part [Gerard]' has taken the papers 
2. 3. 4 will [demonstrate]. I believe verily that [Deane] is not more your 
[enemy] than [Gerard]. And the latter possibly more bitter and much 
more subtle. It would be well to search diligently if [Gerard] is not con- 
nected in some [intrigue] with [Deane]. Our cruel enemies have lately 
invaded Virginia with 2000 men and taking the advantage of the dis- 
persed state of the people there, they have burned Portsmouth, and 
Suffolk, and every house they came to. Murders in cold blood and rapes 
without end mark their way. Every outrage and every ravage that would 

2 See no. 183, note 8, ante. 

3 Sullivan's letter was read in Congress May 22. 
* See the Journals, May 10; cf. no. 259, ante. 

5 See the Journals, May 12. 
[295]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VL 66. 

2 Words in square brackets are written in cipher. See no. 87, ante. 

3 The cipher is 455. b. i. xiv, which definitely indicates " Gerard " in the list of 
names given in Entick's Dictionary. See note 4, following. 



228 Continental Congress 

disgrace the worst Savages they have committed. The people are collect- 
ing and will be in force very soon to punish these Wretches. But accord- 
ing to custom, as soon as they see a force equal to their own collected, 
they will fly to their ships, and by crossing a wide river with their ships 
of war to cover them, begin their ravage in another part. This will 
[carry] me [home] to take care of my [family] — and [leaving] the 
[foreign] and [Deane's] affairs unfinished in [Congress] much [dis- 
tresses] your [friend]. It is very remarkable that those men who from 
the beginning of this contest have been the most decided friends to the 
Liberties of America and the firmest opposers of British Tyranny, and 
who in the hour of Trial will be found most true to the Alliance, are the 
Men whom [Gerard] has shewn the least desire to be [well with]. Another 
sort of Men have shared his [friendship] and [familiarity]. This has 
been the policy of the British Court for 15 or 16 years past. Time will 
prove if tis a wise one in [Gerard].* The [first described] class of men 
are not [friends] to the [intrigues] of Deane, Chaumont, Holker, Wil- 
liams, Wharton, Bancroft, Beaumarchais etc. etc. etc. etc 

Twould do infinite good if this most wicked combination against you 
could be fully explored and exposed. I am persuaded there are no worse 
enemies to America and the friends of America than these people. 

I am well informed that the [vote] about your [recall] gave great un- 
easiness to the [Whigs] in this State. They consider it as coming too 
near to [sacrificing] one of themselves and their good and able friend. 

Make an apology for my not writing to our [brother]. I am quite ex- 
hausted with long and close attention to variety of business. 

[Richard Henry Lee] 

P. S. -?5. Many of your friends are of opinion that it will be for your 
honor that you should be called here in order to bring [Deane] to justice. 
Should this be the resolution, I entreat you to spare no pains in collecting 
the most authentic proofs, for I am certain that there has been so much 
misconduct and [wicked traffic] with the [public money] That you will 
do honor to yourself and serve your country by breaking up this bad man 
and his very bad connections. Unless you come in a strong Ship of War 
or otherwise powerfully convoyed [carefully conceal] the [time] and 
manner of your [coming]. You know the virulence of yr, enemies, notice 
may be [given] in order that the [enemy] may place you to languish in a 
British jail. 

Altho the plan for recal should not finally be carried, yet your friends 
are of opinion that the violence and wickedness of your enemies is such, 
that they think it will be wise in you, to take the first favorable oppor- 
tunity to resign, or rather ask leave to do so. I before mentioned and 
again repeat my earnest wish, for I think it indispensable that when you 

4 The cipher here is 419 a XXVIII (see note 3, above), which is the same that is 
translated " well " a few lines above. As neither the latter word nor any of its near 
relatives is appropriate in this statement, it is assumed that Lee inadvertently put down 
the wrong cipher. It seems probable that he meant to write the cipher for Gerard, 
meaning to say that time will prove whether Gerard is wise in pursuing the policy which 
has long been practiced by the British court. See no. 87, note 13, ante. 



May, ijig 229 

come you bring every material for making the fairest and fullest settle- 
ment of the expenditure of such pub. money as has passed thro you. or 
been entrusted to your care. It will by no means be proper for one of us 
to endeavor to shelter ourselves, as some bad men do, under a thousand 
delusive pretexts for not settling accounts and demonstrating the rectitude 
of our conduct. If you come, I suppose, that as you cross the Sea, having 
the necessary materials, you may be digesting a complete state of all your 
transactions and your well supported ideas of [Deane's] culpability. I 
[set off] this [day] to guard my [family] from the insults and cruelty of 
the enemy.'' 

Capt. Nicholson says that Williams bot for Dean a prize Brigantine 
that he captured, and that she came out loaded with private property with 
our fleet in spring 1777. Enquire about this and the manner in which 
Williams disposed of all the prizes committed to his disposal. 

5 His leave of absence is recorded in the Journals of the 24th. May 4 he had 
written to the speaker of the House of Delegates, offering his resignation as a delegate 
in Congress (Va. State Lib., Executive Papers). His account for attendance in 1778 
and 1779, rendered in March, 1780 (ibid.), follows: 
" Dr. The Commonwealth of Virginia in Account with R. H. Lee for Wages as a 

Delegate to Congress 
1778 dollars L s d 

To 186 days attendance in Congress at 10 dollars pr. day 1860 558. 0. 

To 458 Miles of going and returning at 2/ pr. mile 152^ 45. 16. 

To Cash paid Virginia Mariners (released from N. York 

viz) by desire of the Delegates 100 30. 0. 

To ferriages 26 7. 16. 

1779 

To 93 days attendance on Congress at 15 dol's pr. day 1395 418. 10. o 

To 458 Miles going and returning at i a dol'r pr. Mile 229 68. 14. o 

To ferriages 58 17. 8. 

dollars 38205 

1 146. 4. 
Sworn to before Thos. Everard 18 March 1780 

N. B. The account preceeding this was settled with Mr. Webb the late Treasurer — 

186 
93 

279. 

Cr. 
1778 dollars L s d 

9th June Reed, from Michael Hillegas Contl. Treasurer.... 400 120. 0. 

19 Septr. from the same ^ 1100 330. 0. 

1st Novr. from the Virga. Delegates by M. Smith 600 180. 0. o 

1779 

16 March By Virginia Delegates thro M. Smith 440 132. o. 

19 April from the same 400 120. 0. 

25 May from the same 842 252. 12. 

Ballance due R. H. Lee 38^ 11. 12. — 



Errors excepted 

Richard Henry Lee." 



dollars 3820 [|] 

1 146. 4. 



230 Continental Congress 

296. Henry Laurens, Notes of Proceedings.^ 

[May 24, 1779.] 
Mr. Burke 2d Laurens. 
Resolved that Silas Deane Esqr. be ordered not to depart the United 
States without the special permission of Congress and that Arthur Lee 
Esqr. be directed to repair to * America as soon as he conveniently can in 
order the better to enable Congress to enquire into the truth of the several 
allegations and suggestions made by the said Arthur Lee in his correspon- 
dence with Congress against the said Silas Deane. 

Mr. Laurens's proposed amendments instead of * America as soon as 
he conveniently can read — to Congress without delay. 

And after Deane **, add — and to bring with him a state of all his 
Accounts in character of Commissioner at the Court of Madrid and at the 
Court of Versailles — and also a narrative of his political transactions 
from the time of acting under his Commissions respectively to time of his 
leaving Europe in obedience to this remand." 

[Endorsed:] Mr. Burke's motion 23d or 21st May for detaining S. 
Deane and recalling A. Lee ^ 

297. Henry Laurens, Notes of Proceedings.^ 

Monday 24th May 1779. 

A Letter from Silas Deane was read in Congress, the contents of this 
Letter are, in my opinion, extremely indecent and disrespect full and I am 
persuaded no Assembly of Representatives in America would admit a 
similar address to them to pass without severe censures upon the author, 
my opinion is supported by the declarations which were made by some who 
act as if they were particular friends of Mr. Deane. these Gentlemen ex- 
pressed their apprehensions of bringing the Lre. on the Jour, when a 
demand was made for yeas and nays on a question arising from debates 
relative to the Letter, they said it would bring the Letter on the Journal 
and surely Gentlemen would not wish to see such a Letter on the Journal, 
the President particularly said this, and other Gent delivered similar sen- 
timents, and the demand for Ys and Ns was withdrawn. 

Mr. Burke, said he had prepared a motion which would try Gentn. and 
discover whether they were in earnest or not and read the follow'g ^ 
which I immediately seconded and said I did so most heartily, that my sole 

[296] ^S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Congressional Letters, XXVIL 

2 See no. 297, post. Burke's motion was brought up again on June 10, varying 
from that given above only by the substitution of " forthwith " instead of " as soon as 
he conveniently can ", and its transposition before " to America " ; that is, with the 
amendment practically as proposed by Laurens, according to his notes of proceedings 
given under no. 297, post. 

3 According to Laurens's notes in the succeeding item, Burke made his motion 
on the 24th. This endorsement, if not also the memorandum itself, was no doubt written 
down at a time somewhat subsequent to the proceedings to which the memorandum 
relates, when Laurens could not quite fix the date. There is no indication in the Journals 
that the subject was under consideration either on May 21 or 22, and the 23d was Sunday, 
when there was no session of Congress. Cf. no. 347, post. 

[297]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Congressional Letters, XXVH. 

2 Burke's motion is not recorded at this point in the manuscript, but is found in 
a detached form. See the item preceding (no. 296). 



May, 177Q 231 

aim was justice to the Public as well as to individuals, that whether Mr. 
Deane should be found to be innocent or criminal the conduct of Congress 
could not escape some blame for having so long detained Mr. Deane, that 
this was not a new Idea, I had signified my sentiments so long since as 
August last, which I had lately disclosed by shewing Copy of a Letter to 
the President, the President nodded assent 

Mr. Penn said he did not like the words as soon as he conveniently can. 
I proposed as an amendment, that Mr. Lee should be required to return to 
America forthwith and to attend Congress and also to bring with him 
accounts of Monies reed, and expended by him and to render a Narrative 
of his proceedings as a Commissioner at the Court of Madrid and Court 
of France, this amendment I committed to writing at the foot of Mr. 
Burke's motion and laid it before the President, after some debate 
whether the motion was in order, it was agreed to amend the Journal of 
Saturday relative to the order of the Day for tomorrow which the Secre- 
tary had entered falsely.^ the Journal being so amended, it was agreed to 
postpone the further consideration of the motion till tomorrow.* 

[Endorsed :] Mr. Burke's motion for detaining Mr. Deane and recall- 
ing A Lee 24 May 1779. 

[The two items following are found on detached sheets alongside of 
Laurens's notes on Burke's motion of May 24. The first ("A") ap- 
pears to have been intended as an insert in Laurens's remarks. The second 
may be an amendment offered by Laurens, either May 23 or 24, to the 
motion setting a day for the consideration of Deane's memorial. It may 
not, however, belong at this precise point.] 

A That his having been engaged in private Commercial Trade while he 
was acting in a public Character in France, his further and more extensive 
engagements of the same nature since his arrival in America and at a time 
when he was strenuously endeavouring to impress upon Congress a belief 
of the utility of and even necessity for his return to Europe in a public 
character do not entitle him to that approbation which he wishes to infer 
from the past silence of this House, that his conduct in these respects 
particularly, is highly reprehensible, altogether inconsistent with his pro- 
fessions of disinterestedness in the public service and contradictory to his 
declaration " that from the Moment he engaged in the foreign affairs of 
Congress he put everything private out of the question." 

2 This explains in part the rule adopted May 24, " That the journals of a preceding 
day be open to correction during the whole of the next day ". The entry in the Journals 
was originally as follows : " Resolved That on tuesday next immediately after reading 
the journal Congress proceed to the consideration of the said memorial and of the report 
of the com'ee on the communication from the said Minister." The only essential alteration 
which the revised entry shows is the record that the order of the day for Tuesday next 
was the " further consideration " of the report of the committee of thirteen on foreign 
affairs, together with Gerard's memorial and the report of the committee on communica- 
tions from the minister. 

* See the Journals, May 24, 25, June 10; also nos. 246, 250, 255, 295, 296, ante, 
and nos. 337, 338, 343-347, 354, 415, 420-422, post. 



232 Continental Congress 

That Mr. Deane be directed to lay before Congress on that Day as 
accurate a State of the Receipts and Expenditures of pubHc and prize 
Monies in Europe as the Vouchers and other Papers which he may have 
brought from France will enable him to make. 

298. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philadelphia May 24th, 1779. 
Dear Sir 

.... Congress have but 602 stand of Arms at this place and those 
not fit for immediate use. The board of War is directed to get them re- 
paired and to deliver them to our Order it will take some days before 
this can be done but you may depend they shall be forwarded with all pos- 
sible dispatch.^ The Americans are the nost supine people in the Uni- 
verse, they seldom see danger till it is past if we are not roused from 
our Lethargy we shall be undone. Arms Amunition etc. all go to the 
Northern States. 15000 Continental Blankets are lately arrived in their 
Ports. I see very plainly, that the Southern States will be obliged to shift 
for themselves. We got our Instructions from the Genl Assembly Entered 
on the Journals last friday. they are said to be well drawn by good 
Judges and I hope will have weight, several causes seem to conspire to 
engage greater attention to be paid to our Declaration than we have 
hitherto experienced. Connecticut is now I am told by Sheerman dis- 
posed to allow Congress to settle the Dispute about the Back lands. That 
State has empowered its Delegates to confederate with the other States, 
but on the express Condition that Maryland shall have the power at any 
time hereafter to accede to the confederation on equal terms with the 
other States.^ The 800000 dollars were sent off last Monday, and I hope 
are before this come to hand safe * 

The great Dominion of Virga. surely can repel 2000 Men. More than 
that number were not embarked at New York. Speculation here has 
arrived to such a height, and prices in three weeks encreased 100 per Ct. 
This has made those Vermins the Speculators become the object of re- 
sentment, and a Mob has assembled to regulate prices, what will be the 
issue God knows, they are now parading, if they have a head I believe 
that business will be of serv'ice, if they have not one, they will soon dis- 

[298]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 70; Arch, of Md., XXI. 417. 

2 See the council's letter to the delegates May 20, in Arch, of Md., XXI. 404, 
and the Journals, May 24. A letter (May 24) from Richard Peters, secretary to the 
board of war, to Governor Johnson on the subject is in Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, XXIV. 
44. See also Washington to the Maryland Council, May 25, in Arch, of Md., XXI. 419. 

3 See the Journals, May 21 ; cf. nos. 258, 285, 291, 293, ante, no. 330, post. 

* See nos. 258, 267, ante. This probably should be Wednesday instead of Monday 
(that is, May 19 instead of May 17), for a letter from Plater, Henry, and Jenifer to 
Governor Johnson May 18 speaks of the almost incessant application to the treasury 
board for the money (Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, V. 26), and one of May 19 from Car- 
michael and Henry says, " We are at length enabled to forward to your Excellency 
800,000 dollars which the various and pressing demands on the Treasury prevented us 
from receiving until this day" {ibid., V. 18). 



May, 17J9 233 

perse as all tumultuous assemblys have done, that have not had a leader ; 
enclosed you have a Copy of one of their printed hand bills. Congress 
have this day resolved to retaliate on the Enemy as well for murders com- 
mitted on French Subjects as those on the Subjects of the United States. 

299. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia 24th May 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

.... You say, " every body's eyes are open to see what will be done 
with the currency " — that is a matter now under consideration, the result 
will be large requisitions from the States, there is now 140,000,000 dol- 
lars in circulation — from this large sum, it is supposed a sufficiency may 
be drawn in to support the necessary charges of the war, this being done 
emissions will immediately stop. You may soon expect a demand on 
N. H. for 1,500,000 dollars in addition to former requisitions, to collect 
this sum by taxes, or otherwise, will require great exertions. I hope (not- 
withstanding Avarice with her attendant friend have exerted their whole 
power) there is still patriotism enough left to make one bold effort to save 
the country from impending ruin. I must refer you to the papers for news. 

300. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[May 24, 25, 1779.] 
Monday May 24th Com Committee Congress. A very long letter, 

from Mr. Deane and a great deal of Debate, to very little Purpose and 

very little Business done. 

Tuesday May 25th. Com Committee. Congress. Mr. Dickinson one 

of the Committee to bring in a draft of a Letter to adress the People, and 

Read the same and the day taken up on the same. NB. Did not attend the 

Marine Committee. 

301. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia May 25th, 1779 
Sir, 

.... Congress have passed several resolves declarative of their pow- 
ers respecting maritime causes, and have directed the President to transmit 
them to the States. These resolutions were occasioned by the difficulties 
which have occurred in the case of the Sloop Active, about which much 
hath been written and published in the gazettes of this town ; and by the 
disallowance of Appeals, in the Massachusetts-Bay, from the determina- 
tion in maritime causes." 

[299]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 671; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft 
Coll., Langdon-Elwyn Papers (copy). 

[300]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

[301]! R. i_ Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779, p. 100; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., LIX. 257; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 235. 

- See the Journals, Feb. 2, Mar. 6, Apr. 24, May 22, and index, Active; also 
no. 57, note 2, ante. 



234 Continental Congress 

The Plan of finance will I hope be soon completed, and be acceptable to 
the several States. The delegates from the State of Rhode Island objected 
to the Sum recommended to be raised and to the time for collecting and 
paying it into the Treasury ; because they thought the sum too large and 
the time too short, and for other prudential reasons.^ Our State I presume 
would wish to pay off their part of the continental debt as soon as possible, 
and give every aid in their power to check the career of depretiation ; but 
seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars, in addition to the Sum already 
voted to be raised, is a large Sum to collect from a State under the circum- 
stances ours is in, in so short a period. Perhaps it might suit best to hire 
part. But of that the wisdom of our Assembly will form the best Judg- 
ment. I think there was only one State besides ours against the Sum and 
Time. The great majority on this occasion, and the declarations made by 
members during the course of debate induce me to beleive that great 
exertions will be used to collect their quotas. The more that is collected 
by taxation, the less will it be necessary to loan in order to put a stop to 
further emissions, which is the wish of all. A Stoppage of the press once 
effected, our liberties are established and an end is put to the war. Our 
enemy's whole dependence now rests upon our being crushed with the 
weight of Rheams of depretiated paper money. Once remove that ground 
of Hope and they will offer us, as proud and haughty as they may be, 
honorable terms of peace 



302, Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia May 25th 1779. 
Sir, 

I embrace the first opportunity of informing the Hon'ble Assembly of 
two (particular) resolutions of congress, that have passed since I had 
the honor of addressing you last, which are as follows,^ .... 

The last resolution, 1 expect will be sent you in a formal manner; I 
shall make no observations to shew the necessity of the said resolution, 
further than desiring the attention of the Hon'ble court to the state of our 
currency, which most [sic] really be alarming to every friend to his coun- 
try, and I apprehend that it is become necessary, that the continental 
treasury should be supplied with money, as soon as possible, from the 
several states, sufficient to pay the current expences, either by taxes or 
otherwise, so that the emissions may cease, or what may we expect from 
the increasing depretiation ; Congress have assigned three days in a week 
to consider the state of our money and finances.^ 

I inclose the weekly journals, etc. 

3 See the Journals, May 19, 21. 
[302]! Mass. Arch., CCI. 61. 

2 These were, the order. May 22, for a warrant to John Lowell, and the resolve, 
May 21, calling upon the states for their respective quotas of 45,000,000 dollars. 

3 See the Journals, May 17; cf. Apr. 27. 



May, ly/Q 235 

303. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to / 

Philadelphia May 26th, 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the 17th I have received. From the late Conduct of the 
Enemy in Georgia and Virginia I am of Opinion that it never was their 
intention to make peace before they had risked this Campaign, whatever 
may have been the appearances to the contrary. Congress never had it in 
their power absoKitely to command a peace consistent with Treaties but I 
think they had it in their power to have put our affairs abroad in such a 
situation as probably would have insured it, or at least made prospects 
more certain than they are at present. War as you justly observe is very 
uncertain and we must not aim at too much, lest we risk the losing of all. 
I would not be understood, that I blame Congress it may have acted 
wisely and the event may justify their proceedings. I believe there is not 
a member in it that would even sully his reputation by thought much less 
by actions of making any terms inconsistent with Treaties. The great risk 
we run. will be the extension of our ideas and plans beyond them.^ .... 

I believe the Quarter Masters and Commissaries have had their share 
in the Depreciation of our Currencies. An enquiry into their Conduct is 
now on foot,^ and if I can touch them up over the left shoulder they may 
depend that I will do it. perhaps their Tens of thousands, and hundreds 

[303]iMd. Hist. Soc, Gilmor Papers, III. 3. 

2 See nos. 255, 256, 269, 270, ante. Cf. Washington to Governor Johnson May 22, 
Arch, of Md., XXI. 411. For some account of conditions in Maryland at this time, see 
Delaplaine, Life of Thomas Johnson,^ ch. XX. 

3 Jenifer doubtless had in mind the inquiry ordered by Congress two days later 
(May 28; committee, Dickinson, Sherman, Scudder). Cf. no. 275, ante. The inquiry 
had been recommended by the board of treasury in a report bearing the date Apr. 21 
and found in the Journals under Apr. 27, but probably first brought in Apr. 22. The 
resolution proposed by the board and referred to in their report is no. III. of the treasury 
documents found in the Journals under Apr. 22. (The resolution may have been offered 
Apr. 13; see the Journals of that date; also the editorial note under Apr. 22, p. 491.) 
Another recommendation of the board of treasury, mentioned in the report of Apr. 21 
and embodied in a resolution (no. II. of the treasury documents above referred to, 
bearing the date Mar. 31) on which action was taken the same day (May 28), resulted 
in the appointment of a separate committee to report a plan for putting the commissary- 
general's, quartermaster-general's, and medical departments on a different footing with 
respect to the expenditure of public money (committee, Dickinson, Huntington, Burke). 
This committee made a partial report on June 14. The first committee mentioned above 
made special reports July 8 and 9, and an extended report July 23. The work of the 
committee may in a measure be traced by reference to the Journals June 15, July 6, 8, 
9, 23, Aug. II, 23, Oct. 18, 19, Dec. 2 (motion of John Mathews), 4, 11 (p. 1370), and 
Jan. 20, 1780. Antedating both these committees was one appointed Jan. 25 on a motion 
for remedying abuses in the several public departments (committee, Samuel Adams, 
Gouverneur Morris, Roberdeau, Root, and Meriwether Smith), but it is not at all certain 
that this committee ever acted. The committee " for arranging and correcting abuses in 
the quartermaster and commissary departments", to whom was referred July 15 a 
letter of the president of Pennsylvania, may have been the committee of May 28 for 
arranging the several departments (the designation generally given it), but it was 
probably the committee appointed Nov. 10, 1778, to superintend the commissary and 
quartermaster departments, for the report (see the Journals, Aug. 11) was prepared by 
Gouverneur Morris, a member of that committee. The latter committee, with some 
changes of membership (see the Journals, Jan. 22, Apr. 22, Aug. 17, Sept. 26, Nov. 5), 
functioned steadily until Nov. 25, 1779, when it was discharged and its functions trans- 
ferred to the board of war, although several of its reports were acted upon subsequently. 
Cf. nos. 367, 383, 65s, 664, 680, 681, post. See also James Lovell to Samuel Adams, 
Jan. 21, 1780, in the next volume. 



236 Continental Congress 

of thousands that they have made, may be brought down to Units before 
we have done with them. But the peculators are the Vermin that have been 
the great cause and source of our misfortunes in this respect. I beHeve so 
much has been said of Speculators that most of them that were in Con- 
gress have withdrawn from that body a Mr. T. Adams from Virga. left 
it since I came to Phila and I am told does not intend to return again if 
there are more of those reptils among us God send us a thorough deliver- 
ance. Chase denies that he speculated in Flour, and Major Mercer has 
allowed me to make use of his name as the author. S Adams declared to 
me in the presence of Mr. Henry that he never said, or heard that Mr 
Tilghman or Mr. Carroll, proposed sending to Genl Howe to know what 
terms he had to oflFer, and that Chase must have been mad. 

The Secret of Congress was not of the magnitude that some gave out, 
nor yet was it so deminute as Mr Lee would insinuate. Take the mean 
between the Two accounts, and you will be near the truth * I think Mr 
Carmichael received your Letter. I will speak to him I did not attend 
to your request till this moment, and the Post perhaps may set out before 
I close my Letter if I was to keep it open till I see him at Congress 
to day 

304. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[May 26, 1779.] 
26. Genl. Election, Boston. Congress reed, a petition from President 
Read and a number of others respecting financing.^ 

305. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Wednesday 26th May ///p. Commercial Committee Congress. A 
Letter from T Payne, abusing Mr. Deane was Read and took up a deal of 
time in debate. The Adress to the People was read paragraph per para- 
graph and unanamiously agreed to and 500 Copies orderd to be Printed. 
One of the Delegates of the State of Pennsylvania informd the House 
that the President with some other Gentlemen, were at the door, waiting 
with a Petition which they would be glad to Represent, in such way as 
would be most agreeable, after some short time it was agreed, that the 
Secretary should desire the President and the Gentlemen with him to come 
in and Present the Petition, which he did and after a short Introductory 
Speech on the Occasion the Gentlemen withdrew, and the Petition was 
Read. 

* See nos. 259, 261, 262, ante. "Mr. Lee" may have been Richard Henry Lee, 
who had left Congress only two days before, but the allusion is more probably to an 
expression of Thomas Sim Lee, a member of the Maryland council. 

[Z0A\^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 256. 

2 C/. no. 305, post. In the Laurens Papers (Congressional Letters, etc.), South 
Carolina Historical Society, is a copy of a memorial of sundry inhabitants of Phila- 
delphia, asking that Congress determine the extent and quantity of emissions. Cf. Pa. 
Arch., first sen, VH. 416. Concerning a petition relative to the court of appeals pre- 
sented May 22, see ibid., p. 422. 

[305] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



May, 777P 237 

Thursday 2'jth May. Commercial Committee Congress. Letter from 
the Sieur Girrard was Read The order of the day, for taking up the Ulti- 
matom on the fishery, after many speaches and long debates, it was 
agreed to withdraw and Repeal all the former Resolutions, amendments 
and Substitutes, and begin anew. 

306. Richard Henry Lee to Henry Laurens.^ 

Chester 8 oclock Thursday Ev'g 
[May 27, 1779.] 
My dear Sir, 

On my way here I met with Mr. Serjeant,^ of whom I enquired touch- 
ing the proof he had mentioned of Deanes having communicated the 
intended Treaty to Wharton in London some days before its conclusion. 
The witness is, it seems, Surgeon to Proctors Regiment, now on its way 
to Pittsburg. This man was the Bearer of the letters to Wharton, and his 

evidence is I think very conclusive This evidence may easily be 

had from Pittsburg, Sr. James Jay and Capt. Nicholson are in Philadel- 
phia Mr. Diggs will attend when called on.^ These, with the papers you 
have, shew enormity sufficient to place Mr. Deane in the light he ought to 

be seen in I understand by Mr. Sergeant that Mr. Secretary 

Thomson has long been acquainted with Dr. Kendals * evidence, and 
having concealed it, and acted the part he has done, renders him as un- 
fit to be the Secretary of Congress, as any other W-h-e in Philadel- 
phia 

P. S. My friend Colo. Scudder will exert himself in getting this evi- 
dence to prove the perfidy of our self applauding, discarded, wishing to 
be Minister.' 

307. Henry Laurens, Minutes of Debates.^ 

Sh ^ it will be for the Interest of England that we enjoy a com- 
mon right in the Fishery. 

Ger it is more injurious to remain in our present circumstances 

than it would be to determine in either way. 

Ch. J. McK. exhonerated himself handsomely and told us our Ulti- 
matum was subject of common conversation in every Country town, the 
secret disclosed by Members of Congress at Reading in Berks. 

[306]! L. I. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 58. 

2 Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant, sometime member of Congress from New Jersey. 

3 See the letter to Francis Lightfoot Lee, Jan. 3, 1779 (dated 1778), in Letters 
(ed. Ballagh), I. 373, and Lee's articles which appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet 
in August {Letters, II. 108, 125, 132, 138) ; see also Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., I. 639, 
III. 136 (letter of Arthur Lee, Apr. 26, 1779)- 

* Probably Dr. Joseph Kendall. See Hays, Calendar of the Franklin Papers, 
I. 463, IV. 268, 279. 

5 See no. 354, post. 
[307]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XV. 

2 The speakers are Sherman, Gerry, McKean, and Drayton. " Ch. J." is for 
"Chief Justice". McKean, though a delegate from Delaware, was chief justice of 
Pennsylvania, while Drayton was chief justice of South Carolina. 



238 Continental Congress 

Ch. J. D. very flimsily told us the Ministers Memoirs effectually 
knocked down all the arguments in opposition (to restricted fishery) 
All then withdrawn after 3 Hours debate 11 o'Clo. to 2. 
Then Resolved 
" that in no case the common right of Fishery be given up." ^ 

[Endorsed:] Minutes of Debate on Ultm. 27 May, '79 

308. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[May 28, 29, 1779.] 
Friday 28th May Commercial Committee Congress. Letter from 
Genl. Washington at So. Carolina Order of the Day, on Finance, some 
consideration on Do.^ P M Marine Committee Mrs. Fell and Peter 
sent for ^ 

Saturday 2pth May Com, Committee Congress. Letter from So. 
Carolina. Order of the day, to take in to consideration the dispute be- 
tween the States of New York and Vermont. 

309. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO ROBERT R. LlVINGSTON.^ 

Philadelphia 30th May 1779 
Dear Livingston 

.... This City is now the scene of politics high and low I may add 
it is the scene of faction anarchy and distraction. Never were the affairs 
of any country in a better and a worse situation than those of America at 
this moment. A storm is gathering and will burst upon the heads of our 
enemies, perhaps of our own. Would to God that the desire of that great 
luxury to be free was the great desire of my countrymen, but other luxu- 
ries more alluring have influenced but too much upon their conduct. The 
torrent of paper money hath swept away with it much of our morals and 
impaired the national industry to a degree truly alarming. Having suc- 
cessfully opposed the first energetic efforts of the enemy the struggle seems 
to have exhausted us and after foiling the giant we shrink at the touch of 
a child. I fear before this reaches you Charlestown will no longer own 
the authority of Congress 

310. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to William Carmichael( ?).^ 
Private. 3i May 1779. 

Dear Sir, 

You will receive with this a long letter on the subject of Confederation. 
I did not care to intermingle with that subject other matters that I shall 

3 See the Journals, May 27 ; cf. ibid., Feb. 2Z, Mar. 17, 19, 22, 24, May 8, 12, 13, 
and nos. 255, 256, 269, 270, ante, 317, 360, post. 
[308] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Samuel Holten's record for this day is: "28. Congress has spent part of this 
day on finance. I walked out with Mr Gerry " {Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LV. 256). 

3 See no. 355, post. 

[309] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, II. 175. 

[310] 1 From a photostat copy of the original, furnished by the courtesy of Mr. Cyrus 
H. McCormick of Chicago. The letter is endorsed, in a writing which can scarcely be 
other than that of Carmichael, " C. Carol of Carolton Esqr. 31st May 1770". 



May, 1779 239 

mention in this, because you may probably be inclined to shew the other 
letter to more persons than one. 

As I wrote to you a long letter on Finance I shall say little about it in 
this. I must remark that Mary'd will, I believe, pay very reluctantly 
heavy taxes, excluded as she is from the back lands, etc. in a situation of 
having the free navigation of Ches[a]peake Bay contested by Virginia. 
Time will shew whether my conjectures are well founded or not. Taxa- 
tion, the heaviest that can be imposed, does not appear to me in our pres- 
ent circumstances, by any means an adequate remedy to the evil we feel 
and dread. I have assigned the reasons of this opinion in my last. 

Do not imagine that I think Congress had more wisdom, when I was a 
member of it, than it has now. [I a]lways thought it, in the whole, a weak 
assembly, fond of talking, and not much addicted to thinking.^ However 
I believe it was less distracted by party than at present, and freer from 
trading members, if report [is] to be credited. 

The faction of the Lees is industriously propagating, as I hear, that 
their opponents, or most of them, are engaged in mercantile connections 
with Dean and others. I hope this is not true, for be assured, if it should 
turn out so, that party will lose the con[fidence of] the People. If mem- 
bers of Congress should engage in trade, their votes in that assembly, it is 
to be feared, will be often guided by their particular interest. Mr. Chase 
was excluded from Congress on the current report of his being a specu- 
lator. I have heard it said that G. Morris is in trade. I hope the report is 
groundless. I have a high opinion of that gentleman's abilities, and in- 
tegrity; the latter may be warped by the prospect of amassing great 
wealth — ceci entre nous. 

What you say about the army is truly alarming. A subsidy from France 
would put a stop in some degree to these discontents, which I suppose 
arise principally from the badness of their pay — but a subsidy alone will 
not do I fear ; the true Patriot's scheme must be adopted at last. Taxation 
in the present urgency of the evil is too slow and languid a remedy. 

Your talking of ultimatums noiv, is somewhat out of season : is it not? 
I do not like the Mobbs you sp^ak pff, and for the reasons you quote from 
de Retz. These rapacious monopolisers, and Engrossers, are a Detestable 
Race; they aggravate the miseries we experience. I wish laws could be 
devised to reach them, without occasioning as great or greater mischiefs. 
I can think of none that will be effectual, and not in other respects very 
exceptionable : the root of the evil lies in the quantity of money, and its 
depreciation arising from that, and other causes. 

2 Cf. vol. III., no. 210. Although Carroll had some months before this resigned 
his seat in Congress (he did not, in fact, attend Congress at any time in 1779), yet this 
letter is written so largely from the point of view of a recent participant in the proceedings 
of that body and bears so intimately upon problems then under consideration, that it is 
deemed proper to include it here. 

In a letter to Franklin, Dec. 5, 1779 (Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XVI. 147; 
Rowland, Charles Carroll of Carrollton, II. 26), Carroll mentions his resignation from 
Congress, then remarks : " The situation of my domestic concerns, and the little use I 
v^as of in that Assembly, induced me to leave it altogether. The great deal of important 
time, wh. was idly wasted in frivolous debates, disgusted me so much, that I thought 
I might spend mine much better than by remaining a silent hearer of such speeches as 
neither edified entertained or instructed me." In the same letter he discusses at some 
length financial conditions and the measures proposed by Congress. 



240 Continental Congress 

The ostensible motive of these Mobbs is the punishment of Monopo- 
lisers etc : what do you think to be the real one ? 

What is the present strength of Gen. Washington's army ? I hear he has 
sent off considerable detachments to the westward : what is their object. 
Pray remember to answer the questions in my last. 

Inclosed you have a letter printed in Mr. Hayes gazette of the 28th May 
and published in this city. The letter, you may depend on it, is genuine ; 
I imagine the parties in Congress will differ much about the application 
of the words " execrable faction ". The letter writer you may be assured 
did not mean to apply them to his party. ^ 

It appears to me that Congress was too much engaged during the winter 
and early in the spring in party matters. I wish that Assembly had then 
attended to the recruiting the army and some rational plan for appre- 
ciating the money. The Resolve of Congress for recruiting the army did 
not gtt to hand till that Assembly was on the point of rising. 

It appears to me that the Court of London has duped that of Versailles 
for once : at least I suspect that what ever overtures the former made to 
the latter thro' the Spanish ambassador, were made to deceive France, 
Spain, and these States, and to occasion divisions here about the terms of 
peace, and make us relax in our preparations for war. Are you not of this 
opinion now ^ 

June sd- 

Yesterday I saw the late Address of Congress to the People : * it is well 
drawn but I think it comes too late by six months. I am glad Congress 
reprobrates [_sic'] monopolising : from that circumstance I presume, there 
are no, or few. Monopolisers in that body. An opinion, the very contrary 
of this, has been taken up by the Public, and I am informed that Congress 
is very generally and disrespectfully spoken of, which gives me much 
uneasiness, particularly if it should not deserve the public censures; if it 
does deserve them, some steps should be taken to purge that Body of the 
interested factions, and trading part of it. 

It surely is late now to call upon the States to fill up their Battalions and 
to raise 45 millions additional by taxes for the service of the current year. 

/j.th May [June]. 

We have been thrown into much confusion for two or 3 days past by 
the arrival of 2 large french ships from Cape Francois in 12 days. These 
ships were first discovered by a look-out boat off the mouth of Potuxon 
and little doubt was entertained here for upwards of 24 hours but that 
they were the van or leading ships of the british fleet. 

One of them is now in sight, I intend going on board if I can, and if 
they bring any intelligence, and I have time to write it before the depar- 
ture of the post, you shall have it. I am afraid I shall not be back in time 
for the post, so I conclude hastily with assuring that I am 

yr. friend and hum. Servt. 

Ch. Carroll of Carrollton. 

8 No copy of the Maryland Gazette of May 28 has been found, but the item was 
reproduced by " Americanus " in an article published in the Pennsylvania Gazette of 
June 23. See no. 360, note 4. post. 

*The address of May 26, which was printed in the Pennsylvania Packet of 
May 29. See the Bibliographical Notes, Journals, XV. 1456- 1457. 



May, ijjg 241 

311. Whitmill Hill to Thomas Burke.^ 

[May — ? 1779.]" 
Sir: 

.... I have therefore only to mention that the Friday after leaving 
you I was at my home, so that I performed the journey in about seven and 
a half days, a ride scarcely performed before in so short a time.^ .... 

Being at Home eight days, my Duty had me to wait on our Assembly. 
They met at Smithfield, a rascally hole for such business.* The Assembly 
called on me to know whether I thought there was any probability of their 
having their Continental Troops sent to our assistance. I answered that 
the Delegates had pointed out the absolute necessity there was for those 
troops being sent to the Southward, when it was forcibly opposed and 
asserted that the enemy could not possibly mean to prolong the Campaign 
in the Southern States, but by way of diversion.^ This now, however, 
seems to be found erroneous. I told them that perhaps a formal appli- 
cation from the State, with the notoriety of the necessity, might induce 
Congress to grant us the aid. I likewise advised the Application to Con- 
gress for money ,^ and instanced the sums granted to Pennsylvania and 
South Carolina,^ and as our militia are always carried out of their own 
State to action, where our currency will not be received, our men, with 

[311]! A/'. C. State Recs., XIV. i. 

2 This letter must have been written near the end of May, for toward the close 
of it Hill says, " I wrote you about a fortnight past, informing you of some steps taken 
by our last Assembly" (see note 4, below). Elsewhere in the letter he remarks, "We 
have been last week alarmed by the Enemy landing at Portsmouth, and marching im- 
mediately to Suffolk which they laid in Ashes ", etc., which indicates that the date was 
probably in the last week of May. The news of the march of the enemy upon Suffolk 
was despatched by Joseph Hewes from Edenton to Governor Caswell May 12 and 
reached Caswell May 17 (A^. C. State Recs., XIV. 82, 84 ; see also Caswell to Gen. Allen 
Jones, May 19, ibid., p. 86). Definite information of the burning of Suffolk was sent to 
Caswell by Hewes May 23 (ibid., p. 94). Cf. nos. 283, 288, ante. Hill's reference to the 
news from South Carolina points to the same period. 

3 Ahhough Hill is last recorded as voting Apr. 20, he may not have left Phila- 
delphia before Apr. 22, for he wrote to Burke from Richmond Apr. 28, " the sixth day 
after leaving you I arrived at this place" (N. C. State Recs., XIV. 75). His arrival at 
home was evidently on Friday, Apr. 30. 

* The North Carolina assembly met at Smithfield May 3-15, 1779 (Senate Journal, 
N. C. State Recs., XIII. 735-783; House Journal, ending May 12, ibid., pp. 784-824). 
Hill probably arrived at Smithfield May 10 or 11, for he appears to have accompanied 
thither William Hooper (see below), who took his seat in the house of commons May il 
(ibid., p. 817). Hill's appearance before the assembly may have been on that day. 

May 14 William Hooper wrote from Smithfield to James Hogg (?) that, on his way 
to attend the assembly, he had met up with Hill and had pried him with questions 
respecting the proceedings of Congress. "I conversed with him on my way hither", 
he says, "but could obtain no satisfactory information as to the grand secret which has 
been long the subject of publick Speculation. A secret he said there was, of infinite 
importance to the publick, that a part of Congress were in opposition to it. That he 
wished he was at liberty to communicate it, that he believed it would be much for the 
Interest of the Southern States that it should be divulged. Upon the whole I am 
convinced that overtures of peace have been made, how God knows! " (N. Y. State Lib., 
Declaration of Independence, p. 233). 

5 Cf. no. 178, ante. 

^ See the Journals, June 23, July 12, 14. 

'^ The appropriation to Pennsylvania was doubtless the loan of $2,000,000, Apr. 9. 
No similar appropriation to South Carolina is recorded, but Hill probably has reference 
to the two sums of one million each remitted to John Lewis Gervais, deputy paymaster- 
general in South Carolina, Feb. 3 and Mar. 19. 



242 C ontinental Congress 

their pockets full of money, must starve for the little comforts of life 
which are absolutely necessary in a camp. 

Therefore I hope you will forcibly urge the grant of the money if they 
mean to protect this part of the Continent, if not, desire them to declare 

so, that we may know what ground we are on Our Assembly and 

People are really zealous and determined in the cause, but I must confess 
that Congress stands very low with them, particularly the Speculative 
Gentry who met with heavy losses on the disclosure of the important 
secret, etc. 

I must not omit informing you that Gov. Reed's Bull against Gen. 
Arnold being forwarded to Gov. Caswell, he laid the same before the 
Assembly, who unanimously agreed not to suffer it a Reading, viewing it 
as a glaring instance of Tyranny unpractised before among civilized 
people. Mr. Reed may be assured this was the reception his dogma met 
with among our freemen.* 

Why did not Congress press Laurens for his copy of the Letter that he 
might be a little disgraced ? but why do I mention Disgrace ? Is he not 
callous to any sense of shame ? I think his character much more pitiable 
than any other in Congress, as for Adams and Lee, they have Designs and 
great objects in view, but our Southern Champion is duped by their flat- 
tery, an artillery which he cannot oppose.^ .... 

312. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[May 31, June 1,1779.] 
Monday May jist Com. Committee, did not goe to Congress 
Tuesday June 1st Commercial Committee Congress. Order of the 
day to consider the matter relating to New York and Vermont. 

313. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Phila'a 1st June 1779 
Sir 

We were honored with your Favor of the 29th Ulto this Morning. 
Congress was then in a Committee of the whole House considering that 
Subject. They came to several Resolutions which were almost unani- 
mously agreed to by the House and of which the President sends you a 
Copy by the Express who carries this.^ 

It gives us Pleasure to inform you that our New England Brethren 
came very generally into the Measure and appear sincerely disposed to 

8 The reference is presumably to the circular of Feb. 6 (Pa. Arch., first ser., 
VII. 183). See no. 58 (note 2), ante. 

" See no. 274, ante. The news of this episode could not have reached Hill earlier 
than the end of May. 

[312]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

[313]! Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722; N. Y. State Lib., Papers relating to 
the Vermont Controversy, p. 15 (copy) ; Doc. Hist, of N, Y., IV. 583 (quarto ed.), IV. 
968 (octavo ed.) ; Clinton Papers, V. 9. 

2 See the Journals, June 1,2; cf. nos. 314, 318, 319, 322, 349, 357, 403, 407, 409, 
post. Clinton's letter of May 29 is in Clinton Papers, IV. 859. Sparks mentions {Life 
of Morris, II. 211) a sketch of debates on the Vermont question, prepared by Morris, 
but this editor has not found that sketch. 



June, I//Q 243 

terminate those unhappy Disorders. The Moderation observable in those 
Resolutions we hope will meet with your Approbation. The more gentle 
just and persuasive the Proceedings of Congress in this Business are the 
more likely they will be to succeed and if treated with Neglect by the 
People of the Grants the greater Degree of Indignation will such Neglect 
create through all the States. These Resolutions coincide exactly with 
the Ideas of the Eastern Delegates. The Committee will be chosen To- 
morrow. We shall for many obvious Reasons vote for a Majority of 
Eastern men. The Proclamations doing Justice to the Revolters have had 
a happy Effect here. In our Opinion it will be wise to abstain from Hos- 
tilities for the present and rather suffer a little than shed Blood. If the 
Members of Congress are really as much in earnest as they appear to be 
all [will] be well. We are very much disposed to credit their Declarations 
on the Subject and have Ground to hope that this and every other Cause 
of Jealousy may be done away and mutual Confidence Harmony and Good 
Understanding take Place between New York and her Sister States to 
the Eastward. These are essential to their common Prosperity and must 
give sincere Pleasure to every well Wisher of the American Cause. Be 
assured that our Attention to the Rights of our Constituents on the present 
important Occasion shall not cease and that we are with great Respect 
and Esteem 

Your Excellency's most obedient Servants 

John Jay 
Jas. Duane 
Wm. Floyd 
Gouv Morris 

314. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

June 1st [1779-] 
My dear Sir 

.... I hope we shall be able to tell the Continent we will not strike 
another Bill after a few Weeks. Monied Men ought to subscribe to lend 
us on such assurance being given to them. The Quarter Master and Com- 
missary Genl. call upon us so as to make it imprudent to declare we will 
stop the Press till we have some Prospect of other certain supply 

I am now out of the Way of my public duty. Vermont is the order of 
the day in Committee of the whole. The desire of N Y'k is that We sh'd 
declare against any Seperate State, recommend a Return to Allegiance for 
the present to N. Hampshire and new York as it was practiced before this 
Contest with Britain, and promise that we will procure a Redress of Griev- 
ances. The first proposal involves a great Question hinted at by Mary- 
land. If the Felicity of the People is the Ground of uniting under Govern- 
ment if certain and easy Execution of Law makes part of that Felicity, 
surely a Proposal to seperate in extensive Jurisdictions is very natural. 
Provinces allow it to Towns upon hearing the Parties, Towns to parishes 
etc. Neither the Provinces or Towns becoming Losers but rather Gainers 
by the Bargain the Continent cannot lose by runing lines of Survey be- 

[314]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XV. 



244 Continental Congress 

tween State and State but will certainly gain by all the Comforts and Con- 
veniences will [which?] the Parts from Time to Time acquire tending to 
encourage Population and Culture.^ 

your affectionate humb Servt. 

James Lovell 

315. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 
<-.. Philadelphia June 1st 1779. 

We Have the Pleasure to acknowledge your Excellency's Favor, by this 
Post and in Answer we observe that the Reason of the last Recommenda- 
tion was, that Congress had appointed a Committee, in Conjunction with 
the General, to new model and reduce the Number of regimental com- 
missioned Officers that Regulation took Place in May 1778, after which 
the States, it was presumed wou'd resume their Powers conforming to 
the Regulation adopted in May 1778.^ A Vessel having a short passage 
from Providence brings an Account of the british being defeated near 
Charles Town, with the loss of thirteen hundred killed and taken we sin- 
cerely wish it may be true, but at present it wants Confirmation. We have 
exerted ourselves to get as many Arms sent to our State as we cou'd, but 
fear the Number will fall far short of what you may expect or want, tho 
we flatter ourselves that you will not be under the disagreeable Necessity 
of useing them. In Compliance with your Request we applied to the Gen- 
eral, who has sent down Brigadier Gist to take Command of our Militia, 
inclosed is his Excell'cys Letter to us.^ 

We have the honor to be with the most perfect Respect 

Yr. Excellency's most obt. Servants 
Geo Plater 
Wm Carmichael 
J. Henry 

Dan of St Thos Jenifer 
We have just obtained an Order for 250 Stand Arms in Mr. Wests 
Hands 

2 Cf. no. 313, ante. 
[315]! Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, V. 19; Arch, of Md., XXI. 438. 

2 The Maryland delegates appear to be replying to a letter of May 26 (Arch, of 
Md., XXI. 422), which contains the following passage: 

" By the Resolutions of Congress 16th Sept'r 1776, the Appointment of all officers and 
filling up Vacancies (except General Officers) was left to the Governments of the several 
States. 31st Decem'r 1777, the Congress recommended to the Governments of the several 
States to suspend filling up any Vacancies in their respective Regiments until they should 
hear farther from Congress on the Subject. We have not yet heard farther from 
Congress on the Subject though doubtless many Vacancies in the State Regiments have 
been filled up since the 31st December 1777. The Officers in the Maryland Line complain 
of a Want of Subaltern Officers and probably there may have been some Appointments 
in that Line without consulting us. Filling up Vacancies is a Work not the most agreeable 
to us, but we cannot, with propriety give up that Part of the Civil Power of this State. 
You'll oblige us by letting us know whether there's any Resolution contrary to that of 
Decem'r 1777, or whether it remains for want of attending to it." Cf. Washington to 
Johnson May 28 (ibid., p. 43o). 

3 The request was in the letter of May 20 (Arch, of Md., XXI. 404). See also 
Washington to Gist May 27, and Gist to Johnson June i (ibid., pp. 426, 438). The letter 
of the delegates to Washington, May 23, and Washington's reply, May 25, are in the 
Washington Papers. 



June, ijjg 245 

316. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 

Phila. June 1st 1779 
Dear Sir, 

The intelligence that Congress has received from Virga. is very imper- 
fect 

The Gentleman you've named would do exceedingly well for the Pur- 
chasing such Articles as you mention for the Army, and ought to be fur- 
nished with Money in time ; but as plenty as it is abroad, it is scarce enough 
in the Treasury, Ten Millions of Dollars were lately issued and Ten Mil- 
lions more must be within a few days. Whilst Congress are disputing, 
upon Modes of Finance, our Money is sinking to nothing, tho' I must ob- 
serve to you, that Gold has fell within a few days from 25 to 18. for one, 
and other Goods, and Provisions have fallen some thing. But they will 
rise again and perhaps be higher than ever, unless some methods are ex- 
peditiously adopted that may give our circulating Medium a better Credit 

than it is in at present But what is doing for us in Europe we 

know not, having had no intelligence from that Quarter for five Months 
past 

Some method must be taken to satisfy our Army, it's impossible for us 
to keep it together much longer, unless the Depreciation of the Money is 
made up to the Officers. Connecticut has promised their Troops that it 
shall be done, but partial promises hurt the Cause more than they help 
it 

317. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[June 2, 3, 1779.] 
Wednesday June 2d Com Committee Congress. This day chiefly 
spent on Finance. 

Thursday June ^d ^ Com'l Committee Congress. After the Letters 
were Read, The Order of the day relating to the ultimatom on the 
Fishery ^ 

318. John Jay to the Governor of New York (George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia 3d June 1779 
Dear Sir 

It will doubtless give you Pleasure to hear that the York Delegates 
voted for each of the members of the Committee mentioned in the Letter 
herewith enclosed, four of them were unanimously appointed, and there 
were but two Ballots which did not contain the name of Mr. Root. The 
unanimity of Congress on this occasion is an agreable Circumstance. 
Mr. Laurens moved that Vermont should be desired to send Deputies to 

[316]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 38. 

[317]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 " Doctr Witherspoon, Hon. Mr Duane and Mr de France dined with us " 
(Samuel Holten, Diary, June 3). "Mr de France" was doubtless M. de Francy. See 
the Journals, June 3 ; cf. vol. HI., no. 701. 

3 See nos. 255, 256, 269, 270, 307, ante, 360, 361, 366, 368, 369, 380, 381, post. 
[318]! N. Y. State Lib., George Clinton Papers, no. 2360; Clinton Papers, V. 17. 



246 Continental Congress 

represent their Case to Congress but nobody seconded him. He denies 
Aliens Report so far as it respects him to be true. He confesses often to 
have seen Allen and to have promised that he should be heard, before Con- 
gress did any thing in the matter. The few dissenting voices on the Ques- 
tion disliked the moderation of the Resolutions, and were for coercive 
measures in the first Instance. Their future Conduct however (should the 
Controversy continue) will be influenced greatly by the Report of the 
Committee who are not ill disposed towards us at present.^ .... 

319. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

June 3d, 1779 
Dear Sir 

Should this be delivered to you by Col. McNutt in person you will be 
fully made acquainted with the Wishes and Intentions of the Revolu- 
tionists of Nova Scotia. My Heart is much set upon a Revolt of that 
State, and I wish you to favor the Idea to the utmost of yr. Power 
wherever you may Command. The People of that Part of the Continent 
are well prepared in Mind to take advantage of the first critical Hour: 
But they are less than for thre[e] years back able to equip themselves 
properly for the desirable Ecclaircissement.^ .... 

We have appointed a Committee of 5 to go to the Grants to enquire 
into the Cases of the present Animosities. The Com'tee is to report 
specially. N Y'k seems to hope much Good from this measure — Mr. Els- 
worth Mr. Root Mr. Edwards Col. Atlee and Dr. Witherspoon.^ 

The Capture of Hamilton of Detroit is credited here.* We are in a train 
for an amicable adjustment of certain definitives which hnve been labor- 
ing months back this I say in Confidence.^ .... 

320. The Board of War to George Washington.^ 

War Office 3 June 1779. 
Sir, 

I am directed by the Board to sollicit your Excellency's attention to a 
matter that must soon become interesting to the dififerent States. They have 
been inform'd that most of the inlistments in the army are " for three 

2 Cf. nos. 313, 314, ante, 319, 322, posl. 
[319]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XV. 

2 See no. 194, ante ; cf. nos. 325, T,2>2)y post. 

3 See the Journals, June 1,2, 16. Of the members of the committee only two, 
Witherspoon and Atlee, were then in attendance. Ellsworth had been absent since 
Feb. 19, Root since Apr. 6 or 7. The Mr. Edwards of the committee is identified by 
the editor of the Journals as Pierrepont Edwards, but it was no doubt Timothy Edwards, 
member elect from Massachusetts. The report of Witherspoon and Atlee {Journals, 
July 13), for instance, mentions their writing to Mr. Edwards at Stockbridge, which 
was the home of Timothy Edwards. Pierrepont Edwards was not a member of Congress 
at this time. See, further, nos. 322, 400, 403, post. 

* See the letters of the Rhode Island delegates May 25, in Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., pp. 235, 237. 

5 Principally the question of fishing rights. A special committee of thirteen on 
foreign affairs was appointed Jan. 20, and the ultimata to be included in a treaty of 
peace had been under discussion since early in February. 

[320]^ Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIIL 1S8. 



June, i/ZQ 247 

years, or during the war"; and from the ambiguity of the expression, 
different constructions have been put upon it; the officer insisting that 
the latter clause extends, and the soldier that it restricts the term of 
service.^ .... 

321. Henry Laurens, Statement.'- 

[June 3, 1779.] 

When Dr. Morgan's Memorial and the Report were given in at the 
Table, 13 March 1779 Mr. D ^ pressed for a day for considering it, said 
" perhaps I may not be here, therefore I wish for a short day ". Postponed, 
three or four days after. Dr. Morgan called on me and pressed my aid 
to bring on the consideration. I assured him of my good will towards him 
(which I did with great sincerity) and added I was sorry he had been so 
very severe upon particular characters, it did not in the least degree help 
his cause, that a plain state of what appeared to him to be facts, would 
have left Congress unbiased judges, whereas such language as he had 
adopted would at least seem to have been calculated for prejudicing the 
minds of the Members of Congress. 

Dr. Morgan replied he had struck out those parts which he supposed I 
alluded to. I was amazed but gave no answer. 

About two Weeks after I saw Mr. Drayton at the Table in Congress 
take the Report of the Committee of which Dr. Morgan's memorial is a 
part, and having a paper in his left hand as a director for his proceeding, 
obliterate several parts of the Memorial, which I remarked to two Mem- 
bers then in Congress. 

the 3d June '79 Mr. Searle moved in very affecting terms for assuming 
the consideration of the forementioned Report. Mr. Drayton warmly 
seconded him.' 

Mr. Laurens rose and said he knew of no Report respecting Dr. Morgan 
before the House, that there had been one, but that, that had undergone 
such alterations and obliterations since it had been delivered to the House, 
as in his opinion, destroyed its original character " the Report of the Com- 
mittee." the President expressed surprise and ask'd, " Since it was de- 
livered in, to the House? " Mr. Laurens replied, " Yes Sir since and some 
parts long since ". 

Mr. M. Smith and Mr. Penn said Doctor Morgan with permission of 
the Comm'ee had struck out some parts of his memorial which had been 
thought to contain too severe reflections against particular persons. 

Mr. Laurens said he knew Doctr. Morgan had done so, but he would 
ask his Honorable Colleague Mr. Drayton if he had not also obliterated 

2 The letter is signed by P. Scull, secretary to the board. Washington replied to 
it June 9 (Library of Congress, Washington Papers). 
[321]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XXVIL 

2 William Henry Drayton. A memorial of Dr. John Morgan was presented to 
Congress Sept. 18, 1778, and referred to a committee of which Drayton was chairman. 
See also the Journals, Dec. 29, 1778. The committee made a report Mar. 13, 1779. In 
Henkels, Catalogue, no. ion, item 627, is an abstract of a letter from Dr. Morgan to 
General Greene, Oct: 5, 1778, respecting his case. 

3 There is no record of this motion in the Jounials June 3. On June 5, however, 
consideration of the memorial was set for Jime 12. See the Journals of that day. 



248 Continental Congress 

several parts. Mr. Drayton arose and said he had, " that there were some 
severe epithets v^^hich had been struck out (or expunged) in order to make 
it go down the better " . 

these were his very (foolish) words, the President said to him, " after 
the Paper was delivered to the house you had no right to strike out or alter 
a single Iota. I am clear in this ". 

Mr. Drayton was proceeding to justify his practice or to extenuate the 
fault, when Mr. Laurens said, that (meaning the practice) should be con- 
sidered at a proper time and he hoped in a proper manner, and called for 
the Order of the day, Vizt. the Report on Mr. Girard's communication 
which was accordingly brought forward. 

The same Morning Vizt. 3d June, Mr. Drayton came to me in the 
House and said " Huger and Hutson are come to Town and intend to go 
to Charles Town in a day or two have we any thing to write by them offi- 
cially?" I answered, "if you recollect any thing, it will be proper. I 
thought to have transmitted Gen. Washington's orders to Gen. Scott as 
we had agreed to do in an official Letter but as I found you had privately 
taken a Copy of it and as you have said nothing to me since I suppose you 
have sent that Copy, haven't you? " Mr. Drayton in some confusion said, 
Yes I have, but they (referring to the Gentlemen above named) won't go 
in less than a day or two and perhaps in that time we may recollect some- 
thing. I answered, 'tis very well but I suppose the Gentlemen will have 
the good manners to let me know of their intentions of going. 

Mr. Drayton, said no doubt ! no doubt ! and retired. 

N B. the case of Gen. Washington's Orders to Gen. Scott above re- 
ferred to is this. 

the 28th May, when those were read in Congress I moved the House 
that a Copy of them might be delivered by the Secretary to the Delegates 
of So. Carolina which was immediately granted.* 

Mr. Drayton came immediately and asked me for what purpose I had 
moved for the Copy. I answered for the Delegates, you observed what I 
said ; I think we ought to send a copy in an Official Letter to the Governor 
(Meaning Governor Rutledge) it will afford some satisfaction to our 
State to see the attention which the General has paid to them and it will 
not be amiss to acquaint them with the particular orders and indeed I 
think it is proper for us to write a complimentary Letter to General Wash- 
ington upon the occasion. Mr. Drayton highly approved of both proposi- 
tions, when Congress was about adjourning between three and four 
oClock I applied to the Secretary for the Copy, he told me Mr. Drayton 
had taken one himself. I desired him nevertheless to furnish me with a 
Certified Copy according to the Order of the House, it was late Saturday 
Night.^ on Sunday Morning Stuart an Express called to inform me he 
was going to So Carolina, otherwise I should have been ignorant of that 
opportunity as I had been of many preceeding public conveyances, and as 

4 There is no record of the motion in the Journals. Washington's letter of May 
25, read in Congress May 28, enclosed a copy of his instructions to Gen. Charles Scott. 
The letter is in Writings (ed. Sparks), VI. 261. 

5 Saturday was May 29. Laurens appears to have confused events of the 28th 
and 29th. 



June, lyyp 249 

I was morally certain Mr. Drayton knew of it, and as he had not called 
on or spoke to me concerning the Official Letters which we had agreed to 
write (and he chooses always to be the writer of our public Letters) I im- 
mediately suspected he intended to transmit privately the Copy of the 
above mentioned Orders, and so it has proved. 

his information therefore of Messrs. Huger and Hutsons intention of 
going to Carolina and application to know if we should write an Official 
Letter seems to have been calculated for decoying me into an act which 
should have the appearance of neglect of duty, being rendered unnecessary 
by his vigilance in the previous private transmission. 

The Copy sent to me by the Secry. was not delivered to me till Evening 
and was not Certified. 

322. William Whipple to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia 4th June 1779. 
Sir, 

The frequent applications and great importunity of New-York with 
Congress to do something respecting the New-Hampshire Grants, has at 
length produced the Resolutions which I have the Honour of transmit- 
ting to you. The Committee will probably be in that Country by the mid- 
dle of this month or very soon after.^ .... 

323. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Friday June the 4th 1779^ Did not go to Congress this day. 
Saturday June 5th Com'l Committee Congress. A Number of Let- 

[322]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 8i A 87; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, p. 318. 
2 See nos. 313, 314, 318, 319, ante, 349, 357, 403, 407, 409, post. 

[323]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Holten's entry in his diary for the day is : "4. I met the medical committee. 
Colo. Pickering spent the evening with us." 

The meeting of the medical committee was probably concerned with the matter of 
complaints against Dr. Isaac Foster and other officers of the hospital in the Eastern 
department. A petition from them respecting these complaints was presented to Congress 
May 28 and referred to the medical committee. Dr. Foster had come to Philadelphia a 
short while before to discuss his problems with the medical committee, and while he was 
there wrote a number of letters to his wife, which may be found in the Atlantic Monthly, 
IIL 557. In one of these, dated June 5, 1779, he says : 

" My business is almost completed, and to my mind. I now wait for nothing but the 
money with which the Medical Committee recommended I should be furnished with ; 
I expect to receive it the beginning of next week, when I shall set out immediately. 
Mr. Samuel Adams travels with me." 

Another, dated June 9, is in part as follows : 
" My dear Polly, 

. ..." I have been received with the greatest politeness and friendship, and every 
attention paid to me, by men I most esteem, I could wish for ; at the same time my 
business has gone perfectly to my mind. I have leave to reside in Boston for the future, 
and shall be under no necessity of attending the camp, nor be obliged to visit Philadelphia 
oftener than once a year. I am to have a mode of settling my accounts pointed out 
to me, that will be easy, simple, and much to my mind. I now wait for nothing but 
money to begin my journey. The Treasury Board this morning passed a resolve recom- 
mending it to Congress to furnish me with $150,000 [so in the printed text ; it is not to be 
supposed that Dr. Foster actually used the dollar sign]. I expect to receive the warrant 
to-morrow, and as soon as I get the money shall set out, which I expect will be about 



250 Continental Congress 

ters from Genl. Washington advising of the Enemy being in great force 
gon[e] up the No. River, suppos'd to W't Point Fort 
Sunday June 6th. Dined at Mr. Greys 



324. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

June 5th 1779. 
Dear Sir 

I conversed again with yr. Lady before she sat off 3'esterday, and found 
she entertained an Idea that a certain Letter had not reached Congress. 

I w^ent to the several offices and found that Deer. 5th was the one in 
Question ; ^ and that the Board of War had reported on several Parts, but 
had omitted to say any thing upon the Postscript as they must have given 
an opinion against it having withstood Genl. Green's and Genl. Washing- 
tons Testimonies in Regard to Blodget and other Aids. It is true that 
several Inadvertencies are on file respecting Brevets, but they only pro- 
duced strong Resolutions to prevent their being Precedents implicative of 
disreputation to others who might be refused on after applications.^ I 
wish the Correction of a single Slip or two may not induce us to stop in 
the Work of Reformation so essential on many Points of the Proceedings 
of Congress. As to personal Slight of you, be assured I hear and see 
changes every day in those who have not formerly done Justice to your 
Character. 

You will not indeed find such a complaisant Return to yr. Letters by 
way of acknowledgement, as heretofore, but your Case is not singular; 
the Manners of the Men differ. One was flush of Pen and Ink the other 
quite the Reverse; one was with his Candle burning in the Morning almost 
thro the year, the other has a lovely Wife to amuse him in these Hours.* 

Pray let me have opportunity to inform you on Points wch. are neg- 
lected by others, if the Journals do not answer as they come out. I am 
pushing them so that the Work shall come out weekly : and will see that 
you have them : as I shall also the former Parts when they are finished. 
1777 and Feb. and March 79 will in a few Weeks be ready to be for- 
warded. 

Your Friend sincerely and humb. Servt. 

James Lovell 

next Monday, until which time I am engaged for almost every day.. I dine this day 
with Mr. Adams; to-morrow with Dr. Shippen, in company, with the New England dele- 
gation ; Thursday and Friday I expect to spend with Dr. Craigie in visiting Red Bank, 
Mud Island, and other principal scenes of action while the enemy were here " 

The warrant was ordered by Congress June 12, as recommended by the committee on 
the treasury in a report presented that day. 

[324]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XV. 

2 Gates's letter of Dec. 5, 1778, was read in Congress Jan. I. It does not appear 
to be among the Papers of the Continental Congress. 

3 See the Journals, Apr. 30, Nov. 24, 1778; Feb. 20, 1779. 

* Lovell is comparing President Jay as an official correspondent with his prede- 
cessor, President Laurens. 



June, J^/p 251 

325. William Whipple to John Langdon/ 

Philadelphia 6th June 1779 
Dear Sir 

This will be handed you by Col ]\TcNutt of Nova Scotia. This gentle- 
man being very desirous of uniting his country with the Confederacy has 
formed some plans for that purpose, which he wished to communicate to 
some persons in New Hampshire who he may consult on the Subject, for 
this purpose I beg leave to recommend him to your notice and confidence.* 

326. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams. ^ 

Chantilly June the 6th 1779 
My dear Friend 

.... Should the news prevailing here of Gen. Lincolns having en- 
tirely defeated the enemy prove true, we may hope, as this was done by 
our own countrymen, that our full share in the fishery and the navigation 
of Mississippi may yet be obtained notwithstanding the excellent and 
honorable expositions that our really excellent friend Mr. Lovell fur- 
nished us with a translation of, dated A Philadelphie le 22 May 1779.* 
It is very amusing to see a Man undertake to condemn, what he supposes, 
a partial and unfair explanation of Treaty, and proceed to give one him- 
self that is infi[nitely m]ore scholastic than generous, more labored [than] 
just. However I hope our good Ally entertains no such sentiments, as will 
lead to yieldings by which our future safety, strength, and prosperity will 
be put on doubtful ground 

327. Richard Henry Lee to Henry Laurens.^ 

Chantilly in Virginia June 6th 1779 
My Dear Sir, 

Our news here is most excellent ;....! think that in this case we may 
insist on our full share of the Fishery, and the free navigation of the 
Mississippi. These are things of very great and lasting importance to 
America, the yielding of which will not procure the Congress thanks 
either from the present age or posterity. Yet it appears to me that Con- 
gress will suffer themselves to be mriggled ( for I can hardly call it by so 
rough a name as jostling) out of both these momentous rights. Rights say 
the other side of the House, we deny that, etc. — Softly gentlemen, I have 
had so many sickening doses of your jargon on this subject, that I do not 
mean to interrupt my present happy state by suffering such nauseous in- 

[325]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 677. 

2 See nos. 194, 319, ante. 
[Z2&]'^ Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 59; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The memorial of Gerard read in Congress May 22. See no. 288, ante, and nos. 
327, 343, post. Although the memorial had been presented to Congress before Lee's 
departure, the consideration of it was not definitely taken up until May 2:j. See the 
Journals, May 22, 25, 27. 

[327]! L. I. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers; Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 61. 



252 Continental Congress 

trusion. Nature and reason have given us both, no Attorneys quirks can 
shake titles derived from such sources.^ 

.... I shall be much obliged to you Sir if you will find some oppor- 
tunity of getting the papers read in Congress that shew the wicked at- 
tempt to destroy the reputation of Mr. Schweighausers house by Chau- 
mont and his friend at Nantes.^ Nor shall I be less thankful for your 
obtaining a report and conclusion upon the papers I had the honor to send 
you from hence last december on the subject of Penns purchase of Tobo. 
in this state under Braxtons direction.* .... 



328. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[June 7, 8, 1779.] 
Monday June yth Commercial Committee Congress. Sundry Letters, 

and long debates abt. Coll. Wadsworth, Commissary Generals Resigning. 
Tuesday June 8th Com. Committee Congress. Order of the Day of 

the Report of Recalling 

Mr. Izard. 7 ayes 4 Naes i divided. 

Will'mLee 7 do. 4 do. i do. 

329. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philadel'a, June the 8th, 1779 
Dear Sir 

.... We have consulted the Board of War upon the latter part of 
your Letter, and they join in opinion with us, that Congress will readily 
allow for the Cloathing furnished the recruiting officers and recruits.^ 

We are Sir with the highest respect your obdt. Servts. 

Geo. Plater 
Wm. Paca 
J. Henry. 

Dan of St. Thos Jenifer 
Wm. Carmichael 

2 Cf. no. 326, ante. 

3 Chaumont's " friend at Nantes " was doubtless Jonathan Williams. See Whar- 
ton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., I. 606. 

4 Lee wrote to Laurens again June 13 : " It has happened as I imagined, that 
I should be called upon about the letters I inclosed you concerning the misconduct of 
a Mr. Penn employed by Mr. Braxton to purchase Tobo. for the Continent in this State. 
I have received a letter since my return, from a Member of our Assembly, desiring to 
know what has been done in the affair. Be so good Sir as press this rnatter to a conclu- 
sion, as well on principles of public good, as that my unprincipled enemies may not 
suggest that I have not collusively suppressed enquiry" {Letters, ed. Ballagh, IL 70). 
See the Journals, Dec. 14, 1778. 

[328] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 
[329]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 25. 

2 The letter to which the delegates are replying is in Arch, of Md., XXL 442, and 
is dated June 4. 



June, 7/79 253 

330. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to the Governor of Maryland 

(Thomas Johnson, jr.)-^ 
Dear Sir, Phila. June 8th 1779. 

.... The Virginians and some of the Northern States, (particularly 
N. York) are inflexible at present as to the Back Lands. The narrow prin- 
ciple of present Emolument supersedes the consideration of future dis- 
tresses that it may occasion, a little time will convince these men, of their 
error. The Vermont people have erected a Governmt. and chose a Gover- 
nor, and every other Officer of Government, and are now under the full 
exercise of it. The State of New York has applied to Congress for aid — 
a Committee is appointed to repair to these people, hear what they have 
to say, and report to Congress. The N E. States seem to countenance that 
of Vermont, notwithstanding the Claims of Massachusets and New Hamp- 
shire to considerable parts of the Territory on which these people of Ver- 
mont are setled.^ Their Aim no doubt is to gain another Voice in Con- 
gress, if they succeed, I suppose another State must be erected out of 
Virga. as a Counterbalance. What will this tend to prove? Why, what 
you justly observe, that Congress ought to take upon them this business, 
and retain in that body the power over the unlimitted Countries to the 
Westward. Whilst we retain our negative to the present plan of confed- 
eration the Door will be open for Justice to be done us, the moment it is 
turned into an affirmative, it will not only be shut, but locked against us. 
You have dropt several useful and wise hints, which deserve the most 
serious consideration, and I hope will influence ; I can truly say. that so 
far as it may be in my power, they shall be extended to take in those 
objects for which they were designed.^ .... 

331. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee.^ 
Q^ar Sir, Philadelphia, June 8th, 1779. 

I had the honour of addressing you under the 1st instant. From that 
day to our yesterday's adjournment, we have made no progress in the 
treasury business, nor in our foreign affairs — none at all. This morning 
is appointed for resuming the latter. Mr. Deane sent a letter yesterday, 
which he intimates will be his last: he requests an adjustment of his ex- 
penses; and, if I remember right, his salar\'. the letter was committed to 
the board of treasury.^ Colonel Wadsworth has laid before Congress an 
alarming state of his department, and again declares his intention to re- 
sign.^ No less alarming is an explanation from the board of war, respect- 
ing essential articles within their sphere 

[aaoJiMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 67; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXIX. 

514. 

2 See nos. 313, 314, 318, 319, 322, ante, 349, 357, post. 

3 See the Maryland instructions, the Journals, May 21. Cf. no. 298, ante. 
[SSip Lee, Life of R. H. Lee, II. 233. 

- See the Journals, June 7, 29 (where the letter is mentioned as the " memorial 
of the 9th instant"), Aug. 6, 26; also nos. 501, 559, 595, post. The letter of June 7 has 
not been found, and no other appears to have been addressed by him to Congress until 
he presented his memorial of Aug. 16, read in Congress Aug. 19 (printed in N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, IV. 68). 

•^ See the Journals, June 7. 



254 Continental Congress 

332. The President of Congress to the Minister to France 
(Benjamin Franklin)/ 

In Congress Philadelphia June 9 1779 
Sir, 

I enclose you an Act of Congress of the 8th of this Instant June direct- 
ing that Bills should be drawn upon you to the Amount of three hundred 
and sixty thousand Livres Tournois for the Purpose of importing military 
Stores. I have accordingly drawn four Setts payable to the Honorable 
Henry Laurens, Francis Lewis, James Searle and John Fell the Commer- 
cial Committee of Congress or the Order of either of them, to wit, one Sett 
for one hundred and fifty thousand, one for one hundred thousand, one 
for seventy thousand, and one for forty thousand Livres Tournois. Our 
Disappointment in not receiving the Supplies which we expected from 
France has rendered this Measure indispensibly necessary and we flatter 
ourselves that you will be able to make such Representations to the Court 
of France on this Subject as to induce them chearfully to put it in your 
Power to honor these Drafts. 

I have further to add that through the Assistance of Monsieur Gerard 
the Minister Plenipotentiary of France at this Court there is some Pros- 
pect that the Military Stores of which we stand in Need may be obtained 
from the Royal Magazines in the French West Indies. In that Case the 
Bills will not be presented for Payment.^ 

I have the Honor to be Sir with great Respect and Esteem your most 
obedient Servt. 

John Jay, 
President 

333. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

June 9th 1779. 
Dear Sir 

.... Though several Circumstances confirm our Expectation of 

Go[od] News from Genl. Lincoln, yet [no] Express has yet reached us. 

We are trying to mend the money and to be ready for the imagined 

Propositions of Peace. We ought only to prepare for a doubtful Event 

of that Kind 

I wish you was Governor of Nova Scotia ^ and I a Farmer there pay- 
ing Taxes to support yr. Government. 

R H Lee is gone home resigned. Mr. S Adams goes on Monday, to re- 
sign. But there are yet some hardy Watchmen in this political Camp 
besides the veteran Sherman. 

Your affectionate humb Servt. 

JL 

[332] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., Franklin Papers, I. 205. 

2 See the Journals, June 7, 8. 
[333]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XV. 

2 See no. 319, ante. 



June, lyyp 255 

334. Richard Henry Lee to George Mason/ 

Chantilly, June 9th, 1779. 
Dear Sir: 

I am much obliged to you for your favor of the 4th, but greatly con- 
cerned for your state of health. The force of party and the power of 
fortune it seems to me, are leagued to distress if not to ruin America. 
There never was a time when the fullest exertion of ability and integrity 
was more necessary to rescue us from impending ills. The inundation of 
money appears to have overflowed virtue, and I fear will bury the liberty 
of America in the same grave. Believe me. Sir, it is not from improper 
despondence that I think in this manner. Look around you, do you any- 
where see wisdom and integrity, and industry prevail either in council 
or execution? The demon of avarice, extortion, and fortune-making 
seizes all ranks. And now, to get into office is another thing for getting 
into wealth on public funds and to the public injury. I well know that 
much of this will in all countries take place in time of war, but in America, 
unfortunately at this time, nothing else is attended to. And such is the 
state of things, so unequally is this mass of money distributed, that I 
assure you my apprehensions are great that this heavy tax will come with 
crushing weight on great numbers of honest, industrious men, whilst a 
number of others who have amassed thousands by illicit means will not 
feel the burthen. I hope some method will be fallen on to make the tax 
touch the speculators, monopolists, and those people concerned in staff 
departments of commissary, quartermaster, etc., etc. who have acquired 
vast wealth on very pernicious principles. In choosing the executive offi- 
cers of government, integrity, ability, and industry must be attended to, 
or we are inevitably ruined. The millions we issue are with such profu- 
sion wasted, that they produce only heavy taxes without good to the 
community. This I apprehend arises from want of wisdom, diligence, or 
integrity somewhere. In truth there is so little attention paid to the ex- 
penditure of the public money, and the public accounts are so irregularly 
settled, or rather not settled at all. that it affords opportunities and gives 
temptation to men not truly moral to venture on bad practises in hopes 
of impunity. To me it appears of indispensable necessity that instructions 
be given to your delegates in Congress in terms peremptory and express 
that they move Congress, and never cease to urge it, that the most imme- 
diate and effectual settlement be made of all public accounts, calling to 
strict account all those who have been entrusted with public money, admit- 
ting not of evasive and dilatory pleas. That they have ready to lay before 
the Assembly, at its next meeting their proceedings herein, and if it is 
not done, the reasons why. I mean this latter part, in order to prevent 
those kind of put offs and go byes which I have seen so very often 
practised. 

There is another point on which I think instructions greatly necessary, 
because I apprehend abuse has already taken place to considerable extent, 
and may, if not prevented, go much further. It is to prevent the practise 
of delegates from any State, and more particularly one delegate from 

[23AV Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 65. 



256 Continental Congress 

any State, from obtaining from Congress money on the credit of the 
State he or they come from without the orders of that particular State. 
In time, when death or bankruptcy shall have removed delegates or in- 
capacitated them, these grants may be refused by the States, or some of 
them, and public discord and confusion be the result. This practise began 
originally upon the necessity members were under of getting money due 
to them for wages to support their necessary expenses, and so far as 
that, strictly confined there, nothing ill would have resulted. But I have 
reason to think it has been carried much further. Your treasurer should 
be ordered to remit the wages of the delegates in due season, and the 
practise of taking money from the Continental treasury without express 
order be totally inhibited. If necessity compelled, why, then, there was 
no resisting the measure, but it does seem strange, that when the quantity 
of money in circulation has almost stopped its currency and introduced 
universal corruption of manners, which both obliged the laying of a most 
weighty tax, that our Assembly should order a million of pounds to be 
emitted. I greatly fear the effect of this, as well in reality, as from the 
operation it will have on the apprehensions of men in the other States! 

.... I rejoice greatly at the news from South Carolina. God grant 
it may be true. If this should force the enemy to reason and to peace, 
would you give up the navigation of the Mississippi and our domestic 
fishery on the banks of Newfoundland? The former almost infinitely de- 
preciating our back country and the latter totally destroying us as a mari- 
time power. That is t^ing the name of independence without the means 
of supporting it 

335. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[June 9, 10, 1779.] 
Wednesday June pth Com. Committee. Congress. After reading the 
Letters, the Order of the Day on Finance, was taken up, and several Pro- 
posals Read, all which were agreed to be left to a Committee of 6 to Re- 
port on Friday. 

Thursday June 10 C Committee Congress. Order of the Day on the 
Committee of 13 long debates concerning the detaining S Deane and 
Recalling Arthur Lee etc. 

336. John Dickinson to Caesar Rodney.^ 

Sir 

I have the pleasure to inform you, that the news of our success in South 
Carolina is so far confirmed, tho we have not yet received any Express, as 
to put the truth of it beyond all doubt In short, tho the particu- 
lars cannot be authentically ascertained. Congress is convinced that the 
affair is another Bourgoignade — and every successive Blow of that kind 
must be more severely felt than the preceeding, because it is striking upon 
a Place already sore and wounded. 

[335]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 
[^^Q]'^ Delaware Archives, III. 1359- 



June, 1 719 257 

Let us at this important Crisis intensely recollect our duty to Heaven 
and our Country — co-operate in our several stations with the Efforts of 
our Gallant Brethern in the field, and after vanquishing scores in fair 
fights, not offer ourselves to be ruined in our internal and domestic affairs 

by the most contemptible vermin that ever crept upon the Earth 

If we baffle the attempt of our invaders this campaign, and convince them 
that our Finances are not in an utterly irrecoverable Disorder, I hope this 
year will crown our Labours with Peace Liberty and Safety. 

Philadelphia June loth 1779. 
[P. S.] 

337. Henry Laurens, Notes.^ 

loth June [1779.] 

A Member of Congress (Mr. Scudder) said in the course of debate, 
" the question which was formerly lost for recalling Ar. Lee Esquire ". 
the President hastily and in my opinion very rudely replied, " that ques- 
tion was not lost and I will contradict it as often as I hear it said." 

" how added he can a question be said to be lost when the House is 
equally divided " 

the practice of the House has ever been to enter all questions lost which 
were not carried by a majority, except in the one instance above men- 
tioned. 

nth. Reading the Journal of Yesterday two instances occured of an 
equal division of States, and the Secretary had made the Entries similar 
to that in the case of A Lee Esquire. I rose and said, I do not Mr. Presi- 
dent like this new fashioned way it has ever been the practice of this 
House to enter " and so the question was lost ", because it was not carried 
and " I move you to Order the Secretary to make the Entries in the Cases 
before us according to the practice ". this was amply seconded, the presi- 
dent objected and appeared much chagrined. Cases were produced and 
laid before him which with reluctance he reed, and with more, suffered 
them to be read — went a good deal out of a Presidents track to say that 
the question for A Lee's recal might be brought on again at any time, 
which was sun enlightened the world and warmed the Air. more than 
necessary debate ensued. I said among other things, there ought to be no 
question upon my motion, it was the Secretary's duty to observe the prac- 
tice and I thought the President should see that he did his duty, the 
President was exceedingly angry and asked if he was our Secretary, that 
he did not understand it to be his duty to correct the Journals etc. admit 
tis not his duty to correct it certainly is not his duty to encourage and 
maintain a departure from constant practice * ^ 

he would put the question it was carried without a nay and the entries 
accordingly made, now the Instance of A Lee stands single and shews 
the integrity and impartiality of the two Chairs, etc.^ 

[Endorsed :] Entry on the House being equally divided A Lee's case 
etc. 

[337]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XXVIII., no. 8. 

2 * More especially in a particular Instance in which A Lee was concerned, against 
whom he had declared he had a personal enmity. [Note by Laurens.] 

3 Cf. no. 338, post. See also Burke's statement, no. 474, post. 



258 Continental Congress 

338. Henry Laurens, Note/ 

Never was there a more droll scene exhibited in a public assembly than 
the foregoing.^ 

Almost every man who voted for detaining Mr. Deane, did so from a 
hope of securing a vote for recalling Mr. Lee. When this should have 
been effected, Mr. Deane was to have obtained " the special permission of 
Congress for departing from the United States ", or it might be that he 
would depart without the " special permission ", " for who could control 
him " (said Mr. S. and J. P).^ Such sentiments were expressed by both 
parties, which warrant this suggestion. To these and similar expressions 
I replied in Congress : " If Mr. Deane, in defiance of the order of Con- 
gress, shall depart the United States, it will be pleading guilty, and upon 
Mr. Lee's appearance before Congress and giving evidence against Mr. 
Deane, judgment will go against him by his default; and I believe neither 
this nor a future Congress will hazard that public resentment which would 
follow a permission to Mr. Deane to depart, before the appearance of 
Mr. Lee, unless from captivity or other extraordinary accident he should 
be detained an unreasonable length of time." On the other hand, those 
who could not bear the idea of recalling a faithful servant, and subjecting 
him to the risk of being captured and carried into England, whose king 
and ministers of state are exceedingly exasperated against him, and who 
also suspected the designs of the opposite party, therefore voted against 
their wishes to detain Mr. Deane, because the recall of Mr. Lee was tacked 
to that article as an express condition. Thus were votes given by all, three 
or four excepted, against the principles of the voters. 

My sole motive in bringing forward the proposition for detaining 
Mr. Deane and ordering Mr. Lee to appear and support his charges, was 
for obtaining justice — 

1st. To my much injured country. 

2d. To individuals. 

The proposition originally sprung from myself, although Mr. Burke 
reduced it afterwards to writing, in order, as he said, to try if gentlemen 
were in earnest. He never found me otherwise. 

Before I had voted against the recall of Mr. Lee (on the [8th June, 
1779], see the journal), I had repeatedly declared in Congress that I 
would vote for his recall, provided Congress would detain Mr. Deane, and 
this opinion I have invariably supported in private conversation with 
Mr. Lee's brother, and other particular friends, in opposition to their sen- 
timents ; " fiat justitia mat coeliim," was my governing principle.* 

Thank God, I have acted agreeably to the dictates of my conscience, 
without respect to persons, and I trust my country will not condemn my 
conduct. 

nth June, 1779. 

[338]^ Seventy-Six Society, Papers in Relation to the Case of Silas Deane, p. 98; 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 218; "N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, 
III. 484. 

2 See the Journals, June 10. Cf. no. 212>7, ante. 

3 Meriwether Smith (Laurens probably wrote " Mer. S.") and John Penn. 

* Cf. nos. 226, 240, 244, 250, 255, 295, 296, 297, ante, and nos. 343-347, 354, 415, 
420-422, 474, 518, 559, 595, post. 



June, 1779 259 

339. John Fell, Diary/ 

[June II, 12, 1779.] 
Friday June nth Com'I Committee Congress. Order of the Day on 

finance agreed to borrow on Loan 20,000,000 to be Paid in 3 Year or 

when the Money is y% better then at Present " 

Saturday June 12th Com. Committee NB. Did not goe to Congress. 

Dr. Morgans affair decided P M Commercial Committee 

340. Henry Laurens, Notes of Proceedings.'^ 

1 2th June [1779.] 

the reading a Report from the Treasury recommending Returns to be 
made by each State of taxes collected monthly,^ I remarked, that however 
this might be complied with in other States it by no means applied to that, 
to which I belonged, unless this mode of collecting Taxes had lately been 
altered. 

Delaware (Mr. M'Kean) said that State had already paid into the Pub- 
lic Treasury her quota of the five Million [and of the] fifteen Million 
Taxes, and had passed a Law for collecting forty-five Million which would 
be paid on the 24th. ^ 

Mr Drayton exulted in this information as our little sister Delaware 
had so chearf ully and punctually paid in her Taxes, there was good ground 
for hoping that larger states could do the same (this pointed at a declara- 
tion which I had just before made, as my opinion, that South Carolina had 
not and would not have in the State within the 1st January next so many 
Millions of Dollars, as her Continental taxes amounted to 
1,800,000 part of 15 Million 

5,500,000 " " 45 Million (besides her quota of 6 Million for sinking 
fund.) 

I replied my Colleague should consider that Delaware altho' she was a 
little Girl received five times as much for her Commodities as South Caro- 
lina did for hers, and that the quota of Delaware was in proportion to her 
size. 

Mr. Drayton as if he had totally forgotten my cordial Communication 
to him the 19th May, or as if such communication had never been made, 
moved from his Chair, and came next to mine, where he said it would be 
proper h£ thought, that / should state the disproportionate prices of the 
Commodities of South Carolina and those of the Northern States in 
order that we might lay them before Congress in order to reason thereon 
for lowering our quota of Taxes, now what can I call this, less than 
matchless effrontery ? 

[339]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Cf. nos. 348, 351, post. 
[340] 1 These notes are a continuation of those of Apr. 29 and May 19 (nos. 236, 282, 
ante). 

2 The treasury report, dated June 11, is in the Journals, June 12. 

3 The meaning evidently is that Delaware had paid her quotas of the five millions 
and the fifteen millions, respectively, and had passed a law^ for the collection of her quota 
of the forty-five millions. These requisitions of taxes bear the dates Nov. 22, 1777, Jan. 2 
and May 21, 1779, respectively. 



260 Continental Congress 

341. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton)/ 

Philad. 1 2th June, 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

P. S. Pennsylvania and Maryland, without waiting for the opinion of 
Congress, have given their officers half pay for life. Is it impracticable to 
know the Sense of our State on this Subject? It is an important one, and 
will probably be soon debated. I wish to please our Legislature; but ig- 
norant of their views often hazard more than is prudent by acting from 
myself. 

342. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia 12th June 1779. 
My Dear Sir, 

.... If those people who have money so plenty as to give 50 dollars 
for a yard of gauze and who I suppose indulge in every other luxury 
would place their money in the funds and thereby prevent the necessity of 
further emissions, the complaints of depreciation would in a short time 
cease. Congress are doing every thing in their power to remedy the evils, 
three days in the week are constantly devoted to that business, but their 
endeavors will be in vain unless they are supported and assisted by their 
constituents. If there is not virtue enough in the people to support the 
credit of the money, there can be but little dependence on their virtue to 
support the army without money 

343. Richard Henry Lee to William Whipple.^ 

Chantilly June 13, 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

I think Fiddle has played a fine tune in Dunlaps paper of May the 29th. 
If you wish to know what Fiddle, whether a Cremona, a Steyner, or a 

[341]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 74. 

[342]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 679; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft 
Coll., Langdon-Elwyn Papers (copy of part). 

[343]^ Univ. of Va., Lee Papers, no. 309 (draft); Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 69; 
Southern Literary Messenger, XXX. 271 (April, 1860). The draft bears the following 
endorsement in Richard Henry Lee's writing, " Letter about Fiddle alias Merryw'r Smith 
to Gen Whipple ". The words " alias Merryw'r Smith " are inserted above the line, but 
the appearance of the ink indicates that they were written at or near the same time as 
the other words in the endorsement. There is another endorsement, apparently written 
by another hand and at a later time, which reads, " Letter to Genl. Mifflin concerning 
* Fiddle ' Alias Merriwether Smith June 13th, 1779". In the Southern Literary Messenger 
the addressee is given as General Mifflin, as it is also in the Letters of Richard Henry 
Lee, although in the latter it is queried. Aside from the evidence of what appears to be 
unquestionably Lee's original endorsement upon his draft, the contents of the letter quite 
definitely point to Whipple as the person to whom Lee is writing. It is evidently to a 
member of Congress (and therefore could not be to Mifflin) and to one of Lee's 
close personal friends in that body. Furthermore, Lee's letters to Whipple June 26 and 
Aug. 8 clearly point to this letter of June 13. In the former he asks " what tunes the 
fiddle party are playing" (Letters, II. 80) ; in the latter he alludes to the "Ugly instru- 
ment" and says, "Pray inform me if you can if the Base viol has groaned it out" 
(ibid., p. 106). See also nos. 488, 535, post. 



June, 1 779 261 

Base viol, or the Head of a Base Viol, ask our friend Ellery and he will 
explain the mystery.^ Some people rather than not be remarkable would 
be so for being supremely rediculous. So, that rather than it should not 
be known that Fiddle sometimes plays in Congress a first Fiddle the yeas 
and nays must be published in Dunlaps paper on the 29th of May, [that] 
all the world may be set to laughing — at whom — Not at Mr. Laurens. 
But, a jocis ad seria. Have you rescued the fishery from the paws that are 
used to pull the chesnuts out of the fire. It is mighty convenient, when a 
person does not choose to burn his own fingers, to have ready an officious 
hand, willing to encounter the embers. I think that as the house near the 
Capitol is less than the Capitol, that the Lesser ought not to dictate to the 
Larger, and more especially as the " Alliance not being victorious, cannot 
give law to the common enemy ".^ Mr. Ellery's sagacity can help to ex- 
plain this last enigma if )'0u should find any difficulty with the thing 
yourself. 

344. James Lovell to John Adams.^ 

June 13th 1779 
Dear Sir 

I shall not look through the Notes in my Almanac to see whether I have 
written to you 22 or 24 times, I shall go upon the easier Task of acknowl- 
edging all those I have had from you, vizt. Deer. 6. 1778, reed. Feb. 16th, 
79, answd the 17th. and Sepr 26th, 1778, reed. March 4th, 79, answd. 
Apr. 28th. 

Three months ago Mr. G.^ communicated to us that Spain was mediat- 
ing, and that we ought to take speedy, decisive Measures for peace. 
London Gazettes told us the first part ; and it appears strange that neither 
Doctr. F., Mr. L.,^ nor you have hinted this matter to us lately, if you did 

2 In a letter to Henry Laurens the same day Lee wrote: "Mr. Smith (alias 
Dogberry) has been famous here for being a very vain and a very troublesome man. 
But his vanity, for certain reasons, has been so powerfully fed at Philadelphia, that it 
hath eaten him up. I can no otherways account for the publication of the Yeas and 
Nays in Dunlaps paper of the 29th, wch. I presume will set all the world to laughing 
at him as they do here" (ibid., II. 70). The item in the Pennsylvania Packet of May 29 
to which Lee refers is a publication of the proceedings of Congress, with the yeas and 
nays, May 14, 15, 18, relative to the Smith-Laurens affair, together with Smith's address 
to the President, May 18. See no. 274, ante. Cf. nos. 401, 420^ 478, post. For allusions 
to Meriwether Smith as " Mr. ' Clearly-out-of-order ' ", see Lee to Laurens Aug. 7, 13 
(Letters, II. 100, 117). 

^ The allusion is evidently to Gerard and his memorial of May 22 (see no. 326, 
ante) . Gerard stated that the king had " repeated to Congress the promise that he would 
not treat with the common enemy without making it a primary and essential condition 
that the independence of the LTnited States should be acknowledged, conformably to the 
stipulations of the treaty of alliance", and added, "His Majesty has at the same time 
ordered his minister plenipotentiary to lay before Congress some considerations relative 
to the state of affairs, and particularly to observe to them that the alliance, unless 
victorious, can not dictate terms to the common enemy ". 

[344]! Adams MSS., Boston (marked, "Confidential"); Works of John Adams, 
IX. 481 ; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 220. In the Adams MSS. is also found a dupli- 
cate (or "copy") of this letter, and, as it varies from the original in some important 
particulars, it is printed under note 8, below. 

2 Gerard, the minister from France. See especially his memorial of Feb. 9 
(Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 39) ; cf. those of Feb. 13, Mar. 17, May 3, 22, 27 
(ibid.. III. 85, 154, 175, 194)- 

3 Arthur Lee. 



262 Continental Congress 

not avow it authoritatively. We have some wise men here, who are sure 
they could fish out all the Court Secrets. In the various attempts to pull 
down A. L. to make way for some one to go from hence " who knows all 
the present Circumstances of America, and therefore could negotiate prop- 
erly ", ^our want of Ability to give us Information such as we wish, or 
fancy can be had, is said to spring from the Suspicions of the french Court 
respecting One of you ; and something like an Attempt to dictate to us a 
Choice has been seen here. An Extract of a Letter from the Count de 

V s has been quoted, " Je crains Mr. A. L. et ses entoures " ; * and 

we are tempted to think that therefore the Communication before- 
mentioned came through Mr. G . But this is different from what 

was once the Conduct ; for Mr. Deane tells us that he was directed to tell 
Doctr. F. what he did not chuse to tell Mr. Lee, or, as he wishes to have it 
believed, which he was forbidden to tell him. I am persuaded Doctr. F. 
would not readily disgust the french Court in such a Point. If there is any 
Seriousness in the Business, I suppose the Court stood upon the Pioictilio 
of not having the Compliment of a Minister Plenipotentiary returned at 
that Time. 

Mr. Lee's Enemies have produced nothing but Innuendoes to procure 
his Removal, while they dare not deny his Integrity And abilities in our 
Service." Mr. Deane says, the Lees are not fit for Transactions with a 
" gallant " Nation. But doubtless those Men who want his place would 
be very gallant indeed on certain Points in Negotiation. The eastern 
States are charged with wanting what they have no Right to, and what is 
of " no Interest to the southern States ". Plenty are these local Senti- 
ments lately; and R. H. Lee with H. L ns are squinted at as two 

monsters on the other side of Susquehanna, who pursue points in which 
the southern States have no Interest. Would France or England reason 
thus on the Fishery? I expect, however, that we shall coalesce in a few 
days upon what may be Ultimata ready for some future day of Pacifica- 
tion, when Britain shall be restored to her Senses. She is quite wild and 
foolish yet, in my Opinion.^ 

You will be scarcely able by our motley Journals to understand what 
we are about. Why did I vote for your name to be inserted, Apr. 20, 
page 10? A Majority against me had before resolved that the Names 
should be added ; that Doctr. Franklin's should be inserted ; but did not 
proceed by Yeas and Nays, therefore I was entrapped. Not having my 
Nay appear on Doctr. F. could I say nay to Deane, the Causa maloriwi? 
And as it was not mutual Suspicions, etc., I could not exclude you, who 
was suspected and stigmatized in the Report of the Committee, tho' more 
to the disgrace of Mr. Izard than yourself, if there was any disgrace in the 
Circumstance of his imagining that your Connection with the Eaters and 

*The form " entoures " may be a slip of Lovell's pen, for he elsewhere (for 
instance, in the duplicate, below) writes the word " entours ". Touching- this expression 
of Vergennes, see the Paca-Drayton Information, in the Journals, Apr. 30. Cf. nos. 
215-217, 226, 240, 244, 337, 338, 343, ante, and nos. 345, 347, 420-422, post. 

5 In the duplicate (see note 8, below) Lovell is somewhat more explicit on this 
point. 

8 Concerning the "ultimata", see nos. 151, 152, 253, 255, 269, 307, ante, 360, post. 



June, 1779 263 

Distillers of Molasses had warped your Judgment against the Interest of 
other Parts of the Continent. Mr. Izard has good Testimony to his many 
estimable Qualities, but his best Friends say he is irascible even when he 
has not a Fit of the Gout, as he unfortunately had when he was writing of 
Doctr. Franklin, and probably, too, when he made his Strictures up&n your 
Opinion of the nth and 12th Articles.'' 

Every Appearance is that you will not be passed over without honor- 
able Notice, when the Report receives its finishing Discussion. My own 
settled opinion of you leads me the more readily to think there is no Plot 
concealed under the Professions in yr. Favor, which have fallen from Men 
lately, whose general Conduct is of a Kind to make me cry, Timeo Danaos 
vel dona ferentes ® 

■^ In the duplicate (see note 8, below) Lovell states the reasons for his vote 
more clearly, although he admits the remarks concerning Izard. See Izard to Franklin, 
Jan. 28, 30, 1778, and Izard to Laurens, Feb. 16, Sept. 12, 1778, in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. 
Corr., II. 477, 480, 497, 710; also the Journals, Mar. 24, 1779 (p. 368). Cf. Gerry to 
Adams, Sept. 29 (no. 562, post). 

8 This letter bears the endorsement : " Mr. Lovel, June 13, 79 Mediation of 
Spain suggested by Mr. Gerard the French Minister. The first hint of an Appointment 
of a Minister to treat of Peace." 

Following is the duplicate mentioned in note 1,above. It bears this memorandum in 
Adams's writing : " Mr. Lovel June 13, 1779 ' Je crains M. A. L. et Ses entours '. 

Vergennes." 

"June 13th 1779. 
" Dear Sir 

" I shall not look through my Almanac to see whether I have written to you 22 or 24 
Letters, I shall go upon the easier task of acknowledging all I have had from you — 
Deer. 6 1778 rec'd Feb. 16 1779 answ'd 17th, and Sep'r 26. 1778 rec'd Mar 4 1779 answ'd 
Apr. 28th. 

" 3 months ago Mr. Gerard communicated to us in a private audience that Spain was 
mediating and that we ought to take speedy measures for Peace. London Gazettes tell 
the same. It has seemed astonishing that neither Doct'r Franklin Mr. Lee nor you should 
hint this, if you did not give it authoritatively. And we have some wise men here who 
are sure they could fish out all the Court Secrets. In the various attempts to pull 
down A Lee, to make way for some one to go from hence who knows all the present 
Circumstances of America and therefore could negotiate properly, your (the Commiss'rs) 
want of Ability to give us Information such as we wish for or fancy can be obtained, 
is said to spring from the Suspicions of the french Court respecting one of you: and 
something like an attempt to dictate a Choice here has been made. An Extract of a 
Letter from Count de Vergennes has been quoted " Je crains Mr. A'r Lee et ses entours : " 
and it is said that therefore the Communication before mentioned came through Mr. 
Gerard. But this is inconsistent with what is alledged in other Cases. Mr. Deane was 
directed to tell Doct'r Franklin certain things, which he did not chuse to tell DoCt'r Lee, 
or, as he wishes to have it believed, which he was forbidden to tell him. 

" I am persuaded Doct'r Franklin would not readily blab any matter to Mr. Lee which 
the Court might confidentially tell him. But it may be said the Doct'r was perhaps at 
that period only on a par with IMr. Lee and you so that he could not officially convey the 
news of a Negociation from France to us without consulting Mr. Lee. It has been 
attempted to persuade us that Spain is disgusted with Mr. Lee. If more than Innuendoes 
had been adduced, we should have made a new appointment perhaps ; tho it is a very 
delicate matter. Mr. Deane says the Lees are unfit to deal with a " gallant " nation. To 
tell you the plain Truth of the matter, I believe the men who want to get his place in 
Negociation would be very gallant on certain Points. The eastern States are charged 
with wanting what they have no right to, and what is of " no interest to the southern 
States." Plenty are these local Sentiments lately and R H Lee and Mr. Laurens are 
squinted at as two Monsters on the other Side of the Susquehanna, who can be found 
to pursue points in which the Southern States have " no interest." I e.xpect, however, 
that we shall in a few days be able to join in some Ultimata for Peace to be ready at 



264 Continental Congress 

345. James Lovell to Arthur Lee.^ 

Philadelphia, June 13th, 1779. 
Dear Sir: 

I will not omit this opp'y of send'g a few Lines to you, though my first 
Intent's were only to put under Cover the Gazettes, and the Journals of 
Congress. From those you will learn how Questions relative to you have 
been agitated.^ .... 

The Tei-m recalled having been used with regard to Wm. Lee and Rph. 
Izard, with an Idea strenuously supported by some of bringing them to 
America though others who were affirmative meant only vacating Com- 
missions. A 2d Resolve passed That it is the Sense of Congress that 
Mr. Wm. Lee and Mr. R Izard tieed not repair to America.^ I give them 
no official Notice now, nor shall I without the special order of Congress ; 
because, I am again left alone of the Com'tee of for. Affrs. yr. Brother 
R H having resigned as I hear, and gone home; and further because 
something definite ought to be decided in regard to Compensation for 
Serv'ices of the Commissioners. An Attempt has several Times been made 
lately to chiise a neiv Com'tee instead of filling up the old one.* This you 
will perceive to be singularly decent towards the one who has steadily at- 
tended. Nay it is said that such a Com'tee is useless. I am sure I find an 
immense Deal that ought to be done and a great Burthen in what has been 
done by a Member of Congress without Secretary or Clerk, little as you 
and the other Gentlemen abroad may have been benefited by my Labors. 
Quires of my Writing have been sunk in the sea, most of it near these 
Capes. 

I expect further Attempts to get rid of you. It was a Fear of that and 
a strong Desire to scrutinize Mr. D that made Mr. Laurens I imagine give 
into the late motion.^ But I think you will rise above the Malice of the 
Faction which you have long known, or, if you find yr. Usefulness de- 
stroyed " by their accts " you will readily tell us so, and desire to make 



the moment when Britain shall come to her Senses. She is quite wild and foolish yet, in 
my opinion. 

" You will be able by our motly Journals and my Comments from Time to Time to 
understand what we are about. For instance you will know zvhcn I tell you why 1 voted 
to have y'r name inserted April 20th page 10. A majority against me had resolved 1st 
that the names should be added 2dly that Doct'r Franklin's should be inserted but did 
not proceed by yeas and nays, therefore I was entrapped not having my nay to show 
in the first I was forced to go through uniformly : it being as true that Suspicions and 
Animosities had been minuted by the Committee respecting you as respecting the rest ; 
for the Report did not say mutual Suspicions etc. It was calculated to open the Door 
for several new Elections." 

[345P Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VL 72 (marked "copy, confidential") ; Whar- 
ton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 222. 

2 Lovell here records the vote on Lee's recall May 3, and a summary of the 
proceedings on the same subject June 10 (although giving the date as June 9). See also 
nos. 347, 354, 536, post. 

3 See the Joutnals, June 8. 
* Cf. nos. 421, 458, post. 

^ Presumably Laurens's assent to the recall of Arthur Lee on condition that 
Deane should be detained in America. See nos. 250, 296, ante. At this point is found 
the following note in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr. : " On this is the following endorsement : 
'Receiv'd thus from Mr. Adams the nth Feby, 1780, i. e., with the wax finger'd not 
open'd. Mr. Adams had it from Dr. Franklin.' " 



June, 7/79 265 

way for some other Person. I have by me large Packets left by your 
Brother with Copies of Proceedings affecting you, but I will not venture 
them round about, as a Frigate must soon go directly from hence, or at 
least a Pacquet boat. I tell Mr. J Adams more on that Head.^ I suspect 
much Roguery in the Stoppage of yr. Letters ; how else is it that we have 
not a line from any of you? 

Mr. S Adams goes home to-morrow for good and all, as he says. This 
is intended Via Cadiz, a Copy Via Martinique. 

Your friend and humble Serv^ant, 

J.L. 

Vid[e] Journals: Apr. 6, 15, 20, 21, 22, 26, 28, 30, May 3, 22, 25, 27, 
June gJ 

Honorable Arthur Lee, Esqr., 
Commissioner, etc., Madrid. 

346. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Philadelphia June 13th 1779 
Hon'd Sir 

By way of Martinique I forward to you Gazettes Journals and one or 
two Pamphlets.^ The Situation of Things in Congress has been such for 
some time past that the Committee of foreign Affairs have been drawn on 
to look daily for some interesting Decissions to communicate to you; 
which must account for their Silence many Weeks. I am once again left 
alone, and therefore in a too delicate Situation to pretend to give you any 
Detail of matters agitated but not concluded respecting your Commis- 
sion.^ I enclose a late resolve * to which I beg your attention. 

347. Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Philadelphia June 13th 1779. 
My dear Sir 

I send you the inclosed Extracts from our Friends Letter according to 
your Request.^ No Pains are spared to effect the Recall of Mr. Arthur 
Lee. If any are in hopes by this to put an End to the Usefulness of an 

^ See no. 344, ante. 

■^ A copy of this letter with some variations was embodied in Lovell's letter to 
Arthur Lee July 17 (no. 421, post). In that copy the date May 24 is included among 
the references to the Journals, and instead of June 9 (apparently incorrect) is found 
"June 8, 10". 

[346]! Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XIV. 179 (triplicate) ; Univ. of Pa., Franklin 
Papers, III. 21 ; Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. I., f. 251 ; Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 224. 

2 Lovell's letter to William Bingham, at Martinique, dated June 12, is in Boston 
Pub. Lib., Chamberlain Coll., V. 25; the letter-book copy is in Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 79, vol. I., f. 250. 

3 The letter is signed by James Lovell " for the Committee of Foreign aiTairs ". 
See no. 533, post, where Lovell indicates that he probably never sent this letter until 
Sept. 17. Concerning the committee, see no. 345, ante, and no. 458, post. 

•* The " late resolve " was that of June 5, instructing the commissioners to 
transmit an account of their proceedings in the Beaumarchais matter. 
[347]^ Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers, no. 308. 

2 Doubtless extracts of a letter of Arthur Lee. In some letters which Richard 
Henry Lee wrote to the Pennsylvania Packet shortly afterward, he used a number of 
such extracts. See his Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 108, 125, 132, 138; also his letter to 
Henry Laurens July 10, ibid., II. 87. 



266 Continental Congress 

able, faithful and indefatigably industrious Friend to our Country, I be- 
lieve they will be disappointed. I still flatter my self they will never obtain 
a Majority ; but should they succeed thus far, it is my Opinion that no Man 
in America would afford greater Aid in the publick Councils than he. The 
Day before yesterday another Attempt was made.^ The Motion which 
was ofiferd by Mr. B. before you left us,* was brot on, that Mr. Dean be 
directed not to depart from these States till further order, and that IVIr. A. 
Lee repair to America to make good his Charges against him. The Ques- 
tion was divided, and failing by an equal Division of the States in the first 
part the other was downed by a very great Majority of Voices on a pre- 
vious Question. When some one of the States may be better repre- 
sented,^ it may be brot on again and again. Mr. Lovel will write to you 
more largely. Being in great Haste preparing to set off on my Journey to 
Boston this day, I can only add that I am very affectionately 

Your Friend 

SA 
348. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

Sunday June 13th A M. Went to Committee, to dispatch The Eagle 
Packet Capt. Ashmead to Martinique. 

Monday June 14th 1779. Com. Committee Congres. After the dis- 
patches were read the order of the Day on Finance, long debated for in- 
creasing the Interest.^ 

349. James Duane to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philad. 14th June 1779. 
Dear Sir 

Your Excellency's Letter to Congress respecting the Revolt has made a 
serious Impression. I applaud the wisdom and Spirit which it manifests. 

3 These proceedings are found in the Journals under June 10, not June 11. Cf. 
no. 345, ante, and no. 354, post. 

* Richard Henry Lee obtained leave of absence May 24, and Burke's motion 
appears to have been offered the same day. See nos. 296, 297, ante. 

5 Against these words Adams makes this foot-note jotting: " Ch. Just. D ", 
evidently meaning Chief Justice Drayton. In all the yeas and nays taken on the question 
as presented June 10 the votes of Laurens and Drayton, the two delegates of South 
Carolina, are found to be in accord. Drayton had, however, since his connection with 
the " Paca-Drayton Information ", been regarded as especially hostile to Arthur Lee, 
while the attitude of Laurens was in general favorable to Lee. For Laurens's explanation 
of his position on this particular measure, see nos. 250, 296, 297, ante. 
[348] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 In the margin of this entry are some calculations respecting the loan, on thp 
basis of the contemplated one-eighth appreciation (see no. 339, ante, and no. 35i» 
post), but the exact purport of the figures is not clear. 

1/8. 260000 looooo 
32500 50000 



25000 

22750/0 12500 

ii1375 

14375 



4375 



15750 
[349]! N. Y. State Lib., George Clinton Papers, no. 2409; Clinton Papers, V. 84. 



June, IJ79 267 

Congress seem to have relied rather too far on the Moderation and Pas- 
sivity of our State: and yet there are Circumstances v^hich Justify their 
proceeding with Caution. It is generally supposed and believed, that if 
active measures are passed by our State, the Friends and Relations of the 
Revolters in the Eastern States, even in defiance of their own Government, 
will support them by arms : At the same time an opinion prevails that by 
the mediation of the Committee they may be prevailed upon to return to 
their Duty : at least that the attempt is necessary previous to acts of Vio- 
lence. The Eastern Delegates seemd Confident of its Success and were ex- 
plicit in avowing their wishes that it might produce Submission and Tran- 
quillity 

Your Excellency's Letter is committed to a special Committee and I 
presume they will report that the Prisoners be set at Liberty and Col. 
Allen's Conduct as an officer of the United States be submitted to a Court 
Martial. At the same time Congress are so strongly perswaded of the 
policy and propriety of sending their Committee that they will persevere 
in the Measure, and I wish our State cou'd be so far reconciled to it as to 
give it no Obstruction " 

350. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philadelphia June 14th 1779 
Dear Sir 

There have been so many accounts by different ways of the defeat of 
the Enemy at Charles Town, that a man must be an infidel not to believe 
it ; yet Congress have not had any Public Letter on the occasion, nor have 
any private Letters from South Carolina, informing of that happy event, 
been received by any person that I can hear of in this City.^ .... 

Crops are very promissing throughout the Continent, and could our 
Money be prevented from further depreciation, we should have nothing 
to fear; but if it continues, God only knows what will be the contingent 
event. The States have it in their power to apreciate it something, but 
there are so many speculating individuals, that will counteract every pub- 
lic measure, that I dispair of the wished for success. Could we assure the 
States that there would not be Emissions beyond a certain Sum, the busi- 
ness would be done; but as Congress is uncertain whether sufficient Sup- 
plies will come into its Treasury by Taxes or Loan, the Press must be kept 
going so long as the Money will purchase any thing, or at least till sup- 
plies can be otherwise had 

2 See the Journals, June 12, 16; also nos. 313, 314, 318, 319, 322, 330, ante, and 
no. 357, post. Clinton's letter to Congress, dated June 7, is in Clinton Papers, V. 54- 
Letters to the delegates and to Washington of the same date are ibid., pp. 58, 59. 
[350]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 17; Arch, of Md.. XXI. 454. 
2 See nos. 353, 363, 379, Post. 



268 Continental Congress 

351. James Lovell to James Warren.^ 

June 15th, 1779. 
General Warren, 

As Mr. Adams is on his Journey to Boston ^ it is not essential that I 
should now write minutely relative to the Points which have been agi- 
tated here lately ; all proper Communications will be made to you by him 
in a Way to which an Epistle is only a secondary Satisfaction. He will 
also give you the whole of what has reached us yet from Sth. Carolina, 
touching the good Fortune of Genl. Lincoln. But these Considerations 
would not acquit me to myself if I neglected thus early to acknowledge 
my Obligations to you for the obliging Expression of your " Desire to be 
considered as my Friend ", contained in yr. Letter of May 30th which 
reached me the Night before last. Be assured, dear Sir, that you have 
hereby liquidated a full Page in my Book of Sufferings. There was a Sea- 
son when I counted upon Thousands and Tens of Thousands ; but, for 
several Months back I have been fully persuaded that all my Hazards 
Toils and Watchings were to be recompensed by the Approbation of a 
virtuous Few. I wish the " unusual Anxiety and Weights upon yr. 
Spirits " may be thrown off so far as it was occasioned by the Ultimata 
which are one time or other to be debated here : I cannot but think a de- 
cent Coalition would take Place among such as it is supposed will differ, 
from local Interests or varied Degrees of Resolution. I believe our Ally 
intends well for us. But such Belief does not warrant the laying aside 
political Watchfulness : Nor should the Exertion of this occasion any 
Disgust in those who feel themselves to be thoroughly well intentioned. 
H, after Conversation with Mr. S. A. you wish Informations may be sent 
from this Place respecting the Result of Points not quite decided when he 
left us relative to Cod and Hadock, I will endeavor to give you all the Sat- 
isfaction my Circumstances will allow. You will always consider the Dis- 
tinction between catching and drying, being Rights with widely differing 
Foundations.^ 

As to our Money, it cannot be mended but by stopping the Press. 
Taxes, if the States should even comply punctually with our Recommen- 
dations, which their past Conduct does not warrant us to look for, will not 
answer by themselves. We are about to borrow 20 Mill's of the People on 
probable temptations. But can we offer Interest in exact Proportion to 
Exchange to such Persons as now may be disposed to lend, and not pay 
the same to those who have formerly lent. I think not. We did equal Jus- 
tice when we offered Bills on France. We must do the same at this Time. 
Give 6 pr. Ct. conditional, to rise in proportion to the Quantity in Circula- 
tion at the Date of the Certificate and the Due of Interest or Deprecia- 
tion; ^ as, unavoidably, Something of an Emission must go on, till we are 

[351]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Warren MSS., vol. 3, p. 242; Warren-Adams Letters, II. 107. 

2 See no. 347, ante. " I ride out with Mr. Adams and took leave of him and he 
proceeded to Boston" (Samuel Holten, Diary, Esse. v. Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 24). 

3 The allusion is to the discussion of the stipulation relative to fishing rights to 
be inserted in the treaty of peace. The question had been under consideration June 3 
and was resumed June 19. 

^ The words " or Depreciation " are written in the margin. 



June, 1779 269 

otherwise supplied. For my Part, I think such a Measure would alone be 
sufficient to obtain much Money. '^ 

Some Thoughts are suggested of holding the Principal till the Currency 
shall be Ys, appreciated; but this is holding up no Temptation, for, if the 
Press is stopped, the Appreciation would inevitably be ^ in a very short 
Term indeed. 

If the " Sacrifice of Consistency " which you justly notice was made in 
a Case where there were Abilities of a Size to produce any great Events, 
I should be more chagrined than I am at observing the public Want of a 
republican Delicacy in the Case stated. 

I am sorry that the Opportunities for Holland were not the Carriers of 
my Letters as I have been unlucky here. Our worthy Friend John Adams 
must think I neglect him in his very odd Situation. We are ripening 
towards Measures which must induce an immediate and definite conse- 
quential Disposition of him, and I have no doubt of an honorable one. As 
to the Assents and Dissents in our tragicomical Journals," the Grounds 
of them are hard to be fathomed ; and the Case you mention is a very deli- 
cate one; I dare venture, however, to say that it is not to be accounted for 
by Want of Honesty, but rather by the Quantity of that Species which 
puts us off of Guard against the Arts of designing Men 

352. James Duane to Philip Schuyler.^ 

Philad. 15th June 1779. 
My dear Sir 

.... I greatly differ with you in your Conclusion from the Accept- 
ance of your last Resignation. Your best Friends in Congress were 
firmly perswaded that your Determination to resign, in every Event, and 
under every Circumstance, was fixed unalterably ; and that you would be 
obliged and not hurt by the Acceptance. You may be assurd you stand 
very high in the Esteem of three fourths of the States and members of 
Congress. No inconsiderable Proportion considering how much pains 
have been taken by the factions to injure your Reputation 1 I tell you once 
more that If you had communicated to me your wishes, instead of making 
the second absolute Resignation, any reasonable Vindication of your 
Character — if any after the honourable Acquittal by your Peers, and Con- 
firmation by Congress, was necessary — cou'd have been obtained. Do not 
therefore blame Congress, who have enough to distress them, without 
the Reproach of their Friends : nor suffer Chagrin to disturb you when 

^5 See the Journals, May 31, June 11, 14. In a letter to John Adams, June 13, 
Warren remarked, upon the depreciation of the currency, high prices, and extravagance, 
and added : " Every Bodys Invention has been strained to find a remeidy without success. 
Taxation seems to be the only one, and to that we have got pretty well reconciled." 
Elsewhere in the same letter he said : " I am still drudging at the Navy Board for a 
morsel of Bread, while others, and among them fellows who would have cleaned my 
shoes five years ago, have amassed fortunes, and are riding in chariots " {Warren-Adams 
Letters, II. 103). 

6 The reference is to the record of yeas and nays. Without Warren's letter it is 
scarcely possible to determine what particular vote is referred to. 

[352]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 555; ibid., Bancroft Coll., Schuyler 
Papers, no. 739 (copy) ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., LX. 161 (extract). 

22 



270 Continental Congress 

your Glory is out of the Reach of Malice. And your Enemies put to 
Silence and Shame Much less be prevailed upon to retire to Privacy 'till 
Peace and Safety are established. Let our own Private Feelings be sacri- 
ficed to our Country : and Let us be contented with the Approbation of 
our own Consciences.^ .... 

353. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia June 15th 1779. 
Sir, 

Mr. Marchant arrived last Saturday evening, and yesterday took his 
Seat in Congress. Your Excellency's Letter of the 3d Instant referring 
to the State's Account against the United States brought forward by 
Mr. Marchant we shall pay the most diligent Attention to.^ But such are 
the various and Extensive Demands upon the Treasury and the exhausted 
State of it, that we have not the most sanguine Expectations of immediate 
Success. We shall not fail of every Exertion to fulfill the Wishes of the 
State and of obtaining that Relief which its Circumstances demand. We 
enclose Your Excellency the last Papers which will give the agreeable In- 
telligence from the Southward which is fully credited altho' as yet we have 
reed, no official Accounts.^ With the greatest Respect, We are 

Your Excellency's most obedient 

and very humble servts. 

William Ellery. 
H'y Marchant. 
John Collins. 

[P. S.] In Congress. The last Journal of Congress is also enclosed — 

354. Nathaniel Scudder to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Philadelphia June 15th 1779. 
Dear Sir 

I yesterday received your very agreeable Favor of the 6th instant, and 
am much gratified by your Confidence and approbation, for, be assured my 
Dear Sir, there are, in public Life, few greater Consolations than to stand 
well with those, whose unvarying Conduct, through the whole Course of 
such a Contest as ours, bespeak and prove them the great and the Good. 
The Plaudit of such Characters will always be Food to the generous Mind, 
and the Defence and Support of them the spontaneous Effort of every 
patriotic Spirit. 

We have done no great Things since you left us, however as Determi- 
nations have been made respecting some great Characters on the other side 

2 See nos. 5, 27, 104, 144-146, 241, ante. 
[353]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779, p. 118; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 242. 

2 Greene's letter of June 3 is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 240. 

2 Cf. no. 350, ante, and no. 363, post. 
[354]^ Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers, no. 310. 



June, ijyg 271 

of the Water, I will give you the best Account of them from my Memory, 
as I have it not in my Power at present to apply to the Journals. 

On the Questions, " shall Mr. Izard be recalled? " " shall Mr. William 
Lee be recalled ? " they both passed in the affirmative by a small Majority. 
Each of these Questions, as soon as determined was succeeded by this 
Proposition : Resolved that it is the Sense of Congress, that Mr. Izard, 
Mr. William Lee, be not required to repair to America unless convenient, 
etc : or words to that particular Effect ; and the said Proposition respect- 
ing them both passed also in the Affirmative : so that those Gentlemen are 
left entirely at their own Option.^ I cannot omit to mention, that we had 
many curious and learned Debates respecting the Meaning and Definition 
of the Word " recall " and I at one Time apprehended the Result might 
have produced the Necessity of a Correction in most of our modern Dic- 
tionaries, however in Time it being wisely judged, that, although we 
might determine, that by recalling a Man we meant that he should con- 
tinue where he was, and should even proceed as far as to publish our Bat- 
talia of Yeas and Nays upon the new Definition, yet our Constituents, who 
seem to have abated of their implicite Confidence in us, might not fully 
accord thereto, it was thought best to proceed in the Manner I have before 
related. 

Next came on an eccentric Attack upon Mr. Arthur Lee in Manner and 

Form following ; Mr. Burke, seconded by Mr. ^ say Smith, tho I 

am not quite certain, laid in the following Proposition viz : " Resolved, 
that Mr. Silas Dean be directed not to depart the united States without 
special Permission of Congress and that Mr. Arthur Lee be ordered forth- 
with to repair to America etc: After much Debate, when the Question 
was about to be put, a Division was called for, and the previous Question 
moved on each Pajt of it. On the first Part the previous Question was 
lost by a Division, and by a peculiar Turn of Providence the main Ques- 
tion shared the same Fate, and after all his Enemies Manouvres, when 
the previous Question came to be put on that Part which respected Mr. Lee 
it obtained almost unanimously, and to their utter Mortification he re- 
mained in Statu quo. Whether they will venture at any future Time to 
renew the Attack I know not, if they do I hope we shall plan the Business 
on better Ground than a base Division, as I think Rhode Island, New 
Jersey and Delaware will pretty generally hereafter stand fair. Mr. Mer- 
chant is arrived here. I expect Mr. Houston from Jersey in a Day or two. 
Mr. McKean is in Congress and Mr. Van Dyck hourly looked for.* 
Contra. Doctr. Witherspoon is gone on a Mission to Vermont and our 
Friend Mr. Adams sets off for Boston this Morning. 

I ought to add respecting Burkes Proposition, that on the main Question 
for Detention of Mr. Dean in America The Yeas were New York, Vir- 
ginia, North and South Carolina, The Nays, New hampshire, Massachu- 
setts, Connecticut and Pennsylvania — Rhode Island, New Jersey and 
Maryland divided, Delaware Mr. Dickinson not present, the Reason you 

2 See the Journals, June 8. 

3 Laurens. .See the Journals, June lo, and no. 337, 338, 344-347, ante. 
* See no. 347, note 5, ante. 



272 Continental Congress 

may conjecture, all the Difference from the above State, if applied to the 
previous Question, was that Mr. Fell voted for the previous Question, and 
Mr. Henry against it, whereas on the main Question Mr. Fell voted ay, 
and Mr. Henry Nay, which divided both the States to the utter Confusion 
of etc., etc., etc., after it had been audibly declared, " all hollow ", " all 
hollow ". 

Thus are the crafty taken in their own Devices. And I suppose Mr. 
Henry will undergo a severe Gauntlet for so sacriligiously subverting their 
political Babel. We have not as yet appointed any new Minister, nor have 
we any foreign News of Importance. I seriously apprehe[n]d some new 
Folgery ^ has arisen to thwart our Advices. 

We have not been able yet to ascertain the Evidences of Doctr. 
D ® as to Communication of signing the Treaty to London, he be- 
ing gone on the western Expedition, and we cannot discover who the Per- 
son is in this City to whom he alluded ; however I hope in a little Time 
through Mr. Sergeant or Mr. McKean to obtain satisfactory Information ; 
when I do, I shall make the best use of it here, and immediately communi- 
cate it to you. 

P. S. I hope we shall in a few Days finish our Loans on a happy Scale. 

355. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[June 15, 16, 1 779. J 

Tuesday June 15th Com'l Committee Congress. Sundry Letters and 
Reports from Committees a Memorial from Mr. Horton one of the 
Muster Masters, in behalf of himself and the rest Referrd to a Commit- 
tee of 3. Vizt. 

P M. Marine Committee. 

Wednesday June 16th Com. Committee Congres Letter from Genl. 
Washington, relating to the Enemys movements at the North River. 
Report from the Committee appointed to the affair of Vermont and N 
York, after debate agreed to. Order of the Day on finance. Motion for 
raising the Interest to former lenders, to make good the Loss or deppricia- 
tion. Long Debate 

9 AM. S F and Peter sett oft".' 

356. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

1 6th of June 1779 
.... Yesterday a Report was brought in by the Treasu'rs to give 
Mr. Storey Emoluments similar to those in the Secretary's Office here to 
a first Clerk. But it was judged that ill Consequences wd. flow from set- 
ting a Philadelphia model for Boston Salaries ; therefore the Matter was 

^ The allusion is to the case of John Folger, whose bundle of despatches was 
found to be blank paper. See the Journals, Jan. 12, 1778, also these Letters, vol. III., 
no. 24. Cf. no. 401, post. 

^ The letter is plainly " D " in the manuscript, but Scudder is evidently referring 
to the Dr. Kendall mentioned by Lee in his letter to Laurens May 27 (no. 306, ante). 
[355] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 This entry is in the margin. S. F. and Peter were his wife and son (see no. 
308, ante). Peter Fell was nominated for the office of clothier-general June 22 and 
again July 19. 

[356]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 



June, 1 7 79 273 

referred back to My Lords to take order. They will direct the Navy to a 
Sum more adequate than heretofore, but in a Way that may not drawn ^ 
on other Applications in necessary Consequence, 

A Warrant also issued in yr. favr. for 1500 Doll'rs on your Applica- 
tion the State to be accountable. 

An Answer was g-iven in a Draught by the Com'tee appointed on the 
Letter of the King of France respecting the Birth of a Daughter, Madame 
de France. There is nothing Extra in it except asking for the Kings and 
Queens Picture for the Congress Chamber. On this Point much might 
be said, both Sides. It will flatter France and mortify England. A very 
begging Letter was also prepared for Stores, to Amt. of 3 mill's st'g to be 
pd. for in Peace.^ .... 

357. The New York Delegates to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Ph'a 16 June 1779 
Sir 

We have been favored with your Ex'ys Letter of the 7th Inst on the 
Subject of the late Resolutions of Congress respecting the Revolt in New 
York. The Presidt. will transmit to you their further Resolutions on that 
Head. As the State of New York by these Remonstrances to Congress 
demanded Justice against the Revolters, they thought it reasonable to be 
assured that the State had done them Equity before Congress interfered, 
and for that Purpose appointed a Com^ to enquire and report. The Spirit 
of your Letter to Congress will advance the Business. We conclude it to 
be in a good Train, and are clearly of opinion that the Committee ought 
to proceed. Any Decisions of Congress made ex parte wd. have less 
weight, than if made after hearing these People, the Majority of the 
House have very proper Ideas on the Subject, and we flatter ourselves that 
it will terminate right.^ 

We have the Honor to be with great Respect and Esteem 

Your Excy most obt. Serv's ^ 

358. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Thursday June 17th 177Q. Commercial Committee Congress. After 
the Dispatches etc. were Read the Order of the Day on fixing the Ultima- 

2 Presumably the word should be " draw " ; that is, establish a precedent. 

3 The representation to the King of France is recorded at length in the Journals 
under June 15. Following it is an entry beginning, " On the lOth of July, the board of 
war having laid before Congress an estimate of sundry articles proper to be sent for ", 
etc. This means that certain proceedings respecting the representation which actually 
took place July 10, instead of being entered in the Journals under that date, were 
entered under June 15. That these proceedings did, in fact, take place July 10 is 
evidenced by the fact that the representation as despatched bears the date July 10. One 
of these is in Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 723 ; another in Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin 
Papers, LIV. 52 ; a third in Hist. Soc. of Pa., Franklin Papers, vol. V. Cf. no. 402, post. 

[357P N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, V. 91 (draft, in the writing of Jay); N, Y. 
State Lib., Clinton Papers, no. 2413 (copy) ; Clinton Papers, V. 89. 

2 See no. 349, ante, and nos. 362, 364, 403, 407, 409, 453, 544, 545, post. 

3 This draft is not signed, but in the copy and printed text above referred to the 
letter is signed by John Jay and James Duane. 

1358]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



274 Continental Congress 

torn for Instructions to the Minister Plenopentiary etc. P M. 6. OClock 
Marine Committee. 

Friday June 18th ^ Com. Committee Congress. Sundry dispatches 
Memorials etc. A Memorial from C[harle]s Pettit D Q G complaining 
of the State of New Jersey Taxing him and Mr. Cox from One to ten 
thousand Pound at the discretion of the Assesor Committed to 3 vizt. 
Mr. McKean, Mr. Paca, Mr. Lovell. Order of the day on finance long 
debate whether the lenders on former Loans from March 1st 1778 should 
have the Promise of their Interest being Put on the same footing as those 
are, which are to have an increase of Interest on the Present Loan if the 
money should farther depriciate. Duane, Scudder, Paca, Henry, Smith, 
Fleming, Burk, Laurens, Drayton No. P M Marine Committee. 

359. The President of Congress to the Minister to France/ 

In Congress Philadelphia 

June 1 8th 1779. 
Sir, 

I enclose you Acts of Congress of the 5th and 18th Instant respecting 
Bills of Exchange for two Millions four hundred thousand Livres Tonr- 
nois principal, and four hundred and thirty two thousand Livres Interest 
drawn on you in favour of Monsieur de Beaumarchais, and payable in the 
several Sums, and at the respective times specified in the enclosed Schedule. 
Sensible of Mr. Beaumarchais' efforts to serve these United States, and 
of the seasonable supplies he has from time to time furnished. Congress 
are earnestly disposed to make him this payment. They would gladly have 
done it in produce ; but the state of our finances, and the hazardous Navi- 
gation render it impracticable. 

We flatter ourselves that you will be able to discharge the respective 
drafts with punctuality. If difficulties occur you will have time to repre- 
sent them to Congress, who will exert all the Means in their power to pre- 
vent any loss or disappointment to Monsieur de Beaumarchais. 
I have the honor to be Sir with great Respect and Esteem 

your most obedt. Servant 

John Jay, 
Presidt. 
To the Honble Benjamin Franklin Esqr. 

Minister Plenipotentiary for the United States of America at the 
Court of France. 

360. Henry Laurens, Notes of Proceedings.^ 

19th of June 1779. 
The Ultimata being Order of the Day, One or more of the Resolutions 
recommended by a Committee of the whole Set aside by previous question 

2 Samuel Holten records in his Diary under June 18, " I have receiv.ed informa- 
tion that Genl. Ward is elected a Delegate for Mass'a Bay in the room of Mr. Edwards " 
{Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 24). 

[359]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Franklin Papers, V. (L. S.) ; Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin 
Papers, XIV. 228 (A. L. S.) ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. III., 
f. 116 (duplicate). 

[36o]iS. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XXVII. 



June, ///p 275 

as twenty, or perhaps more, or say few more or less had been on Thurs- 
day — then agreed to postpone the consideration of the remainder until a 
Proposition by Mr. Gerry should be considered. 

The Proposition as follows.^ .... 

Debate on the first Clause from 5^ past 11, to Yz past 3 oClock — ad- 
journ without determining. 

In the course of debate Mr. Gerry who upon a former day had warmly 
censured the North Carolina Ivlembers and others who had unwarily dis- 
closed that they had consulted the Minister of France on the Article for 
securing Fisheries avowed that he had now in his turn conferred on the 
same subject with the Minister. 

2 Gerry's propositions are found in the Journals, June 19. Besides the copy 
embodied in these notes there is another in the Laurens Papers, vol. XV., both copies 
containing unimportant variations from the text in the Journals. The propositions are 
also found in Austin, Life of Gerry, I. 287, together with the substance of remarks upon 
them which, it is there stated, Gerry made during the discussion on the floor of Con- 
gress. Austin presumably drew this summary from original notes of Gerry found 
among the latter's papers. The remarks as there given {ibid., pp. 289-292) follow: 

" It is not so much fishing, said he, as enterprise, industry and employment. It is 
not fish merely, which gentlemen sneer at, it is gold, the produce of that avocation. It 
is the employment of those who would otherwise be idle, the food of those who would 
otherwise be hungry, the wealth of those who would otherwise be poor, that depend on 
your putting these resolutions into the instructions of your minister. 

" He denied that it would protract the war. Whenever Great Britain is ready to 
acknowledge your independence she will be ready to accede to all your other reasonable 
and fair demands. It is not to be expected that she will incline to diminish your 
boundaries either on the land or the ocean. Show her that this is your right, you will 
obtain it of her justice; or prove to her that it is your determination to maintain it, 
and you will secure it from her policy. 

" As to our right, Mr. Gerry said, the God of nature gave it to us. He made the sea 
the common property of all mankind in a more strict sense than he had done the land. 
Land requires exclusive occupation for government, cultivation or property. But the 
great world of waters admits of no national appropriation. Where the winds can carry us 
upon the ocean, there we may sail, and where we sail, there we occupy, and what we 
occupy we may of right use for the purposes for which occupation is valuable; and it 
might as well be claimed by any nation to restrain us from navigation as fishery. We 
ask only the right of casting our hooks into the ocean and owning what we may catch ; 
and to say that this is not the right of an independent people, is to say they have pur- 
chased a nominal independence, by affixing to themselves a constant mark of vassalage; 
for unless the right is bargained away by treaty it belongs to us by inheritance. 

" If it could be supposed that any obstruction to our rights originated in the policy of 
our ally, it would diminish the affection with which our great friend is now cherished 
in the hearts of our people. But before France had given us one encouraging word, the 
people of New-England had poured out their blood like water in defence of their rights ; 
they had been cheered also by their southern friends, but at first they had stood alone; 
and by God's blessing they would stand alone again without allies or friends, before they 
would barter away their rights. 

" If such a surrender could take place, the commerce of New-England will on the 
return of peace seek British channels. It will be the object of Britain to detach us from 
all commercial connexion with our ally, and she will find her objects greatly assisted by 
the temper of our people. 

" But if we insist on the right, Britain will yield it to us. Her policy will assist us. 
After a peace she will be desirous of our custom. She will not be likely to crowd the 
terms of a peace that looks disgraceful to us, and will be felt as oppressive. In making 
any peace she will have done much for her own humiliation, and she will do a little more 
for our favour. It will be her policy, when she is no longer our open enemy, to have 
us believe she is truly our friend ; and by the liberality of her conditions, to obliterate 
our animosity. Our commerce will be of little value to her unless we enjoy the fisheries, 
and any commerce with her would without them be ruinous to ourselves. By lessening 
our means of payment we must either stop the importations of her manufactures, or 
burthen ourselves with a constantly increasing debt." 



276 Continental Congress 

* Mr. G. Morris said our pretended private business was no secret, it 
was known and talked of in every one of the States. Mr. McKean con- 
firmed this as to every County Town in Pennsylvania.* ^ 

Mr. Laurens rose and said I speak to privilege. 

Mr. President, I find this business has been spoke of without much re- 
serve abroad, one Gentleman acknowledges that he has conversed on it 
with the Minister of France, we know that several others had done so 
before him. another Gentleman informs us that our pretended private 
business is know[n] and talked of in every one of the States. I have 
reason to believe it has been transmitted to South Carolina, but not by me. 
I have hitherto held myself restricted from speaking or writing on the 
subject, but I now give notice that henceforth I shall not consider myself 
under any obligations. 

Mr. Drayton. If the intelligence has been transmitted to South Caro- 
lina it was not by me, so far I am upon an equal footing with my Col- 
league. 

* 2jd June 

This information now appears to wear the efifect of an harbinger to 
Americanus in the Pensylvania Gazette of this day.* 

[Endorsed:] 
Release from Bond of Secrecy respecting Fishery etc. 

3 See the addition of June 23, below. 

* A number of articles from the pen of " Americanus " had recently appeared in 
the Pennsylvania Gazette, chiefly upon questions pertaining to financial conditions, public 
credit, etc. In the issue of June 23 he takes for his text that item in the Maryland 
Gazette of May 28 to which Carroll refers in his letter of May 31 (no. 310, ante). This 
article, as it intimately concerned Congress collectively and some members very par- 
ticularly and stirred other pens to activity, both in and out of Congress, might pertinently 
be reproduced here; but because of its length only its most significant passages will be 
quoted. 

" Messieurs Hall and Sellers. 
" Gentlemen, 
" I shall now present the public with the following extract, taken from a Maryland 
Paper, with some animadversions thereon. 

" ' Extract of a letter -from a Gentleman in Virginia to his Friend in this city, dated 

May 19, 1779. 

" ' I this moment received yours of the 14th, and am much concerned that we are 
not likely to see you here this summer, tho' I will not give up the hope. Would to 
God my conjectures of the designs of the enemy had proved wrong: It hurts me to 
think we shall endure this campaign, especially as I am convinced it might have been 
avoided, if we had acted wisely and honestly the last fall and winter. I do from 
my soul believe we should have had peace this spring, had it not been for the — 
execrable faction.' 

" The public may be assured, that the writer of this letter is a Gentleman of character, 
and one who was both last fall and winter a Member of the Honourable Congress. If 
the present distresses and ravages of war, and the expence of our blood and treasure, 
is owing to the dishonest and unwise practices and conduct of any man, or sett of men, 
they ought to be exposed to the public, and the measures they have so fatally pursued 
to be reprobated and condemned. This writer appears fully convinced that not only this 
campaign might have been avoided had we acted honestly and wisely last Fall and Winter, 
but that we should have had peace this Spring, had it not been for the execrable fa-ction. 
Whatever faction has prevented peace, is execrable almost beyond the powers of language 



June, lyyp 277 

to express ; and I am extremely sorry that this gentleman has not told us in plain words 
what faction it is, which has prevented a peace from taking place this Spring. Is it a 
Tory faction, a British, or American faction? We certainly know it cannot be a French 
faction; since his most Christian Majesty has from the first been averse to a war with 
Great Britain and as early as the beginning of February last, by his Minister, acquainted 
Congress with his desire for peace, and urged them to come to such resolutions, as might 
be the basis for opening a treaty, and putting an end to the ravages of war. 

" It is reported that Congress are still debating what the terms shall be, and that some 
men strenuously insist on such, as others fear will not be agreed to, and as they apprehend 
may prevent any treaty at all ; and such as our Ally, by his treaties with us, is by no 
means bound to support us in demanding. That these latter are very apprehensive of the 
consequences of insisting on articles, which may in the very first stage of a negociation 
bar all future progress in the treaty, and possibly not only disgust our Ally, but prevent 
other powers from offering to mediate, or to interfere at all in the dispute. This is as 
important a subject as has ever fell under the consideration of Congress; and it is evident 
they consider it as such, having already spent more than four months without deciding on 
it, though repeatedly urged by the Minister of France to come to their final resolution. 

" No one who is the least acquainted with the state of public aflfairs, and the interest 
and views of the contending powers, will ever attribute our not having peace, or at least 
a negociation for it, to a French interest or faction. This dispute in Congress has divided 
(as the discussion of every important question naturally must) the House into two parties. 
Can it be supposed that either of these are designed by the phrase execrable faction? 
If so, it is high time that not only the Journals of Congress and the ayes and noes should 
be published, but that the doors of the House should be thrown open, and their con- 
stituents have an opportunity of judging for themselves, who are the men who oppose 
themselves to the peace and happiness of these States. I am very sensible of the im- 
propriety and the danger, as well as of the absurdity, of debating in public on the terms 
to be proposed in a treaty, on what is and what is not ultimately to be insisted on, or 
in what manner proposals are first to be made, and how they may afterwards be explained 
or altered. But when this bleeding Country is told that an execrable faction prevents 
peace, it is but natural to enquire where this faction is, who compose it, and what are 
their views. Congress alone are invested with the powers of war and peace ; this faction 
must therefore be in that Body, or be so powerful at least without doors, as to influence 
a majority of the votes within. From what this gentleman has positively asserted, and 
from general report, it cannot be doubted that overtures or propogals of peace have been 
made from some quarter or other ; whether they originated from France or Great-Britain, 
or in Congress itself, is immaterial: Every one will agree that peace is an object most 
devoutly to be wished for, if to be had on safe and honorable, as well as just and equal 
terms. What then can be the views of those who oppose it? I presume no one, whether 
in Congress, or out, whether jn the French, American, or British interest, is against a 
peace, tho' they may diflPer widely in their opinions, as to the terms on which it ought 
to be made. France, having no other interest or object in this war than the securing our 
independence and sovereignty, and the separating us for ever from Great-Britain, by 
which her commerce would be enlarged, and that of her rival lessened, and her increasing 
Maritime Power checked, it is evident that terms which will secure this must be agreeable 
to France. 

" . . . . but it is reported, that the debates and delays in Congress, on the terms of the 
treaty proposed to be opened, have arisen from the desire and wishes of some men to 
include in it certain objects and rights, which were not in our possession, either at the 
time of the declaration of independence, or of the concluding the treaties of Paris : In a 
word, that a right of fishing on the Banks of Newfoundland shall be acknowledged and 
guaranteed to these States, and that such an article shall be made a sine qua non of 
the treaty. 

" This fishery is undoubtedly an object of great consequence to the United States, to 
two or three of them more especially. But as these Banks are not contiguous to the 
shores of any of these States; as it is not a question, whether the subjects of these States 
had any other right to that fishery, but what they derived from their being subjects of 
Great-Britain; and as it cannot be pretended they were in the possession and enjoyment 
of such right, either at the time of the declaration of independence, or of signing the 
treaties of Paris, nor that it was ever included in any one of the charters of the United 
States; it cannot be surprising that many, who judge a peace to be of the utmost 
importance to the interest and happiness of these States, should be afraid of the con- 
sequences which may follow from making this an ultimatum in a negociation; nor that, 
as France by treaty is not bound to guarantee anything out of the dominions of these 
States to them, unless acquired by their arms, and in their possession at the time of 
pacification, can it be strange that some men should be apprehensive whether France 
will support this claim, and whether insisting on it may not tend to prevent the inter- 



278 Continental Congress 

position and mediation of other powers. It is very natural that Congress should be 
divided on so important a question ; for though all of them are interested in obtaining 
this point, yet some of them are very remotely so, compared with others. It is very 
unhappy that this question has been touched on or agitated at all at this time; and 
though the delay in resolving finally upon it has been a principal cause of the continuance 
of the war, of this campaign at least, yet I cannot consider, either those who are for 
insisting on this as an ultimatum, or those who are against saying anything about it at 
present, to merit the harsh epithet of execrable faction 

" Governor Johnstone, in the House of Commons, freely declared he had made use 
(whilst in America) of other means to effect the purposes of his commission, than 
simply those of reason and argument. Have we not good right, from present appearances, 
to believe that in this instance he declared the truth? But to whom is it to be supposed 
he applied these means? To professed Tories, and British partizans, to keep them steady 
to the cause? To your moderate men, to induce them to persevere in their hypocritical 
neutrality? No. He knew his business better; the first wanted no bribing, and the 
latter would but illy repay the purchase. 

" ' Your cold hypocrisy's a stale device, 

" ' A worn-out trick ; wouldst thou be thought in earnest, 

" ' Clothe thy feigned zeal in rage, in fire, in fury.' 

" Americanus." 

Two replies to this article of " Americanus " appeared in the Pennsylvania Gazette of 
June 30, one by " Common Sense ", who raises the question who is " Americanus ", the 
other by " Tiberius Gracchus " (cf. no. 132, note 2, ante). In the issue of July 7 " Ameri- 
canus " returns, declaring that he is not, as intimated by " Common Sense ", a member 
of Congress or of the Pennsylvania assembly or of any other, " but a private citizen, in 
moderate circumstances, in point of fortune, and whose political principles and character 
have never been questioned ". In the issue of July 14, continued in that of July 21, " Com- 
mon Sense " discusses at length the points in the fishery question brought up by " Ameri- 
canus ", not neglecting of course to interject some remarks concerning the latter's 
principles. " Joseph Galloway ", he says, " formerly wrote under the signature of 
Americanus, and tho' every honest man condemns his principles, yet nobody pretends to 
question them." In the issue of July 28 " Americanus " further asserts that he is 
" not an Englishman, that he is not, nor ever was a tory, that he never abused the 
confidence, or betrayed the secrets of Congress ", etc. 

Meanwhile, in the Evening Post of July 9, "Cato" retorts upon Paine ("Common 
Sense"), and so turns the controversy, to some extent, into another channel. What is of 
particular interest in this connection is that which concerns the identity of " Americanus " 
and that of " Cato ". 

" In Hall and Seller's Gazette, of the thirtieth of June ", writes " Cato ", " there are 
two papers, the one signed Common Sense, and the other Tiberius Gracchus, both of 
them leveled at a member of Congress, supposed to be the author of a paper signed Ameri- 
canus ; both of them founded on a supposition that he had contended for excluding 
America from the fisheries. If this gentleman has meddled in the government affairs of 
Pennsylvania, let him answer for himself; but he and every other our representatives in 
congress has a right to expect protection from the virtuous Whigs of America, while 
in the execution of his duty. I have reason to believe and authority to say, that the Hon. 
Mr. Morris was not the author of the piece signed Americanus, and neither saw it, 
heard of it, or knew of it before the publication; that neither he nor any other man 
now in Congress ever held up an idea of ceding to Great Britain, or any other power 
on earth, the right of fishing; and I call upon those gentlemen for the proof of it, if 
any they have, to contradict me, in order that the man, or men, who shall have wantonly 
or wickedly misrepresented the debates of that honorable body, may be held up to the 
reproach they justly merit." 

To this " Common Sense " replies in the Gazette of July 21 : " Who the writer of 
Americanus is I am not informed. I never said or ever believed it to be Mr. Gouverneur 
Morris, or replied to it upon that supposition. The manner is not his, neither do I know 
that the principles are, and as that gentleman has disavowed it, the assurance is 
sufficient. I have likewise heard it supposed that Mr. Deane is the author, and that his 
friend Mr. Langworthy carried it to the press. But I know not who the author is. 
I have replied to the Piece rather than to the Man ; tho' for the sake of relief to the 
reader and amusement to myself, he now and then comes in for a stroke." 

In the N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, IV. 4, where the article by " Cato " 
is reprinted, the writer is identified as Whitehead Humphreys (see also the articles at 
pp. II, 13, 15, :^). Concerning an episode in which both Lanworthy and Humphreys 
were involved, with " Cato " as the chief agent of provocation, see no. 443, note 2, post. 



June, ///p 279 

361. John Fell, Dl\ry/ 

[June 19, 1779.] 
Saturday June igth. Commercial Committee Congress. After the 
Letters etc. The order of the day on the Report of the Committee on the 
Memorial from Mr. Girrard. after some debate to very little Purpose the 
Eastern Members made a new motion about the Fishery, to which amend- 
ments were Propos'd and long and Idle debates ensued according to cus- 
tom, whenever the fishery is the subject.^ 

362. WiLLL^M Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 20th June 1779 
My Dear Sir, 

You may well think it strange that we are so long without intelligence 
from Europe a circumstance that I cannot acco't for, unless we may sup- 
pose there has been many miscariages. 

Your distress on account of the Currency is not to be wondered at, it 
is really an object of great concern and demands the most serious, and 
diligent attention ; three days in the week are devoted to that business, and 
I hope a plan will soon make its appearence that will dispel the glooms 

that now overspread the countenances of Americas Friends I 

suppose the Gen'l Assembly are now setting and I hope som[e] thing will 
be done respecting the Grants. New York are continually pressing to have 
that Business drawn to a conclution and insist there shall not be a seperate 
state but will acquiesce in any other mode of settleing the dispute. I think 
it of importance that N. H. sho'd lay in her claim and send some person 
here, well informed, to support the claim, sho'd that Country be added 
to N. Y. she will be a powerful, and I am apprehensive a troublesome 
Neighbour.^ .... both the Lee's have taken leave of Congress, the 
Dominion now makes a very indififerent figure, but I understand there are 
some appointments which, (when they arrive) will place that state in a 
more respectable point of light. It is not an agreeable thing to see a state 
divided, that has never yet been the case with N H, but will it not be the 
case when the two last chosen Gentn. appear together ? Unanimity is ever 
desirable in public councils, but never more necessary than at the present 
day, besides the disadvantages to the public it must be very disagreeable 
to any Gentn. to be opposed to his Colleague in office. I think these con- 
siderations ought to have some influence in the choice of public characters. 

Sparks, on the other hand, asserts {Life of Gouverneur Morris, I. 204) that " Cato " 
was no other than Gouverneur Morris himself ; and Richard Henry Lee appears to have 
reached immediately the same conclusion. See his letter of July 30 to an unidentified 
correspondent (Letters, ed. Ballagh, II, 92. See also no. 465, post). The writer of 
the letter the extract from which started the whole controversy was probably Francis 
Lightfoot Lee. With regard to Langworthy and " Americanus ", see no. 401, post. 
Cf. nos. 395, 406, post. 

[361]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 317, 360, ante, 366, 368, 369, 380, 381, post. 

[362]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Declaration of Independence, p. 40; Hist. 
Magazine, XIV. 215. 

2 See nos. 349, 357, ante, and nos. 364, 403, post. 



280 C ontinental Congress 

22d. Colo Peabody arrived last evening. I find by him that I am not 
mistaken in my conjecture respecting him and his intended Colleague, 
cannot something be done to prevent the evils that may be the consequence 
of a division of sentiments.^ .... 

363. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Robert Christie.^ 

Phila. June 21 ^ 1779. 
D'r Sir: 

.... Congress are endeavoring to re-establish the Credits of the Paper 
Emissions, and will, it is probable do a great deal towards accomplishing 
of it within a few days. The Speculators may probably Counter act this 
Salutary measure. Taxes will be exceedingly high. I suppose Lands will 
fall, in that Case the Purchasing of them at not more than 5 or 6 for one 
would be adviseable 

Our affairs in Carolina by various reports wear a flattering aspect but 
Congress have not received any Public dispatches from that Quarter since 
the 5th of May.^ 

No late news from Europe 

364. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

June 2ist [1779.] 
Sir 

.... Govr. Clinton does not approve the Measures we have taken 
with Vermont. I think that worthy Gentleman has not the necessary Cool- 
ness in this Business. He hopes we will not proceed, as he cannot call the 
Assembly together. But the Delegates of that State were in Opinion with 
others that the Matter is in the proper Train, and therefore no Order is 
gone out to stop the Commissioners who were on their Journey.^ .... 

Slow progress yet as to Banks of both kinds.^ .... 

365. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[June 21, 22, 1779.] 
Monday June 21 ^ Com Committee Congress Order of the Day on 
finance, long debate, and nothing done. 

5 Peabody's colleague was Woodbury Langdon. A letter from Whipple to John 
Langdon, June 21, touching Langdon' s " anxiety for the acquirement of wealth ", is in 
Force Trans., Whipple, p. 685. 

[363] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. Addressed, " Robert Christie Esqr. Bait. County Maryland To be put in 
the Waybag and left at Stevenson's Tavern ". 

2 The date was first written " ^oth ", then the figure i written over the naught. 
The 20th was Sunday. 

3 Cf. no. 350, ante, and no. 377, post. 
[364] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

- See no. 362, note 2, ante. 

3 The allusion is doubtless to the laboring problems of finance and fishing rights. 
[365] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The entries for June 20 (Sunday), 21, and 22, although in their proper 
chronological place, bore, as first written, the dates, " July 20 ", etc., but were corrected 
to " June". 

Holten's Diary for this day records merely that " Colo. Peabody, a delegate from 
New Hampshire, arrived ". 



June, 1779 281 

Tuesday, June 22d Com Committee. Congress. This wholy taken up 
in Reading Letters, Memorials and Petitions etc. ^Motion for appointing 
a Clothier General. Mr. W'ickoff was nominated per Genl. Armstrong 
and Mr. Scudder. Peter R. Fell was nominated per Mr. Duane. Deferrd 
till Thursday P ]M Marine Committee. 

366. William Fleming to Thomas Jeffersgn.'- 

Philadelphia; 22A June 1779. 
Dear sir, 

.... That peace and the independance of the thirteen states are within 
our power is a point not well established; but thus much I think myself 
at liberty to say, that Congress, long before my arrival here, were called 
on to declare on what terms they would consent to a peace ? and to fix their 
ultimatum. They have been debating the matter ever since, and have not 
yet come to a point, tho' I think there is now a prospect of that necessary 
business being shortly finished. The difficulties have mostly arisen in the 
East, but have been supported from the south side of Powtomack; tho' 
much of that support is now withdrawn.^ The extreme delay in this busi- 
ness necessarily gives great uneasiness to the French minister, but that 
he was about to return to his own country in disgust is not true. This 
climate is very unfavourable to his constitution, and he had it much at 
heart to leave it before the hot season came on, and now only waits the 
determination of Congress on this important business.^ He thinks there 
have been combinations to break the alliance, and throw America into the 
arms of G. Britain, on her acknowledging our independence, in which 
opinion many have joined him. The ratification of the treaty, therefore, 
by the Virginia assembly was highly pleasing to him, as I doubt not you 
will see by his letter acknowledging the receipt of it. A few members of 
Congress who got intimation of the ratification, expressed their dislike to 
the proceeding, as being against the spirit of the confederation, tho' noth- 
ing was publicly said on the subject.* However, I am of the opinion that 

[366] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second sen, LI. 27. 

2 See especially the Journals, Feb. 23, Mar. 17, 22, 24, May 8, 12, 13, June 17, 19, 
July 1,14, Aug. 4, 14, Cf. nos. 305, 307, 360, ante, 369, 401, note 2, 406, post. 

3 In his letter to Fleming June 8 {Writings, ed. Ford, II. 188), to which Fleming 
is replying, Jefferson speaks of a " pretty general opinion prevailing that peace and the 
independence of the thirteen states are now within our power, and that Congress have 
hesitations on the subject, and delay entering on the consideration ", and refers to the 
rumor concerning the French minister, which Fleming declares is untrue. There had 
even been a movement, Jefferson says, to re-establish the committees of correspondence 
and take other measures. " The whole however subsided on a supposition that the 
information might not be true, and that our delegates in Congress would think no 
obligations of secrecy under which they may have been laid sufficient to restrain them 
from informing their constituents of any proceedings which may involve the fate of 
their freedom and independence." Cf. no. 225, ante, and nos. 36gA, 411, 447, post. 

■* The ratification was done by joint resolution of the Virginia assembly June 4: 
" Resolved, That the Treaties of Alliance and Commerce .... ought to be ratified 

and confirmed so far as is in the power of this Commonwealth ; and the same are hereby 

ratified, confirmed and declared, binding on this Commonwealth. 

"Resolved, That the Governor be desired to notify to the Minister of his Most 

Christian Majesty, resident at Philadelphia, the above ratification, under the seal of 

the Commonwealth." 

Governor Jefferson's official notification to the minister is dated June 7. These items 

were contributed by " Honestus " to the Pennsylvania Packet of July 29. Cf. no. 369A, 

post. 



282 Continental Congress 

the occasion warranted the measure. I think it high time for Virginia to 
look to her own importance, and to provide for her own security, in case 
of disunion, 

367. William Shippen to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Philadelphia June 22 79 
Dear Sir 

This day I am favored with yours of 13th Inst, in which I hoped to find 
a confirmation of our very good News from the Southward. I am pleased 
with the effectual measures taken by your State to raise so much by Taxa- 
tion, it shows a Spirit worthy of imitation, youl see by the inclosed 
Papers how the reformation Plan begun in this City before you left us is 
spreading through this and several other States. I hope it will produce 
great good. I wish I could give a good prospect of some valuable conclu- 
sion on our finances, but so long as the power of evading perplexing and 
delaying the most patriotic propositions is allowed to a certain few, we 
shall do nothing timely that is fit and proper to be done, we have spent 
two finance days already without passing one resolution to purpose, and 
for this reason only, (if I am not too Suspicious[)] that certain Words 
containing or that may be construed to contain, what may answer the de- 
signs of a particular junto cannot be carried.^ I find your absence does not 
entirely free you from a Squib now and then such as, if that Gentleman 
was or had been as well known in Virginia as I know him he would not 
have been continued a Delagate so long, by the inclosed resolutions you'l 
see how very little has been done, no Stop put to the Commissions of 
Quarter Masters and Commissary and than which nothing has or possibly 
can occasion the depreciation of our Money more rapidly.^ only think of 
a two penny Jack who never in his life was capable by any business he had 
been engaged in, of making a Shilling more than maintained his family 
and that but in a very so so manner shall now be making 40 or 50,000 pr. 
annum and that by lowring the value of our Money and raising the prices 
of every article he purchases a truth acknowledged by all and yet the 
mischief suffered to go on and increase, as though some were afraid to 
Stop it for least [sic] they themselves may be injured in their connexions. 
W Paca has moved several times to have a report respecting J Mitchel con- 
sidered, which he had delivered into Congress long ago and when at last 
it was agreed to be taken up in order to determine upon it Mr. Secretary 
turned over all the papers in the box and could not find the report and so 
went upon other business.* .... 

[367] 1 Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 The two finance days were probably June 18 and 21. The " certain words " 
which were a matter of controversy were probably those involved in Duane and Burke's 
proposed amendment to the motion of Morris and Gerry, June 18. Cf. the Journals, 
June II, 14 (pp. 719, 729)- 

3 The resolutions referred to are probably those of June 14 {Journals, p. 726). 
With regard to commissions, see especially the Journals, May 11, 28, Dec. 31. Cf. no. 
303, note 3, ante, and no. 383, post. 

* The report referred to is found in the Journals under Mar. 21. John Mitchell 
was deputy quartermaster-general, and it was through him that Arnold obtained the 
wagons which he was charged with using on private account. See Pa. Arch., first ser., 
VII. 160, 175, 179, 207, 213-220, 262. 



June, 1779 283 

368. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[June23, 24, 1779.] 
Wednesday, June 2^d Com'I Committee Congress. Sundry Letters 
and Reports Read. A Memorial from the Legislature of New Jersey was 
read, relating to the appointment of Officers Referrd to a Committee of 3. 
vizt. Sherman, Morris and Scudder. Order of the Day on Finance On 
the Question for Mr. Dickinsons amendment for the Interest to be secur'd 
to the lender of the Present Loan and to have Retrospect to goe back to 
1st March 1778 6 Yaes. 4 Naes 2 States divided. On the Main Ques- 
tion Mr. Scudder call'd for the Yaes and Naes and said his Life might 
deppend on his Vote being known. All Yaes except Scudder, Duane and 
Paca. 

Thursday June 24th Com'I Committee Congress. When the Letters 
etc. were read. The Order of the day for the taking up the Ultimatom for 
the fishery, and after a number of amendments, the Question was Put and 
carried in the affirmitive as follows viz Yaes 5 Noes 4. Divided 3 of which 
N Jersey was one, I was no, under a full conviction, notwithstanding the 
importance of the fishery that these United States are not equal to con- 
tinue the Warr without the Assistance of Our Ally, Provided we could 
have an honorable Peace, without insisting on this claim Purely to serve 
the Eastern States.^ Peter Wickoff appointed Clothier General. 

369. John Armstrong to George Washington.^ 

Philad. 25th June 1779. 
Dear General 

I am for some time possessed of your Excellency's favor of the 18th. 
L^lto.,^ and perfectly convinced of the truth and importance of the contents 
but have and shall punctually observe that degree of reserve, which is 
equally just as it can be agreeable to your wishes. 

You are not mistaken when on a late amplification of certain powers, 
you immagin Congress had an eye to something particidar or out of the 
common road. 

The fact was this, that we were taught to believe the return of the 
Count De Estaing to our coasts before this time, and that by the assistance 
of his fleet, you will not be surprized that flattering and new manuvres 
should be formed in embrio, and the event of his coming be followed with 
hostile attacks on the Enemy at New York and Rhode Island, those 
Sa[n]guinary ideas so far operated on the minds of Some Gentlemen as 
led them to move that your Excellency should be directed to recall General 
Sullivan etc. but these motions were so far overruled as to leave you to 
the Exercise of your own judgment, on the campaign at large.^ But upon 

[368] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Cf. nos. 317, 360, ante. 
[369]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXIIL 214; Letters to Wash- 
ington (ed. Sparks), II. 309 (dated June 5). 

2 Washington's letter to Armstrong May 18 is in Writings (ed. Ford), VII. 454. 

3 The amplication of powers referred to was on May 10. See nos. 259, 260, 267, 
ante. 



284 Continental Congress 

what ground we were amused with the coming of the Count, and why these 
hopes have so nearly died away, are matters that to me requires some 
farther explanation. 

The business of finance altho' not yet finished according to the System 
proposed has nevertheless passed sundry Stages apparently proper, and 
from which I expect at least a sudden period to the depreciation of our 
Money, indeed the mere expectations of the populace, altho' our Resolu- 
tions have not yet appeared joined to the efforts of the sundry Commit- 
tees in this State have not only prevented a farther depreciation but have 
actually lessened the price of sundry of the more essential articles of life. 
Foreign affairs continue to perplex and Procrastinate. Who shall be the 
great men Over the Water, and whether a common right in the Fishery 
shall like other Claims of right and convenience be made an Ultimatum in 
case Britain shou'd offer to concede our independance, or whether the 
Fishery at least for the present shou'd be left to the effect of our Ministers 
Negotiation are subjects of tedious and disagreeable debate. It may be 
feared these points are blended, the business itself, and who shall transact 
it. whos[o]ever wishes to be the Minister, may wish the latitude of Nego- 
tiation. Others apprehend the risque might be too great in the hands of a 
Minister, however this important matter may be, many things unjust and 
impolitick have been said and propagated upon it, (I mean the fishery) by 
making unnecessary Obstacles about it, giving it an undue and unnatural 
weight in the business of peace, as tho' it shou'd be the only Synequanon of 
Great Britain. And if left on the easy footing of Negotiation, at least 
oblique insinuations have been held up to the people that we might have our 
Independence conceded to us whenever we please and might have had 
peace before now etc. and so forth thus have the true grounds of the de- 
bate been much shaded by a parcel of false hipothesis and delusive stuff". 
It is also true that Several Gentlemen far removed from any expectation 
or wish to go to Europe, think the fishery ought to be left to the best terms 
the minister can make about it being of Opinion that it is not essential to 
the Well being of these States, that the Eastern States only or more prin- 
cipally must be gainers by it, and lastly viewing it as the only hinge upon 
which Peace or war must turn, in this light I confess I am neither willing 
nor able to conceive it, believing that the real Springs of Peace or War, 
must arise from sources considerably different from that of the Fishery.* 
The Army is also a topick of great consideration, I mean it's Smallness and 
dissatisfaction, glad wou'd I have been to have had it taken up in a 
Series or chain long ago, but our unpardonable or at least unaccountable 
delays on other business has prevented that design which I'm persuaded if 
not early attended to must undo our cause. The business of half pay for 
life of which I have been fond as the best compound of justice and gra- 
tuity to our Soldiery, I find will meet with more Opposition in Congress 
than I had immagined : many declaim against the policy of that measure, 
but say they are ready to agree to something tantamount, by reducing the 
necessaries of life to a moderate price, and making the pay good from the 
beginning as tho' there had been no depreciation: which of these modes 

* Cf. no. 366, ante. 



June, 1779 285 

Congress ought to adopt, I am at a loss to know, but wou'd gladly urge the 

best 

2gth. I have just now seen an intelligent Young Gentleman who left 
Dublin on the first of March last, who informs us that only about 500 
troops were sent, he thinks, to Jamaica, that Britain cannot soon send any 
considerable force to America, as no preparation of that sort was made 
nor on foot when he left Ireland, but the prevailing opinion rather that no 
more troops wou'd be sent to the Continent of America this Season. That 
a great Majority of the Irish were in love with the American Cause and 
much opposed to the late Speeches of the King. That the publick Orders 
of Fasts and Prayers for his Majesties Arms were highly contemned by 
the first Gentlemen in Town and Country as farcical and hypocritical.^ 

369A, Meriwether Smith to the Governor of Virginia 
(Thomas Jefferson).^ 

Philadelphia June 25th 1779. 
Sir, 

.... I am requested by my Colleagues to transmit to you the Answer 
of the Minister Plenipotentiary of France to your Letter enclosing the 
resolves of the Genl. Assembly of Virginia, ratifying the Treaties of Alli- 
ance and Commerce entered into with that Court, which you will accord- 
ingly receive in the enclosed Letter.- I shall consider these Resolves of the 
Genl. Assembly as a Testimony of their Approbation of my Conduct, in 
opposing all those Measures which I conceived were calculated to destroy 
the Alliance; and altho' they are made very seasonably, and, I doubt not, 
will have a very good Effect, I cannot avoid telling you that I think it is 
necessary to be attentive to the Disposition of the People and to observe 
whether their Conduct be conformable to the Spirit of those Resolutions : 
For, be assured, the M r of F e bears much more the Conse- 

^ In the Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser of July 6 appeared the 
following item under a Philadelphia heading : 

" July I. By Capt. Wilson, who arrived here yesterday, in fourteen days from the 
Havana, we are informed, that Spain had on the nth of April last, acknowledged the 
Independence of the United States of America. 

"A Gentleman of character is just arrived here, by way of the west Indies, from 
Ireland, who left that Kingdom in March last. He assures us, that the land forces in 
Ireland did not amount to six thousand men, and that none could be spared from 

Britain We also learn, that a military association of gentlemen, merchants, and 

substantial yeomen had been formed in almost every county, for the defence of the 
Kingdom, cloathed in uniform, and armed at their own cost, and their officers chosen by 
the privates. Men of the first fortunes ranged themselves in the ranks and appeared to 
exercise on training days, which were frequent; particularly Mr. Connolly, the first 
Commoner in Ireland. The associators of the province of Ulster alone amount to 15000. 
Government was very jealous of this body, and had directed the Lord Lieutenant (Earl 
of Buckinghamshire) to suppress it, but he had declined the arduous task. The known 
bias of the associators, in favour of the American Cause, made the King's Ministers 
very uneasy. The effects of the war were very severely felt in Ireland by the merchants, 
manufacturers and lower people." 

[369A]i Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers. 

' See no. 366, note 4, ante. Smith wrote to Jefferson June 24, introducing M. de 
Francy, and, besides commending de Francy highly, remarked, " Mr. de Beaumarchais, 
for whom he is Agent in these States, as well as Mr. de Francy himself, has been 
peculiarly unfortunate in being considered and treated as a mere adventurer, in all his 
transactions with these States" (ibid.). 

23 



286 Continental Congress 

quences of Sedition, than the Success of B h Arms in America. 

The EstabHshing Committees throughout these States is by no Means 
considered in a favourable Point of View. It carries along with it the 
Appearance of a Design to place the Government again in the Hands of 
the People the better to conduct them to some favorite Object. I shall only- 
remark, upon this Occasion, that Committees were formed for bringing 
about the Independence of these States, and may be very instrumental 
in establishing an Alliance with Britain. If I may be permitted to reason 
from the Effect of their Measures here, I will not hesitate to declare that 
the Object they have in View is not that which is assigned for the Cause.^ 

I am not informed whether I am continued in the Delegation for the 
ensuing Year. If I am, there are some Matters of Importance which I 
wish to see finally settled in Congress, before I return to Virginia; when 
they are concluded, the Situation of my Family and private Affairs will 
demand my particular Attention. Yet I would not wish to withdraw my- 
self intirely from the Service of my Country in these Times, as I flatter 
myself I can in some other Respects render it essential Services.* With 
this Persuasion I am induced both by Duty and Inclination, to acquaint 
you that I will chearfully undertake any Negociations which the Exigency 
of the State may make it necessary for you to attempt in Europe. 

I am, Sir, with much Esteem 

Your most obedient and hble. Servant 

Meriwether Smith. 

P. S ' 

370. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[June 25, 26, 1779.] 

Friday June 2jth. Com'l Committee Congress. After the dispatches, 
the Order of the Day on finance, chiefly relating to the mode of the Certifi- 

2 See no. 366, note 3, ante, and nos. 398, 447, post. 

* Smith was re-elected June 18. On July 6 he wrote to Jefferson: 

" I wrote you on the 24th of June by Mr. de Francy ; since which I have reed. Advice 
that I am continued in the Delegation to Congress : But the Terms are such as are very 
injurious to my personal Interest and Honor; and I am not certain that I shall accept 
of the Appointment on such Terms. 

" It is notorious that I have been concerned in Trade for upwards of Ten Years ; 
and I could easily demonstrate that very few Men in a public Character in Virga. have 
made so great a Sacrifice of Interest as I have done since the Commencement of the 
present Troubles. I have not however been engaged in the Business of Speculation, 
as it is called 

" I wish that direct Measures only had been taken to remove me from Congress and 
that no Option had been left to me. It would then have been necessary for me only 
to evince to my Country the Rectitude of my Conduct whilst in the Service of it. 
But my Enemies, not content with attempting to displace me by a direct Vote, have 
availed themselves of a circumstance to procure a Law which either removes me from 
OflSce or deprives me of a considerable Means of Subsistance." 

There are other remarks upon his situation, then he expresses a wish to go to Vir- 
ginia before the end of his delegation to consult his friends concerning the measures 
to be taken. Cf. Cyrus Griffin's remarks concerning the election (no. 466, note 2, post). 
Richard Henry Lee, in a letter to William Whipple Aug. 8 (Letters, ed. Ballagh, II. 
106), chuckles over the "oath anti-commercial" thrust at Smith. Cf. his letter to 
Laurens Aug. 7 (ibid., p. 100), and no. 488, note 7, post. The settlement of Smith's 
account for attendance (see no. 571, note 2, post) shows that he made an effort to dis- 
engage himself from trade in order to qualify himself for appointment to Congress. 

5 Smith requests Jefferson's sentiments respecting the currency and his opinion 
of the proper methods of redemption. 

[370] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



June, 1779 287 

cates for the Xew Loan, the Treasury report to have them Paid to the 
holder, his Heirs Executors and administrators to Prevent their being 
Negotiated, long debated, nothing done. Exceeding hott, in the Evening 
Thunder, Lightening and hard Rain. 

Saturday June 26. Com'l Committee Congress. This day spent in 
Reading Letters, Petitions, ^Memorials and Reports from the Treasury 
Board and Board of Warr etc. 

371. The Board of Treasury to William Phillips.^ 

Treasury Board, Philadelphia. 
5jV^ June 28th 1779. 

A Committee of Congress have examined the objections offered by you 
against the Commissary's Accounts for supplying the Troops of the Con- 
vention, in the months of March, April, May, June, July and August 1778. 
Their report with the several accounts and the correspondence between 
Major General Heath and yourself are referred to our Board with power 
to take effectual means for closing the accounts, and obtaining payment/ 

The Board have accordingly considered the accounts, objections and re- 
port of the Committee of Congress, and are fully satisfied that the several 
articles are just, and ought to be paid. We have therefore authorised 
Mr. Milligan a Commissioner of accounts at the Treasury, to call upon you 
for payment. When you consider the inconveniencies Congress have suf- 
fered by being deprived of so large a sum as Eighty five thousand, five 
hundred and seventy eight pounds 4/8 st'g ever since the month of August 
last, besides the debt which has since accrued for supplies to your Troops : 
when you further observe that we are obliged to provide for the support 
of the American prisoners of War principally in specie ; we are persuaded 
you will put it in Mr. Milligan's power to execute the Trust reposed in him 
with dispatch, and that he will be furnished with the money without 
further Objections or delay. 

Mr. Alilligan is fully authorised to settle all further accounts of sup- 
plies for the Convention Troops, and to confer with you on the subject. 

I have the honor to be etc. 

Jas. Duane. C[hairman?] 
In the name of the Board of Treasury. 
Major General Phillips. 

372. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[June 28, 29, 1779.] 
Monday June 28th Commercial Committee Congress. This day spent 
in Reading Letters, Reports from Committees etc. President Sick. 

[371]! Royal Inst., XII. 79 (copy); Hist. MSS. Comm., Report on MSS. in the 
Royal Inst., I. 463. 

2 See the Journals, June 7. Heath's letter of Sept. 10, 1778, there mentioned was 
referred, Sept. 21, to Gerry, Duer, and Harvie, and a letter from Heath, Sept. 21, trans- 
mitting his correspondence with General Phillips respecting the settlement of accounts 
for supplies furnished the convention troops was referred, Sept. 30, to Gerry, Duer, and 
Meriwether Smith. One of these committees, probably the first, made a report Oct. 16, 
but the report does not deal directly with the question of accounts. 

[372]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



288 Continental Congress 

June 2Qth. Com'l Committee Congress. Severall dispatches and Re- 
ports from Committe[e]s, a Question Put by the Secretary whether Col. 
Ethan Allen should be supply 'd with Copys of Papers relating to him etc. 
debate on the Propriety of granting them. (Agreed he should[)] P M. 
Marine committee. Orderd a Bris: to be Built. 



373. The President of Congress to the Several States.^ 

To His Excellency Meshech Weare Esqr. 

Philadelphia 29th June 1779. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of an Extract 
of a Letter from General Washington to Congress of the nth Inst., and 
of an Act of Congress, which it gave rise to, of the 28th. By the latter you 
will perceive that Congress have again thought it requisite to call on the 
several States to fill up their Battalions by the most speedy and vigorous 
Efforts. 

The necessity of this measure is too evident to need any Arguments to 
press Your Excellency's attention to an Object of such moment to the 
Freedom and Independence of these States. 

Your Excellency will perceive the expediency of keeping the Letter 
from the General as secret as the nature of the case will admit.^ 

N B The same verbatim to the executive authorities of all the States 
except New Jersey and Pennsylvania.^ 

374. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia June 29, 1779. 
Sir 

We had the Pleasure of your Excellency's letter of the 21st Instant by 
yesterday's Post. We have not failed in the most pressing Manner to urge 
for a Determination upon Our Application ; but the Flood of Business at 
the Treasury Board has hitherto delayed a report ; We expect one in, to- 
Day, and shall avail ourselves of the first Opportunity to obtain a Deter- 
mination of Congress thereon.^ Mr. Ellery has waited some time, in 
Hopes of the Business being concluded ; he will wait a few Days longer in 
hopes of carrying a sum of money with him. But the very great expense 

[373]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 139; id. to Maryland, Md. 
Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIIL 100. 

2 See the Journals, June 16, 28. Washington's letter of June 11 is in Writings 
(ed. Sparks), VL 272, (ed. Ford), VIL 470 (in part). 

3 The letter to New Jersey (Letter-Book, p. 137) and that to Pennsylvania {ibid., 
p. 138; Pa. Arch., first ser., VII. 522) contain substantially the same message as that 
above, with additional reference to measures of June 28 pertaining to those states 
respectively. Concerning the paper from Mr. Holker, transmitted to President Reed, 
see ibid., pp. 531, 532. 

[374J1R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779, p. 119; Staples, R. I. in 
Cont. Cong., p. 243. 

2 See no. 375, post. 



June, ly/p 289 

the State is at, in the Support of their Delegates he apprehends will not 
justify his tarrying much longer the Necessity of his being at Home and 

the Circumstances of his Family pressing for his Return 

Your Excellency's most obedt. and very humble Servants, 

William Ellery 
Henry Marchant. 



375. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia June 29th 1779 
Sir, 

Since our former Letter of this Day, somew^hat beyond our Expecta- 
tions, Congress have Determined upon the Report of the Treasury upon 
Our Application for Money ; and have ordered Three hundred Thousand 
Dollars to be advanced the Delegates of the St^te of Rhode-Island, upon 
Their Application the State to be Accountable. However great and 
pressing Our Wants may be this Grant is as large as could be expected 
considering the pressing Demand upon the Contl. Treasury and the Deter- 
mination of Congress if possible to stop further Emissions.^ The allow- 
ance for the Black Regiment raised by our State is not yet adjusted. Nor 
have we greatly urged it at present — As the States at the Southward have 
not yet complyed with the Recommendation of Congress in raising Regi- 
ments of Blacks.^ It will be well that we should be furnished with the 
Amount of what that Regiment actually cost the State, that if we should 
not be able to obtain the Sum lately allowed by Congress for raising like 
Regiments to the Southward, we may at least obtain the Sum that Regi- 
ment in Fact cost the State. The abstract of the Account first sent for- 
ward, and lodged in the Treasury of the State agt. the United States, has 
been mislaid. We should be glad Mr. Mumford might be instructed to 
make a Copy ; it being but a few Sheets, and send it forward as soon as 
may be. 

As Mr. Ellery proposes to set out in a few Days he will be able to ex- 
plain more fully the Reasons why we could not at this Time obtain a 
further Grant. Perhaps, at some, not distant, Period, if the Taxes should 
come in with Spirit, and it would be agreeable to the State to take an order 
on the Receiver, it may be obtained, at least for near the Ballance of our 
Account. 

We are Yr. Excellency's 

most obedt., humble serts. 

H'y Marchant. 
William Ellery, 

[375]^ R- I- Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779, p. 119; Staples, R. I. in 
Cont. Cong., p. 244. 

2 See the Journals, June 29; cf. no. 374, ayite. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 29, Apr. 3 ; also no. 168, ante. 



290 Continental Congress 

376. James Lovell to Horatio Gates/ 

29th June 1779 
Dear General 

I cannot more than acknowledge the Receipt of your Favr. of the 21st 
and promise attention to yr. Recommendations. The Dispatches referred 
to came duely and are referred to the Board of War. I sent them to Mr. 
Laurens, who was ill at home. I was not in Congress at the Reading but 
will see them at the Board of War.^ 

Adieu 

Yr. devoted Friend 

James Lovell 

377. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philadel'a June 29th, 1779. 
Sir 

Your Excellencys Letters of the 18th and one from Capt. Nicholson 
we have had the Honor of receiving.^ The Circumstances of Capt. 
Nicholsons Captivity was not new to us, but the answer from the Marine 
Com'ttee as represented by Capt. Nicholson is altogether so. As the 
members of this Com'ttee and every other indeed, are frequently chang- 
ing, it is impossible to know with certainty what verbal answer was given 
to Capt. Nicholson, by the Marine Com'ttee on the report of the Navy 
Board; but from the Minutes of the Com'ttee we are inclined to think 
he is mistaken in the representations he has made to you. What an in- 
dividual of the Com'ttee uninformed upon the subject might have said 
to the Captain is impossible to ascertain ; but the Com'ttee as a Com'ttee 
could not give him the answer which he says they did; for no third 
Witness is requisite by the established mode of trial on a Court of inquiry-, 
and therefore it is unreasonable to suppose the Com'ttee could inform 
the Capt. that it was requisite. There must therefore be some mistake 
in this matter which you will readily perceive by reading the enclosed 
resolves of the Com'ttee, in which they approve of the report of the Navy 
Board and speake of him as a spirited and good officer.' We are not 
unacquainted with the Merit of this officer, and as soon as a Ship offers 
we shall use our endeavours to provide for him, but at present we have 
a greater number of Capts. than Ships, and of Course it is out of the 
power of Congress or the Marine Com'ttee to employ the whole of them. 

[376]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XV. 

2 Gates's letter of June 21, with enclosures, was read in Congress June 28. 
Laurens also wrote to Gates June 29, discussing in particular the conflicting reports from 
South Carolina. He remarks, " I was the only Man in Congress who had not given up 
all belief of the Conquest of Saratoga when the Conqueror's regular advices arrived 
at York Town" (ibid.). 

[377]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 23; Arch, of Md., XXI. 463. 

2 The letter of June 18 to the delegates is in Arch, of Md., XXI. 459 ; the letter 
from Capt. John Nicholson has not been found. 

3 An extract from the minutes of the marine committee, Nov. 13, 1778, is ibid., 
p. 464. See the Journals, July 13, 1778. 



July, 1179 291 

Your letter respecting the powder and Canon we have laid before the 
Board of War. They had a few Days before the receipt of it sent a 
person for both these Articles. He must have been with you before this 
Time. If he has not, we request you would not dispose of the powder as 
it is much wanted by the continent. 

Congress has had no Confirmation of the various reports respecting 
our Southern Success. In a letter from Charles Town from a Gentleman 
of rank and abilities, as late as the 19th of May, no mention is made 
of any action. The Enemy did no more than appear before the Town and 
return again. They are at present in the Neighbourhood of John and 
James Islands.* 

We are Sir with the highest respect and Esteem 

your Excellencys obt. and hble. Servts. 
J. Henry 
Dan of St. Thos. Jenifer. 

378. John Fell, Diary.^ 

June JO [1//9.] Com'l Committee Congress. After the Letters and 
reports from Committees the Order of the day on finance was taken up 
and some Resolves relating to the Loan for 20 Million of Doll's agreed 
to and orderd to be Printed. 

379. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[June 30, 1779.] 
JO. The President of Congress is indisposed and has not attended 
Congress this two days. 

380. Henry Laurens, Notes. ^ 

In Congress the 1st July, '79. 
Mr. Drayton who had repeatedly in the month of March and later, 
on several days when the Fishery was under debate averred that these 
States had no right to the Fisheries of North America which they had 
enjoyed only as subjects to Great Britain and had forfeited by withdraw- 
ing their allegiance, who had upon all occasions refused to make the 
Fishery an Ultimatum, who would not consent even to an article of In- 
struction to our Minister by no means to give up the right, unless it should 

*In a letter to Governor Johnson June 30 (Arch, of Md., XXI. 465) Jenifer 
mentions that the letter of May 19 from Charles Town was to William Henry Drayton. 
He adds : 

" In a New York Paper of the 19th Inst, is a Deposition of a Capt. McAlpine that 
left Tybee (Georgia) the 5th of this month and also a Letter to Sir George Collier 
from a Capt. of a Man of War in Savannah both of which contain intelligence of a 
serious nature and altho' I do not believe the Situation of the Enemy to be so promising 
as to put them immediately into Possession of Charles Town which they expect, or that 
Governor Rutledge had offered to Capitulate on Condition that South Carolina should 
remain Neuter during the War which they also assert, Yet I fear Lincoln is not in force 
sufficient to risk a battle." Cf. nos. 350, 353, 363, ante, and nos. 383, 391, 392, 395, 
408, post. 

[378] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

[379V Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 24. 

[380] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XV. 



292 Continental Congress 

be clogged with a dangerous and disgraceful proviso, (see proceedings 
of Congress in March and thence forward) who had declared that the 
enjoyment of the Fisheries could be beneficial only to three or at most 
four of the States, and that it never had been and never could be an object 
of advantage to So. Carolina, who had combined with the North Carolina 
Delegates and their junto in an attempt to force my Vote (see Letters 
on that occasion),^ Contrary to my judgment — did on this day with an 
amazing assurance declare that he had never denied the right of America 
to the said Fisheries, that he had always maintained that right, that he 
should leave in Congress such a testimony of his sentiments on that head 
as would do him justice and then produce [d] a paper and read part of 
a paper containing propositions respecting the Fisheries, according to his 
Ideas, which he immediately returned to his Pocket. I believe very few 
members enjoyed more than the sound of his voice. I did not, therefore 
I cannot determine whether his propositions were good or bad. 

Mr Burke's Amendments.^ 

I called for a division [on] the word " explanatory " first. Mr. Gerry 
called for Y's and N's. Mr, Drayton said the question should be on the 
whole amendment. I replied it was losing time besides an improper at- 
tempt to debate on my right to divide a question but in the present case 
there was reason for dividing, some Gentlemen might be for one part 
of the proposed amendment and reject the other part. Some Gent, asked 
if we were to have Y's and N's upon a division of every word. Mr. 
Drayton answered yes upon every word Mr. Laurens has called for 
the division and the Yeas and Nays, this was unmannerly and false. 
I replied the Honble. Gentlem. durst not call my Name in such terms out 
of doors. Calling a members name is accounted an indecency, but I had 
neither desired a question on every word nor had I called for Y's and N's. 

[Endorsed:] Mr Draytons conduct 2 July 1779, respecting qu. on 
the Fishery.* 

381. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

Thursday July 1st ///p. Com'l Committee. Congress. A number of 
Letters Read, and one from Major Genl. Green Quarter Master-General 

2 See especially nos. 177, 178, 181, 184-187, 195-197, ante; cf. nos. 152, 255, 269, 
307, 360, 366, 369, ante, 401 (note 2), 404, 406, 407, 418, 438, 439, 445, post. 

3 According to the Journals, July I (pp. 790-793), it was Burke who called 
for the yeas and nays on the word " explanatory ". Gerry called for the yeas and 
nays on the whole proposition. This discussion was upon the second of Gerry's proposi- 
tions offered June 19. His third proposition was then taken up, when an amendment 
was offered by Burke and Drayton. A copy of this amendment, in Drayton's writing, 
is in Papers Cont. Cong., Miscellaneous, preceded by the phrase, " Amendment by Mr. 
Burke and Mr. Drayton to the third Proposition of Mr. Gerry ", and followed by the 
statement, " This amendment being offered the debate upon the whole subject was 
intermitted from that to this ". Possibly Drayton meant to write " from that day to 
this". The amendment was taken into consideration July 17 and postponed, and it 
was not again brought under consideration, although Gerry made an effort July 31 to 
have his third proposition again taken up. See also the Journals, July 22, 24, 29. Cf. no. 
438, note 2, post. 

* The date given in the endorsement is evidently an error. 
[381]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



July, 1779 293 

of a very insolant nature indeed highly Reflecting on the Legislature for 
having Taxed two of his assistanc [sic] Coll. Cox and Coll. Petit, and 
thretening to Resign etc. After speaking on the subject, and to treat it 
as I thought it deserv'd, I moved to have it lie on the Table, but that 
motion was over ruled and it was Committed to McKean Duane and 
Burk.^ after the order of the Day Debates on the Fishery etc. Marine 
Committee. 

Friday July 2d C. Committee Congress. Sundry Letters. Petitions 
etc. were read Order of the Day on finance agreed to sundry Resolves 
relating to the extending the time for Receiving the Emissions of April 
and May call'd out of circulation 

382. Henry L.\urens, Notes.^ 

In Congress 2d July '79. 

A Letter from a french Officer John " in bombast terms on the 

glorious anniversary of American Independence and praying Congress 
to employ him to exhibit certain grand fire works on the 5th Inst, which 
he had prepared for the purpose, 

]\Ir. Dra\ton rose and in a funny declamation informed the House that 
it had been the practice of all nations ancient and modern to celebrate 
particular days by festivity, that Greece had instituted the Olympic 
Games, these things he repeated again and again without [end ?]^ and Con- 
cluded by hoping the man would be ordered to exhibit his fire works, 

Mr, Laurens, rose, expressed his astonishment at the Conduct of his 
Honorable Colleague, who seemed to be altogether joyous at a time when 
he thought he was loudly called on to serious reflection, does not the 
Gentleman know that his own Country is bleeding at every vein and now 
probably reduced to the greatest distress ? has not the Gentleman recently 
received a Letter informing him that all the Rich Planters in the Souther- 
most parts of his Country are ruined? did we not yesterday receive a 
very alarming Letter from the Quarter Master General ? have we forgot 
the alarming Letter from Gen Gates read at that Table two or three 
days ago? has not the Commander in Chief frequenty informed us of 
the precarious state of existence in which our Army has for some time 
been ? have we not held out to our Constituents that we were endeavoring 
to appreciate our Currency by lessening the quantity in Circulation? is 
not every unnecessary expenditure the cause of increased emissions? is 

-A letter from Cox and Pettit on the same subject was read in Congress July 8 
(see no. 393, post). An undated report from the committee to whom the three letters 
were referred is found in the Journals under July 8, and another under Aug. 6. See also 
ibid., June 28, July 9, Oct. 22. 

[382]! S. c. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XV. 

2 The name is Jean Laugeay. See the Journals, XIV. 793 n. The memorial is not 
in Laugeay's writing but is signed by him. A subsequent memorial, July 23 (see ibid., 
p. 882 n.), in the same hand, sets forth that "on the evening of the day appointed for 
celebrating the late Anniversary of the Freedom and Independence of the United 
States " he had exhibited a large collection of fire works, and prays Congress for a 
reimbursement of his expenses, or such sum as to them may seem proper. Secretary 
Thomson has endorsed the memorial, " read the same day ". See no. 390, note 3, post. 

3 So in the manuscript ; apparently some word or words inadvertently omitted. 



294 Continental Congress 

this the Honble. Gentlemans mode for appreciating our paper Money by 
adding expence to expence unnecessarily? 

If the Honble. Gentleman will shew me that the United States of 
Holland when they were in our circumstances, and I believe they never 
were less able to bear expence than we are, or the Cantons of Switzerland, 
plunged into expensive feasts for celebrating the anniversary of their Inde- 
pendence, I might be brought to agree with him, but I believe he cannot 
produce any such Instances from their histories, their prudence, their 
economy secured their Independence and their present happy establish- 
ment. 

The Olympic Games of Greece and other fooleries brought on the 
desolation of Greece, my Colleague may think this a day for joy and 
mirth. I am of a different opinion I rather think it a time for fasting 
and mourning. I speak seriously and I hope I speak properly. I move the 
Letter may lie on the Table and no further notice be taken of it. this 
was loudly seconded. 

Mr. Drayton replied, ["]I would have Gentlemen when they talk of his- 
tory discover that they knew something about it. the Olympic Games were 
not instituted for the celebration of anniversaries nor did they bring on 
the ruin of Greece they were calculated for improving bodily strength, 
to make men athletic and robust." * here he was called to order by 
several members and to sit him down the Order of the day was called 
for and the Paper ordered to lie on the Table and generally exploded. 

* is drinking Madeira Wine from 5 to 9 o'clock, then sallying out 
to gaze at fire works, and afterwards returning to Wine again, calculated 
to make men athletic and robust ? why then introduce the Olympic Games 
as an example for fire works. 

I might have added to my questions, ought that Gentleman to con- 
sent to any unnecessary expence which may add weight to the already 
intolerable burthen of Taxes laid on his Constituents ? but in my zeal it 
escaped me. 

[Endorsed :] Mr. Drayton on Fire works and Olympic Games. 
State of rebel Army in 1779 
July 2, 

383. Samuel Huntington to Jeremiah Wadsworth.^ 

Philadelphia 3d July 1779 
Sir 

Agreable to your request of the 12th ulto. I have inclos'd the Copy 
you desired 

I am not insensible of the many difficulties to be met with in your 
department and on the other hand you are not unacquainted with the 
general uneasiness that hath arisen in the Country from the two great 
departments purchasing on Commission. I have the fullest confidence you 
will do every thing in your power for the good of the Service. 

[383] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Jeremiah Wadsworth Papers. 



July, iy/9 295 

In the present situation of our affairs it seems absolutely necessary to 
make some new regulations in those departments for the better if possible, 
but in this Stage of the Campaign it is exceeding difficult if not dangerous 
to make alterations, at least nothing may be done suddenly. 

The exorbitant price demanded for the necessary Supplies for the 
Army greatly Embarress Congress as well as your department and the 
Quartermasters but they must all be surmounted 

I hope some measures may yet be adopted that will lower the price 
and lessen the demands, the several States might exert themselves for 
that purpose.^ 

The various Accounts we have had from the Southerd prove at length 
to be misrepresentations.^ 

384. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 3d July 1779 
My Dear Sir 

.... The solicitations of my Present Colleague and some other cir- 
cumstances induce me to tarry sometime longer then I some time ago 
intended. I shall give notice three or four weeks before I take my departure 
in order that my place may be filled, unless my constituents sho'd think 
proper to send Mr. Langdon forward before I give that notice. 

I have communicated to Mr. Martin who is the Barer of this some 
reasons for my continuance which he will make known to you. 

385. Henry Laurens, Notes of Proceedings.^ 

3d July 1779 _ 
Mr. Gerry said he spoke to privilidge, and stopt the reading of Public 
Dispatches. Complained of an insult offered to Congress by a Publica- 
tion in Dunlap's Paper of this day, introduced under the Signature 
Leonidas,^ " If such infamous Publications are to pass without proper 

2 See no. 303, note 3, ante. Cf. nos. 655, 664, 680, 681, post. 

3 There follows a brief account of the latest news, more explicitly related in 
the letter to Wolcott July 7 (no. 391, post). 

[384]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. II. 

[385] '^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XXVII. (in the writing of Moses Young). 
2 Cf. no. 386, post. The publication referred to carried the following introduction: 
" For the Pennsylvania Packet. 
" Mr. DuNLAP, 

" I recollect to have read sometime ago a Speech in the Packet which ought to be 
spoken in Congress, upon the subject of Continental money — I beg you would give the 
following Speech which ought to be spoken to the Congress upon the same subject a 
place in your useful paper, and you will oblige 

" Yours 

" Leonidas 
" June 27 " 

The speech is long, and a few extracts must suffice to indicate its character. The 
speaker first emphasizes the fact that the people are the masters. Congress their servants, 
and that he, as one of the people therefore assumes to speak boldly. 

" I perceive ", he says, " by your late publication, that you are no strangers to the low 
value of your money. But why have you delayed so long to complain of this evil to 
your constituents? Why has the disease been suffered to run on to its last stage before 
you raised the cry of danger in the ears of your country? It is vain to blame the arts 



296 Continental Congress 

notice 'tis time for Congress to go home and other men come in their 
stead. I am sure I will not stay etc. etc. etc. etc. etc. etc. half an hour. 
Moved that Mr. Dunlap be directed to attend the Bar of this House to 
answer such questions as shall be proposed ", etc. 

Mr. Laurens, " I second the motion for reasons to be hereafter made 
known " 

Mr. Merriweather Smith opposed the motion. " he had read the Paper 
and had it now in his hand, thought it contained several good things; 
then read and commented on several parts and finished his harangue with 
this peroration. When the liberty of the Press shall be restrained, take 
my word for it, the liberties of the People will be at an end." 

Mr. Burke — opposed the motion. " it would be lowering and disgrac- 
ing the dignity of Congress to take any notice of the Printer or Author, 
what shall we get by the enquiry? " etc. etc. etc. 

Mr. Penn — opposed the motion. " The Writer he made no doubt had 
good designs. The liberty of the Press ought not to be restrained. 
Gentlemen talk of imprisoning the Printer or the Author. I will under- 
take to say, if you have power, which I doubt, and were to imprison 
them for six Months, they would come out greater Men than they went 
in. What was it made Wilkes so great and popular a Man, but the im- 
prisonment he suffered " etc., etc., etc. 

See the affair of Rivingtons Publication.^ 

Compare the conduct of these Gentlemen in that case with their 
speeches and declarations in the present instance, the purity of their 
motives and principles will be displayed, from the same polluted source 
flow all their actions, when Men seem to be honest, they calculate for the 
accomplishment of interested or wicked purposes, when they speak truth, 
it is in order to deceive. 

Mr. Laurens' reason for seconding the Motion was to discover what 
part those three Worthies would act, who had so eagerly attempted to 

of your enemies, or the infamous practices of monopolizers and forestallers. The present 
depreciated state of your money must be traced only to the mistakes of Congress." 

He then makes numerous specific criticisms, one of them being a severe attack upon 
their conduct of the staff departments. " I believe ", he adds, " your hands are perfectly 
clean. Nay, I will go further and add that your sacrifices of private interest and 
domestic happiness intitle you to the highest praise of your country, but if we are to 
judge of your characters by your conduct towards some public culprits, who have been 
charged with the grossest frauds, we should have reason to suspect that you were paid 
for your lenity, by drawing a share with them in the plunder of your country." 

He does not stop, however, w;ith negative criticisms, but offers remedies for all the 
evils complained of. Among his recommendations are, to stop the press and to speed 
loans, both foreign and domestic. In conclusion he beseeches Congress : 

" Rouse then. Gentlemen, to a sense of the danger of these infant States that are 
committed to your care. Let us read something more than the ' Yeas ' and ' Nays ', and 
questions for recommitting and postponing business in your journals. Your money — your 
money — <lemands every thought and every hour. You have more to dread from this 
quarter than you have from all the Britons, Hessians, New Levies, Refugees, Indians 
and Negroes that are now in arms against you. I conjure you therefore immediately 
to bind yourselves to each other by an oath, not to eat, drink or sleep till you have 
arrested your money in its progress towards destruction, and fixed it upon a permanent 
foundation." 

Concerning the allusion in the beginning to " the speech that ought to be spoken in 
Congress ", see no. 162, note 3, ante. 

3 The allusion is to the publication of Laurens's letter of Aug. 27, 1778, to 
Governor Houstoun. See no. 274, ante. 



July, 1779 297 

persecuted \_sic] him for a Publication by the Enemy at New York, to 
which his name was subscribed, and who were now so very silent when 
a complaint was made of gross affronts to Congress by one of their own 
Printers, until he had seconded the Motion which was not hastily done, 
they sat mute. 
[Endorsed :] 
Leonidas and Co. in Congress 3d July 1779. 

386. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Saturday July jd. ///p. Com'l Committee Congress. Letters Memo- 
rials, Reports from the Treasury Board etc. This days Paper was read 
wherein a Letter sign'd Leonidas was introduced, and a motion made by 
Mr. Gerry to send for the Printer, to know the Author, long debate and 
the Privious question being call'd for and carried in the Af!irmitive, 
the Motion drop'd.^ 

Sunday 4th Jidy this being the Annaversaire of Our Indipendence, 
the Chaplains of Congress were orderd to Prepare Sermons suitable for 
the Ocasion ^ 

387. Samuel Holten, Diary/ 

[July 4, 5. 1779-] 

4. Sabbath day. The anniversary of the independence of America. I 
attended public worship at Christ Church. Mr. White preached from 
Romans, " Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers ". At 12 
o'clock, attended at the Roman Catho. church, by invitation from the 
minister to sing Te Deum on the occasion.^ In the afternoon I attended 
meeting at Doctr. Duffield's.^ 

5. Congress adjourned at 12 o'clock and attended an oration, and at 
4 o'clock dined at the city tavern with a number of other Gentlemen of 
the first character.* 

388. The President of Congress (John Jay) to Colonels 
John Cox and Charles Pettit.^ 

Philadelphia 5th July 1779. 
Gentlemen 

Your Favor of the 3rd Inst, was this moment delivered to me, and shall 
without delay be communicated to Congress. The object it respects merits 
immediate attention and your Remarks on the means of obtaining it 
appear to me judicious.^ .... 

[386] 1^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

- See no. 385, ante. 

3 Cf. no. 387, post. 
[387]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 25. 

2 Richard Peters wrote to General Gates July 3 : " We are to have Te Deum 
at the Chappel tomorrow by order of Monsr. le Ministre. No Windows will be broke 
on Monday tho' Congress give a grand Repast Because we cant afford to fire cannon" 
(N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XV.). 

3 Rev. William White and Rev. George DufHeld were chaplains to Congress. 
* Cf. nos. 389, 390, post. 

[388] J^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 141. 
2 See the Journals, July 6, 8, 9. 



298 Continental Congress 

389. Henry Laurens to William Livingston.^ 

5 July 1779 

Dear Sir 

For weeks past that troublesome Monitor Conscience has been haunting 
me " You forget Gov. Livingston again you forget yr late penitential 
epistle " No — I forget neither — do'nt seize me I'll write as soon as I 
have somewhat to say — would you have me pester the Governor merely 
to tell him what he knows very well, that I am with the highest esteem and 
respect His Excellency's obliged and obedient Servant ? " Well go on your 
own way Sir but depend upon it you'll soon receive another rap o' the 
knuckles." partly from this menace and partly from a higher considera- 
tion I have taken up the pen. But what shall I say ? Shall I tell you Sir 
that congress had the honor yesterday of assisting at Te Deum in the 
Romish Chapel and that I saw there the only woman — what was I going 
to add ? I forget — Those are infirmities of old age to peep thro' spectacles 
at pretty women in church and to forget them the next minute. Shall I 
say that I mean to dine at home today at my own expense because I hold 
it an exceeding bad means of appreciating our paper money to give eight 
or ten thousand dollars for a dinner, and because I think my Constituents 
are already sufficiently taxed and also because the Anniversary of Ameri- 
can Independance had been Properly celebrated on the true day by decent 
attendance morning and evening at Worship and occasional Sermons ; to 
say nothing of Te Deum and Music ^ — Shall I speak of the distresses or 
deliverance of my native country I have no certain account of either this 
must be the subject of another day: I will confine myself therefore to 
Finances and beg leave to submit to your Excellency's perusal copy of a 
letter which I transmitted about a fortnight ago to a friend in a neighbor- 
ing state. The low ebb to which our money is reduced, the notoriously 
tottering state of our army are alarming circumstances and cry aloud upon 
the existing United States for their utmost exertions in aid of the measures 
addopted or to be addopted by their Representatives in Philadelphia or for 
Dictating wiser measures. Upon a serious and full review of our public 
affairs I am led to beleive that the call of a grand council composed of men 
renowned for Integrity and Abilities from each state assisted by the Com- 
mander-in-Chief and a few selected General Ofiicers to take under their 
consideration the state of the nation to sit either in or out of Congress (in 
the latter case to call upon Congress for every necessary information) 
would have a happy effect ; these Committees which we see rising every 
day are Epitomes of the work I have in mind, but however good their 
views and intentions may be their Authority is usurped and may become 
dangerous to the safety of the People : Gentlemen who should be sent from 
the several states for forming this Council would acquire a knowledge of 
many important circumstances of which the states are now profoundly 
ignorant, from their representations wholesome coincident Laws would 

[3891^5. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1777-1783. 
2 Cf. no. 387, ante, and no. 390, post. 



July, 1779 299 

be enacted in each state, without which it will be impossible for Congress to 
proceed in the discharge of public business.^ 

Your Excellency may ask why do not Congress intimate to the States the 
necessity for passing such laws? Sometimes it has been done and their 
recommendations almost totally neglected — or if the laws were enacted 
Congress remain without information — besides to use facetious Sterne's 
exclamation " Lord Thou knowest whereof we are made ".* The busi- 
ness of this Council might be begun and ended within two or at most 
three months, years and millions of money I apprehend would be saved by 
it. If this Sketch for reformation shall not meet Your Excellency's judge- 
ment, order us out of this sink of idleness and dissipation or order our 
doors to be opened that our Masters may discover what we leave undone. 
It is not expedient to say here every word which I might in private con- 
versation but this I must say that our public affairs appear to me to be in 
circumstances truly deplorable and that much very much blame will light 
on some of the states whenever the day of reckoning shall come, and it 
will soon come unless some fortunate interposition from the chapter of 
accidents shall stave it off. Or finally be pleased to give me your opinion 
of what ought to be done for opening a more comfortable prospect to the 
good People of America. I will not further trespass upon your Excel- 
lency's time but to assure you that I continue with the most sincere respect 
and esteem Sir etc. 

H. L. 
Gov Livingston. 

390. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[July 5, 6, 1779.] 
Monday ^th. Com'l Committee Congress Adjourned at 12. OClock 
to hear Mr. Bracenridges Elogium on the Heroes Slain in this Contest.^ 

3 Laurens gives expression to this idea again in a letter to John Adams Oct. 4 
(no. 575, post). Cf. Wallace, Life of Laurens, p. 336; also the suggestion of Edward 
Rutledge, vol. II., no. 85. A similar thought, with respect to the contemplated negotia- 
tions with the peace commissioners in the spring of 1778, was made by Laurens in letters 
to Livingston, to Washington, and to Lowndes. See vol. III., nos. 223, 224, 242. 

* The language of the psalter (psalm 103 : 14) is, " For he knoweth whereof we 
are made ". Cf. the letter to John Adams Oct. 4, post. 

[390] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Hugh Henry Brackenridge (1748-1816). The oration, An Eulogiuvi of the 
Brave Men who have Fallen in the Contest with Great-Britain, was printed by Francis 
Bailey, a German translation by Steiner and Cist. The title-pages of these imprints 
carry the name as " Hugh M. Brackenridge ", his middle name being Montgomery, which 
was later changed to Henry. See Evans, Am. Bibl., vol. VI., no. 16213. A sketch of 
Brackenridge is in Cyclo. Am. Biog., where the date of the eulogium is erroneously 
given as July 4, 1778. See also articles in West. Pa. Hist. Mag., vol. X. 

In the Pennsylvania Packet of July i is the following notice : 

"June 29, 1779. 

" The Public will please be informed, that on Monday, the 5th of July, the day 
subsequent to the Anniversary of our Independence, will be delivered in the German 
Presbyterian Church, by Mr. Brackenridge, An Eulogium in honor of the brave men 
who have fallen in the contest. Precisely at twelve o'clock the doors will be open for 
the ladies, who shall be handed to the front seats in the gallery, and such of the 
Members of Congress, and of the Supreme Executive Council and Assembly of the 
State, and of the Clergy and Magistrates, and Military Officers of the City, as shall 
attend, will be waited on to seats prepared for them ; after which the whole audience 
will be admitted, and the guards who shall have been previously placed at every door 



300 Continental Congress 

Afterwards there was an Entertainment at the City Tavern. And in the 
Evening Currious fire works ^ 

Tuesday July 6th. Commercial Committee Congress. Several Letters 
Read. Afterwards the Order of the Day, relating to the Fisher}^, after 
debating in the Old track till near 4 oClock Adjourned 

391. Samuel Huntington to Oliver Wolcott.^ 

Philadelphia 7th July 1779 
Sir 

The great News of the Battle near Charles town comes to nothing at 
last tho' it has been related in this City by many persons some who de- 
clared they saw the engagement and others who said they were active 
in it' 

to admit, agreeably to the order above laid down, will prevent any ingress after the 
Orator shall begin to speak. 

" By order of the Committee of the Constitutional Society, 

" Charles Wilson Peale, Chairman." 

Following this is this further notice: 

" The Gentleman who was appointed to deliver The Oration on the Advantages of 

Independence, from unavoidable engagements, has been prevented from preparing it ; 

but it will be delivered some subsequent day, of which notice will be given in the paper." 

3 Following is the account of the celebration of the Fourth of July as given in 

the Pennsylvania Packet of July 8 : 

" On Monday morning an elegant Oration was spoken to a very numerous and 
respectable audience, in the Dutch Calvinist Church, by Mr. Brackenridge, in honour 
of those patriots who have offered their lives for their country in the course of the 
present contest. 

" The same day an entertainment was given by the honourable the Congress to the 
Minister Plenipotentiary of France, the President and chief Magistrates of this State, 
the Consul of France, several continental officers civil and military, and many strangers 
of distinction. The company were entertained with music, and the following toasts, intro- 
duced bv thirteen vollies from Col. Nicola's regiment, were drank, 

" I. The United States of America bv the grace of God FREE and INDEPENDENT. 

"2. His most Christian Majesty, THE PROTECTOR OF THE RIGHTS OF 
MANKIND. 

" 3. The Queen, Princes and Royal Family of France. 

"4. His Most Catholic Majesty and the other Branches of the Royal House of 
Bourbon. 

" 5. General Washington. 

" 6. The allied arms of France and America. 

" 7. The friends and patrons of liberty throughout the world. 

" 8. The memories of those heroes who have nobly died in defending the rights of their 
country. 

" 9. May the ensuing campaign give new laurels to our heroes, and fresh lustre to 
our stars. 

" 10. May affection cement the union which wisdom has formed between France and 
America. 

" II. May the cap and staff of liberty soon crest the arms of Ireland. 

" 12. May America never forget that virtue, valour and science are the bulwarks of 
her independence. 

" 13. Peace liberty and happiness to all mankind. 

" In the evening a sett of brilliant fireworks were exhibited, particularly excellent 
Rockets, which, after ascending to an amazing height in the air, burst, and displayed 
thirteen stars. 

" The whole was conducted with great order and decorum ; no unfortunate accidents 
happened, but joy and innocent festivity pervaded all ranks of people." 

The account is also found in the Pennsylvania Gazette of July 7. 

1391]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. I., no. 115. 
2 Cf. nos. 350, 353, 363, 377, ante, and nos. 392, 395, 408, post. 



July, 1779 301 

By a letter from Col. Laurens to his father the late President, of the 
loth June we are Inform'd, that the Enemy appear'd before Charles town, 
and Summon'd the Town to Surrender, threatning to storm it next morn- 
ing if they refus'd but on receivving for answer that they should not Sur- 
render but were ready for them as soon as they pleas'd, the Enemy retired 
the same night, and when the Letter came away were Entrenched on the 
main near Johns Island, with their Sick and Invalids on the Island, they 
were said to be Sickly and in want of flour and spirits, I fear they may be 
suffer'd to remain in that Neighbourhood until they are reinforc'd, but 
some think the Climate at this Season will do the business for them. 

Have Just heard the Enemy are come down the North river leaving a 
garrison on each side near Kings ferry fear there may be trouble some 
Neighbours hope Connecticut may be preserved from their ravages this 
Summer. 

We have no late Intelligence from Europe nothing late from our Com- 
missioners tho' expected. 

The State of our finances seems the only Embarrassment in our public 
affairs. Congress seem determin'd to put a stop to further Emissions, and 
by loans and taxation for the present at least to obtain the necessary sup- 
plies. Should the several States exert themselves, I hope we may go thro' 
this Campaign in that way. 

You will see in the papers what further Resolution is pass'd relative to 
loans,^ but in my Opinion the most Essential thing for giving any Sta- 
bility to the Currency is to stop the press. 

392. John Armstrong to George Washington.^ 

Philad'a 7th July 1779 
Dear General 

[P. S.] This afternoon came Genl. Lincolns dispatches into Congress 
which you will soon enough see for all they contain. The best I can at 
present infer from them is that Charlestown is in no immediate danger — 
and the Worst, that the Enemy may get away if they please.^ 

3 See the Journals, June 11, 25, 29. 

[392]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXIIL 233. 

2 Samuel Holten recorded in his Diary for this day: "Maj. Rice, aide-de-camp 
to Gen. Lincoln, arrived with dispatches from the Genl., but brought no new material." 
Cf. no. 3gi, ante, and nos. 395, 408, 419, post. The bearer of the despatches was Maj. 
Nathan Rice. Concerning the payment of his expenses on this journey, see the Journals, 
July 23. Dec. 23. 

The Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser of Tuesday, July 6, contained the 
news from the South : " On Sunday last Major Rice, Aid de Camp to Major General 
Lincoln, passed thro' this Town on his way to Philadelphia, from South Carolina, having 
left Charlestown on the 9th Ult.", etc. A copy of this issue is in the Washington Papers. 

The news from South Carolina appears to have been put forth in a handbill, for 
Nathaniel Peabody enclosed to President Weare July 9 two handbills which he said 
contained the latest news from South Carolina (Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 177; Library of 
Congress, Force Trans., Weare, p. 177). 
24 



302 Continental Congress 

393. John Fell, Diary/ 

[July 7, 8, 1779.] 
Wednesday yth. Com'l Committee Congress Letters from Mr. Ger- 
rard and Mr. Holker referrd to a Committee, Searle Scudder and 
Lewis Order of the day on finance Agreed to Commissioner [s] be ap- 
pointed for the Treasury Board, and to sundry other regulations in that 
department. 

Thursday 8th. Com'l Committee Congress Sundry Letters from 
Major General Lincoln Genl. Moultre and Govr. Rutledge. Referrd to a Com- 
mittee. Letter and offer to Resign from Coll. Cox and Coll. Petitt also Re- 
ferred to a Committee.^ Report for fixing sundry Prizes for the army, to 
be considered on Saturday 

394. The President of Congress (John Jay) to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philadelphia 8th July 1779. 
Sir, 

I have had the pleasure of receiving and communicating to Congress 
your favor of the 23d Ulto. w^ith the several papers mentioned in it. They 
were immediately committed. 

What Resolutions Congress may adopt relative to the Gentleman you 
recommend to their Notice is uncertain. His case merits attention, and I 
assure you it would give me pleasure to see such provision made for him 
as may be agreeable to your wishes and consistent with the justice due to 
him." 

395. James Lovell to Samuel Adams. ^ 

July 8th [1779.] 
Dear Sir 

My Knowledge of Mr. Brewer being here was but of this day in the 
midst of great Engagements excessive heat and little health. Be pleased 
therefore to accept the News papers as the history of the rascally Conduct 
of some People whom you can name; and as the Register of my Chagrin 
on the Score of S'th Carolina. 

The Enemy did not lie when they said the Council offered to surrender, 
the Vote was carried 5 against 3. But this ought not to be blazed ; as many 
Circumstances alleviate the Conduct. These you will shortly know. It is 
certain however that the People in general there resent the Conduct ; and 
the Assembly will on meeting make severe Scrutiny.^ 

[393]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

' See no. 381, ante. 
[394]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 146; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates 
Papers, XV. 

2 The letter of Gates referred to is probably that of June 26, respecting Capt. 
John Valentine Bancke. See the Journals, July 6, 10, 17; cf. nos. 404, 412, post. 
[395]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 
- Cf. no. 277, note 4, ante. 



July, IJ79 303 

It is to be feared that the Virginia and North Carolina aids and the 
S'th Carolina Militia will all quit when their Times expire, which with 
some is now, with all the 15th of August.^ .... 

I cannot get the Maryland Paper. But Mr Laurens will have the Peice 
reprinted to which I refer; tis a history of you and your Clubs by which 
a Minority mars all important Business.* .... 

396. Roger Sherman to Jabez Huntington.^ 

Philadelphia July 8th 1779. 
Sir. 

.... Congress has Granted the 150,000 heretofore lent to the State 
to be charged to account without interest, to be applied for the recruiting 
Service have also Ordered 200,000 dollars out of the State Treasury 
for clothing our Troops.^ That part of the application respecting the 
allowance of Continental Pay and rations to the forces raised for the 
defence of the State has not been reported on by the Board of Treasury. 
the Gentlemen of the Board seem to think it reasonable and I suppose they 
will report a general regulation to extend to all the States 

397. James Duane to Mrs. Duane.^ 

Philad. 8th July 1779 
My dearest Polly 

I have the pleasure to acquaint you that the Business which particularly 
detained me here is now drawn nearly to a Conclusion ; and that the gov- 
ernour has promised as soon as the Legislature assembles to procure my 
Leave of absence. I hope therefore that in a few weeks I shall have the 
pleasure of being with you our children and Friends; and on such Terms 
that will leave me free as to my future Conduct. For surely if there is 
any Merit in long and faithful services I have a claim to Indulgence : and 
it was to inforce this claim and get the Consent of the Legislature for my 
Return — in no small degree — that I have waited here so long 

398. Henry Laurens to Robert Morris.^ 

To the Honorable Robert Morris, Esqr. 
Sir, 

You who have with such " great reluctance ventured to claim the at- 
tention of your fellow Citizens " should have been tender of a fellow Citi- 
zen, who, as you have had occasion to know, feels, at least, a similar un- 
willingness to make an appeal in a public News Paper. 

' Cf. nos. 391, 392, ante, and no. 408, post. 

* See no. 401, post. 
[396]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Wolcott Papers, bundle 2. 

2 See the Journals, July 3. 
[397]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, I. Z7- 
[398]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letters, vol. XVHL 



304 Continental Congress 

In your publication of this day,^ you are pleased to hold me up in the 
Character of an Accuser, not indeed by name, but all the Members in 
Congress and every intelligent Man in Philadelphia, know to whom you 
allude. Men at a greater distance will be informed; various conjectures 
and judgements will follow, and I hold it to be not very honorable to a 
Gentleman to become an accuser of his Neighbor and fail in his evidence. 

You knew, Sir, when you were writing your address to the Citizens of 
Philadelphia, and you knew it many Months before, that I had not ac- 
cused you that I had only related to Congress a conversation with one of 
your friends which had created suspicions of your conduct in the transac- 
tion of that business which you say " brought against you a very serious 
charge of a criminal nature in Congress " ^ 

I had uniformly renounced the Idea of being an Informer or an Ac- 
cuser in a matter of which I had no other knowledge, than the bare com- 
munication which your friend had made, and I had signified to you that 
when I related the conversation to Congress I was not actuated by a 
desire to destroy your Character, that I had prepared the relation in the 
following terms or in terms to the same effect — " If the account which I 
have received be true the public ought to be informed, if it be groundless, 
Justice forbids that Mr. Morris should be kept in ignorance." 

- Morris's communication to which Laurens refers was dated July 7 and appeared 
in the Pejinsylvania Packet of July 8. He was led to make the statement to the public 
in consequence of some charges which the Philadelphia committee, of which William 
Henry was chairman, had made against him. Anticipating the statement is a note, dated 
July 2. " seven o'clock in the Evening ", which appeared in the Packet of July 3. In that 
note Morris says that he had just received a letter from Mr. William Henry, chairman 
of the committee, etc., and asks the public to suspend forming any judgment in the 
matter until they shall have had opportunity of hearing his vindication. Following 
are those passages which are chiefly necessary to an understanding of Laurens's letter: 

" It is with great reluctance I venture to claim the attention of my fellow citizens ; 
nothing but necessity could urge me to it any time ; but more particularly since it 
appeared probable that our enemies derived hope from sowing divisions amongst the 
Whigs of America. Under this idea I have patiently and silently seen my name held out 
to my country more than once, as if I had pursued a line of conduct inconsistent with 
the general interest, altho' I knew the insinuations to be perfectly groundless, and that 
it was in my power to refute them. I expected that you, my fellow-citizens, would 
readily discover the private reasons which produced these attacks, and until that moment 
should arrive, consoled myself in the consciousness of innocence and integrity. But as 
the frequent insertion of my name in an unfavorable light may at length make strong 
impressions on those who are not personally acquainted with me, I mean to give a plain 
narrative of such facts as relate to the charges or insinuations made against me, in as 
concise a manner as I am capable of. 

" The first that I remember, was respecting the state of my accounts with the Continent, 
in answer to which I promised in a former publication either a settlement or a report 
of a Committee on that subject. Soon after this a very serious charge of a criminal 
nature was brought against me in Congress. The matter was fully and minutely inves- 
tigated, and I not only proved my innocence to the perfect satisfaction of that respectable 
Body, but even my accuser himself, by examining into the transaction, discovered a 
most incontestible proof of it, a proof that had escaped me and the Committee who had 
been appointed on that occasion. This he candidly introduced before that honorable 
Body, which, together with their unanimous vote of acquital, rendered my intended 
publication unnecessary'. I then called on Congress by letter to the President to appoint 
a Committee for inspecting the state of my accounts and transactions with the Continent. 
This was readily complied with ; but as I was engaged in the General Assembly of this 
State, and the attention of the Committee appointed, occupied by a variety of other 
objects, the matter by mutual consent was deferred." 
3 See nos. 19, 20, 24, 30, 31, ante. 



July, 1779 305 

This declaration which I imparted to you in January last and the candid 
part which you acknowledge I have since acted, entitled me to a little 
candor and a little more decency from you. had I been in your place, Sir, 
and you in mine, I would long since have thanked you, not in terms of 
half reproach. 

If you really believe that Congress were perfectly and unanimously 
satisfied with your Conduct in that transaction, you deceive yourself, 
there appeared, tis true, no proof against you of criminality, but there 
WTre nevertheless more persons than one clearly of opinion that the man- 
ner in which the business had been transacted, was to speak in the mildest 
terms, highly improper. 

Would you know the sentiments of our fellow Citizens in these States, 
publish all the papers respecting that transaction. I have copies of them 
at your sen^ice. You and I may safely foretell what will be the Issue. 
Superficial readers will say " why this seems to be all fair enough ". Men 
of business and discernment will more gravely declare " this is a very 
extraordinary and a very dangerous mode of disposing of the public 
Money ". I will add nothing harsh. 

You content yourself, Sir, with wishing that every person connected 
with public business had such accounts as yours to produce. 

Where shall I find the ground whence you derive this self satisfaction? 
Not in your declaration in Congress the nth September 1778, respecting 
the Books of the Commercial Committee which had been always under 
your special direction and in your private possession about nine Months 
antecedent to that date. Not from the unliquidated accounts of the Secret 
Commerce which has been abolished near, or perhaps upwards of, two 
years. Not from the Condition in which you returned the Books of both, 
to the late or present Commercial Committee in almost inextricable con- 
fusion ; many more Months have since rolled over and I cannot learn that 
those Books are even at this moment in a state to be boasted of. 

Not from your confession that the proof introduced by the Gentleman 
whom you very unjustly call an Accuser, had escaped yourself and the 
Committee. This proof should have been produced as the very Corner 
stone of your justification and of their Report; it was the only paper that 
could have averted general Censure; without it, the Report of the Com- 
mittee and all you could have said, would not have satisfied our Con- 
stituents. The opinions of Congress would have been recorded in such 
terms as would have given you lasting pain. 

The discovery of that paper, altho' it was not particularly incumbent 
on me to seek for it, afforded me that satisfaction which a Man feels who 
knows, that to be honest and impartial towards every Man are duties due 
to himself. 

Permit me Sir, before I conclude, to say — If you rank me among your 
Enemies, you do me great injustice. I acknow : that I have not approved 
of your general Conduct in public business, it has, in every instance within 
my knowledge, been ambiguous — always wanting your own explication. 
I dislike the train in which the Commercial Committee's Books are at 
present, you would not do amiss were you again to submit the adjust- 
ment of them to any other hand and in any other House than your own. 



806 Continental Congress 

you once returned them after nine Months effort, because they were Con- 
fused although they had been the work of your own performance and 
direction. 

I am Sir 

Your obedient humble Servt. 

Henry Laurens. 
Philad. 8th July 1779. 

399. The Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the 
Massachusetts Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia July 9th 1779 
Sirs: 

We received in due time the Honor of your Letter of June loth which 
we should have acknowledged earlier, but were drawn on from day to day 
by the Hope of getting a proper Opportunity for obtaining the Sentiments 
of Congress upon the Points which are so essential in the Settlement of 
accounts between the State of Massachusetts Bay and the Continent. 
Such has been the Course of Business here that we can yet only inform 
you we shall omit no favorable Hour for bringing on a Decision agreeable 
to Instructions from the Honorable x*\ssembly in Behalf of which you 
wrote : and we think the Course of the War to the Southward will tend 
much to excite a general Sense of the Equity of making a continental 
Charge of those Expences mentioned by you which have occurred fre- 
quently hitherto only in the eastern and middle states. 
Your Letter of February loth was referred on the 5th of March partly 
to the marine Committee and partly to the Board of War. We shall move 
for a Reference of that now before us to the Same Board and shall pro- 
mote a speedy Report." .... 

Your most obedient and Humble Servants 

E. Gerry 
James Lovell 
S. Holten 

400. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Friday July Qth ///p. Commercial Committee Congress. This day 
was spent on a Report, relating to the Quarter Master and Commissary 
departments etc. Mr. Wm. C. Houston a delegate from New Jersey, took 
his Seat in Congress to day. 

Saturday July loth. Com'l Committee Congress. Letters Memorials 
and Reports from the Board of War and Treasury.^ Letter from Peter 
Wickof to Resign the appointment of Clothier General and several other 
Persons Put in Nomination Dr. Wetherspoon attended Congress to day.^ 

[399]! Mass. Arch., CCI. 148. 

- See the Journals, Mar. 5, July 12. 
[400]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Holten's entry for the day in his Diary is, " Congress ordered the money to be 
forwarded to Mass. Bay to exchange the emissions that are out of circulation ". 

3 Witherspoon had been absent since June 4 as a member of the committee sent 
to Vermont. See no. 319, ante, and no. 403, post. 



July, 1719 307 

401. James Lovell to Samuel Adams/ 

July loth 1779 
Dear Sir 

At length I send you with some other things the Baltimore Publication, 
reprinted by Town in his Evening Post of the 9th. ^ That Print also con- 
tains a Peice signed Cato which comes from some of the Gentry who think 
much of the Prosperity of the Eastern States. Langworthy said himself 

[401]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 See no. 395, ante. The article here referred to is conveniently found in N. Y. 
Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, III. 485. It is given as an " Extract of a letter 
from Philadelphia, dated June 24, 1779 ", and bears the signature " O Tempora ! 
O Mores ! " It appeared first in the Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser of June 
29, was reprinted, as mentioned by Lovell, in the Pennsylvania Evening Post of July 9, 
and subsequently in several other papers, among them the Virginia Gazette of July 17, 
the Royal Gazette of July 21, the New York Packet of July 29, and the Connecticut 
Courant of Aug. 10. Whoever wrote the article, whether Langworthy (whose commis- 
sion as a delegate had some time before expired; see no. 443, note 2, post) or some one 
else, had rather intimate knowledge of what was going on in Congress. Certain passages 
definitely suggest that " Americanus " (see below) and "O Tempora! O Mores! " were 
one and the same person. For instance, the language used in referring to Governor 
Johnstone's remarks in the House of Commons is almost identical in the two articles. 

" Our present situation ", says this writer, " is truly alarming and is briefly as 
follows : A Junto early formed in Congress, have, by some means or other, contrived 
to keep their principal leaders, either actually in the house, or in some of the most 
important departments ; and by acting constantly in concert, have at last brought it about, 
that a minority, and a small one too, can retard, delay, and even obstruct every proceed- 
ing. The foundation of this Junto was laid during the sitting of the first Congress. At 
that period there were many real grounds, as well as some pretended ones, for suspecting 
New York, and one or two others of the middle States. This naturally led the northern 
and southern ones to unite the more strictly in the measures then pursuing, to obtain 
the great objects in view. It is not my intention to give you the history of this Junto 
at present, but will only inform you, that for upwards of twelve months past, a club 
has been formed of certain of the Delegates from New England, New Jersey, and this 
State, and of two or three members from the southward. They meet regularly, debate 
upon, and adjust the manner of their proceedings; and Congress, at all times, being a 
fluctuating and changing body, these men, acting in concert, are able to keep back or 
obstruct any measure whatever, until by the absence of some members, and the division 
of others, they can, with a small majority, carry the vote as they please." 

He had by accident had a perusal of Deane's narrative and had learned therefrom that 
Deane had at once upon his return informed Congress that a foreign loan, if early and 
properly applied for, might be obtained. The necessity of the loan was generally acloaowl- 
edged; "but already a jealousy has arisen, and the question is, who shall haye the 
negociating of it? This has produced already much canvassing in secret, relative to the 
plenipotentiary to be sent abroad on this important business." Deane had been unjustly" 
and ungratefully treated, and " the parties and factions raised on his and Mr. Lee's 
account have retarded and put off matters of infinitely great importance ". 

Spain had in November last, he said, formally offered her mediation, and " France, 
justly supposing that England would, on this, incline to peace, and apprehensive that 
application might be made to Congress to treat separately, immediately sent to their 
minister here, to apply to Congress, and to urge them (if they needed urging) to lose 
no time in coming to resolutions on what terms they would treat, and to appoint a person 

or persons to repair to Europe, with ample powers for that purpose The Minister 

waited on Congress early in February, with a message and information, to this purpose ; 
and in a long interview with them, pressed on them dispatch, in the most forcible terms. 
This was really the subject which gave rise to the report of great and good news, with 

which the whole Continent was for some time amused What and how many terms 

Congress have agreed upon, I know not ; but though the Minister has been every week 
urging them to finish, they have to this hour delayed the giving him an answer. The 
difficulty arises from the New-England Delegates insisting, as I am informed, on making 
our right to fish on the Banks of Newfoundland, etc., a sine qua non. They are, as is 
credibly whispered, joined in this by some Gentlemen from the other extremity of these 



308 Continental Congress 

that he should publish Americanus ^ and he is said by others to publish 
Cato and to have written Tempora O mores. You may judge what Part 
he has had in those Peices. I doubt not he copied the rough Spec for the 
Press 

Confidential. We shall give a private Audience on Monday * in Conse- 
quence of Dispatches reed, last Monday by yr. Neighbour Brewer. They 
were of old Date. The King is pleased that we have only one Minister at 
the french Court. ° We are to know this by finding how much that one has 
the Confidence of the Court. " As to others what was said it is better for 

States, and who firmly stand by each other, as they doubtless mean mutually to serve 
and carry on each other's purposes." 

"Our Comrnissioners at Paris", he avers, "appear totally ignorant of what is doing 
in either France, Spain, or England; for it is impossible they should be informed, and 
never write one syllable about it." 

In practically the same language used by " Americanus " he refers to Governor 
Johnstone's declaration in Parliament that he had made use of " other means than those 
of persuasion and argument to effect the purposes of his commission ". " What those 

means were ", he remarks, " the present times demonstrate In a word, unless 

this party and faction can be broke (for until it is, the same measures will be pursued) 
we shall be in danger, at least, of being ruined, and that suddenly by ourselves." 

In conclusion he says : 

" I will give you one instance with what industry this party, this select phalanx, 
conduct their manoeuvres. The night before it was expected the question on Mr. Lee's 
recall was to be put, an express was sent off into Jersey, to call Dr. W[itherspoo]n, and 
Dr. S[cudde]r; Dr. W[itherspoo]n was alarmed at three o'clock in the morning, and 
set off instantly, to be in Congress before the question should be put; and Dr. S[cudde]r, 
who lived more remote, followed the same day, each of them with as much expedition 
as if they had been flying before the enemy. They arrived in season, and by the paper 
sent you herewith, you will see how they voted." 

Fell records in his Diary that both Witherspoon and Scudder returned Apr. 26 (no. 
231, ante). The Journals also record that Scudder took his seat that day, but say nothing 
of Witherspoon. They are both recorded as voting in the second instance of yeas and 
nays Apr. 27. 

On the very same day on which Lovell was writing to Adams, Richard Henry Lee 
wrote to Laurens : 

" There are some men so artful in garnishing falsehood with truth that the varnished 
tale goes down with, perhaps the greater number, who neither are, or will take pains 
to be informed — Goddards Baltimore Journal of June 29th and Hall and Sellers gazette 
No. 2558 [Pennsylvania Gazette, June 23 ; see no. 360, note 4, ante] contain Samples of 
artful misrepresentation — I know the knaves who write these things have the advantage, 
because they cannot be complete [ly] exposed, without exposing secrets that it would be 
very unwise to publish at present, this the true friends of America will not do, and this 
those Scribblers know well, which induces the[m] to come forward with so much 
effrontery. Yet I think both these deceivers might be handsomely scourged without 
making improper communications. There has not been, that America knows, a shadow 
of reason to suppose that G. B. meant to accept the proffered mediation of Spain. And 
when such a mediation took place, was the proper time for the Belligera[nt] powers to 
prepare and offer their terms, upon being duly notified by the Mediatorial power 

" The most essential part of the f ebruary information was contained in Dr. Lees 
letter to Congress dated in August last which they had long before february been in 
possession of. Had this letter been answered and in a satisfactory manner to Spain, the 
conjecture is too strong not to be entertained that this power would eer now have been 
with the Alliance. But those, whom a Writer calls, "execrable faction" [see nos. 310, 
360, antel had rather that America should be lost than saved thro the medium of Mr. 
Lee, and so neither that letter of August, nor a subsequent one on the same subject have 
ever been noticed!" {Letters, ed. Ballagh, II. 87). 

For a direct answer to " O Tempora ! O Mores ! " see no. 512, post. 

3 See no. 360, ante, and no. 406, post. Concerning " Cato " see also no. 443, 
note 2, post. 

* See the Journals, July 10, 12, 14, 15. 

5 See the Jounwls, July 14, paragraph no. 3 of the document designated " Ad 
Statura Legendi ", also no. 420, note 6, post. 



July, 1779 309 

the House to hear." Ergo an Audience ensues. It will be upon a level Line 
of Importance with the former parvum in multo ; We are enjoyned 
Secresy before hand ; tho Gomez ® was telling the Story at the Coffea 
House last Even'g. 

By the Way, on this Topic of Secresy Smith Says he must tell all his 
State calls for; and Burke says if certain Ultimata do pass he will imme- 
diately let his State know them. Why should not I say if they do not pass 
I will also tell my State ? ^ 

These same News- Paper Gentry say, in the Houses that though Adams 
and Lee are gone, yet the Supporters of their Measures are left here, 
wherefore a Minority governs. 

I recon that one Session after the Audience will finish foreign affairs 
so far as relates to Ultimata. The arrangement of the Treasury will also 
be finished at the next Tryal ; and That, I suppose, will be called finishing 
the Finance Reports. 

I forgot to remark above that if Doctr. Franklin has the Confidence 
of the French Court it is strange that we have not a Line from him by 
their Packet. He was indeed, always verv^ backward of writing to the 
State which employed him, though he was lengthy to Individuals. I verily 
believe that they folgerize ^ us in France often 

I expect that Arthur is to be squinted at if nothing worse in the Audi- 
ence. For, though the Family of Lee is now linked in public, yet one in 
Office is too much for the inveterate Party to yeild to 

402. James Searle to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Philadelphia loth July 1779. 
Dear Sir 

I was highly gratified with the rect. of your obliging letter of the 27th 
of last month. ^ .... 

I think it a great misfortune that at this critical moment we are de- 
prived of your advice and assistance in our Councils : We feel our loss 
in you the more as we are also deprived of that great Statesman and 
honest man Mr. Adams who has left us struggling with a set of men 
some of whom on my conscience I believe mean not the good of America. 

As to the important point under debate when you left us, the F ' 

The honest Men have hitherto kept its opposers at bay, and I am not 
without hopes its Friends will finally succeed in supporting it 

^ It is not certain to whom Lovell alludes under the appellation of " Gomez ", 
but it was probably William Henry Drayton, though it may have been John Penn. In 
his letter of Jan. 28, 1780, in the next volume of these Letters, Lovell alludes to both of 
them as having divulged secrets of Congress. Cf. no. 19, ante. It seems improbable 
that " Gomez " was any of those whom Lovell mentions by name, Meriwether Smith 
(who was dubbed with several nicknames), Burke, or Langworthy. 

^ See nos. 414, 420, post. Cf. no. 366, ante, and no 411, post. 

8 Cf. no. 354, note 5, ante. Concerning the gratification of Vergennes over the 
designation of Franklin as sole minister at the French court, see no. 420, note 6, post. 
[402]! Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 Not in Letters of Richard Henry Lee. There is, however, one of Aug. 7 
(IL 104). 

" The fisheries. 



310 Continental Congress 

The Marine Committee have sent forward a Hst of Materials and 
Stores for the 74 Gun Ship and Eight new Frigates hereafter to be 
built. We have reason to hope these things will be sent us from France 
by order of his most Christian Majesty together with a very large supply 
for our Army of every necessary for Fifty thousand men from a Brass 
Cannon to a Shoebuckle. 

The Minister has informed us that he had reason to believe all those 
things would be sent us immediately if applied for by Congress, to be 
paid for when Peace was established, in the manner most convenient 
and agreeable to us. 

It is in consequence of his information that the application is made 
and I have no doubt of the success of it.* .... 

403. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 12th July 1779 
My Dear Sir 

.... The Committee that was sent to the Grants are returned, that 
is two of them, viz. Dr. Witherspoon and Mr. Atlee, these were to be 
joined by two Gentn. from Connecticut but the Dr. was in so great a 
hurry that he and Atlee set off the day before the others arrived, whether 
a report will be receiv'd from these two, is not yet determined. I am 
happy to find the Court have determined to lay in their Claim to that 
Territory but I could wish nothing had been said in the vote, of Vermont 
being an Independent State. ^ .... 

404. John Armstrong to Horatio Gates. ^ 

Philada. 1 2th July 1779. 
Dear General 

In Congress our great publick points tho' often agitated, are but little 
very little removed from the ground on which they stood when I wrote you 
last, notwithstanding that two months have elapsed since in answer to that 

* See the Journals, June 15 ; also no. 356, ante. 

[403]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. II., 1779-1790. 

2 The committee was appointed June 2. See the Journals, May 22, 29, June 1,
2, 16, and nos. 313, 314, 318, 319, 322, 330, 349, 357, 362, 364, 400, ante. The two gentle- 
men from Connecticut, Root and Ellsworth, made a report by letter (July 4) which was 
read July 12. The letter notifying them of their appointment, they said, arrived on 
June 14, while they were attending the general assembly, which did not rise until the 
18th. On the 22d they set out. At Stockbridge, hearing that Dr. Witherspoon and 
Colonel Atlee had got to Bennington, they directed their course to that place, arriving 
on the afternoon of the 26th. But Witherspoon and Atlee, they found, had left that 
morning for Albany. They then sent an express after them, asking them to return. 
The express overtook them at Albany, returned on the 29th, and brought the message 
that they declined to accede to the request. Root and Ellsworth expressed the view that, 
since Congress had empowered three of the commission to act, the mission of Wither- 
spoon and Atlee would necessarily fail. The latter laid their account of proceedings 
before Congress July 13. See, further, the Journals, Aug. 24, Sept. 8, 17, 20, 22-24, 
Oct. 2, and nos. 407, 409, 453, 465, 495, 506, 514, 544, 545, post; also Records of the 
Governor and Council of Vermont, I. 441, 522; Clinton Papers, V. 97, 108-116; Corr. of 
Jay, I. 211. A letter from President Weare to the committee, July 3, is in Hist. Magazine, 
XXIII. 107. Root returned to Congress Aug. 12, Ellsworth not until Dec. 16. 

[404]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XV. 151. 



July, 1779 311 

letter, I had yr. favour of the 27th of April, for which (if not tendered 
before) I beg you will even at this late day accept my Cordial thanks. 
Congress have lately thrown out a small scheme of Finance,^ with a 
view to borrow money, stop the Press and prevent the farther deprecia- 
tion of that already in circulation ; whether it will have the desired efifect 
is yet uncertain, and at present very doubtful, as in this City, (a kind of 
mirror or first mover to the adjacent states) many I find are of the 
Opinion they can employ their money to better purpose than in our 
sinking funds, so that it's very probable we must early hold up higher 
inducements to money holders in order to procure such loans as when 
joined to that to be derived from taxation may serve as a constant supply 
and prevent the necessity of farther Emissions 

Mr. Marchant and myself have exerted ourselves for your friend 
Captain Banks. ^ we are indeed oppressed with men in his situation, and 
the liberallity of the publick almost worn out. he however has been 
pritty fortunate at least in dispatch whereof I believe he is sensible ; the 
resolution does not oblige you to make him Town Major, being only 
meant conditionally and until he can return to Europe or otherwise dis- 
pose of his time.* .... 

I am dear General, with great truth 

Affectionately Yours, 

John Armstrong 

[P. S.] from the Packet to which you allude nothing of consequence 
transpired. I think I have heard it called duplicates. We have not yet 
fully decided on the Fishery, a dish which I hope will always be well 
relished in America. 

405, John Fell, Diary.^ 

[July 12, 13, 1779.] 
Monday After the dispatches at 12 oClock, Congress went in to a 
Committee of the whole to have a Conferrence with Mr. Gerrard. Mr. 
Lawrence was appointed Chairman and Mr. Dickinson and Dr. Wether- 
spoon assistance in the Conferrance, after the Minister was gon[e] the 
Chairman obtaind a writing [hlanky which was Read, and desired leave 
to sitt againe President took the Chair and sundry Reports were read 
from the Board of War and Treasury 

Tuesday ijth July Com'l Committee Congress Letter from Genl. 
Washington dated Head Quarters New Windsor July 9th. Committed 
to 3 vizt. Mr. Marchant [blankY Congress went in to a Committee 
of the whole on the subject of the Conferrence, the Chairman desird leave 
to sitt againe, and the President Resumed the Chair, and the Report of 
Duartee the Portugeze was taken up and debated till past 4 oClock.* 

2 See especially the Jounmls, June 11, 14, 16, 25, 29. 
^ Cf. no. 394, ante, and no. 412, post. 

* See the Journals, July ID, 17. 

[405]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Probably the paper " Ad Statum Legendi ", which was not, however, put into 
the record until July 14. Cf. nos. 406, 408, 413, post; see also no. 401, ante. 

3 The other members of the committee were Huntington and Armstrong. 

* There is no mention of the Duarti matter in the Journals July 13. See nos. 434, 
435, post; see also vol. III., no. 267. 



312 Continental Congress 

406. James Lovell to James Warren.^ 

July 13th, 1779 

Contidential. 
Dear Sir, 

Three days ago I wrote to Mr. Adams inclosing Papers that show the 
Spirit of the Parties in a certain little-great Assembly. I must ingeniously 
acknowledge to you that if I had been properly convinced that Gr: 
Britain was seriously disposed for Peace, I should have rested on an 
Instruction to our Plenipotentiary " in no case to give up a common right 
bf Fishery ". But I have seen Reason to wish for a Stipulation that Britain 
shall not disturb us in the Exercise of that Right. If France can harbour 
no too-interested Views in regard to that grand Branch of Commerce, 
Britain surely would make every advantage of our Inattention to it at 
the Hour of Peacemaking, And it has seemed to me as if some Persons 
here were much more bent upon coaxing than upon forcing a Peace 
from our Enemy; We are told that Passengers and Letters are put on 
shore in Nth. Carolina from a Vessel arrived in Cheseapeak which left 
Rochelle the loth of May. We have not had a Line from our Appoint- 
ments in France for a long Season, Mr. Gerard reed. Letters via Boston, 
as mentioned in yr. Gazettes but they were not of very modern date. 

We had a Communication from him in a private Audience Yesterday 
but under the Injunctions of the House for Secrecy, so that A and B 
will be stigmatized if they communicate the Substance in a private con- 
fidential Letter, should they be discovered, while C and D, under the Sig- 
nature of Americanus or O Tempora Mores, may publish the whole to 
the World in a News Paper.^ .... 

407. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

July 13th, 1779 
Dear Sir 

.... You know that we united in Opinion that it was trifling for 
such an Assembly as Congress to stipulate conditionally in regard to 
peace, as the sine qua non would be calf -carried ^ immediately out of the 
House, and no other Instructions would stand a Chance to be prevalent. 
I am more than ever convinced of such Consequences to be apprehended. 

Tace Our Treaty of Alliance being published to please Chase and 
some others has had this pretty Effect, viz. England seeing tlie viii 
Article, and knowing both France and Spain disposed to Peace, and find- 
ing the latter obliged only to wait for an alternative Assurance of our 
Independence, will never be explicit, while a tacit Conduct of the great 
Point can be made to suffice.^ 

[406]! Warren-Adams Letters, II. 109. 

2 See nos. 360, 395, 401, ante, 408, 413, post. Lovell's remarks respecting stipula- 
tions in the treaty of peace appear to have been predicated on the " Americanus " articles. 
[407]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 Probably a term of lovell's own invention, based on a colloquial use of the 
word " calf " to designate an immature person. 

3 Congress gave orders Nov. 4, 1778, to have the French treaties printed. On 
Nov. 20 Gerard mildly informed Congress that the publication of treaties prior to the 



July, ///p 313 

Yr. Experience of the Disposition of Persons and Things here will 
lead you to conclude readily that much Time will be wasted or a Decision 
ill becoming our former Spirit be made 

The Com'tee are returned from Vermont. Witherspoon and Atlee did 
not wait for the arrival of the others so that it proves an Abortion as 
we empowered any three to act. It is true the others when they arrived 
did not find any Thing further to do than what was signified to them 
by Letter from these the Doings of whom they approve by their An- 
swer.* But it is too delicate an Afifair to proceed in without going by 
critical Lines. The People expect to be heard regularly before any formal 
Decission is made concerning them. This will " wound the Feelings " 
of some Gentlemen if not of a whole State if complied with ; and it will mar 
all our past Endeavors not to comply with it 



408. Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia July 13th 1779. 
Sir, 

Since I had the honor of addressing you last, Majr. Rice has arrived 
here from General Lincoln's head quarters, the printed accounts brought 
by him I inclose, but from the best intelligence, I have reason to believe 
the General is apprehensive that the state of South-Carolina will fall 
into the hands of the enemy, owing in part, to many of his army being 
militia, whose times are near expired." 

I understand the money, out of circulation, sent by Mr, Appleton is 
safe arrived here, and congress have ordered a like sum in other bills 
to be sent forward to exchange the same ; ^ I'm sorry to find so great a 
part is likely to go again into circulation, but possibly the late resolutions 
of congress respecting a loan, may in part prevent it. It would give me 
pleasure to hear what the hon'ble court has done, in consequence of the 
resolutions of congress, for raising 45,000000 dollars by taxes, for I 
think it is in vain, for us to suppose, that we can carry on the war by paper 
emissions much longer. 

Yesterday congress resolved themselves into a com'ee of the whole, 
and the minister of France, was admitted to a private audience, which 
lasted for some time, but I'm not at liberty to add.* .... 

exchange of ratifications was not in accordance with the "ordinary rules" (see Wharton, 
Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 843, and the Journals, Nov. 20, 1778; cf. vol. III. of these Letters, 
no. 642). In the conference July 12 Gerard expressed the surprise of the French court 
that Congress had published the treaties without that court's knowledge and consent 
(see the Journals, July 14, pp. 830, 832). 

* Cf. no. 403, ante, and no. 409, post. 
[408]! Mass. Arch. CCI. 161. 

2 Cf. nos. 391, 392, 395, ante. 

3 See the Journals. July 10, 12, and no. 400, note 2, ante. 

* Cf. nos. 405, 406, ante, and no. 413, post. 



314 Continental Congress 

409. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia, 13th July, 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

.... I think the State have Conducted prudently with respect to the 
New Hamp'r Grants. Part of the Committee sent by Congress to in- 
vestigate the Grievances and Designs of the People on those Grants have 
lately returned to this place, their report not yet made known to Con- 
gress — Suppose I shall be able to give it you in my next." Col. Ethan 
Allen and Mr. Fay have lately been in this City, whereby they missed 
of being present at the Conference at Bennington. I enclose you a hand 
bill, siting forth the Conduct of the People in said Grants, upon which 
the late Complaints from New York against them were founded,^ also 
several Newspapers. In my last to his Hon'r Mr. President Weare, I 
sent sundry papers and hand bills, hope they will arrive safe. 

I am happy to hear the State have so readily Complyd with the indis- 
pensably Necesary Resolves of Congress respecting a Tax, for their 
proposition, of the 45,000,000 Dollars at this Critical situation of our 
Finances ; and for their raising their Quota of Troops, as the most vigor- 
ous exertions in the People, at this time is absolutely necesary J;o appreciate 
our Currency, and credit and support our diminished Army, for without 
it would be the height of presumption to expect a short and successful 
War, or a happy and honorable Peace. But my Dear Sir when I take 
a retrospective view of those truly Patriotic Characters which at first 
adorned the Councils of these United States and laid a foundation for 
a Vast Empire, an Asylum for Civil and Religous Liberty, whose Gener- 
ous breasts Glowing with an ardour becoming free born Americans, Van- 
quished every idear incompatable with industry, frugality, Virtue, and 
the union freedom, and happiness of their Native Country, and at the 
same time reflect how the scene is now changed ; when I see Banqueting, 
Pageantry, Luxury, Dissipation and unhappy disputes and divisions 
Spoken against and detected by every honest republican, Standing or 
making rapid progress where it ought not, I am filled with solemn sur- 
prize and naturally Conclude those aspects portend some dire Event; 
unless prevented by a speedy refformation ! But must dismiss the subject 
for this time. 

410. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia July 13th 1779 
Dear Sir, 

This Day a Letter was read in Congress from Genl. Washington, in- 
forming that he had called Glovers Brigade from the State we have the 

[^og]''- Hist. Magazine, VII. 51. 

2 Cf. nos. 403, 407, ante, and no. 453, post. 

3 Evans lists (Am. Bibl., vol. V., no. 16652) a proclamation of Thomas Chittenden 
as governor, signed by Jonas Fay as secretary, bearing the date June 3, 1779, and issued 
as a broadside (printed in Dresden by Paddock and Spooner). This may be the handbill 
to which Peabody refers. 

[410]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1778-1779, P- 130; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 245. 



July, lyyg 315 

Honor to represent, upon his hearing that an Embarkation had taken 
Place of Part of the Enemies Force at Newport. This IntelHgence was 
very alarming to Us especially as the Enemy are in considerable Force 
in the Sound, had attacked and entered Newhaven, from Whence they 
might soon reach Newport Harbour and joined with the Forces there 
ravage Our State, and even the Mass'tts State perhaps to their Capital, 
tho' they appear to be very inattentive to it. We moved that the Genls. 
Letter might be committed to a special Committee, and that they take 
into immediate Consideration the present Situation of the State of Rhode 
Island, etc. This is done, but we feel ourselves much at a loss since we 
cannot expect any relief from Connecticut while their whole Coast is 
liable to the depredation of the Enemy and since notwithstanding every 
Argument has been made use of by our State and by Congress upon 
New Ham [p] shire and Massachusetts Bay with scarce any effect, and 
although their very salvation depends upon preserving the small remains, 
as a barrier to their own." .... We are 

Your Excellencys most obedient and very humble Servts. 

H'y Marchant 
John Collins 



411. William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia 13th July, 1779. 
Sir, 

.... It is a matter of surprize and regret that congress have not reed. 
a letter from their plenipotentiary, or either of their commissioners in 
Europe, for more than six months past ; in which time the minister of 
France has reed, several dispatches from his court, and one very lately, 
the contents of which he has (in part) communicated to congress. I 
hope I shall not be suspected of affecting a mysteriousness when I tell you 
I am not at liberty to mention particularly the minister's communications, 
nor would it be prudent to risque them in a letter, under the present 
regulation of our post office; however, this much I can venture to say, 
that they are favorable, that the prospect of peace brightens, and that 
France seems to act on a very liberal scale, and has, in many instances, 
gone further in support of the common cause than she was, by the treaty, 
bound to go; notwithstanding which, it is to be feared, we are not all 
true friends to the alliance." .... 

I am apprehensive we shall shortly be overun ^sic\ by committees. 
The original ostensible design of them was laudable, and under proper 
regulations might, perhaps, produce good effects ; tho' I confess little or 
nothing salutary has yet been experienced by them here; and I am of 

2 See the Journals, July 13, and nos. 462, 475, 491, post. 
[411]! Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second sen, LI. 4. 

2 See the Journals, July 11, 12, 14, 15. Letters from Arthur Lee and Izard arrived 
the next day after this letter was written (see no. 415, post). Cf. no. 366, ante. 



316 Continental Congress 

opinion they are taking large strides towards the entire subversion of 
this government, the civil magistrates being already little more than 
cyphers.^ 
Adieu.* 

412. Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates/ 

Philadelphia 14th July 1779 
Dear Sir, 

I had the honor of addressing you under the 29th Ulto. and since that, 
of receiving your favor of the 26th by Capt. Banck. This Gentleman 
returns from Congress seemingly well pleased and I apprehend the Re- 
solve in his favor will enable you to keep him so." The Marquis de 
Bretaigne will think himself the most fortunate of all the zealous ad- 
venturers to America; when he arrived in Charles Town he found the 
incorporated french Volunteers under the Command of a Gentleman of 
their own choice, this Gentleman's honor will bind him to them until the 
temporary service expires and upon the arrival of that event the Corps 
will disband and every Man retire to his vocation 

We have at this moment certain subjects on the tapis which demand all 
the wisdom virtue and fortitude of America, I wish I were with you and 
at liberty to converse freely for a single hour. I wish, even more 
earnestly, a Man of superior talents and abilities were in my green Chair. 

I am persuaded all will come right, but not until we shall have waded 
and plunged through a good deal of wrong and perhaps not until we 
shall be awakened by some rude stroke. Am I wrong Sir in this Idea, 
that in Young Republics, Citizen-Soldiers of high rank and great ex- 
perience ought upon extraordinary occasions to be consulted? I intreat 
you Sir do not communicate this to Rivington, he will put ten thousand 
false interpretations and glossings upon the best meaning. I had as lieve 
be tried by the Inquisition as by that fellow and certain of his adlierents — 
in times like these. Men who feel, will speak; every Man who loves his 
Country and is acquainted with the present state of her affairs must feel 
and every such Man ought in decent terms to speak his honest feelings. 

Let us look around, and inquire into the State of the Army, the Navy 
the Treasury; the view is truly affecting, but what is most of all to be 
deplored is the torpitude of national virtue. How many Men are there 
who now^n secret say, could I have believed it would have come to this, 
I would — I am not one of that number. I had my apprehensions, and 
signified them in Fludyer Street Westminster in October 1774, to a 
friend in So Carolina, nevertheless, I said. 111 go and risque all 

3 The allusion is doubtless to the activities of the committee of the citizens of 
Philadelphia, of which William Henry was chairman. Just at this time the committee 
was engaged in an attack upon the conduct of Robert Morris in connection with the 
purchase of flour for the French fleet. See nos. 366, 369A, 398, note 2, ante, and nos. 
443, note 2, 445, 447, post. 

* The letter is without signature. 
[412]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XV. 

2 Cf. nos. 394, 404, ante. 



July, 1779 317 

413. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[July 14, 15, 1779.] 
Wednesday 14th. Com'l Committee Congress. After the Letters etc. 
were read, Went in to a Committee of the whole house, on the Con- 
ferrence with Mr. Gerrard, which the Chairman having Reduced to writ- 
ing, Read in his Place and after some time the President Resumed the 
Chair ; ^ Some foreign Letters were read. Dined with Mr. Jay 

Thursday July 13th. Commercial Committee Congress. Letters from 
some of the Commissioners in france were read wherein they advise of 
the English IMinistry giving Orders to their Army here to Land at 
Wethersfield and burn and distroy all in their way to New Haven and 
there imbarque Letter from Mr. Shearman mentions the Enemy having 
Burnt Fairfield, the whole Town except the Church.^ A Clothier General 
was appointed by Ballot, Coll. [blankY 

414. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of 
North Carolina.^ 

Philadelphia July 15th: 1779 
Sir 

Immediately on receiving your favor of May 26th last, we laid before 
Congress the several Matters wherewith you charged us ; " but unavoid- 
able interventions have prevented our obtaining their Resolutions on 
them all, previous to the date hereof. 

The intense heat of this Season, and the great length of the march, 
make it almost certain, that an order for the North Carolina Troops to 
Join the southern army would be attended with Consequences, fatal to 
their health, and such as must deprive the public of their Services, every 
where, during this Campaign, if not forever, it was therefore Judged 
most expedient, to postpone such orders, until they can be executed with- 
out such imminent hazard of Inconvenience.' 

The Resolutions relative to the decried Emissions,* are the best which 
we have been able to obtain, altho', in our Opinion, they are not alto- 
gether so well calculated for the relief of the Sufferers, especially in our 
Country, as they might have been. But the Measure by which they were 
decried and from which great public good was expected, has still many 

[413]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 405, ante. 

3 See nos. 414, 419, 420, 425, 426, 429, post. 

* Lieut.-Col. Persifor Frazer. He declined the office July 19, and James Wilkin- 
son was chosen, July 24, in his stead. 

[414]! George C. Thomas Coll., Philadelphia; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
XXXVI. 505; Thomas, Autograph Letters; N. C. State Recs., XIV. 154. 

2 See the Journals, June 23. Caswell's letter of May 26 (A''. C. State Recs., 
XIV. 102) transmitted sundry resolutions of the assembly, among them one requesting 
Congress to furnish two and a half million dollars toward defraying the expenses of 
recruiting^ clothing, and marching the troops ; one requesting further time for bringing 
in the decried emissions of May, 1777, and April, 1778; and another empowering the 
governor to draw for the two and a half millions. 

3 See the Journals, July 12. 

■* The reference is doubtless to the resolutions of July 2. 

25 



318 Continental Congress 

advocates in Congress, notwithstanding the Experience of all parts of 
America [which] groans under the Evils it has produced. 

The Congress has, with great reluctance, granted even the partial 
payment of your draught in our favor.^ The Continental Currency is 
so much depreciated, that every one sees the necessity of putting an entire 
stop to emissions ; and relying on the Exertions of the States for Supply- 
ing the public necessaries. The power of the States, internally is much bet- 
ter understood, much better Established, much more simple and vigorous 
in its Operations relative to public Credit, and, let us add, much more 
relied on, than that of Congress. It is therefore more competent to give 
Securities, which will give value to paper Currency, than Congress, in 
their unconfoederated State, can give. The Congress, sensible of this, 
and also Sensible, that increasing the Continental Emissions must be 
attended with very injurious Consequences, have taken up Ideas very 
difTferent from such as heretofore prevailed. Should the War continue 
longer than the present Campaign, the States must furnish the supplies, 
either by Contributions in kind or by Taxes in money ; and these are the 
chief resources which the Congress have at present in view, they will 
probably have recourse also to Loans ; a Measure only Justifiable on 
principles of Necessity; which is burthensom and unequal in a very 
high degree ; and which, it is much to be wished, may be avoidable, for 
the present campaign, the Congress wish to provide by Loans, and by 
what remains of the former Emissions not yet expended.^ while intent 
on this object, it was a great disappointment to them to receive so great 
a requisition, as two millions and a half, from One of the States ; and, 
many deem it better, to let any one State Struggle through the want of 
money, than to send them any from the public Treasury, in its present 
circumstances, the resolution was at length taken, to advance One Mil- 
lion; and we were obliged to be satisfied therewith, it is hoped that 
when the State is fully informed of the State of affairs, she will provide 
for her Exigencies some other way, and forego the remaining part of 
the requisition, we Confess this to be our wish ; and doubt not it would 
be the wish of our Constituents, were the difficulties of our Finances 
as well known to them as to us. the sum granted cannot be paid before 
the beginning of August ; and, as soon as possible, it shall be sent forward, 
if the residue cannot be dispensed with, we shall make a future applica- 
tion to Congress, but we are far from being Sanguin in our hopes of 
Success. 

.... You will see, by the inclosed papers, that a descent has been made 
in Connecticut ; and we have advice from Europe, that it was planned in 
the British Cabinet.^ this is a proof, at once, of the predatory designs of 
the Enemy, and of that imbecility which prevents them from carrying on 
Operations of greater vigor, and more competent to their design of 
Conquest. We wish we could give you a Satisfactory Idea of our foreign 

5 See the Journals, July 14. 
^ See the Journals, index, Loans. 

^ See a letter of Arthur Lee, Apr. 6, 1779, in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Coi~r., III. 
no. Cf. nos. 415, 420, 421, 424, 429. post. 



July, 1 779 319 

affairs; but they are Still in so obscure and undecided a state, that this 
is impossible, we are also yet under strict Injunctions of Secrecy: but, 
should decisions be made, deeply affecting the happiness and safety of our 
Country, we shall feel ourselves under obligations, stronger than any 
other, of laying the whole of the affairs before the State.^ We are sorry 
to find, that we differ in Sentiments with some of the Delegates of Jersey, 
Pennsylvania, Deleware and South Carolina, on Questions, which are 
of the utmost importance to all, but, peculiarly so to them, and to us, 
as States possessing Internal Staples, and being composed chiefly of 
Husbandmen. Jersey, Deleware and South Carolina, on the Questions 
alluded to, are usually divided : Pennsylvania votes differently from us, 
but, we have the satisfaction to find, that New York, IMaryland, and 
Virginia concur with us. We lament that our Eastern bretheren have, 
at present, objects in view, in the pursuit of which we cannot concur 
with them; tho we feel every possible disposition to unite with them in 
all pursuits, not inconsistent with the safety, and happiness of our Coun- 
try. We excuse them, because the objects are, to them, Immediately 
Interesting; but, in our Opinion, not so much so to all, or to any of the 
States, as to Justify some measures that are under Consideration. 
We have the honor to be with great respect, 

yr. Excys. obt. Serts. 

John Penn 
Thos. Burke 
Wm. Sharpe 
[P. S.] 

415. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

July 16. 1779 
Dear Sir 

We have had Letters from A Lee to Apr. 6. and one from R Izard of 
March 4th in w'ch he requests permission to resign.^ 

Mr. A. L, sent a Reply ^ to Deane's Accusations which has given me 
great Satisfaction tis 32 folio Pages long founded on two Peices which 
we sent him last Octobr., but which did not reach him till Feby. It is 
impossible for me now to give you any part of it ; but I will take occasion 
to send you Extracts of wh't are the only new Things to you and me, 
I mean the first of the only two Letters he has written to Ld. Shelburne 
since he left England for our Service, and a Letter from Mr. Jennings 
with his Answer concerning Berkenhout and Temple. The Reading of 
the first made his most capital opponents press their fingers on their 
Eye to prevent that water from discovering itself in a Drop, which will 
rise and collect upon a sudden Stroke of Admiration. Their Orbs were 

8 Cf. no. 401, ante, and nos. 420, 474, post. 
[415]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 Arthur Lee's letter is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IIL no; Izard's is ibid., 

P- 72- 

3 See the Journals, July 16. Cf. Lee's letter of Feb. 25, 1779, in Wharton, Rev. 
Dipl. Corr., IIL 63 (with foot-note, p. 65). See also nos. 421, 424, post. 



320 Continental Congress 

full.* The other two letters mentioned relative to Berkenhout are the 
most striking Proofs of Integrity and sound prophetic Judgement, as well 
as a compleat Refutation of all the malicious Inuendo of Deane and 
party in their Gazette and Memorial-Appearances.^ .... 

William being absent Arthur Undertakes and Accomplishes a full De- 
fence of him against the Calumnies levelled at him particularly. 

I must regret that the Papers now arrived did not come before you and 
Richard left us. I cannot tell you all the Reasons why by this Opportunity. 
I will do it by Somebody who can destroy my Letter in case of Surprize 
and Capture on the Road. 

Most of the Reasons will readily suggest themselves. I took the free- 
dom of opening a large Packet directed to Richd. or in his Absence to 
F Lee strongly judging it contained what it did — a Memorial in the 
Letter-Form Inscribed to the President of Congress with a Packet of 
Vouchers chiefly attested by J Adams. There was another Letter directed 
to R or F or J L ® This I have by me as it was an Individual confidential 
Power unconnected with Congress, but of a very extraordinary Kind. 
There was one Letter for Frank and two for Richd. which I have sent on. 
I have not the same right to open them as I have to open yours. This 
last I have done, and I now exercise another Right founded on Reasons 
to be hereafter told ; it is to charge you keep, at present, a profound secret 
the parts which I have marked. I wish to have a Copy or the original by 
the return of the Express as I have been utterly incapable of taking a 
Copy myself. I will do much more pen work for you tho there is not a 
like necessity for it. His letter of Apr. 6 tells us the exact plan of ravag- 
ing Fairfield which has been executed ^ it is most unfortunate that the 
Vessel stayd a Month at Rochelle after leaving Nantes. 

a Certain Baron Holtzendorffe has memorialized me to Doctr. Fr'n 
and given some curious Conversations and Anecdotes calculated for the 
Ministerial Eye, as Arthur says, in which I am an inveterate Anti-Gallican 
and a most malignant Anti He demands of the Doctor £20,000 

for his Expences because he was not kept in Employ here. He went off in 
Mr. Laurences Debt from York Town 400 Dollars.^ .... 

* Cf. nos. 420, 421, 424, 488, post. 

5 Concerning Berkenhout, see vol. III., nos. 487, 498, 500, 502, 566, 635, 689. 

6 " R." and " Richard " mean Richard Henry Lee ; " F " and " Frank " are Francis 
Lightfoot Lee ; " J. L." is James Lovell. In the beginning of the next sentence Lovell 
actually wrote, " This is have ", etc. 

7 Cf. no. 414, note 7, ante. In a letter to Arthur Lee July 16 Lovell wrote, 
referring to the destruction of Fairfield by the enemy: "We are mistaken, however, if 
that enemy does not shortly find the unprofitableness of this kind of warfare towards 
their main purpose. America must be dead indeed to all proper spirit if such doings will 
not render her both as vigilant and active as in the beginning of the contest " (Wharton, 
kev. Dipl. Corr., III. 249). To Franklin the same day he wrote: "Will no one under 
a commission from these United States retaliate on the coast of England for the burning 
of our beautiful Fairfield? A single privateer might, I think, show there a striking 
sample of the species of war carried on by Britain against America" (ibid., p. 248). 
This idea of retaliation was brought to a head three days later by a letter from General 
Washington, transmitting a proclamation of Sir George Collier and General Tryon. 
See the Journals, July 19, and no. 426, post. 

8 See Franklin to Vergennes, Dec. 8, 1779, Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 418. 
Cf. ibid., II. 261, 476, V. 439, 481 ; also these Letters, II. 439 n. A letter from Holtzen- 
dorff to Franklin, May 28, 1779, referring to his memorial to Vergennes on the subject 
of his claims, is in Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XIV. 145. 



July, 1779 321 

416. Henry Laurens to John Houstoun/ 

16 July 1779 
Dear Sir 

In Answer to your favor of the 5th June permit me to assure you I 
have done every thing in my power to assist our worthy friend Jonathan 
Bryan Esq. to whom I writ a Letter yesterday, Copy of which you will 
receive herein and to which I beg leave to refer. 

While I remain in Philadelphia my attention shall be continued and I 
trust I shall find means for obtaining his enlargement and you will ob- 
ser^^e that in my plan I include his Son.^ .... 

417. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[July 16, 17. 1779.] 
16. Congress sit late reading letters from the Hon. A. Lee, Esqr. 
Mr. Sargent, late from South Carolina, informs us of a battle between 
Gen. Lincoln and Gen. Provo ^ which termiinated in our favor. 

//. We have another account from S. C. of a battle and terminating 
in our favor.' 

[41611S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1778-1782. Addressed, "John Houston 
Esq. South Carolina". 

2 See no. 419, post. Jonathan Bryan (1708-1788) was a native of South Carolina, 
but had removed to Georgia. There is a sketch of him in J. B. Heyward, The Pendarvis- 
Bedon Family, p. 72. 

Governor Houstoun of Georgia wrote to Laurens Jan. 22 (from "Purisburg") : "I 
had forgot to mention in my Letter the Case of Old Mr. Bryan and his Son James, they 
were, three nights after the Action at Savannah, forcibly taken by a small Party of 
the Enemy from the Plantation in South Carolina called the Union and immediately 
put on Board a Prison Ship called the Whitby. Mr. Bryan two days ago by some Means 
got a letter to his Wife wherein he says he was just then ordered on Board the Man 
of War and was immediately to be sent to New York, if an Exchange can be effected 
for him I dare say his Age and your former Acquaintance with him will be sufficient 
Advocate in his Favor to induce you to cause particular attention to be paid to his 
Case" (S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letter-Book, 1778-1782, p. 147). June 5 Houstoun 
wrote : " In my former Letters I took the liberty of stating to you the Capture and 
Cruel Treatment of your old Acquaintance Mr. Jonathan Bryan since which I find that 
Gentleman has been sent off to N. York and is now a Prisoner on Board a Prison Ship 
at that place. I rest satisfied as do his Wife and family that nothing in your Power 
will be omitted to get him exchanged and restored to his Country as soon as such a 
Measure can be effected. Since the Enemy make an Object of Resentment of him We 
ought in my Opinion for the same Reason to make him an object of particular attention; 
and so far as relates to those who know him, I am persuaded this will be the case. 
Major Rice being just setting off I must conclude" {ibid.). December 27 Houstoun 
again wrote to Laurens (from "Round O"): "The several letters from Mr. Bryan 
under cover of your obliging favor of the 16th Inst, have come safe to hand. I can't 
help thinking that that old Gentleman ought to have been more an Object of Exchange 
in the several Cartels that have taken Place in this Department, to which in my opinion 
his Case properly belongs, than he seems to have been. And that for the very Reasons 
(what ever they may be) which have induced the Enemy to mark him out as so singular 
an Object of Oppression" (ibid.). The Houstoun letters, together with other informa- 
tion concerning Bryan, were kindly furnished by Miss Mabel L. Webber of the South 
Carolina Historical Society. 

[^ij]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 25. 

2 Gen. Augustine Prevost. Lovell wrote to Franklin July 16 : " We are told 
this evening that General Lincoln has had an advantage over Prevost in an open field 
fight, in which the militia behaved to admiration, on the 20th of June" (Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr.,lU. 24S). 

3 Doubtless the communications laid before Congress Monday, July 19, by the 
South Carolina delegates. 



322 Continental Congress 

418. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[July 16, 17, 1779.] 
Friday 16th July Com'l Committee Congress. This day almost in- 
tirely taken up in Reading A Lees Letters and Reflections again [s]t 
S Deane did not adjourn till Past 5 oClock. Dined w'th Mr. Jay 

Saturday July lyth Congress. Letter from Capt. Cuningham to his 
Wife acquainting her of his cruel treatment. Referrd to a Committee who 
Reported that a Letter be imideatley wrote by the Secretary and sent to 
the Commanding Officer at New York to know where and in what manner 
Capt. Cunningham was treated etc. Order of the Day on the Fisherie, 
according to Custom, little done. Mr. Dickenson read in his place what 
he would have adopted by way of Instructions to the plenoptentary that 
may be sent to Negotiate for Peace.^ Report from the Bo'd of Warr 
Relating to Coll. Malcolm, to be Reconsiderd 

419. Henry Laurens to Benjamin Lincoln.^ 

Philadelphia 17th July 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

By the hand of Major Rice ^ I was honoured with your favor of the 
5th Ulto. the Major left Philadelphia the 13th Inst, intended for Boston 
to take Gen. Washington's Camp in the way. 

I have done all in my power to serve my old friend Mr. Bryan and I 
hope by some means to effectuate an Exchange for himself and his Son. 
it will probably be out of the common rotine, because Congress will not 
encourage kidnapping by Exchanging Citizens taken in the manner those 
Gentlemen were captured. I have written more particularly on this sub- 
ject to Houstoun.^ .... 

The American Duke d'Alva, Tryon has been brandishing the torch in 
Connecticut has burnt Fairfield and part or the whole of New Haven 
made some plunder, distressed Women and Children and retired again to 
his Ships, many particulars ought to have been published in Dunlap's 
Paper of today, but he has neglected them.* 

Thirty six days have passed over since the latest date from Charles 
Town, the silence is painful, but it does not indicate evil on our part; I 
do not despair of an opportunity for congratulating with you Sir and 
with my Country Men in general on an event which will mark honor to 
you and them and restore my native Country the peace her peculiar cir- 
cumstances require, in truth Sir, should you fairly drive the Enemy 
from Carolina and Georgia or do what would be better, detain them there 
in captivity, you will lay the Corner stone for an immediate general peace, 
had Georgia been defended, we should at this moment have been engaged 

[418] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 438, 439, 445, post. 
[419] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

2 See no. 392, note 2, ante. He was also the bearer of Houstoun's letter of June 5 
to Laurens (no. 416, note 2, ante). 

3 See no. 416, ante. 

* See nos. 413, 414, ante, and nos. 420, 425, 426, 429, post. 



July, 1779 323 

in a general Treaty. The Capture of that State has cost us a Campaign 
of blood and conflagration. 

I beg Sir you will be assured of my best wishes for your health and 
success and that I am with great Esteem and Regard 

Your obedient and most humble Servt 

Henry Laurens. 

420. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

[July 17, 1779.] 
I did not return from the Conclave till 5 o'clock, hard duty to an infirm 
Man I there heard the vindication read, but there is a Man who can never 
read distinctly and deliberately when he does not like the subject, long 
debates, whether the Vouchers shd. be read at length carried in the af- 
firmative. I reed, much satisfaction, but not so with everybody. One 
seemed to be on a Gridiron, another in Purgatory, another attempting to 
take notes, but the subject was painfull, he sickened and threw down his 
pen, one looked to be in a situation in which he ought long since to have 
been — suspended — from his eternal versatility. I suspect he will become 
a reconvert.^ My best complim'ts to Mr. F, L. Lee. I feel myself happy 
in finding I have taken the honest side, and that I may therefore con- 
gratulate with your families and all your friends ; I shd. have crept into 
an auger hole had it appeared that I had (altho mistakenly) been an ad- 
vocate for a rogue, little as I have left of worldly wealth, I wd. give 500 
Guineas for A. Lee's company tonight in this room, he shd. not leave 
Phila. untill he had pointed out the way for obtaining Justice to his in- 
jured Country; his Country wou'd not part with him untill they had done 
him honor. 

An honest man's the noblest work of God. 

This morning I mean to move Congress to order the vindication of the 
h'ble Arthur Lee Esqr. together with all the supporting Vouchers to be 
made public.^ Mr. D. appealed to the Public, which in his elegant style, 
" caused great sensations ". The Public therefore have a right to know 
what has been said by the other party, and I am persuaded when they are 
informed that an ansr. is reed, they will assert their right and demand in- 
formation. We have made no progress either in finances or foreign af- 
fairs, except in the former case, what you must have seen published, and 
in the latter, another private audience, the product of which, my discre- 
tion, not my obligation restrains me from divulging.* I peremptorily and 
repeatedly refused to give my promise to keep secret anything called by 
that Name in the State House. In the present case I had the best reason 

[420] 1 Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers, "No. 272" (marked, "Extract from Mr. Lovell's 
Letter"). About half this extract is also embodied in a letter from Lee to Jefferson 
Aug. 12 (Letters, ed. Ballagh, IL 112). 

2 Cf. Whipple's characterization of this scene, no. 488, post. See also no. 415, ante, 
and nos. 421, 424, post. 

3 Such a motion by Lovell does not appear in the Journals July 17. Possibly 
it was forestalled by the motion of Burke, found in the Journals under July 16. Burke's 
motion, which is undated, was probably made July 17. 

•* Cf. no. 401, ante. See also nos. 405, 411, 413, ante. 



324 Continental Congress 

in the world for mak'g the declaration, the secret was communicated to 
a few select friends, before it was announced from the Chair, one of 
these elect, immediately transmitted it to a place some 700 miles distant, 
and afterward with a very grave white face pledged his honor to keep all 
mum. I charged him home, he laught guilt and did not deny, neverthe- 
less I will not follow the bad example, nor do an inexpedient Act, because 
it is barely Law full, in due time you will know all.'' The appointm't of 
Doctor Franklin to be sole Minister at the Court of Versailes, has af- 
forded the greatest satisfact'n ® " and now the confidence of the Court 
will be no longer withheld ". be this as it may, we receive no intelligence 
from our Servants, except from the suspected person,^ and his Accts. are 
as ample, as valid, and as clear as any we receive from the fountain above 
them. This is queer, he is suspected, not trusted, yet he is honest, learns 
and communicates everything. 

Mr. A. Lee has apprized us of the ravaging scheme in Connecticut 
plotted at White Hall, which is at this instant in execution under the aus- 
pices of Genl. Tryon.® 

If Congress now sufTer Mr. D. to leave the American shore, before he 
shall have settled his Accts. or shall have given good and sufficient secur- 
ity to acct. for all the public money which has passed thro' his hands, we 
shall have to account for our own conduct to the People at large. 



421. James Lovell to Arthur Lee.^ 

July 17th 1779 Philada. 
Dear Sir, 

I wrote to you on the 13th of June, but to my Surprise found the Letter 
in the commercial Committee Room on the loth of July, the Martinico 
man having left it behind though he took the Journals and Gazettes to be 
forwarded by Mr Bingham to France and The Hague. My abovemen- 
tioned Letter was sent under Cover to Mr. Adams to the Care of Doctr. 
Franklin it seems Mr. A will have left France before the Polacre, com'd 
by Capt. Sapet can reach it. It is needless to copy the whole as, now, the 



^ In his letter to Adams July 10 (no. 401, ante) Lovell quotes both Thomas 
Burke of North Carolina and Meriwether Smith of Virginia as ready to reveal certain 
congressional secrets to their constituents, and speaks of one whom he calls " Gomez " 
as having openly talked a congressional secret. An examination of Lovell's cor- 
respondence suggests that he himself was not without guilt in this regard. See also no. 
414, ante. 

^ Cf. no. 401, ante. Writing for the committee of foreign affairs to Franklin, 
July 16, Lovell says : " We find by the Minister of France that your appointment has 
given high satisfaction to his court and we are encouraged to expect proofs of its most 
confidential reliance upon your character." Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 248. The 
expression of Gerard on behalf of the French court is found in item 3 of the document 
" Ad Statum Legendi ", Journals, July 14. 

■^ That is, Arthur Lee. To Franklin, Lovell wrote July 16 : " We have had not 
a line from you of this year's date; indeed, I believe your latest is November 7, 1778" 
(Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 248). 

8 Cf. nos., 413, 414, 419, ante. 
[421]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VL 86 (marked "private") ; Wharton, Rev. 
Dipl. Corr., IIL 251. 



July, 1779 325 

Weeks of the Journals are printed to which I there referred largely. Some 
parts however I shall now repeat.^ .... 
Letters from A. Lee : 

Aug. 7-1 1. 21 27 31. 

Sep 9. 30 

Oct 19 P. S. Nov. 29 

XT LS 

Nov. 4 -^ 20 
^ 18 

I will now. Sir, add a few remarks. Your Quotation from Whitlock 
I have read in the Congress to strengthen what I have often urged there. 
Nothing can more naturally suggest itself to a Politician one would think 
yet I have affirmed Truth when I told you that the Com'tee was said to 
be now an useless Institution.^ 

What remark am I to now make upon Some of yr. Conduct referable 
to the 5th Line of the 3d page of this Sheet? * I will not trust my own 
Judgement ; but I suspect your most steady friends here will differ. I 
presume you meant to take their Opinion as you could not at such a 
distance judge of all Circumstances. Else why cover to R H or F. L. 
At present a Veil of Secresy is on the Business, as well as on that com- 
mitted to R. H. or F L or J L. Your Letter defensory has been read." 
Yr. first Letter to Shelburn brought that Water up to the Eyes of some, 
who are evidently unfriendly to you, which is the Consequence of strong 
unexpected Admiration. The Letter from Jennings and your Answer 
are as valuable as a marble Pillar erected to the honor of yr. Probity and 
prophetic sound Judgement. Boux's is as honorary to him as a Sensi- 
ble spirited Gentleman as it is disgraceful to others. All the other Vouch- 
ers were familiar to me. I have been so engaged and so unwell that I have 
only had the single chance of listening in Congress ; but I shall renew my 
Pleasure soon. 

The Report respect'g Supporting the Ministers was again recommitted 
this day but I told the House that I could not risque Censure by not offi- 
cially informing Mr. W Lee and Mr. Izard of the Proceedings of the 

2 Lovell's letter of June 13 is printed ante (no. 345). The copy enclosed with the 
letter of July ly contains numerous minor variations. 

Lovell wrote to Captain Sapet July 10 : " The Committee for Foreign affairs re- 
quest your care of some pamphlets and gazettes for Doctor Franklin and Doctor Arthur 
Lee. The Minister of France has sent with his packets those of the Committee referring 
to the papers now forwarded " (Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. L, 
p. 253, letter-book copy). 

3 Cf. no. 345, ante, and no. 458, post. The quotation from Whitelocke is in a 
letter from Arthur Lee to Lovell Dec. 4, 1778 {Life of Arthur Lee, IL 152) : 

" Whitlocke, in the journal of his embassy says — ' By this constant and perfect in- 
telligence from Thurloe, Whitlocke had great advantage in his negotiation, being thereby 
enabled to give a perfect account of affairs, not only of his own country, but of most 
other places, to the great satisfaction of the queen and her court, and grandees, with 
whom Whitlocke had frequent converse, and from his private and public letters, was 
able to satisfy their curious inquiries after news ' 

" I am sorry to assure you that our situation is exactly the reverse .... and trifling 
as it may appear, yet it is a fact, that as the reverse raised Whitlocke's credit, so this 
sinks ours." 

■* The reference is doubtless to the question raised in the letter of June 13 (no. 
345, ante), copied into this letter of July 17, with regard to Arthur Lee's resignation. 

5 Lee's letter of defense dated Feb. 10, 1779. See the Journals, July 16; also nos. 
415, 420, ante, and nos. 424, 496, post. 



326 Continental Congress 

8th of June. How easy and how tollerably decent would it have been to 
have recalled their Commissions for the Reasons h[anded?] down in the 
original Report of the Committee of 13. — vid 2d head Apr. 15th, but the 
4th head was meant to accomplish the point with you ; the most sanguine 

not being discouraged at the Idea of killing Doctr. F secondarily, 

or sacrificing all Character in themselves of Impartiality upon the Ground- 
work on which they meant to gibit your Fame.^ 

But I have said all my Eyesight will allow at this late hour of the Night 
and the Express goes off at Dawn yr. affectionate Friend, 

[Endorsed :] Reed, the nth of Sepr. 1779. A. L. J- ^• 

422. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to Ralph Izard.^ 
^ly. Philad'a July 17th 1779 

Your letter of March 4th was read in Congress 3 days ago being then 
only first received by the Com'tee of foreign Affairs. 

We should have been very happy to have received it before the 8th of 
June as it would undoubtedly have founded a Resolve of Congress more 
agreable to us to communicate officially than that to which .we must now 
refer you, in their Journals printed authoritatively by David C. Claypoole, 
and which are in the hands of Doctor Franklin or Doctr. Arthur Lee at 
Paris. 

We have till now omitted to forward to you that Resolve for your Re- 
call from the Court of Tuscany, as we daily expected a Settlement of a 
definite Recompense for yr. Services to the United States.^ But the Modes 
of doing Business in such an Assembly as Congress will not warrant our 
detaining, until such settlement some important Papers committed to us 
to be sent to the Court of France. 

We are with sincere Regards Sir your most humble Servants 

James Lovell 
for the Com'tee of for'gn Affairs 

P. S. Sepr. 16. Yr. Letter of Jan'ry 28th was read July 27th.' 

^ See the Journals, Aug. 6. 
[422]! Copied from the original (marked "3 plicate"), then in possession of Mr. 
Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 253. 

2 To Franklin, Lovell wrote July 16 : "A Report of the Treasury respecting the 
just Stipend of our late and present Ministers at foreign Courts is not quite determined 
upon. A Determination is peculiarly necessary as to Mr. W. Lee and Mr. Izard after 
the Proceedings here of June 8th " (Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XV. 44, also 
XV. 16; Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 248). Cf. nos. 286, 415, 421, ante, and the 
Journals, Aug. 6. A triplicate of Lovell's letter to William Lee (Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Lee MSS., VI. 88) contains a postscript of Sept. 16, not printed in Wharton {Rev. Dipt. 
Corr., III. 253), " Your letters of Feb. 25, Mar. 8-16, 17, 25 have been read in Congress ". 

3 This postscript could of course have been appended only to belated copies. 
Izard's letter is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. Z2- It was about this time, probably 
in view of this particular letter, that the parody on Izard's letters to Laurens was 
produced, found in Moore, Materials for History,, first ser. {Correspondence of Henry 
Laurens), p. 86; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., I. 591; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Dcane 
Papers, III. 205. The parody has been ascribed to John Laurens, but Wallace, in his 
Life of Henry Laurens (p. 308) points out that the copy in the Pennsylvania Historical 
Society is not in John Laurens's writing, as averred, but in that of Henry Laurens's 
secretary, Moses Young, a fact which proves nothing as to authorship. In a letter to 
Henry Laurens Aug. 13, 1779, Richard Henry Lee offers his conjectures concerning the 
source of what he calls the " infamous strategem" and its aims {Letters, II. 117). 



July, 12J9 327 

423. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to the Navy Board of 
THE Eastern Department/ 

To the honorable Navy Board at Boston. 

Philadelphia 17 July, 1779. 
Gentlemen 

I send to your care some important dispatches for France with a few 
letters for persons in your neighborhood. Among the latter is one from 
the French Minister here to the French Consul at Boston, perhaps it may 
be important that it be quickly delivered. Mr. Secretary Avery will take 
the trouble of the other home letters. In regard to those which are for 
Europe, I must beg you in the name of the Committee of Foreign affairs, 
to send them at the first possible hour, off by the conveyance mentioned in 
the enclosed Letter from the Marine Committee. You will be pleased to 
give strict orders about sinking all that are marked to be sunk, in case of 
Capture. Let that Step not be rashly taken, but surely, when it becomes 
a duty. Discreet expedition on the Voyage is highly to be wished for. On 
arrival at port the Packets may be delivered to any known agent of these 
States, or to such royal officer as your Captain shall deem proper, that 
they may be immediately forwarded all together to Dr. Franklin, or the 
Count de Vergennes. If your Captain is a man calculated for the task and 
inclined to undertake the delivery at Paris, you may make that discre- 
tional. He must not let choice of Port risque his packets when he reaches 
the Coast of France. 

I am Gentlemen, 

Your most humble Servant 

James Lovell 

424. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

Philadelphia 17th July 1779. 
My Dear Son, 

.... Yesterday we received in Congress dispatches from the Honor- 
able Arthur Lee Esqr. containing as complete a vindication, of his own 
and his Brother William's conduct, as I have ever seen in any case, every 
charge of Deane's 5th Decem. refuted, every article supported by vouch- 
ers, what a worse figure will this bad Serv^ant make before his fellow 
Citizens to whom he appealed, when his narrative of 139 Pages of vanity, 
misrepresentation, falsehood and contradiction shall pass under the har- 
row of Lee's Pen. those who have hitherto been his supporters, appeared 
to be unhappy while the Papers were reading.^ tell my friends they will 
find, that my resignation on the 9th December was, as I then said to them, 
the greatest act of my Life. 

I have heard nothing lately from head Quarters, the very plentiful 
harvest, which we have now secured, leads to animation, we are talking 
of an immediate army of ten or twelve Thousand good Militia, these to 

[423]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. I., f. 258 (leUer-book 
copy). 

[424] ^S. C. Hist. Soc, John Laurens Papers. 
2 Cf. nos. 415, 420, 421, ante. 



328 Continental Congress 

join the Commander in Chief and to attack New York ; a motion made by 
Mr. Dickinson seconded by Mr. Drayton that Congress should join the 
Army and act en Militaire. this shews more valour in those Gentlemen 
than of the wisdom and reflection of grave Senators, but who can restrain 
the ardor of fighting Men when an opportunity offers? the Motion is on 
the Table for consideration when it can be taken up consistently with 
Order.^ .... 

425; Henry Laurens, Proposed Resolve.^ 

[July 19? 1779.] 
That a committee be appointed to report a resolution or Proclamation 
to forewarn the Enemy that in case any Town Village or building belong- 
ing to the Inhabitants of any of these United States shall be wantonly set 
on fire by them, and it shall happen that the commanding officers of any 
such incendiary army or party shall fall into the hands of these United 
States that such commanding Officer shall be hanged or other wise capi- 
tally punished according to his dimerits. 

[Endorsed :] Draught of an Act of Congress for Retaliation ^ 

426. The Marine Committee to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

[July 19? 1779.] 
Sir: 

Inclosed you have a certified Copy of a Resolution of Congress dated 
July 19, 1779; by which you will perceive the Marine Committee are em- 
powered and directed by Congress to carry into Execution their Mani- 
festo of the 30 of Octr. 1778. In pursuance of this Authority and for 
the more speedy accomplishment of the Ends proposed, we authorise and 
most earnestly request you, to take every Measure in your power, to aid 
and assist us in the Execution of this Business. 

It is not our Intentions to confine the Measures to be used on this Occa- 
sion to open and hostile operations ; But on the contrary it is expected and 
we wish and desire that you would cause, at the Expence of the United 
States, any of the Towns of Great Britain or the West Indies, secretly to 
be set on fire. In particular London, Bristol, Liverpool, Glasgow and 
Edinburgh are to be considered as the first objects of national retaliating 
resentment ; and above all, London, the Seat of royal Residence and vin- 
dictive rage and the quarter from which have issued the orders for the 
conflagrations which have by the Enemy been lighted up in these United 
States. 

3 See the Journals, July 14 (p. 835). 

[425]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XXVI. 

2 This motion is undated but was probably offered on July 19, upon the reading 
of Washington's letter of July 13, when, besides the appointment of a special committee 
on the subject, the marine committee was instructed to take measures to carry into 
execution the manifesto of Oct. 30, 1778. The resolve may, however, have been offered 
Aug. 2, when the special committee made its report. It does not appear that any action 
was taken on that report. See nos. 426, 429, post. 

[426] 1 Papers Cont. Cong., no. m2, vol. VII., f. 495 (in the writing of William 
Whipple) ; the Nation, LXXXVII. 69. 



July, 1179 329 

America would have the Monarch see, that when provoked she can 
light up fires even at his own Doors. And in this Business it is requested, 
that you will use every possible Exertion. This Measure, in which so 
many Calamities are involved, and so contrary to the known and acknowl- 
edged Humanity with which Congress have heretofore carried on the 
present war, has at length become, for the sole and direct purpose of self 
preservation, absolutely and indispensibly necessary, from the cruel and 
unprecedented Manner in which our Enemies are daily carrying on the 
present War. Our Villages on the Sea Coasts are numerous, most of 
them defenceless, and all of them, with very few Exceptions, exposed and 
easily accessable to a naval Force, which renders them at any Time a prey 
to a savage and desolating Enemy. 

The Towns of ^ here to fore laid in ashes, the late suc- 
cessful attempts in burning and destroyed [i-fc] the Villages of Fairfield, 
Norwalk and Bedford in Connecticut and New-York, and the unques- 
tionable proofs Congress have received, that the Vengeance denounced 
against these States in the Manifesto of the British Commissioners will 
be executed in its fullest extent, has induced them, as the only efifectual 
Means, to put a stop to the further destruction of our Country, to retaliate 
upon our Enemy by destroying, if possible, some of the most distin- 
guished Cities in Great Britain and the West Indies. 

Our Countrymen have long complained of the slow and forbearing dis- 
position of Congress, when every day announces to them the destruction 
of some part of their Country. To meet these Ideas, they have at length 
solemnly determined to revenge themselves on their Enemies, and to leave 
untried no exertions for carrying into execution their Manifesto of the 
30 of Octr., 1778. 

A few desperate (determined)^ men, under the promise of handsome 
rewards, and well acquainted with the Situation of the large Towns in 
England and Scotland, will perhaps be the best instruments that can be 
employed for the Accomplishment of this Work. We do not however 
wish to point out any Mode that shall be obligatory upon you; your own 
Judgment and observation will readily suggest to you such steps as are 
most likely to answer the Ends proposed. 

As the avowed Determination of the Enemy, as set forth by the British 
commissioners, is to render us of as little use as possible to our ally, per- 
haps it would not be improper, if Capt. Jones should be in France, and his 
own force is inadequate, to request further aid, and attempt the destruc- 
tion of some of their Towns by a naval surprise. 

How such a Measure will accord with the Sentiments of the Court of 
France, your Situation will best enable you to determine. If it should 
appear to you improper to communicate the Matter at all to the Minister 
of France, you will then forbear to do it. 

2 The report of the special committee, in the Journals, Aug. 2, mentions Ports- 
mouth and Suffolk in Virginia, although Portsmouth stands erased in the document. 
See nos. 413, 414, 419. 420, on/^. 

3 The word " determined " is written above " desperate ", both words being 
underscored. 



330 Continental Congress 

We cannot conclude without once more earnestly pressing upon you, 
the Necessity of striking some blow similar to those suggested in the reso- 
lution of Congress. The destruction of a single village would instantly 
convince our Enemy of the Danger to which they are exposed, and the 
Necessity there will be, of desisting from the present destructive mode in 
carrying on the War.* .... 

427. The Commercial Committee to Oliver Pollock.^ 

July 19th 1779 
Sir, 

The Affairs of this Committee being for several Months past greatly 
deranged occasioned by the frequent Succession of new Members in the 
Room of such as had left Congress, together with the Removal of their 
Books and papers to different Parts of the Country for safety when the 
Enemy took possession of this City, These Accidents prevented your 
several Letters being hitherto regularly answered, to remedy this Evil, 
Congress did on 14th December last appoint a new Committee of Com- 
merce, who will be enabled to conduct their Affairs with regularity in 
future 

Upon laying your Letter before Congress this Committee procured the 
inclosed Resolves, by which you'l perceive they are fully impowered to 
exert every possible Means of making you Remittances,^ but from the 
present local Circumstances of this Country it will not be in their Power 
to do any thing considerable until the new Wheat is manufactured, of 
which we have had this Season the finest Crops, both as to Quality and 
Quantity that has been known for many Years.^ .... 

428. William Whipple to Ebenezer Thompson.^ 

Philadelphia the 19th July 1779 
My Dear Sir 

.... You are undoubtedly informed of the situation of our Military 
affairs in South Caro'a to the loth of June, and the paper which I shall 

* On July 19, on receipt of the news of the enemy's ravages and devastations in 
Connecticut, a committee (Gouverneur Morris, William Carmichael, and William 
Whipple) was appointed on the subject, and at the same time the marine committee 
was directed to take effectual measures to put into execution the manifesto of Oct. 30, 
1778. William Whipple, the writer of this letter, was accordingly a member of both 
committees. The special committee made, by the hand of Gouverneur Morris, a report 
Aug. 2 (see the Journals), but there is no record of any action taken upon it, other than 
that Secretary Thomson endorsed it " Burning Report " ; neither is there any record 
that this proposed letter to Franklin was offered for the consideration of Congress, nor 
indication that such a letter was ever actually sent to Franklin. See, however, the extract 
from Lovell's letter to Franklin, July 16, quoted under no. 415, ante, and Franklin's reply, 
Oct. 17 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 384). A history of the affair, by Mr. Worthing- 
ton C. Ford, is in the Nation, LXXXVII. 69 (July 23, 1908). Cf. Laurens's Proposed 
Resolve, no. 425, ante. 

[427]! Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., L. 41 (copy), 196 (copy); A. B. 
Woodward, Representation of the Case of Oliver Pollock (1803), p. 4 (extracts). 

2 See the Journals, July i. The committee wrote also (by the hand of Francis 
Lewis) to Franklin, July 21, requesting him not to permit Pollock's bills to be protested 
(Univ. of Pa., Franklin Papers, IIL 22). 

3 The copy at p. 196 shows the original to have been signed " Francis Lewis, by 
Order ". 

[428]! N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VL 115. 



July, 1779 331 

now inclose you will give you the last acco'ts from that Country ; ^ to the 
same paper I must beg leave to refer you for all the acco't we have re- 
ceived of the Glorious event that has lately taken place at Stony point; If 
we should be so successful as to dislodge the Enemy on the other side the 
River, Sir Harry's Ravaging Plans will be very much if not totally dis- 
concerted, however we may expect he will execute them as far as is in his 
power, as they were formed in the Savage Councils of Britain and 
being a favorite Project of that infernal Barbarian who we once called 
our King. And is it possible that there can be at this day a single person 
who has the most distant desire of being under the Government of such 
an execrable Villain? Future generations will not believe this part of our 
history much less will they believe that such wreched Miscreants are per- 
mitted to remain among us. I should be happy to hear that the authority 
of New-Hampshire were taking effectual measures to rid that state of all 
such miscreants, these People are justly chargeable with the greatest part 
of the miseries of this cruel war, and still they are suffered to remain 
quietly among us, doing all the mischief in their power. 

The events of this Campaign will undoubtedly have great influence on 
next winters negociations it is therefore of the utmost importance that 
we use every exertion in our military operations to strengthen the nerves 
of. and give boldness to our negociator. 

Our latest advices from Paris are the 6th apl there is nothing con- 
tained in the dispatches of consequence, that I may communicate at pres- 
ent. I can only say our affairs wear a much better aspect in every other 
part of the world than in our own Country 



429. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[July 19, 20, 1779.] 

Monday iQth July. Commercial Committee. Congress A number of 
Letters and dispatches read Genl. Waynes with an Account of his having 
surprisd and taken the Garison at Stoney Point with 500 Men Genl. 
Washington's Letter with an Acct. of the Enemy having Plunderd New 
Haven and Burnt Fairfield Green Farms, Norwalk and Bedford etc." 

P. M, Marine Committee. 

Tuesday July 20th. Com'l Committee Congress. This day taken up 
intirely in reading Letters of the cruelties committed by the Enemy in 
different Places etc. And according to Costom very little Business done. 

P. M. Marine Committee. 

2 See nos. 391, 392, 395, 408, ante. 
[429]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

- See the Journals. The proclamation of Sir George Collier and Maj.-Gen. 
William Tryon was an " Address to the Inhabitants of Connecticut " and besought them 
to return to British allegiance. A copy of this broadside ("New York: Printed by 
Macdonald and Cameron") is in the Washington Papers. It bears the date July 4, 1779. 
Cf. nos. 413 419, 425, 426, ante. 



332 Continental Congress 

430. Nathaniel Peabody to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Hon'd and Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 20th 1779. 

In my last which was wrote in great haste, I had the Hon'r of inclosing 
you several News papers and hand bills, ^ since which foreign letters 
have been received as late as the 6th of April '79 informing that Briton, 
finding herself baffled in her diabolical Efforts to subjugate the Good 
People of these States to the despotic dominion of a Dupe to an Igno- 
minious Tyrant whose tender Mercies are Cruelty; destitute of that 
Humanity which never finds a sure habitation but in a generous breast, and 
contrary to the Laws and Customs of all Civilized Nations, had given 
express orders to their Commanding officers in America to kill, and 
destroy plunder and burn all the defenceless Towns in their Power; and 
in particular directed the late infernal ExcursijDn to New Haven — a par- 
ticular account of which enterprize no doubt you will have before this 
reaches you — nevertheless I herewith inclose the best accounts we have 
of all the late Menouvres of both Armies. I heartily congratulate my 
fellow Citizens on the favourable prospect at the Southward and the 
Lucky affair of Takeing by surprize Colo. Johnson with about 500 pris- 
oners, and a very strong and important Fortress on the North River, 
which Circumstance will give New life and Vigour to our Troops, and 
furnish a historic page in the Annals of America. 

Your delegates here have sent on to the State a Number of the Jour- 
nals of Congress except for the year '78 which are not yet come from 
the printer, and the earliest opportunity will be improved in forwarding 
them when compleated. 

P. S 

431. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.^ 
£,ear sir Philadelphia July 20th 1779. 

Your favour of the 3d instant Just came to hand 

You ask Several Questions viz " is a French fleet expected on our 
Coast or up Canada river this year? " "will Spain intermeddle in the 
War? " " Can Congress procure a Loan of hard money? " " When will 
the Continental Lottery finish Drawing? " To which I answer 

Circumstances have been Such as led us to expect the assistance of 
a French fleet on our Coast this Campaign ; But as the hurricane months 
are advancing leave You to Judge of the probabillity. 

The Catholicism of his most Supine Majesty has kept him, for a long 
time Open to all parties, and perhaps it was for the best. But have good 
reason to Conclude, Spain will Soon take an active part with us, against 
those whom they have long viewed with Jelousy Envy and Dread.^ 

A Foreign Loan for hard money Not Yet determined, our finances 
have been in a bad Situation but hope things are Comming Right 

The drawing of the Lottery is at last Compleated 

[430] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 103. Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, p. 102. 

2 See nos. 428, 429, ante. 
[431]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. IL ("No. 3"). 

2 Cf. no. 444, post. 



July, I'/yg 333 

432. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

July 20th 1779 
.... Last Saturday we got all shook up together, as I find some of 
your old Assembly-Men phraze it, about our Tomcod.^ Sherman Mc- 
Kean etc. etc. have fallen upon Something that suits J. J. does and does 
not suit G M and W H D ^ will do with some and will not do with others 
of the Faction mean'g your honor etc. 

However, I hope a Decision will be made for I think we may make out 
to rub and go at least with the Ground work layd before you left us. 
a pretty Letter this to be published in New York * with the Name of 

James Lovell 

433. James Duane to Mrs. Duane.^ 

Philadelphia 21st July 1779 
.... you may be assured that I shall not expose myself, nor continue 
here one hour longer than indispensable duty requires. Some Matters 
of great Importance are drawing to a Conclusion: to leave them sus- 
pended I cannot answer to myself nor my Constituents : When they are 
finished I shall return and meet my Friends with Confidence and a Con- 
viction that I have faithfully done my Duty, and that I have obtaind a 
Title to future Indulgence if not to the Esteem of my Country. 

.... We hear, with Horror, of the Devastation committed by Gov- 
emour Tryon in Connecticut. While it will tarnish the glory of the 
british nation and render them odious to all Europe : the miserable In- 
struments in this tragedy will be execrated and detested — In a political 
View it will have an Effect directly Contrary to what is intended. Ameri- 
cans can never be worked to submission by Cruelty and Devastation. 
Their aversion to their Destroyers will become deeper rivetted : and 
their Efforts to defend themselves more strenuous and decisive. 

I flatter myself we shall have a glorious campaign in every Quarter 
and that the almighty Being who has hitherto so manifestly protected 
us will soon bring this War to a safe and honorable Conclusion 



434. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[July 21, 1779.] 
21. Congress spent part of this day respecting a Portugal vessel taken 
by orders from Carter Broxten ^ and have ordered prosecution against 
him. 

[432]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 That is, the fisheries. See the Journals, July 17. 

3 John Jay, Gouverneur Morris, and William Henry Drayton. 

* Alluding to the possibility of capture by the British and publication in Riving- 
ton's Royal Gazette. 

[433]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Duane Papers, I. 39. 
[434]ijEw^.r Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 25. 

2 Carter Braxton. See nos. 398, 405, ante, and no. 435, post. 
26 



334 Continental Congress 

435. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[July 21, 22, 1779.] 
Wednesday 21st. Com'l Committee Congress. The Report on Duar- 
tee the Portugeze took up the whole day in debate.^ 

Thursday 22d. Com'l Committee Congress. After the dispatches 
were read, the order of the day on foreign affairs, long debates and some 
resolutions agreed to. Marine Committee Mr. Camp ^ 

436. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON.^ 

Philadelphia 22d July 1779 
Dear Robert 

The enclosed papers will shew you that the Fisheries are a daily subject 
of contemplation and your own good sense will shew how much weakness 
there is in the argument for insisting on an acknowledgment of common 
right to them in America. Tis peculiarly unfortunate for the people and 
for Congress that subjects of this sort should be thus publickly agitated ; 
without divulging the secrets of Congress it is not practicable to place the 
subject in its proper light and yet unless that is done the people will 
probably be deluded and if it is done Congress must become contemptible 
abroad and consequently insignificant at home. Those who have con- 
tended for insisting on this acknowledgement from Great Britain as an 
ultimatum begin to perceive that it is extreme bad policy and the certain 
way of losing the thing when if proper measures be taken it must cer- 
tainly be gained 

437. Samuel Huntington to Jeremiah Wadsworth.^ 

Philadelphia 22d July 1779 
Sir 

I am favourd with yours of the 15th Instt. am sensible you Labour 
under many difficulties in the present Situation, but hope for the best. 
Circumstances will admit of. 

The design of the late Resolution ^ for borrowing twenty Million was 
to put the lender in such Circumstances as to secure the real value of his 
money both principal and Interest in any given circumstances in future, 
it is founded in this principal that the value of the bills will not depreciate 
if the quantity in circulation is not increased, and the lender is at Liberty 
to keep his money in the fund and not receive the principal whenever 
the quantity in circulation is greater than it was at the time he put the 
money in, and his Anual Interest is to Increase in the Nominal sum in 

[435]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 434, ante. 

3 The entry appears to have been left unfinished. It may have pertained to 
Caleb Camp, speaker of the New Jersey assembly, though there were others of the 
name in New Jersey. 

[436] ^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, IL 191 (copy). 
1437]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Jeremiah Wadsworth Papers. 
2 The resolution of June 29. 



July, 1779 335 

proportion as the Sum in Circulation is Increased since the time he put 
his money into loan, if such case should happen. 

The plan of this Resolution is so much approved that in one day in this 
City half a Million was subscribed. 

Congress are determind to stop Emitting which they may certainly do 
if the people at large will chearfully Contribute by loans and Taxes ac- 
cording to their Ability.^ I heartily wish that Congress were removd 
from this City for various reasons, have no Intelligence here or from 
the Southerd, more than the papers contain. 

438. John Dickinson, Propositions for a Treaty of Peace.^ 

Mr. President, 

Having very deliberately considered the Treaties between His Most 
Christian Majesty and the United States, the Memorials of the Minister 
Plenipotentiary of France of February 9th 1779, March 7th March 30th 
May 3d May 6th May 9th May 22d and May 27th following, his Commu- 
nications in Conference on the 13th of February aforesaid, and on the 
12th of this Month, the little Progress yet made by Congress towards a 
Completion of the Business herein mentioned, The importance of that 
Business, the Danger of Delay, the Situation of foreign and domestic 
affairs, the Conduct of other Nations in vindicating their Independance 
and Rights, the Distance of these States from Europe, and the man- 
ner in which the Deliberations of Congress on the said Memorials 
Communications have been conducted, I esteem it my indispensable Duty 
to propose another Mode of proceeding thereon for facillitating and 
accelerating those Deliberations, a mode, in my humble opinion, by its 
Nature more adapted to the Exigencies of Negotiations, and in which, 
at the same time every proposition. Question of Difficulty that can be 
thought of by us, may in a regular Disposition receive its fit arrange- 
ment, due Consideration and proper Qualifications. 

These purposes, it is apprehended, will be most speedily and effectually 
attained by throwing our Resolutions into the form of a sett of Instruc- 
tions to the Minister Plenipotentiary who shall be appointed on our part 
to carry on the Negotiation in Conjunction with the Minister or Ministers 
of our Ally, under the Mediation of his most Catholic Majesty. 

I have essayed a form of this kind, in which I have endeavoured to 
trace the Turns that may take place in the Course of the Negotiation. 
I have not the Presumption to think it compleat, but as it will be suffici- 
ent to convey to Congress our Idea of the Plan, their Wisdom, if it is 
approved, can easily supply its Deficiencies, on the other hand, it is very 
likely, that, to guard against Embarrassments that may arise from illimit- 
able Contingencies, Some Stages are mark'd at which the Negotiation 
may never arrive, and some Questions and Difficulties stated, that may 
not be therein mentioned. For this it is hoped, that the Remoteness of 

3 Cf. no. 440, post, and see the Journals, Sept. 1,3, 8, 13, and nos. 505, 508, 
516, post. 

[438P S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, Misc. Docs., 1776-1783, no. 29 (copy). 



336 Continental Congress 

the plan intended for treating, and the pointed Expressions of the Min- 
ister of France on the Subject, will be allowed as Excuses. If they occur, 
your Minister will be instructed on them. If they do not occur, they will 
be at worst, but useless. 

Sir, It will appear from these papers which I propose to deliver in to 
your Hands, that I would give my vote for a Pacification, if it cannot 
possibly be more advantageously obtained, upon Terms that with some 
members of this House will be inadmissible. In so momentous an affair 
I should tremble to think of trusting to my own judgement in contradic- 
tion to that of persons whose Characters give so much weight to their 
sentiments. I do not trust to it. I find the Ideas I venture to express, 
approved by Gentlemen of distinguished abilities and Integrity, and I 
have the Satisfaction of knowing, that my Principles of Conduct in this 
Business can be justified with a most remarkable application by the 
Examples of those great Statesmen and excellent Patriots whose Pru- 
dence and virtue unbias'd by plausible pretensions and undaunted by 
threatening oppositions established the Freedom Soverignty and Inde- 
pendance of the United Provinces of the Low Countries. 

Yet these authorities, great as they are, have not detached me so far 
from a diferential Regard for the opinion of those who differ from me, 
as perhaps future Events may prove I ought to have been if I could more 
effectually have resisted the Influencies of a Regard so Extensive. 

But, a just attention to what concerns myself, renders it necessary not 
to confine my observations to the following form of Instructions, because, 
it contains not all the Measures in which I will most heartily join, for 
assuring as far as We can to these States the important Fisheries of 
North America. On this Head, besides what is mentioned in the follow- 
ing form, I cheerfully assent to these Resolutions. 

1st. That no article shall be inserted in the expected Treaty, by which 
the Right of all these States or the Exercise thereof by any of these 
States to take Fish on the Banks of Newfoundland and other the fishing 
Banks and in the Seas of North America excepting as in the following 
Resolution is excepted, shall be given up or in any manner impaird. 

2d. that the Faith of the United States be mutually pledged by and to 
each other, that, the Treaties of Paris, in 1778 being allways preserv'd 
inviolate, in case Great Britain shall after the Conclusion of the War 
disturb the Inhabitants of any of these States in the Exercise of the said 
Fisheries any where excepting within three Leagues of the Coast of the 
Teritories that shall remain to great Britain at the said Conclusion, or 
such distance as shall be established in the expected Treatie of Peace 
approv'd by these States, the other States shall if required by the State 
so disturbed regard such Disturbance as an Act of open Hostility against 
all the States, and shall make Common Cause in support maintenance 
and Defence of this right to the Said Fisheries. 

It has not been thought necessary to lengthen the following form by 
dilating on those articles that are usual in Treaties, and therefore cannot 
be expected to occasion much delay; nor on the Determinations, to be 
taken concerning Spain, upon the Representations of the Minister of 
France respecting a Connection to be made with that kingdom, because, 



July, 1779 337 

it is apprehended, that the Deliberations of Congress on that Subject will 
not be perplex'd with any troublesome Intricacies. 

Sir, I am perfectly aware of the Reproaches I shall incurr and of the 
Hazards I shall run, by committing Myself in a ^Manner so contradictory 
as I now do to the Sense of great numbers of my Countrymen more 
ardent tho not more zealous than myself in our righteous Cause. 

An attack upon me is already begun, in consequence of what past some 
days ago relative to these points. But I should be unworthy of a Seat in 
this Honorable Assembley, it Reproaches and Hazards of any kind could 
divert or deter me from executing the high office conferr'd upon me 
by my confiding Constituents, in that manner, which according to the best 
judgement I can frame on a view of all Circumstances and the most 
mature Deliberation of which I am capable, I think most Hkely to promote 
their well fare. 

Two Rules I have laid down for myself throughout this Contest, to 
which I have constantly adhered, and still design by the Divine favor to 
adhere — first, on all occasions where I am call'd upon as a Trustee for my 
Countrymen to deliberate on questions important to their Happiness, dis- 
daining all personal advantage to be deriv'd from a suppression of my 
real Sentiments, and defying all dangers to be risqued by a Declaration 
of them, openly to avow them ; and Secondly, after thus discharging the 
Duty, whenever, the public Resolutions are taken, to regard them tho' 
opposite to my opinion as Sacred because they lead to public Measures 
in which the Common weal must be interested, and to join in supporting 
them as earnestly as if my voice had been given for them. 

While I believe in my Conscience that I am faithfully serving my 
Country I shall deplore but not dread her Resentment if Ihappen to 
offend her. She is my Parent, as a dutiful son, I shall kiss her correcting 
Rod. Let her strike but let her also hear me. If the present day is too 
warm for me to be calmly judg'd, I ever credit my Country for justice 
some years hence. Tis true, I may be mistaken, but sufficient it will 
be for my vindication, if it be decided, that my Conduct is influenced by 
what I think right, for then it must be influenced by Honesty and 
affection. 

Whatever may be the Merit or Demerit of my Behavior on this great 
occasion, I beg, that these papers Signed by me, may be received by Con- 
gress, and kept among their Records, that I may not be injured by mis- 
apprehensions, nor have it in my power to elude a charge, but, may 
stand or fall by evidence under my own Hand voluntarily delivered by 
me at the time of the Transaction.^ 

July 22d 1779 John Dickinson 

[Endorsed :] Scheme for Treaty of Peace etc. by J. D. Esquire 

2 By " these papers " Dickinson means this address and his draft of instructions 
for the negotiation of peace, no. 439, post. Dickinson had been appointed June 17 on a 
committee to prepare the form of a commission to the minister who may be appointed 
to negotiate a peace. For the further proceedings, see the Journals, June 19, 24, July 1,
6, 17, 22, 24, 29, 31, Aug. 3, 4, 5, 7j 13, 14. On Aug. 4 a committee of which Dickinson 
was a member, was appointed to draft the instructions, but that paper appears to have 
been drawn by Gouverneur Morris. 



338 Continental Congress 

439. John Dickinson, Draft of Instructions for the 
Negotiation of Peace.^ 

Inclosed you will receive a Commission appointing you Minister pleni- 
potentiary for treating with Great Britain, together with several resolu- 
tions of Congress on that Subject. 

This Treaty, we have Reason to believe, will be managed under the 
Mediation of his most Catholic Majesty. Immediately on the Receipt 
hereof, you are to apply to his most Christian Majesty, desiring he will 
be pleas'd expressly to guaranty to these States the Exercise of the Right 
of fishing on the Banks of Newfoundland and other the fishing Banks and 
in the seas of North America, at a reasonable Distance to be ascertain'd 
in the Guaranty from the Coasts of the Territories that shall remain to 
Great Britain at the Conclusion of the War, preserving inviolate the 
treaties of Paris between his Majesty and these States. 

You are to assign as Reasons of this Request, the very great Anxiety 
of the people of these States to have those Fisheries assured to them 
more plainly than they appear to be by the Treaties, abovementioned — the 
Dependance of many of them thereon for their subsistance — the Difficul- 
ties to be apprehended, if the Minds of the Inhabitants cannot be in some 
Manner quieted on this point — the Confidence reposed in his Majesty's 
Magnanimity and in his Disposition to promote every Measure essentially 
necessary for the Happiness of these States. 

Whatever may be the Effect of this application, you are to ^ declare, 
that you are ready to treat with Great Britain on her directly Acknowledg- 
ing in good Faith and Form the Liberty Sovereignty and Independance 
absolute and unlimited of these States as well in Matters of Government 
as of Commerce. 

If this Acknowledgement cannot by any Means be obtained, and you 
find it absolutely necessary to admit some mezso-termine, you may pro- 
pose this Mode of Expression, that " the King of Great Britain agrees 
to treat with the people of New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode 
Island and Providence plantations, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, 
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South 
Carolina and Georgia, as free and independant States whose Sovereignty 
is absolute and unlimited as well in Matters of Government as of Com- 
merce " ; and from insisting on this Mode of Expression you are in no 
Manner to recede, unless it be to admit some other more strong and 
positive in favor of the Freedom Sovereignty and Independance of these 
States. 

[439]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 49, vol. I., f. 78. At the head of the 
first page Jared Sparks has written, "Dickinson's Draft of Instructions to Commis- 
sioners (apparently not adopted)". He has also inserted there the date "July 22, 1779". 
A printed text, with minor errors, is in Memoirs of the Historical Society of Penn- 
sylvania, XHI. 414. 

2 At this point the following was erased, " proceed to treat, taking Care in the 
first place, that the powers of the British Minister or Ministers are in good Form and 
sufficiently full and that nothing is contained in their Credentials derogatory to or in 
any Manner impairing the Freedom Sovereignty and Independance of these States abso- 
lute and unlimited as well in Matters of Government as of Commerce ". Nearly the 
same words are used in a later paragraph. 



July, 1779 339 

If the Treaty proceeds on the former or on this Footing, you are then 
to insist on the Form of Acknowledgement that shall be adopted being 
inserted in the Treaty, on the Limits of these States being ascertained 
according to the first of the inclosed Resolutions, an immediate evacua- 
tion of all places within those Limits by all the British land and naval 
Forces, the full Enjoyment thereof by these States, a Release of all 
Prisoners without Ransom,^ and from these points you are in no Manner 
to recede. You may also insert such other articles as are usual in mere 
Treaties of peace, of which kind we will send you some precedents, if 
it shall be thought necessary. 

You are to observe, that you are not to propose the last mentioned 
Mode of Expression, unless you are perfectly assured, that no treaty with 
Great Britain can be had but by admitting some such Mode, and unless 
the French and Spanish Courts shall solemnly declare their Sense of the 
treaty of Alliance in 1778 to be, that France is not thereby bound to 
contend for one more strong and positive in favor of these States — and 
France will not agree to contend for such an one * — and unless you are 
convinced, that both those Courts will be highly disgusted by your refus- 
ing to admit some such Mode, as is before mentioned. 

In proceeding, you are to take especial Care, not only that the powers 
of the British Minister or Ministers are sufficiently full, but that the 
Credentials for treating with these States are done and expedited sub- 
stantially in the Manner usually practised by Great Britain in treating 
with other Sovereign powers in Europe, and that nothing is contained 
therein derogating from or in any Manner denying the Freedom Sover- 
eignty and Independance of these States absolute and unlimited as well 
in Matters of Government as of Commerce. 

You are to endeavour by all Means to procure the Treaty of peace to 
be signed and ratified by Great Britain, before you proceed to a treaty 
of Commerce. If the British Ministers shall positively decline the former, 
unless the Terms of the latter be in some Degree previously determined, 
and this cannot be avoided, you are to declare, that immediately after 
the Treaty of Peace shall be signed and ratified on the part of Great 
Britain you will sign a Treaty of Commerce on just and reasonable 
Terms. If an Explanation of these Words be urged, you may declare, 
that you are not authorized to say anything more on the Subject, till the 
Treaty of peace shall be signed and ratified as aforesaid — that when 
that shall be done, the Respect due to the exalted Dignity and undoubted 
Equity of the Mediating power, a Regard for the Honor of the United 
States, together with the earnest Desire they feel of demonstrating to the 
whole World on this signal Occasion that Moderation of Temper by 
which they wish to be allways distinguished, will forbid them to advance 

3 After the word " Ransom " a space of about four lines in extent is left blank, 
as if with the thought of including other demands. 

* This clause is probably not an interjected assertion, but an additional condition, 
the meaning doubtless being, "or if France will not agree to contend for such an one". 
Farther on the precise clause is again interjected in the same manner; but near the 
close, in a similar connection, the idea is definitely expressed in a conditional form, " if 
she will not agree to contend for it ". 



340 Continental Congress 

propositions inconsistent with the Sentiments impress'd by the foregoing 
Considerations, besides, that a proper Attention to the well known Ad- 
vantages to be expected from the British Friendship and Commerce, 
would prevent them from insisting on any points that might justly cause 
an Obstruction to their receiving those Advantages. 

If the British Minister shall utterly refuse to sign the Treaty of peace 
and to procure its Ratification aforesaid without a further Explanation 
of the Treaty of Commerce, you are with equal Firmness to refuse such 
Explanation, and you may alledge, that the two Treaties are distinct 
in their Nature — that the one is founded on the Maxims of Religion and 
Humanity and calculated for putting an End to the Effusion of Christian 
Blood and to the Calamities of War — the other founded on the Motive 
of Gain — that to refuse an Assent to the first, unless the Measure of the 
latter be previously ascertained, would be to sacrifice the noblest prin- 
ciples of Conduct to Views of a far inferior Value — that the method 
proposed by you is not unsupported by precedents — but, to mention no 
more, that the Treaty of Commerce between Spain and the United prov- 
inces was not brought to a Conclusion till a considerable Time after the 
Treaty of peace at Munster. 

If the Explanation shall be still insisted on by Great Britain, and you 
find Reason to be convinced, that the Treaty of peace will fail on your 
withholding it, you are to endeavour in the most prudent Manner you can 
devise to discover the Conditions on which she will consent to a Treaty 
of Commerce, particularly, whether she will agree to insert an article 
in it, not to disturb the Inhabitants of these States in the Exercise of the 
Fisheries on the Banks of Newfoundland and others the fishing Banks 
and in the Seas of North America, with a reciprocal one on the part of 
these States, limiting a reasonable Distance, if required by her, within 
which neither party shall in the Exercise of such Fisheries approach the 
Coasts of the other, whether of the Continent or Islands. 

If you can be entirely assured, that Great Britain will agree to insert 
such an Article, then, you may proceed to an Explanation of the Terms 
on which you will sign a Treaty of Commerce — the Basis thereof to 
be an Equality and Reciprocity of Benefits — preserving inviolate the 
Treaties of Paris in 1778 — and taking Care, that the said Distance be so 
limited, as not to be less than about three Leagues, nor greater than 
about fifteen Leagues.^ 

If the Insertion of the Article aforesaid cannot be obtained, you are 
then to propose this mode of Expression " that Commerce shall in every 
Respect be restored to the same State in which it was before the War, 
excepting every Exclusion, Restriction and Regulation prior to the Treaty 
in preference of Great Britain to any other Nation now in or that here- 
after shall be in Amity with these States, or in any Manner or by any 
Construction implying a Dependance or Subordination of the States on 

s A short paragraph is here erased : " If the Treaty of peace shall be signed 
and ratified on the part of Great Britain in Manner beforementioned without the sug- 
gestion of any Difficuhy concerning Commerce, and you proceed to this Head, you are 
to treat on the Basis aforesaid." The paragraph is introduced with slight modification 
farther on. 



July, lyjQ 341 

or to Great Britain or the Crown thereof " — and from this Mode of 
Expression you are in no manner to deviate unless it be to admit some 
other more strong and positive in favor of these States. 

But you are to observe that you are not to propose this Mode of Ex- 
pression unless the French and Spanish Courts shall solemnly declare 
their sense of the Treaty of Alliance in 1778 to be, that France is not 
thereby bound to contend for one more strong and positive in favor of 
these States — and France will not agree to contend for such an one — and 
unless you are convinced, that both those Courts will be offended by your 
refusing to admit some such Mode as is before mentioned. 

If this Mode or one more favorable to these States is admitted, yet if 
it amounts not to the express Stipulation aforesaid, you are if possible 
to procure the Delivery to you of a Testimonial from the Mediating 
power, that the Exercise of the Right of these States to the said Fisheries 
was effectually allowed by Great Britain tho not expressly mentioned in 
the Treaty, the said States having declined at the Request of the Mediat- 
ing power to insist on the Insertion of the said Article. 

You are however to understand, that the Insertion of such an Article 
is not to be so far insisted on as in the Manner before mentioned, except 
in the Case of a Refusal by France to enter into the Guaranty aforesaid; 
for if she shall actually enter into the same, you are to endeavour ear- 
nestly to procure the Insertion of such an article; but if you find your 
insisting upon it will break off the Treaty and displease the French and 
Spanish Courts, you are to decline urging the Insertion. 

If the Treaty of peace shall be signed — and ratified on the part of 
Great Britain in the Manner before mentioned without the Suggestion 
of any Difficulty concerning Commerce, and you then proceed to that, 
you are to treat on the Basis aforesaid. 

Whenever in the Course of the Conference, the Fisheries shall be 
mentioned, you are to propose for avoiding Disputes, the Insertion of the 
article aforesaid relating to them. If this proposition shall be objected to, 
you are in support of it, to alledge the Common Right to such Fisheries — 
the Right vested in these States by Occupancy and ^the Necessity of pro- 
curing Subsistance — and the right of Compensation for the Expenses 
and Damages of an unprovoked defensive war. 

The Arguments in Support of the first and last of these Topics, you 
may draw from the Principles of Justice and the Laws of Nature and 
Nations. As to the second, if it shall be said, that the Right vested in 
these States by Occupancy, was vested in the Inhabitants as Subjects of 
the British Crown, you are to observe thereon — that these Inhabitants 
were a part of the people of the Empire, and that on a just Separation 
of the people, a partition of the Rights before exercised in Common, 
becomes also just, as attached to the Persons of those thus separating 
and before the Separation thus exercising those Rights — otherwise, the 
first Injustice in causing a separation would become a foundation for and 
a sanction of a second Injustice — which is a proposition operating too 
strongly against the Universal Sense of Mankind to be supportable — that 
this Argument is greatly fortified by the Necessity of procuring Subsis- 



342 Continental Congress 

tance, a necessity that is allways growing more strait by the Encrease of 
Inhabitants — that this right is also strengthened by this Circumstance, 
that the Dominions in North America which may remain to Great Britain 
on a Pacification have been acquired or secured to her by the Exertions 
of these States as well as her own — that a Right thus vested in them 
cannot be justly impaired in any Manner by the prosecution of such a 
War as that between Great Britain and them, or any Separation thereby 
occasioned of the Members of the Empire — that a Right of trading to 
the East Indes acquired only by Occupancy and but for a short Time 
and " flagrante Bello " between Spain and the United provinces, was 
confirmed to these at the peace of Munster — a fortiori, should this Right 
so antient, so established before the War, so continued and uninterrupted, 
be confirmed to these States. 

You may also give up on behalf of these States any Trade to the East 
Indes and to Africa while they continue undisturbed by Great Britain 
in the said Fisheries.® 

If Great Britain shall utterly refuse to treat of a perpetual peace, 
but shall offer to treat of a Truce, and the French and Spanish Courts 
shall solemnly declare their sense of the Treaty of Alliance in 1778 to 
be that France is not thereby bound to contend for a perpetual peace — if 
she will not agree to contend for it — and if you are fully assured, that 
the treating of and agreeing to a Truce cannot be denied or delayed ^ 
by these States without highly offending those Courts, you are then to 
proceed to treat of a Truce ; in treating of which, you are to conduct your- 
self in the Manner herein before pointed out for treating of a perpetual 
Peace — to use all the means in your power to procure as long a Truce 
as can be obtained — and as great Security as will be agreed to against 
any considerable land or naval Forces being kept by Great Britain in the 
Dominions that may remain to her in North America, at the Conclusion 
of the War — on which Heads you are to regulate yourself by the neces- 
sity you shall find imposed upon you of conforming to the Sentiments of 
their most Christian and most Catholic Majesties. 

In the Course of the Negotiations you are not to omit any opportunity 
of sending to Congress the earliest advices of every step taken therein, 
and of every Difficulty that occurs, so as to enable Congress to judge in 
the most full and ample Manner of all the proceedings. In sending these 
advices, you will use every precaution to prevent your Dispatches falling 
into the Hands of the Enemy, and you will also send so many Copies of 
each Letter as to remove every probability of our failing to receive the 
Intelligence designed for us. 

John Dickinson. 
July22d, 1779. 

8 A space of some four inches between this and the next paragraph is left blank, 
as if there were other provisions of this character which Dickinson had offered in his 
remarks to Congress, or contemplated offering. 

7 Dickinson first wrote "refused". Similarly, just above, he substituted "as- 
sured" for "convinced". 



July, 1779 343 

The substance of these papers ® was deHvered by me to Congress on 
Saturday the 17th of July 1779, after Congress had postponed the Reso- 
lution then under Consideration. 

J. D. 

440. John Dickinson to Thomas Rodney.^ 

Philadelphia, July 22, 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Your reflections on our loan, and on some other proceedings, 
I fear, are too well founded. Our difficulties are prodigious. We see the 
wisdom of your proposal to stop the presses — we perceive taxation to 
be of as much importance as you mention — we are desirous of borrowing 
on the lowest terms — but, Avhile we have so many thousands to supply 
with necessaries, and while the demands upon us for the articles we must 
purchase are daily and hourly rising upon us, with such a boundless 
stretch — to what purpose are loans and taxes? 

I have esteemed it my duty since I have been in congress, to keep my 
eyes constantly fixed on the preventing further emissions, and several 
steps have been taken towards that point, that are known but by very few 
to lead towards it : some others are now under consideration, and I am 
impatiently waiting for the moment, when a prospect of carrying on 
affairs without further emissions, and a likelihood of succeeding in the 
attempt, will permit me to move for stopping the presses.^ .... 

441. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[July 23, 24, 1779.] 
Friday 2^. Com'l Committee Congress. Letter from the Prisoners 
at Long Island, Referrd to a Committee of 3. Sundry Reports from the 
Board, the B'd of War and Treasury.^ New Regulation in the Hide 
department etc. P. M. went to the Marine Committee Secretary not 
there 

Saturday Jtdy 24th Commercial Committee ^ Congress Sundry Let- 
ters and Reports Genl. Wilkinson was Balloted for Clothier General. 
Order of the day on foreighn affairs, after long debate as usual, and an 
amendmant offerd per Mr. Dickinson the Previous Question was Put per 
Mr. McKean and carried 

8 By " these papers " Dickinson doubtless means this document and the address 
which he delivered upon its presentation (no. 438, ante). John Fell records (no. 418, 
ante) that Dickinson read these propositions in Congress July 17. 
[440] 1 Niles, Principles and Acts of the Revolution (1876), p. 253. 

2 Cf. no. Z2>7j ante. 
[441 ]i Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 It was on this day that Gerry offered his propositions on finance, upon which a 
report was brought in July 30, and again taken into consideration Aug. 9, 27, 28. See 
nos. 449, 461, post. There was also an extensive report from the committee for regulating 
departments. See no. 608, post. 

3 A letter from the commercial committee, July 24, to President Reed of Penn- 
sylvania, relative to the shipment of supplies to Santo Domingo for the use of the 
French forces, is in Pa. Arch., first sen, VII. 579. President Reed's reply, suggesting 
a technical fault in the request, is ibid., p. 588, and a revised letter from the committee, 
July 31, is ibid., p. 605. See no. 449, post. 



344 Continental Congress 

442. William Whipple to John Langdon.^ 

Philadelphia 26th July 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

I am favored with yours of the 5th inst. and in conformity to your 
desire have mentioned the several matters to the Commercial Committee. 
As the Commercial business is entirely out of the line of the Navy Board 
they think it improper that such accounts should be settled by that Board, 
besides they are not authorised to give any such instructions 

The last accounts from South Carolina were under 23d June, our 
prospects were then flattering, perhaps another week may produce agree- 
able intelligence from that quarter, but I hope there will be no public 
rejoicing till the intelligence comes from such authority as will justify 
the fullest belief 



443. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Monday July 26th. Commercial Committee Congress. This day the 
Particulars of the glorious affair of the taking the fort and Garrison 
at Stoney Point per Genl. Wayne with his Letter and General Washing- 
tons on the Occasion, with the Colours of the 17th Regt., were brought 
to Congress. Sundry dispatches were Read.^ (NB Mr. Houston not at 
Congress) 

[442]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 697. 
[443] ^^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See the Journals. The letter of Edward Langworthy may properly be repro- 
duced here : 

" Philadelphia, July 25th 1779. 

" Sir, 

" I think it my duty to inform your Excellency, that the house I lodge in was last 
Evening beset by a Number of People, headed by Colonel Bull and Mr. Peale, two of 
the Committee of this City ; that after they had insulted Miss Humphreys and danger- 
ously wounded her in the head, being forced to quit the House; they continued to insult 
Mr. Humphreys, and several times made attempts to break into the House, with a 
design to seize on his Person, as well as on myself ; not venturing to force the doors 
of the house, they by some means and under some pretence, brought before the Door a 
Serjeant with six or eight of the Guards of the Continental Troops, stationed in this 
City, and threatened to attack and force the house. By the Interposition of a Gentleman 
present, Mr. Humphreys continuing, with great resolution, on the defensive, they 
retired towards the morning without [" effecting it " erased] attempting it. This day 
I am informed in a way, which leaves no room to doubt of the Truth of the Intelligence, 
that the same People are to seize to morrow, some time when they may judge convenient 
for their purpose, on Mr. Drayton, Mr. Govr. Morris, Mr. Deane and myself and 
probably will force us to appear before the Committee. I have for several weeks past 
daily expected my Commission from the State of .Georgia, appointing me to a seat in 
Congress, which has been delayed to be sent on, by reason of the Invasion and distresses 
of the State. During this I have in all respects demeaned myself as a good Subject of 
these States, and consider myself intitled to the protection due to one; but when I see 
the Arms and Troops of these States, turned by one part of the Subjects, acting without 
any legal Authority, on the other, I am very apprehensive for the Consequences, and 
should hold myself inexcusable, if I delayed giving you and the honorable Congress 
the earliest Information. 

" Situated as I am myself, being a Subject of a remote, and at this time distressed 
State; and as Affairs in this City evidently are, at this time; I appeal to the honorable 



July, 1779 345 

Tuesday July 27 1779 Com'l Committee Congress. After sundry- 
Letters and dispatches were read the Report for the Officers to be allow'd 
half Pay for Life and a further subsistance began to be debated. Mr. 
Houston my Colleague strongly oppos'd the motion. 

444. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 27th July 1779 
My Dear Sir 

Your favor of the loth inst. is now before me. looking over my 
minutes I find I have wrote you several times since the 27th may and 
that I have punctually discharged my debts in that way, as to numbers. 
You seem to be somewhat alarmed at the New York and Newport publi- 
cations which are circulated by the Tories and Suspicious Characters.^ 

Congress for protection, against the Outrages I have reason to apprehend, and also to 
inform them of what has been talked of against others. 

" I am, most respectfully 

" Your Excellency's most obedt. and very humble Ser\-t. 

" Edward Langworthy. 
"His Excellency John Jay Esqr." 

Sept. 18 a letter (dated Sept. 17) from John Bull and Charles Willson Peale was 
read in Congress, declaring Langworthy's charges to be groundless, erroneous, and 
unjust, and praying "that as Congress have admitted Mr. Langworthy's Letter, which 
we are able to prove is not founded in Truth, they would likewise admit, or put the 
matter in such a point of view upon their Journals as may do us that Justice which our 
Characters deserve ". Bull and Peale make nevertheless an acknowledgment in their 
letter which is of especial interest as pointing directly to the origin of the affair. 

" It is true ", they say, " that at the House where Mr. Langworthy Lodged a number 
of Respectable Citizens (who Saw the Cause of our Country Injured, by sundry 
Publications, Signed Cato, etc., Traducing the Characters of those, who from the first 
as well as in the worst of times, have Invariably been its Support) were assembled ". 

It was on the very same day, in fact, in the evening of which occurred the affair of 
which Langworthy complains, that one of " Cato's " articles appeared in the Pennsyl- 
vania Evening Post (see nos. 360, 401, ante; the article is found in N. Y. Hist. Soc, 
Collections: Deane Papers, IV. 15, and is there attributed to Whitehead Humphreys). 
It was likewise on the same day that the Committee of Philadelphia addressed, through 
the columns of the Pennsylvania Packet (found in Deane Papers, IV. 19), a communica- 
tion to Robert Morris touching the charges which that committee had some time before 
made against him. A few days later occurred an episode in the controversy between 
Silas Deane and Thomas Paine, in which Peale was involved, together with John Nixon 
and James Wilson, as a result of which Peale came out in defense of Paine, and Paine 
in a characteristic diatribe respecting the same affair (ibid., pp. 25, 27; Pemusylvania 
Packet, July 29, 31). To this article Paine added the following postscript: 

" As to Whitehead Humphreys, I give him my full and free consent to publish what- 
ever and whenever he pleases, and under any signature he likes best ; promising on my 
part to make no reply thereto, if he. Whitehead Humphreys, will to each of his future 
pieces add at the bottom the following words, viz. : 

" ' This is published by the same person who inserted several libellous productions 
under the signature of " Cato", in Benjamin Towne's Evening Post of July, 1779, which 
were so infamously false that the author or carrier of them, in order to avoid the 
shame and scandal of being known, tied the Printer down to such strong obligations to 
conceal him, that nothing but a halter could extort it from him.' " 

[444]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. II. 

2 Bartlett wrote July 10 (Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 689) : 
" Sundry newspapers from New York and Newport which I have lately seen, assert that 
France is seeking for peace with England and have offered, through the Spanish 
Ambassador to renounce all connections with America; the Tories and suspicious char- 
acters have had the same story here for some time past. Please to inform me whether 
you have any reason to think there is any foundation for such reports." Cf. nos. 163, 
212, ante. 



346 Continental Congress 

I am very sorry you have any such left among you, I think it high time 
they were all Hung, or Banished. The reports, of France seeking for 
peace under the mediation of Spain is without the least foundation, The 
reverse is the fact, England has applied to Spain for her mediation which 
has been peremptorialy refused on any terms short of her acknowledge- 
ment of our independence by Britain — The last acco'ts from Paris was 
under the 6th Apl. there then appeared the strongest attachment to us 
and you may be assured our cause is extremely Popular throughout 
Europe, as to other alliances, they are undoubtedly attainable and I am 
very sorry that the fault sho'd lay where it does, that we have not formed 
an alliance with Spain long ago. delays which are produced by personal 
prejudices is the only cause of Spain not being fully engaged in the war 
long ago however I flatter myself those causes are in a great measure 
remov'd and our affairs will go on more smoothly than they have for 
some time past. You know we have had great assistance from Spain her 
succors are still continued and there is not the most distant reason to think 
they will be withdrawn but every reason to think the contrary. 

Be comforted my Friend, suffer not Idle reports to intimidate. Remem- 
ber our cause is more just then the posterity of Jacob was ever engaged in 
yet we are told miracles were wrought in favor of that people, notwith- 
standing which, it seems there own exertions were always essential for 
their security, let us exert ourselves as we ought and no doubt Heaven will 
smile on our endeavors and crown them with success. I fear we place too 
much dependence on foreign alliances, which will tend to introduce a 
servility destructive to true Republicanism, we must expect all nations 
will be influenced by their own interest and so far we may expect the 
Friendship of any power that inclines to form an alliance with us, but if 
we expect more, we shall certainly be disappointed, it requires no great 
depth in Politics to discern that the alliance already entered into is as 
much for the interest of our ally as ourselves and there is every appearence 
of an increasing benefit on her part; it is not in the power of Great Britain 
to offer her an adequate compensation for a surrender of those advan- 
tages, there therefore can be no danger from that quarter, Spain has gone 
so far that she cannot with the least degree of Honor retract, besides if we 
consider the abuses she received from Britain the last war and her Na- 
tional Charecter we need not apprehend an apostasy there. ^ Holland 
stands ready to resent in her way, the insults offer'd her Flagg, almost 
every Court in Europe think favorably of our cause there certainly then 
can be no cause for despondency, we have nothing tO' fear but ourselves 
and such fear wo'd be immediately disapated if we had vigour enough to 
get rid of our internal enemies. 

The inclosed papers will give you particulars of Genl. Wayne's enter- 
prise, a more Briliant action (all things considerd) is not to be met with 
in History, the prisoners are on the way to this City 

I am very sincerely Yours 

W: Whipple 

I believe I gave you my opinion of the Vermont negociations in my last 

3 Cf. no. 431, ante. 



July, 1779 347 

445. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[July28, 29, 1779.] 
Wednesday July 28th. Com'l Committee. Congress. An acct. from 
Minisink of a Number of Militia being cut off by the Indians and Coll. 
Hawthorn and some other Officers Killd. A very disagreeable and serious 
Memorial from the Minister of France complaining of Insults Offerd to 
the Consol General ]M°. Holker etc. Refferd to a Committee of 5.^ Order 
of the day on Finance some Regulations agreed to, for the Treasury 
Board 

Thursday Jidy 2Qth. Com'l Committee Congress. After the dis- 
patches. Reports from the Board of War, and Treasury, the Order of the 
day was taken up on the Fishery, and according to Custom nothing done, 
no reasonable measures will satisfie the Eastern Members ^ (Mr. Mercier 
andMr. McCoomd[)]^ 
P M Marine Committee. 

446. Henry Laurens to Alexander Hamilton.^ 

Philadelphia, 29th July, 1779. 
Dear Sir: 

.... I presented to Congress this morning. Colonel Fleury's earnest 
request for the flag which he had the glory of lowering at Stony Point, 
but there was not a single voice heard in second to my motion. In truth, 
I had spoken to several of the members on the subject before the meeting 
of Congress ; these discovered not only no inclination, but rather an aver- 
sion to parting with so high a testimony of a great and brilliant victory ; 
nevertheless, I determined to fulfil my promise; you see the success.^ 

I have executed my commission; have added my best consolatory ad- 
vice ^ to a disappointed client, and trust the Colonel will do me the justice 
to assure himself, my own opinion on the propriety of his suit was not 
disclosed fully or partially to any body before I had received a modest 
denial by a profound silence 

Col. A. Hamilton, Head Quarters, North River. 

[445]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See the Journals, July 28, 30, Aug. 2, 4, 10, and nos. 447, 455, 487, post. 

3 See nos. 360, 366, 369, 380, 381, 401 (note 2), 404, 406, 407, 418, 438, 439, ante, 
451, 459, 474, 475, post. 

*John Dyer Mercier and Eleazar McComb were this day elected commissioners 
of claims. Nov. 9 they were chosen (two of the six) commissioners of the chambers 
of accounts. 

[446]! Hamilton, Works, I. 80. 

2 There is no mention of this matter in the Journals. Touching the action of 
Colonel Fleury at Stony Point, see the Journals, July 26. 

3 If his " consolatory advice " was like nnto that which he suggested to Hamilton, 
it was quite ironical. Colonel Fleury, he said (in a passage here omitted), might possess 
himself of an accurate copy of the flag, or, " by a very trifling practice of ambidexterity ", 
exchange the copy for the original, or, better still, arm himself with a copy of Dunlap's 
Packet, in which his gallant behavior stands upon record by authority of Congress. This, 
with his commissions and testimonials, would " answer every purpose of display, and save 
the trouble and expense of lugging sixty or eighty yards of bunting around the Globe ". 



348 Continental Congress 

447. Meriwether Smith to Thomas Jefferson/ 

Thus,^ Sir, you see the good Effects of Committees for regulating of 
prices; which have occasion'd a great deal of Confusion without produc- 
ing any Good that I can perceive. How these proceedings will end, 1 can- 
not undertake to determine ; but I have sufficient Reasons to convince my 
Mind, that they are instituted for the worst of purposes. I have hinted to 
you my Opinion in a former Letter, and cautioned you against the Conse- 
quences. I have written to some of my particular Friends on the same 
Subject with a View of discountenancing such proceedings; and I now 
repeat to you that I apprehend the most pernicious Effect will flow from 
the establishment of those Bodies. 

I will take the Liberty of adding, that I have it expressly from the 
Mouth of Mr. Gerard, that he believes from Circumstances the most con- 
vincing to him, that they are instruments in the Hands of designing Men, 
who are not Friends to the Alliance, and wish to throw all Government 
into the Hands of the People by those Means, the better to enable them 
to attain their favorite purpose. 

These Matters have so serious a Tendency that, understanding an Ex- 
press is just going to Virginia, I could not omit makeing [sic^ the Ex- 
tracts and sending them to you. I wish they may be of Use. 
I have the honor to be 

Yr. most obedt. and hble Servt. 

Meriwether Smith 

Philadelphia July 30th 1779. 
His Excellency Thos. Jefferson Esqr. 
Governor of Virga. 
(Private)^ 

448. Henry Laurens, Notes.^ 

[July 30, 1779.] 
" the most absurd and tyrannical * Order that ever was made the 
world must know it and Shall know it." 

Mr. Duane in Congress Friday 30 July 1779 who was exceedingly 
angry because I shewed him this Memorandum, he who affects to lament 
every thing like indecency in any of his fellow Members will often go be- 
yond indecency itself. 

* alluding to the order of the day for finance and Foreign affairs, by 
Mr. Dickenson ^ I had two days before remarked to the House that the 

[447]! Library of Congress, Jeflferson Papers (under July 26, 1779)- 

2 These remarks are appended to an " Extract from the Memorial of the Minister 
of France dated July 26th 1779", and an "Extract from the Memorial of said Minister 
dated 28th July 1779, on the same subject". See nos. 366, 369A, 445. note 2, ante, and 
nos. 455, 487, post. 

3 Edmund Randolph wrote to Jefferson, July 27, in particular concernmg Wayne s 
victory, but in a postscript he says : " You will oblige me very much by suggesting to 
me such reflections as occur to you on the subject of peace: not on the propriety of 
making it if possible, but on the terms necessary for America to insist on " (Library of 
Congress, Jefferson Papers). 

[448]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XXVIL 

2 See the Journals, June 7; also Laurens's motion, July 30 {Journals, p. 902). 



July, ijjg 349 

observation of the Order was detrimental to Public good by totally ex- 
cluding Reports of Committees and other important business whenever 
one IMember should think proper to call the order of the day, which every 
day in the week is subject to. 

[Endorsed:] 
Mr. Duane's address in Congress 30 July '79. 

449. John Fell, Dl\ry.^ 

[July 30, 31. 1779-] 
Friday July soth. Com'l Committee Congress. Finishd the Reports 

of the Board of Treasur>' Relative to Finance; ^ The Report for allowing 

half Pay to the Officers for Life taken in to consideration. 
P M. Marine Committee 
Saturday usf. Com'l Committee ^ Congress After reading some 

foreign Letters, Order of the day relating to the fishery, I hope for the 

last time 

450. James Lovell to Rich.\rd Henry Lee.^ 

July 31st 1779. 
Dear Sir 

Since I wrote you last I have reed, a Duplicate of all the Papers which 
I have mentioned therein to you as having been sent by yr. Brother 
Ar[thu]r. I found also in the 26. Packet some th[at] were not in the first. 
I have kept [such as]^ will enable me to subserve his H[onor] except a 
few that you will be so [good] as to return when you have either [co]pied 
or extracted what you wish [to] retain. I think the Originals are more 
essential for me than for you just at this Juncture. I shall be careful of 
them as your family property. I kept also the duplic: of July 27 directed 
to F L L 

I have also this day reed, many Packets Via Boston with only two 
[letters] for you, both which I send. I remember well you got the Letter 
Arendt left Behind at Miller's I forwarded it afterwards. As to Wil- 
liam's there is no Propriety in consulting Congress about the publication. 
You will set your own Judgement and that of your Friends in Virginia. 
I think Ar[thu]r has said more than Will'm has. I need not add that 
Arth[u]r says Things zuell^ 

.... I cannot but regret more and more that you Francis and S A 
are not here, now, furnished thus at every Point. I am worn down with 

[449]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See the Journals, also no. 441, ante, and no. 461, post. 

3 See no. 441, note 3, ante. The members of the committee who signed the letter 
of this day to President Reed (Pa. Arch., first sen, VII. 605) were Lewis, Searle, 
and Fell. 

[450]! Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 The manuscript is badly frayed and at several places in the margin the words 
cannot readily be supplied. 

3 These passages and others of a similar character in Lovell's letters, although 
personal rather than congressional in character, have been retained because of the light 
they shed upon the conduct of the committee of foreign affairs under Lovell's charge. 

27 



350 Continental Congress 

writing in addition to the vexatious attendance on the Debates in Chest- 
nut [Street]* but I hope to be able to give an analytical and chronological 
concise View of the diabolical Lies and intentional Assassination of which 
Deane was flagrantly guilty on the 5th of Deer. last. I have by me a simi- 
lar State of the Matter to that which I sent you to be forwarded by 
Post on Tuesday to S A unless the Express goes sooner : so that Mr. A 
will have it in his Power to destroy totally in Massachusetts, by little 
judicious Specs, as he used to phrase News Paper writing, all the Preju- 
dicies which may happen to have been raised there by yr. innuendo Man.^ 
Mr. A thanks me in a Letter of the 19 for something of the Kind but I 
really have forgot what it was I sent early enough for an Answer already. 

Not a single Line to the Com'tee from B F though large Packets are 
come from him, old News Papers Intelligence sent him from Posts from 
Week to Week etc. etc. There is a very long Letter to me expressly with 
an interdiction of the Public tho it is wholly on a Topic concerning 
the Public — the Impropriety of 3 at one Court. Complimentary of Deane 
and shewing that Holland is ripe to receive him. But the oddity of all is 
that it is dated July 22d 1778 forwarded by J. Williams Nantes Feb. 25 
1779. is in answ'r to mine of May 15 1778. He says much indeed upon 
the good Principles which were the basis of the nth and 12th articles; 
reducible however to this one point which he plainly expresses viz : that 
Duties on Exports are Pickpocket Arts and too mean to be practiced even 
in the Line of Retaliation.^ 

I can only add a word or two on home matters, for I am really faint 
for want of sleep. 

Fish'g in no case to be given up. [Congress] to enter into no Treaty of 
Com'ce without unanimous consent unless free Exercise is stipulated [in] 
regard to that matter; and to resent [with] the whole force of the Union 
any \_tornY These Determinations springly [sicY from the Unanimously 
declared opinion that it is essential to the Welfare of all these U. S. that 
the citizens thereof sh'd enjoy the free unmolested common Rights of 
Fishery. We must be satisfied with tacit assurance of Indepcy.® 

Good night, my dear Sir. 

* That is, in Congress, which sat in the state house on Chestnut Street. 

5 Cf. no. 458, post. Another letter from Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, dated 
Aug. 2, almost entirely relating to the receipt and distribution among Arthur Lee's par- 
ticular friends (including Samuel Adams) of letters pertaining to the controversy 
between Arthur Lee and Silas Deane, is among the Lee Papers in the University of 
Virginia Library. Similar in character is a letter to Samuel Adams, Aug. 3, in N. Y. 
Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, IV. 40. 

6 See no. 457, post. 

' The sense of the missing expression is : any molestation of the citizens of the 
United States in taking fish on the banks. See the Journals, July 29. 

8 Lovell probably meant to write " spring chiefly ", or " mainly ", or " principally ". 

9 In the margin adjacent to this paragraph Lovell has written: "dead secret 
unless you get it from the weathercocks or otherwise." 



August, 1779 351 

451. John Fell, Diary/ 

Monday August the 2d lyjg ^ Com'l Committee Congress A long 
Letter from Mr. Bingham and other dispatches took up this day. Mr. Jay- 
sick 

Tuesday August ^d Com'l Committee Congress Sundry Letters and 
Memorials Read, and some Resolutions agreed to for Instructions.^ 

P M Marine Committee 

452. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.* 

Philada. 3d Augt. 1779. 
Dear Sir 

Have just opportunity to inclose a few papers. Genl. Whipple, who I 
suppose will write you at large, Consents to Tarry here, till the weather is 
more Comfortable and until! Some very important affairs are decided in 
Congress.^ very favourable accounts from the West indias. Shall give 
you Some particulars, concerning Party Spirit in my next. South and 
East, the most unfavourable Circumstance in our public affairs. Comple- 
ments to all friends. 

453. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 3d Augt. 1779 
My Dear Sir 

I wrote you pr. last post when I believe I acknowledged the receipt of 
Yours of the loth July. I am sorry Mr. Sec. Thompson ^ did not see the 
Committee of Congress at Vermont however I hope every measure will 
be taken to support N. Hampshires Claim to that Territory N. Y. has 
been very quiet about that matter ever since the return of the Committee 
but this Calm will not last long You are too well acquainted with the 
arts and insidious designs of certain men, to need their charecters from 
me. If the Claim of New Hampshire is not supported that Country will 
assuredly be annex'd to N. Y. which I am sure must be attended with dis- 
agreeable consequences not only to N. H but other Eastern States I in- 
tended to have wrote you largely on this subject but having been several 
times interupted and my head crowded with a thousend other matters, 
I am under a necessaty of defering it for the present. 

[451]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Under Sunday, August 1,Fell merely recorded " Rainy day ". 

3 That is, with regard to the terms of the treaty of peace. See nos. 338, 339, 
445. ante, 451, 459, 474, post. 

[452]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. IL ("No. 4"). 

2 See no. 453, post. 
[453]^ Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. IL, 1779-1790. 

2 The following is from the proceedings of the general assembly of New Hamp- 
shire, June 26, 1779 : " Vote for Ebenezer Thompson, Esqr. to repair to the Grants 
(so called) west of Connecticut River and wait on the Committee of Congress" (A''. H. 
State Papers, VIIL 831). See nos. 403, 407, 409, ante, 465, 495, 506, 544, 545, post. 



352 Continental Congress 

Our acco'ts from the West Indies are by no means unpleasent. I will 
give them to you so far as my recollection serves me from hearing Mr. 
Bing[ha]m Letter read which came to hand Yesterday ^ 

I most Heartily wish Your Penobscot Expedition may succeed nor can 
I see anything against but the delays that have taken place in preparing 
which may give the Enemy opportunity to get reinforcements should it 
succeed I can see no difficulty in crossing the Bay immediately and takeing 
possession of Nova Scocia. this would be so Glorious an acquisition that 
it wo'd surely be worth Hazarding much for. pray let me know if such a 
plan is in contemplation. Col : Peabody informs me he has inclos'd the 
latest Newspapers. 

By the conclusion of Your last letter you seem to expect me home 
shortly; I have stay'd much longer than I intended, or perhaps then is 
desired by my Constituents if the latter sho'd be the case a very short 
notice will be sufficient for my departure from this place. I am extreamly 
anxious for the determination of some important questions which ought 
to have been decided many months ago this and some other matters which 
I shall communicate to you when I may have the pleasure of a tete-a-tete 
conversation, on some future day will acco't for my continuing so long 
here; and since the summer is so far spent I think to take the pleasent 
part of autumn to travel in unless it sho'd be otherwise order'd by the 
authority which placed me here and whos orders I shall always be happy 
in Obeying * 

454. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[Aug. 4, 5, 1779.] 

4. By a vessel from Martinico we have an account of the Count 
d'Estang taking the Granadis and geting the better of Adm'r Byron, but 
it wants confirmation.^ 

5. We have confirmation of yesterday's news. Great news if true. 

455. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[August 4, 5, 1779.] 
Wednesday 4th Aiig'st Com'l Committee Congress. A number of 
Letters from Genl. Washington Genl. Gates etc. long debate on the Min- 
isters memorial relating [to] the Ship Mary and Elizabeth and the Report 
of the Committee thereon.^ 

3 Bingham's letter of July 6, read in Congress Aug. 2, pertained (as the erasure 
in the Journals indicates) to tlie capture of an American vessel (the Kitty) by a French 
privateer. The news was in his letter of June 29-July 12, extracts of which were 
printed in the Pentisylvania Packet Aug. 5 (and again in the issue of Aug. 10) as " from 
a gentleman of character in St. Pierre ". Cf. nos. 454, 466, post. 

* See nos. 384, 452, ante, and nos. 503, 513, 537, post. 
[j^S^]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 26. 

2 The Pennsylvania Packet of Aug. 5 contained, besides the extracts from Bing- 
ham's letters (see no. 453, ante), " Extracts of a letter from a gentleman of St. Eustatia, 
dated 21st July, brought by Capt. Earl, who arrived here yesterday afternoon, in a 
passage of eleven days ". There was an addition dated July 22. The items were repeated 
in the Packet of Aug. 10. 

[455]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 445, ante. 



August, lyyp 353 

Thursday ^th Aug'st. Com'l Committee Congress. Some dispatches 
were read and the order of the day on the Ministers Memorial relating to 
Mr. Holker 

P M Marine Committee 

456. The President of Congress (John Jay) to 
George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 6th August 1779 
Sir, 

Your Favors of the 29th July and 2nd Inst have been delivered to me.^ 
The Papers, herewith enclosed, are a copy of the Act of the 8th of March 
mentioned in Your Excellency's Letter of the 29th Ulto: and a Report 
of the Board of War recommending that Captain Wilkie's Company of 
Coll : Spencer's Regiment be annexed to the nth Pennsylvania Regiment. 
Congress desire your Excellency's Opinion on the Propriety of this 
measure.^ 

457. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Philada. Aug. 6, 1779 
Hon'hle Sir 

Your favor of July 22d 1778, forwarded from Nantes by Mr. Williams 
the 25th of feb this Year, arrived here not till the 31st of July.^ I wonder 
the more that so very few of yr. Letters reach Philada. in the Course of 
a year, as Mr. Dumas finds means to convey a Series above the Numbers 
of the Alphabet in the same term of Time, and is also in continual cor- 
respondence with you. 

It is needless, at this Season to take up the different Parts of your long 
letter, for which, however, I feel myself much obliged to you : But I can- 
not omit to notice that you are totally mistaken as to " partial Objections " 
having been before Congress at the time of their dissent to the nth and 
1 2th Articles.^ It is true that, since that Period, much has been read from 
the Persons you suppose to have written on that Subject. 

You will long eer now have seen the use which has been made of my 
letter to you respecting Mr. Deane's Recall. 1,at least, made a Show of a 

[456] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIII. 285; President's Letter- 
Book, p. 165 (dated Aug. 7). 

- A letter of Washington dated July 29 was read in Congress Aug. 3, and another 
of the same date was read Aug. 4. The letter of Aug. 2 was read Aug. 7. 

3 See the Journals, July 30. Washington's reply to this letter, Aug. 16, was read 
in Congress Aug. 23. 

[457P Univ. of Pa., Franklin Papers, IIL 2^ (triplicate) ; Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin 
Papers, XV. 105 ; Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee Papers, VL 95, marked, in Lovell's writing, 
"(copy) private"; Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers (copy); N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: 
Deane Papers, IV. 45. 

2 See no. 450, ante. Franklin's letter of July 22, 1778, is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., 11. 656. In his letter to Richard Henry Lee Aug. 2 (see no. 450, note 5, ante) 
Lovell states that he received Franklin's letter July 27. The same statement is made in 
a letter to Samuel Adams Aug. 3 (N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, IV. 40), where he adds that it was " probably fabricated 
after Deane's publication appeared in Europe ". 

2 See the Journals, May 5, 1778. 



354 Continental Congress 

Disposition to befriend him. I really had such a Disposition, and, early 
on his arrival, let him know what had grounded that Proceeding in Con- 
gress, in hope that he would not be driven by a false Jealousy, which he 
discovered, so far as to suffer Wreck upon the Quicksands of Indiscre- 
tion. All my aim was in vain he has been borne headlong. His Publica- 
tion of Deer. 5 * has, in my opinion, totally ruined his Claims to any pub- 
lic Trust on account of his Hability in Affairs. And however you may 
not discover the great malignity of his Inuendoes, you cannot but see and 
own that his peice contains down right Lies which must be pointed out to 
the Public, who have not yet your good Grounds for Conviction. There is 
not a single Circumstance mentioned against Mr. Lee which is supported, 
except his not having the Confidence of the french Court. The Ministers 
must have been Angels of Light not to have conceived Prejudices in con- 
sequence of the indefatigable Arts of one who thought himself saddled 
when a Colleague of Sense Honor and Integrity was given to him by Con- 
gress. The Ministry were misled ; but the Consequence does not follow 
that therefore Congress should destroy an able and faithful servant. 
What slippery Ground would this make for our Ministers abroad? Will 
there not probably be ambitious men always in Congress to trip them? 
But I drop the disagreeable Subject and go to the pleasing Office of assur- 
ing you of the Attachment with which I am Honorable Sir 

Your most humble Servant 

James Lovell. 

458. James Lovell to Arthur Lee.^ 

Philada. Aug. 6th 1779 
Dear Sir, 

The originals, duplicates or triplicates of all you wish to have reached 
us, I believe, have safely arrived, and you may depend on a diligent use of 
them. It was unfortunate that we were not favored with many of them 
before Henry Francis ^ and S Adams left this Stage of their Exertions 
for their Country and for Virtue in general. However, I shall think this 
Circumstance a fresh Call upon My Industry, a Quality wch. is an ob- 
ject of the hatred of your Foes who have found themselves long ago mine 
in consequence. I own no first in that Quality except Mr. Laurens who 
wants no Spur but the simple Knowledge of Injuries done to the worthy 
to make him enter directly upon their Defence. 

I have urged an hundred Times what you have at length quoted to 
me from Whitlock.^ But there is really no such Thing as a Com tee 
of foreign affairs existing — no Secretary or Clerk — further than that I 
persevere to be one and the other. The Books and Papers of that ex- 

4 See vol. III., no. 658. 
[458] 1 Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VL lOi, marked "(private)". Another text 
of the letter, entirely in the writing of Lovell, marked "copy (private)", is ibid., VI. 94. 
The letter is printed in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 288 (apparently from this copy), 
and in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, IV. 47 (from the Lee MSS.). 

2 Richard Henry Lee and Francis Lightfoot Lee. Lovell more often calls the 
former " Richard ", as he does farther on in this letter. 

3 See no. 421, ante. 



August, 1779 355 

tinguished Body lay yet on the Table of Congress, or rather are locked 
up in the Secretary's private Box. There was a Motion as I have before 
told you to chuse a new Com'tee the House would not so insult me. 
An Indifference then took place as to filling it up upon presumption I 
suppose that a little Leaven leaveneth the whole Lump.* It would be 
impossible that you could have Enemies in a Com'tee where was one 
so to arrange Vouchers of yr. Industry Capacity and Honor as it is 
thought I am able to do. 

The State of Mr. D ^ is exactly the Reverse of what Letters have 

announced in France. But I will give you one or two Copies of the 
Scraps which have been made use of here to prove the only point on 
which yr. Enemies finally rested, and which is now the only possible 
Ground of hope to them of overcoming yr. Views for the public Good. 

Nothing has appear'd here that will prove a direct Patronage and 
assistance of your inveterate Foe, from that Quarter which you name 
in one of yr. Lett'rs to Frank or Rich'd; but every thing short of that 
has taken place ; you will not think I am a meer " Innuendo Man 'V as 
R H calls D , after you get the Copies above mentioned. 

How do you reconcile the Conduct of Congress on June 5th respecting 
De Francy's Business " with the Ideas of the total extinction of joint 
Powers in the Commissioners for special Purposes after the Appointment 
of the Minister Plenipotentiary for general Concerns 

459. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[August 6, 7, 1779.] 
Friday 6th Ang'st Com'l Committee Congress ^^lemorial from the 
Commissioners of the Treasury.^ Report to allow the Commissioners 
abroad 500 Sterl'g per annum and their Expences.^ ^Motion for Silas 
Deane Esqr. to be discharg'd from any further attendance on Congress 
and to setle his Accounts, and to be allowd for his Expences 3 Months 
after his Recall * ]\Iarine Committee 

Saturday Ang'st jth ^ Com'l Committee Congress. Motions amand- 
ments and long debate about instructions and an ultimatom.® 

* Cf. nos. 345, 421, ante. 
^ Silas Deane. 

* See no. 450, ante. 

'■ See the Journals, June 5. 
[459]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

- The reference is to the memorial of William Govett, Resolve Smith, William 
Geddes, Robert Troup, and Joseph Nourse. Although the following Monday (Aug. 9) 
was set for the consideration of the memorial, which asked for additional pay, no action 
appears to have been taken on it. In the Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., April, 1915, is a 
versified parody of this memorial by an unknown hand. 

3 As expressed in the resolve, it is " 11,428 livres tournois ". 

* The clause " in order that he may settle his accounts " was stricken out. Holten 
records simply, " Congress dismissed the Hon. Mr. Deane from attending any further 
on Congress ". Cf. nos. 463, 501, post. 

5 " Congress received a letter from Gen. Washington informing of the enemies 
moving down the North River" (Samuel Holten, Diary, Aug. 7). Washington's letter, 
dated Aug. 2, and written from West Point, is in the Washington Papers. The com- 
mittee to whom it was referred was that appointed July 8 (Laurens, Marchant, and 
Holten). 

6 See nos. 438, 439, 445, 451, ante, and no. 474, post. Cf. the Journals, Aug. 14, 
Sept. 9. 



356 Continental Congress 

460. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philada. Aug. 9, 1779 
Dear General 

.... And, now I have neither Health Spirit or Leisure to say much, 
having worn myself down about foreign Affairs in the Capacity of Com- 
mittee Secretary and Clerk, all in one, and two Vessels offering themselves 
together. Besides This, I think it my Duty to stand Rowland ^ for 
Arthur, having very full and sufficient Materials in Possession to prove 
the assasinating Malignity with which he has been treated. I am satisfied 
that he will make a most staunch Negociator for us whenever Peace 
shall be in Prospect. And if D'Estaing has gained what the Gazettes tell, 
Peace cannot be a year off 

I wish I was where I could a vive voix give you the History of the 
Election of a Cloathier General : it was a curious Affair.^ .... 

461. John Fell, Dl\ry.^ 

[August 9, 10, 1 779-] 
Monday, August pth Com'l Committee Congress A new Plan for 
borrowing [blank] Millions on Loan 8 Ds. for 5 £s. debated ^ and ad- 
journed 

Tuesday the loth Com'l Committee Congress Some dispatches mo- 
tions, and debates. 

P M Marine Committee 

462. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Augt. loth, 1779. 
Sir, 

We this moment were honored by your Excellency's Letter of the 2d 
Instant.- We lament the deplorable Situation our State was suddenly 
left in by the calling of Glover's brigade and we wish it were in our 
power to invent some method whereby we might be relieved. Mr. Mar- 
chant had drawn up four proposals in Nature of a Request to Congress 
from the Com^^ we informed Your Excellency we procured to be ap- 

[460]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XV. 261. 

2 Richard Henry Lee used the pen name " Rowland " in some of his publications 
in defense of his brother, Arthur Lee, the first of the series appearing in the Pennsyl- 
vania Packet the next day (Aug. 10). See Letters of Richard Henry Lee, II. 108. Cf. 
nos. 478, 501, 553, 599, post. Here Lovell probably means to indicate particularly his 
purpose to act the part of a loyal friend to Arthur Lee. But cf. no. 478, post. 

3 See the Journals, Mar. 23, Apr. 1,5, 6, May 13, June 22, 24, July 10, 15, 19, 24. 
[461]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The " new plan " was Gerry's propositions offered July 23. The report of the 
committee thereon is in the Journals, July 30 (see nos. 441, 449, ante). The propositions 
were again taken under consideration Aug. 27 and 28, but thereafter their consideration 
appears to have been merged in the general discussion of finance. Cf. nos. 475, 500, 505, 
508, 515, 516, post. 

[462] iR. L Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1779-1780, p. 3; Staples, R. L in Cont. 
Cong., p. 247. 

2 Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 247. 



August, lyyp 357 

pointed four Weeks past, but the other Gentlemen of the Com^^ rather 
declining to report further than to reiterate the Calls which have been 
so frequently made upon Our Sister States We have concluded, that it 
might not be attended with more Force than Their Own Sense of their 
Obligations must be, And that at present, the Protection of the State 
must rest upon the Caution and Wisdom of Genl. Gates, the Fortitude 
of the Few Troops he has. The Magnanimity and the unremitted Zeal, 
and the Sense of Self Defence which has ever been exhibited, and 
exerted by the whole Body of the good People of Our State, hoping 
at the same Time that Our Sister States will at Length be awakened to 
Our Situation, as seeing their Own Security most intimately connected 
with ours.^ 

We have just reed, the most Important Dispatches from Martinique, 
whereby We are well informed. That Three Thousand Troops were 
embarked at St. Lucee for New York, but were happily called to Their 
own more immediate Security by Count D'Staing, Of whose great and 
Signal Success we sincerely congratulate your Excellency and the 

State We are aprised by Our Agent at Martinique that the 

French Govr. informed him that his Intelligence by the last Packet from 
France then just arrived was. That Britain had refused the mediation of 
Spain, That The Fleets of France and Spain had joined, Twenty five 
Thousand French Troops were marching down the French Coast to be 
taken on Board of Transport. Their Object — Ireland. The Scene 
Thickens — but it is observed it is generally darkest the nearest Day. 
The more the storm rages, the sooner peace may succeed.* 

That the Period may not be far off, and, that The State we have the 
Honor to represent may soon open into a long cloudless Day of Security 
Prosperity and Independency pray. 

Your Excellencys most Obedient and very humble Servts. 

H'y Marchant 
John Collins 

P. S. The above in Congress in great Haste but a few moments before 
the going out of the Post. 

3 See no. 410, ante; cf. nos. 475, 491, post. 

* A duplicate of Bingham's letter, dated July 20, with an addition of July 22, 
is in Papers Cent. Cong., no. 90, f. 168; a copy in his own hand is at p. no. Following 
is the passage principally referred to in this and other letters from Congress (see nos. 
464, 465, 466, 471, 472, 473, 475, 480, /'o^O : 

"July 22d. It gives me additional Satisfaction to inform you that a Packet has this 
Day arrived from France in 31 Days Passage, with Dispatches for the General and 
Count D'Estaing — the former has done me the honor of communicating to me a Letter 
from the Minister, announcing to him the speedy Declaration of Spain and desiring him 
to take his Measures accordingly ; he informs him, that the Count D'Orvilliers had 
sailed with 32 Ships of the Line towards Corunna, where he was to be joined with 20 
Spanish Ships. Great Britain has absolutely refused the Mediation of Spain. 

"Twenty four [the copy has "twenty five"] thousand french Troops are now lying 
on the Coast of France, ready to embark on an Expedition against Ireland. I have the 
honor to inclose you a Copy of the Names of the Commanders of the respective 
Regiments. 

" Six thousand additional Troops have taken their Departure for America, against 
which G Britain means to make her last and I hope fruitless Efforts this Year. 

" The Authenticity of this News may be depended on." 



358 • Continental Congress 

463. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Philadelphia loth August 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress as you will read in Dunlap's Paper of this date have 
" discharged Mr. Deane from any further attendance ".^ this Resolution 
was effected at a time when I was unavoidably absent seeking for new 
apartments, being obliged to leave these I am in the day after tomorrow ; 
I had previously, but without effect, objected to paying Mr. Deane any 
Money until he should have accounted for the Sums which he had re- 
ceived in Paris, and pointed particularly at those Sums which he had 
received of Mr. de Beaumarchais and of Mr. Grand after he knew of 
his being superseded in Office and of the appointment of a Commissioner 
to succeed him, of which Mr. A Lee takes particular notice in his vindi- 
cation, the amount of the former you are informed of, that of the 
latter is upward of £1700. Sterling including all his draughts on the 
Banker. I say without effect for no support was given to my mdtion, 
or so slender a one as not to bring on a question. I think nevertheless, 
I did my duty and that hereafter I shall be applauded. 

Congress had determined that the Commissioners and other Agents 
should respectively adjust their accounts with a person to be appointed 
for that purpose in France, a measure which I was averse from, yet all 
things considered it admitted much good reason in favor of it.^ After 
this determination I was called out on the business above mentioned — at 
my return, I found the Resolve for " discharging Mr. Deane from further 
attendance on Congress ", this, inasmuch as no provision is made for 
his Voyage to France nor for his expences there, leaves the adjustment 
of his accounts optional with him.* .... 

464. Nathaniel Peabody to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philad. Augt. loth 1779. 

This moment I am informed from Good Authority, that Great Britain 
has actually refused the mediation of Spain and that his Catholic Majesty 
has declared he will no longer be an Idle Spectator in the present Contest, 
that he has actually joined in Alliance with France and these United 
States, That a French fleet from Brest, of 32 Ships of the line, and a 
Spanish fleet of 22 Ships of the Line, are forming a junction, which with 
the addition of 25,000 Land forces, are said to be destined against Ireland. 
Official accounts it is said are in this City certifying the truth of the 
foregoing. Monsr. Garrard being from home prevents our having it 
officially in Congress. 6,000 British forces are coming to America, it 

[463] 1 Boston Pub. Lib., Chamberlain Coll., III. 18. 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 6. 

3 See the Journals, Aug. 6, Sept. 28, 29, and no. 568, post. 

* Lee's reply, Sept. 5, is in Letters, IL 146. Cf. nos. 501, 559, post. 
[464]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 113; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, 
p. 112b. 



August, I//Q 359 

is said that G. Collier with 7 arm'd Vessels, several Transports, and two 
thousand Land forces put to Sea the 29 ulto. Supposed their object is 
Penobscott. The Success of Count D'Estang in the West Indies, the 
singular advantage he has gained over Byron and the British fleet cannot 
fail giving new Life to our friends and cause our Enimies to stand a Cast, 
hope you will give the earliest Intelligence of the Success of our Little 
Penobscott fleet, and such other matters as may come to your Knowledge. 

please to excuse brevity and incorrectness as I write this in Congress, 
and am oblig'd at the same time to attend to some interesting debates 
so as to be able to give my opinion thereon. 

Must therefore bid you adieu for this time, subscribing 

Your most obedient Humble Servt. 

Nathl. Peabody ^ 

465. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia loth Augt. 1779 
My Dear Sir, 

Your favor of the 24th Ulto came to hand by Yesterdays post. I am 
happy that my determination to tarry some time longer meets the appro- 
bation of the Committee 

I propose tarr>^ing till some time in octor. by that time I hope the 
Business that excites my anxiety particularly at this time will be happily 
finish'd.^ but if in the mean time want of health or any other cause 
should make it absolutely necessary for me to take my leave I shall give 
due notice. You are too well acquainted with a certain assembly to sup- 
pose that engagements are inviolably adhered to by every indevidual mem- 
ber. I am inclined to think you are mistaken in your conjecture of the 
Author of Americanus the person you mention has been suspected but 
he in the most solemn manner denies that he ever saw or heard of it 
till he saw it in the Newspaper and 'tho I do not always implicitly believe 
declarations of this kind many concurring circumstances induce me to 
give credit to his at this time ^ this kind of scribling is a little vexatious, 
but I do not think they are attended with any very material consequences 
on either side. I see no danger at present of that important Matter being 
given up indeed there wo'd not have been any opposition to its being 
secur'd in the fullest manner had it not been for certain cunning designing 
persons whose residence I wish was farther from N. H. one of these 

persons had not been in C for some considerable time before Your 

departure (not since the year 76)* however I must defer a particular 
history of this business 'till I have the pleasure of a tete-a-tete conversation 

2 In a postscript Peabody adds an extract from Bingham's letter of July 22. 
Cf. no. 462, ante. 

[465]! Dartniouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. II. 

2 Presumably the Vermont affair. See no. 453, ante, and no. 495, post. 

3 In his letter of July 24 (Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 693) 
Bartlett wrote : " I find by the papers that terms for a negotiation instead of being a 
profound Cabinet Secret, are discussed in the publications. Americanus I suppose to be 
G. M. of N. Y. who used to sign the American." See nos. 360, 401, ante. 

* The allusion is doubtless to John Jay. Cf. no. 633, note 2, post. 



360 Continental Congress 

I shall pay due attention to what you say respecting the invalids and 
shortly write you on that subject. I must beg leave to refer you to the 
papers for news the acco't from S. C. is much better then we had a right 
to expect in the begining of the Campaign, what we have from the West 
Indies far exceed every Idea. Genl. Wayne's enterprize at Stonny Point 
has given a very favorable turn to affairs in that quarter 

Indeed the Reports from the Enemy mention large reinforcements but 
these reports are in a great measure contradicted by those of better 
authenticity — it is true that Lord Cornwallis is arriv'd and I suppose it 
true that Clinton and several other Genl. Officers are call'd home 

I shall be happy to hear of our success at Penobscot there I must con- 
fess I fear a miscarriage 

466. William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson.^ 

Philadelphia loth Augt. 1779.^ 
D'r Sr. 

I am this moment told by Colo. Melchior that a young gentleman will 
set out in half an hour for Charlottesville. By him I have just time to 
acknowledge the receipt of your fav'r of the 22d of July, for which 
please to accept my thanks. 

I find by your observations on the fishery that that matter is not yet 
properly understood in Virginia, nor have I time at present (were I at 
full liberty) to undertake the explanation of it, but this you may rely on, 
that there is not a state in the union, nor, I believe, a member in Congress, 
that would relinquish the right; and Congress, soon after I came here, 
passed a resolution (I believe unanimously) "that in no event should 
the common right of fishery be given up ". Your former observation 
on the subject was communicated only to one gentleman besides the Vir- 
ginia delegates. 

A vessel arriv'd here yesterday in 17 days from Martinique and brought 
letters from Mr. Bingham, continental agent at that port, dated 226. July, 

[466] 1 Library of Congress, Jefferson Papers, second sen, LI. 5. 

2 The date of this letter should probably be Aug. 11. At least it seems clear that 
the vessel which Fleming speaks of below as arriving " yesterday " actually arrived 
Aug. ID. See notes 3 and 4, below. 

A letter from Cyrus Griffin to his friend Burges Ball (Library of Congress, Personal), 
without date but probably written Aug. 10, contains much recent news, both authentic 
and rumored, but makes no mention of proceedings in Congress. One passage of that 
letter may, however, be appropriately quoted here : 

" I thank you exceedingly for the kind sentiments upon the new delegation : the 
me[mbers who were] continued have discharg[ed their duty] with credit and fidelity, 
notwithstanding the Lee party in the Virginia assembly were strenuous of opposition 
to Smith and myself, and almost carried the point of exclusion, had they carried such 
a point the mortification would have been great indeed when considered in that light, 
but the Individual benefit to our families would have been as great on the other side ; and 
truly I find it impossible to remain in Congress a long time ; I am already some Thousand 
Dollars out of pocket ; my constitution will not support excessive confinement ; I only 
wish to see our brave army placed upon such a respectable footing as their uncommon 
[Bravery a]nd Patriotism deserve — to see all [our problems(?) h]appily adjusted, and 
the currency of the United States in a fair way of appreciating : and then farewell to 
public Business eternally." Concerning the Virginia election, see no. 369A, note 4, 
ante. 



August, I//9 361 

advising that the day before a packet had arriv'd there in 31 days from 
France, with advice that the Spanish Minister at the court of France 
had declared his master ready to enter into a war with G. Britain, that 
court having refused the mediation of Spain — and that 32 ships of the 
line had sailed from Brest to Corunna, whence they were to be joined by 
20 Spanish ships of the line, and proceed immediately to make a descent 
on Ireland with 25,000 men. The particular regiments for that service, 
with the commander of the expedition are named, but I do not recollect 
them.^ ]\Iy complim'ts to Mrs. Jefiferson. 

Adieu 

[P. S.] I have procured all the books you wrote for except Erasmus, 
which is not to be had in this place. They will be sent to W'msburg. I 
shall remain here 'til the 15th of Sepr. and hope to be fav'd with a 
letter by the gentleman who will be the bearer of this. 

I inclose for your amusement Dunlap's paper of yesterday which con- 
tains some important news, and much private scandal.* 

467. Fbl\ncis Lewis to Stephen Sayre.^ 

Philadelphia, loth August, 1779. 
My dear Sir: 

.... By the different manoeuvres of the British troops, Congress 
has been obliged to change their places of residence; from hence to 
Baltimore, thence to this city, then to Yorktown, and back again to this 
city, where they now reside. When at Baltimore, I urged your being 
appointed a commissioner to one of the European States, but was an- 
swered by the Committee of Foreign Correspondence, that you were then 
Secretary to Mr. A. Lee's embassy to the Court of Berlin, and proved 
a bar to your being appointed at that time to another department. Upon 

3 An item in the Pennsylvania Gazette of Aug. 11 says: "Yesterday arrived 
here from Martinico the brig Achilles, late commanded by Capt. Murdoch, who died the 
day before in coming up the river. By her we have the following authentic intelligence, 
viz." What follows is a close summary of the passage from Bingham's letter quoted 
under no. 462, ante. The Pennsylvania Packet of Aug. 12 (Thursday) says: "On 
Tuesday last arrived here the brig Achilles, late Capt. Murdoch, in 17 days from Mar- 
tinique, by whom we have several letters ", etc. Cyrus Griffin adds a postscript to his 
letter mentioned in note 2, above, to say : " By a vessel this morning from Martinico, 
the public have the following Intelligence ", etc. 

Cornelius Harnett wrote to Governor Caswell Aug. 11, relating briefly the news, to 
which he added : " I have still hopes, notwithstanding the Confidence with which some 
good Whigs assert that the 6,000 Troops will soon be in America, that Britain will 
find it absolutely necessary to keep them at home. They will, in all human probability, 
be much more wanted in Europe for their own defence" (A^. C. State Recs., XIV. 190). 
Cf. no. 462, ante. 

■* There was no issue of the Pennsylvania Packet Monday, Aug. 9. This part 
of the letter, if not the whole, must therefore have been written Aug. 11. The Packet 
of Aug. ID contained the resolution of Congress discharging Deane from further 
attendance, a communication from "Rowland" (Richard Henry Lee; see his Letters, 
II. 108), some correspondence between Thomas Paine and Silas Deane (see N. Y. Hist. 
Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, IV. 53-59), and some extracts of letters from Bingham, 
etc. (see nos. 453, 454, ante, and no. 475, post. Griffin jotted in a corner of his letter to 
Burges Ball, " August loth papers enclosed ". 

[467] 1 Moore, Materials for History, first ser. {Correspondence of Henry Laurens), 
p. 147; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. MSS., Lewis (copy). 



362 Continental Congress 

the return of Congress to Philadelphia in April, 1777, by a new appoint- 
ment of delegates for our State, I was not in the nomination, and re- 
mained so till December of the same year, when I was re-chosen, and 
since that time have been Chairman of the Commercial Committee of 
Congress. 

Your letter, together with that from Mr. Fabritius, (whose high 
character I was well acquainted with when at Copenhagen,) was laid 
before Congress,^ who are very sensible of the advantages that would 
accrue in a commercial intercourse with Copenhagen, as several supplies 
of Russian manufactures might be obtained through that channel; but 
we are at the same time apprehensive the Danish Court are too much 
influenced by that of G. B. to wink at such commerce, though it may 
be advantageous to the subject 

Your scheme of sending out goods in Danish bottoms, to St. Croix 
or St. Thomas, is feasible, and where we could lodge tobacco, indigo, 
etc., to be returned in said ships for payment ; but the risque of captures 
between this and the islands is full as great ; however, I shall urge Con- 
gress to make an attempt in one or the other mode; it will be therefore 
necessary that you and Mr. Fabritius inform me, with the names of 
agents in both islands, who may be appointed by you to receive such 
effects 

4th August [September].^ .... We have lately received the Mani- 
festo of His Catholic Majesty, declaratory in favor of France, which has 
given high spirits to the friends of liberty in these States, and many 
tories wish to be thought converts 

I have frequently urged Mr. Fabritius' plan for improving the loan, 
but Congress seems at present averse to borrowing money in Europe, 
upon this principle, that for what they borrow there, they mortgage the 
lands of the United States for redem[p]tion, but what they borrow here 
is of the inhabitants, who must contribute to the payment by taxes levied 
on themselves. 

Congress has been for some time past so pestered with complaints 
from their commissioners in Trance, tending to criminate each other, 
that a resolution is passed to have only one in France, viz., Doctor Frank- 
lin, who is commissioned Minister Plenipotentiary to that Court; the 

rest are recalled 

Your sincere friend and humble Servant, 

F. L.* 

2 See the Journals, July 28, 1778. There is no other mention in the Journals of 
the plans of C. A. Fabricius for an American loan in Europe. Concerning Sayre, see 
Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., I. 614-619. A number of letters from him are among the 
Franklin Papers in the American Philosophical Society, and some pertaining to him 
among those in the Library of Congress. 

3 Lewis first says under this new date: "A few days past a sortie was made 
by Major Lee, of the Virginia Light dragoons, with 400 men, in the night, upon Powles' 
Hook", etc. The exploit at Paulus Hook was on the night of Aug. 19, and the news 
of it appears to have come to Congress Aug. 27, through a letter of Washington Aug. 23. 

* In a postscript Lewis acknowledges the receipt of letters from Sayre and indi- 
cates that he is sending this letter by James Searle. A further postscript says : " This 
you will receive by the Hon Henry Laurens, late President of Congress, who is com- 
missioned to Holland, upon public business, with whom I would recommend your cul- 
tivating an acquaintance." Inasmuch as Laurens did not go abroad until about a year 
later, it is quite possible that this letter was never delivered. 



August, !'/'/() 363 

468. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[August II, 12, 1779.] 

Wednesday Aug'st nth Com'l Committee Congress Report for 
better Pro[v]iding for the Army a motion was made per an amend- 
ment that the Resolve past May 24th, for half the Pay to the Officers for 
7 Years should be extended for Life on the Question the Yaes and Naes 
being call'd it past in the affirmitive. 

P M Marine Committee 

Thursday 12th Aug'st C'l Committee Congress Report from the 
Committee on Coll. Knoblock IMemorial. Mr. Scudder moved that he 
have 1 0000 D's secconded per Mr. McKean and 100 Guineas. Opposd 
the whole after debate Referrd to the Treasury.- Mr. Peabody sec- 
conded per Mr. Schudder for all the Non Commissiond Officers and 
Soldiers to Receive half Pay for Life which opposd Referrd to a Com- 
mittee of 5 

P M Marine Committee 

469. The President of Congress (John Jay) to Benjamin 

Lincoln.^ 

r.. Philadelphia 12th Augt. 1779. 

Your favor of the 21st June by Major Franks was delivered to me 
yesterday. 

You will perceive by an Act of Congress of the loth Inst, of which 
the enclosed is a copy, that your compliance with the Request of the 
Governor and Council of South Carolina to defer leaving that State, 
perfectly corresponds with their wishes.^ 

Virginia and North Carolina have been lately requested by Congress 
to forward the troops destined for your army with all possible dispatch. 

470. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

Philada. Aug'st 1 2th 1779 
It behoves you to be very industrious in informing good Men, what 
has caused certain delays in the proceedings here for some months back. 

[468]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Concerning Baron de Knobelauch, see the Journals, July 28, Aug. 7, 12, 18, 29, 
1778, Apr. 13, 16, May 4, 13, Aug. 7, 12, 26, Sept. 4, 16, 1779. In August, 1778, Congress 
had permitted him to join the army as a volunteer and had made him an allowance. 
On Sept. 2 following he wrote to Washington giving an account of his career and 
furnished a commentary on military administration as proof of his ability. Mar. 1,1779, 
he again besought Washington for employment in active service, which Washington 
declined (Mar. 7) to grant (Library of Congress, Washington Papers). Knobelauch 
thereupon once more made application to Congress. 

[469] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 169. 

2 Lincoln's letter, which was read in Congress Aug. 12, acknowledged receipt 
of the resolves granting him permission to come north and appointing General Moultrie 
to the command. He had intended, he said, to take his departure soon, but the governor 
and council and General Moultrie and others had desired that he would not do so 
speedily. Accordingly he had decided to remain a little longer, if his health would permit 
him to keep the field, and he hoped that this would meet with the approbation of Congress. 
The Journals do not record that any action was taken on the letter, the resolution of 
Aug. 10 doubtless being deemed sufficient. 

[470J1N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers; N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane 
Papers, IV. 59. 



364 Continental Congress 

Let them know that there has not been any Proof of an honest Intention 
in Britain to treat of Peace ; that France and Spain indeed seemed earnest 
to know our Ultimata, especially in points which were nearly allied to 

their Interests — Florida and Newfoundland 

We are boguing about ^ pay for Life.^ The Bear is in Licking ; but it 
will be a Bear after all. But the Massachusetts Delegates had better not 
oppose it, because the Opposition delays Business. If Mr. J Adams should 
happily land in yr. Quarter I hope he will let People and Folks know 
that he has attested sufficient Vouchers to prove that A Lee has been 
most falsely accused and greatly injured. 

Yrs. 
J L 

471. James Lovell to James Warren.^ 

Aug. 13th, 1779 
Dear Sir, 

.... Apprized as you must have been by Mr. S. A[dams] of the 
Principles, Views and Conduct of most political Men here, you may 
notwithstanding have been unacquainted even till now with the exact 
Contents of a Paper which is handed about in a particular Circle in your 
Neighbourhood so as to influence the minds of some good men as well 
as to strengthen the Plots of some bad ones. I wish you to see it. Mr. 
Ellis Gray a worthy Man, will put you in the Train of having it, I doubt 
not : it is too much for me to copy at this Time, and perhaps needless. 
For if Mr. Gray cannot furnish you with it Mr. Thos. Gushing can. 
The latter also can, if he will, tell by whose extraordinary Care it was 
sent to Boston. I own I have much curiosity to know." 

Sir, you may see the low arts that have been used to prejudice the 
Minds of Congress so far as to make them destroy the good Man's 
prospect of the best Reward in Republics — the approbation of the People. 
You may see it by the Use that has been made of the following Scrap 
laid on the Table by Mr. G. Morris May 3d, 1779. Tis the Extract of 
a Letter from Paris dated the 7th of Deer., 1778, and said to be written 
by a confidential Friend of the Minister of the Marine. Mr. Holker 
furnished it, so that it was probably to him. 

" Mr. J Adams, le Depute ne reussit pas ici que de Raison : il parait 
etre entierement livre au Sr. Lee, lequel comme vous le scavez est une 
espece de fol." 

Mr. J. Adams the Deputy does not succeed here further than is reason- 
able : He appears to be intirely devoted to Mr. Lee, who, as you know, is 
a sort of mad-man. 

The rest of the paper relates to an appointment of a Monsr. D'Obre 
who is Son in Law of Mr. Schweighauser at Nantes, insinuating that he 

2 Cf. nos. 476, 477, 479, post. 
[471 ]^^ Warren- Adattis Letters, II. 117. 

2 Much of Lovell's letter of Aug. 12 to Samuel Adams (no. 470, ante, passage 
omitted there) is concerned with the appearance of the Paca-Drayton Information in 
Boston, and with comments on the conduct and characters of Messrs. Gushing and Gray. 
Cf. nos. 478, 479, post. 



August, lyyp 365 

betrays our Vessels to the People of Jersey because he is Son of the 
]\Iair of that Place. The Maliciousness of which I have many Vouchers 
by me that prove. The Paper concludes with an assertion that if Doctr. 
Franklin is not sole Deputy in France Things will go on but lamely or 
in his own Phrase with " but one wing ". 

I hope Mr. Adams will in a few days be with you : he was left off the 
western Isles on the 29th of June by a Vessel which arrived at Virginia 
Aug. ist.^ I hope he will come soon on to Congress. And, as C[u]sh[in]g 
says, " People here " are of opinion that he ought not to come as a Dele- 
gate, but in his present Character, and with a proper Dignity, as if he was 
fit to deal with a gallant Nation. " People here ", are my Circle. If Mr. 
A is resolutely determined not to negotiate a Peace for us upon being 
unanimously chosen for such a Work, then I would wish him to have 
an Election as Delegate if he only tarries a Month upon it; the Election 
to be made after he is here. 

As to Peace, I am persuaded the eastern Delegates have always been 
justly dubious of the reality of any honest Intentions in Britain, tho' we 
were sure France and Spain were willing to know our Sentiments about 
Newfoundland and the Floridas. I am pretty sure that what the Gazettes 
say of the Mediation of Spain being rejected is true. Mr. Adams has 
sent Word that he is coming with good News, and I am told that a 
Vessel is now in this River after a short Passage from Nantes. I will 
go to Congress and will not seal till I know whether I can tell you any 
Thing more explicitly. 

In find no Letters or Intelligence. But shall probably give you a Con- 
firmation by next post of what we are told authentically from Martinique.* 
With much Esteem I am. Sir, Your humble Ser\'ant, 

[P. S.] I broke the Seal to tell that on the 28th of July at 15 Leagues 
from Boston in Latt 42 Mr. Adams was left in the Sensible 36 Guns 
with a Vessel of 24 and several of 14 and 16.° 

472. A Committee of Congress to Benjamin Lincoln.^ 

Philadelphia 13th Aug. 1779. 

Sir, 

Your letter of the 4th June to Congress is committed to us, who are 
appointed a committee to correspond with the commanding officer of the 
forces in South Carolina and Georgia ; ^ we had delayed entering upon 

8 In his letter to Samuel Adams Aug. 12 Lovell says : " Hezekiah Ford arrived 
August 1st in Virginia. He left Mr. Adams June 29 off the Western Isles. Mr. Adams 
had good news. Ford will be here in a few days, when I will write you more fully." 
This information probably came through a letter from Francis Lightfoot Lee. See no. 
478, post. 

* See nos. 462, 464-466, ante, and nos. 472, 473, 475, 480, post. 

^ The source of this information is not apparent. The French minister, Luzerne, 
also came in the Sensible, which arrived in Boston Aug. 3. See Adams's letter of that 
date, Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 276. 

[472] 1^ Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 362; S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, 
Letters, 1779-1780 (copy). 

2 Lincoln's letter of June 4 was read in Congress July 7 and the committee, 
consisting of Henry Laurens, Henry Marchant, and Samuel Holten, was appointed 
July 8. 
28 



366 Continental Congress 

the business, from a daily expectation of learning from yourself a detail 
of the action at Stono ferry, and from flattering expectations, that you 
would, at the same time, have informed Congress, of the total expulsion 
of Mr. Prevost from South Carolina. 

Yesterday your despatches, by Major Franks, under the 21st June, 
containing an account of the action of the 20th and its consequences, 
were read in Congress ; the enemy's retreat to Georgia, which we have 
heard of from various quarters, wants your confirmation.^ 

Congress have received intelligence from Martinique, indicating a deter- 
mination, on the part of the enemy, to detach about 3,000 Troops from 
St. Lucia to this continent, most probably to So. Carolina.* .... 

Enclosed with this will be found an act of Congress, of the [loth] 
Instant, requesting you to remain in your present command. The fewness 
of General officers in your department recommended the measure, as 
necessary to be attempted 

473. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[August 13, 14, 1 779-] 

Friday i^th. Com'l Committee. Congress The day spent in Reading 
the Instructions for the Minister to be employd to Negotiate a Peace 

P M. Marine Committee 

Ultimatom 

Saturday the 14th. Com'l Committee Congress Draft of a Letter to 
the States, agreed to fill their Batallions and hold their Militia in readi- 
ness.^ Motion made per Mr. Gerry to Adress Ireland to Revolt on the 
Question house devided it was Lost ^ 

474. Thomas Burke to the North Carolina Assembly.^ 

[August, 1779.] 

Among the variety of Business which came before Congress from 

the beginning of January, '79 to the midle of August,^ the following 

3 See the Journals, July 19, Aug. 21. 

* See no. 462, ante. 
[473] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

~ That is, the states were urged to do so. See the draft of the letter in the 
Journals. 

3 A motion of this precise character is not found in the Journals, but the motion 
made by Marchant and seconded by Gerry, for the appointment of a committee to confer 
with the minister of France upon the intelligence lately received respecting Ireland, is 
doubtless the motion Fell had in mind. An editorial note in the Journals (p. 966 n.) 
states that the intelligence was contained in a letter from John Adams Mar. 26, 1780, 
laid before Congress Aug. 1,1780. This is of course an inadvertence. Several letters 
written by Adams in March, 1780, and read in Congress Aug. i of that year do speak of a 
threatened revolt in Ireland at that time (see Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 533, 571- 
572, 575, 689), but they were not, of course, the source of the intelligence which Congress 
received about Aug. 10, 1779. See no. 462, ante. 

[474]! N. C. Hist. Comm. (in the writing of Thomas Burke). 

2 This report upon the proceedings of Congress from January to the middle of 
August was doubtless made to the North Carolina assembly October 25, 1779, for the 
delegates, Penn, Burke, and Hill, were requested to attend the assembly on that day 
" to give information with respect to Matters which have come under the deliberation 
of Congress since January last" (A^. C. State Recs., XIII. 833, 854, 922, 945). Burke 



August, 7/79 367 

Objects Seemed to your Delegates to be of highest Importance to the 
united States in general, The army. Finances and foreign affairs. The 
votes and transactions relative to the two first are to be found in the 
Journals, Copies of which are transmitted to the Governor for the use of 
the State. I ^ presume therefore that your Delegates are not required to 
give any particular Information relative to them unless some passages 
require Explanation, or their own particular Votes Stand in need of 
Justification, if Such be the case, I hope and request that they may be 
Questioned on such votes and passages specially, praying leave to suggest 
that any other mode would be tedious difficult and unsatisfactory and 
Protesting that I am at all times ready and willing to give all the Satis- 
faction in my power to the Assembly in any mode which shall to that 
honorable Body Seem most eligeable. I am aware that some obvious 
remarks which will occur on perusing the Journals require answers and 
will Endeavour to give such as appear to me true, and hope they will prove 
Satisfactory. Tis obvious that much time is Spent on unimportant Sub- 
jects, that many Questions of Order are defeated and some of them 
perhaps decided in a manner that may appear extraordinary to Legis- 
lative assemblies. 

The latter is Occasioned by the Nature of Congress which is a de- 
liberating Executive assembly, to whose proceedings the rules of order 
Established for deliberating Legislative assemblies will not always apply 
without manifest Inconvenience and as Utility is the principle which 
gives rise to all rules of order, so whatever rule appears to a Majority 
to be contrary to utility must Necessarily be rejected as not order. 

It must be confessed, and ought to be lamented that those circumstances 
make the rules of order in that assembly very arbitrary and uncertain, 
hence frequent disputes arise thereon, much time and debate are wasted, 
and the decisions at length depend upon the Integrity of a Majority. Thus 
Rules of order cease to be, what they ought, common checks upon Ex- 
cesses; and being always in the power of a Majority, if that should be 

and Hill appeared on the day appointed, and, while there is no mention of the report, they 
received the thanks of both houses and (through Burke) made response. 

Burke's drafts of these responses, which are in the custody of the North Carolina 
Historical Commission, reveal numerous alterations made in the phraseology. One 
sentence in his response to the senate does not appear in the printed text (ibid., p. 854). 
It precedes the final sentence, "Accept Sir ", etc., and reads, " THe Esteem and approbation 
of our Country we Consider as a reward Sufficient for the highest merit and Services, 
and Sincerely wish we could have rendered Such to our Country in a degree equal to our 
own Ideas ". 

In three of the four entries recording the adoption of the resolution requesting the 
delegates to attend the time set is given as "Friday next" (October 22), whereas the 
message from the house to the senate reads (as recorded in the House Journals) " Mon- 
day next" (ibid., p. 922). "Friday" is doubtless an error of the recording clerk or the 
printer. Although the report was probably not drawn up until a few days before its 
presentation to the assembly, it is deemed best to place it at the close of the period 
to which it applies. Burke's attendance (until his return Dec. 8) ended Aug. 14. 

3 This statement was originally written as from the entire delegation, the 
sentence at this point reading, " Your Delegates presume therefore that they ", etc^ 
Burke afterward went through a considerable part of it, changing the pronouns and 
verbs so as to make it a personal report from himself, but he did not continue the 
process of alteration throughout the entire document. There are numerous other alter- 
ations of phraseology, usually of a minor sort. 



368 Continental Congress 

factious or Vitious will be unavailing against them, but always powerful 
Instruments in their hands. This Inconvenience can only be remedied 
by fundamental alterations in the Constitution of Congress, which ought 
to be beyond their own power to alter except by unanimous Consent, but 
the present times afford not leisure for such Improvements, and tis to 
be hoped that the Virtue of the present Race will prevent any great 
degree of Injury, before a Season of Tranquility shall arrive. 

The former arises also from the Imperfect Constitution of Congress 
which cannot reject any Business, addressed to them by way of despatch 
through the President, before it has undergone some Consideration. 
When such applications respect the Interests of Individuals it too often 
happens that some member patronises the application, and a debate Neces- 
sarily Ensues which consumes much time, for it must be confessed that 
particular Interests are too frequently very strenuously contested and the 
very Effort to get rid of such applications in order to make way for 
more Important Business takes up a great part of that time which ought 
to be Sacred to great and general Concerns.^ Your Delegates with great 
pleasure assisted in passing a Resolution to correct this Evil in Some 
measure vizt. that on a motion for postponing no member should speak 
more than Once,* and they have had the satisfaction of observing very 
good Effects from it the House being thereby enabled to come to a 
resolution for dismissing improper business, with much less Debate, and 
waste of time than heretofore. As the most Effectual Remedy for this 
Evil, it is much to be wished that the Delegates in Congress were free 
from the Solicitations of Interested Individuals, or immoveably firm 
against them, either, tho much to be wished for, yet, considering the 
frailty of human Nature, can Scarcely be expected, and the remedy for 
this Evil like many others must be referred to Seasons of Sufficient Tran- 
quility for fundamental amendments. 

In general with respect to the army your Delegates relied on the 
approved Experience abilities and Virtue of its Illustrious Commander 
for all Military Enterprises and Operations. In what related to arrange- 
ments and appointments, they always favored whatever tended to make 
their Condition more Comfortable and Satisfactory, whatever tended to 
hold out prospects of future glory and Competence to the gallant and 
faithful Soldier. But they were careful to admit no Ideas of Power in 
the Military Order Repugnant to, or interefering with the Civil authority, 
nor insolence to the Civil Magistrate of any State to pass with impunity,^ 
and they always opposed every attempt to exercise arbitrary acts of Power 
over any military person, always steadfastly maintaining that a Soldier 
does not forego the rights of a free Citizen by taking arms in defence of 
his Country, that the rules of his Conduct, mode of his trial, and measure 
of his punishments ought to be found in the promulgated Civil and mili- 
tary Codes, to the former of which he has given the general Consent 

4 See the Journals, Apr. 27. 

5 See, for instance, the proceedings in the case of Maj. Matthew Clarkson, the 
Journals, Feb. 1,18, 24, Mar. 23, 24. For the case of General Arnold, in which the 
Clarkson case was involved, see no. 58, note 2, ante. 



August, lyjg 369 

of a Citizen, and to the latter by subscribing the articles the particular 
Consent of a Soldier. 

Your Delegates are happy in the Conviction that in all that relates to 
this important object they maintained principles, and observed a conduct 
Consonant to the Ideas of their Constituents, of which they consider as 
cogent proofs the Several acts of assembly made in favor of that Useful 
Virtuous and ^Meritorious part of our fellow Citizens who are chearfully 
undergoing all the Dangers and distresses of Military Service for their 
Country, and they beg leave to express their concern that those acts 
are not in all things Executed so as to give the full Effect to the liberality 
of the assembly. 

With respect to finance your Delegates were of Opinion that the public 
Credit ought to be maintained by very Copious Taxation, well knowing 
that the ability to pay Taxes must always increase in proportion to the 
Increase of money, and much wishing that Taxes might have the Salu- 
tary Effect, of diverting much of that time which is now wasted every 
where in America, in blameable Idleness, or frivolous Amusements, to 
Industrious Exertions for Increasing the resources of our Country, they 
also wished to Correct the abuses in the Expenditure of public money, 
but I am sorry to say that such abuses are so Inveterate that they admit 
of no adequate Cure but from Vigorous Exertions of the States to fur- 
nish the Necessary supplies in kind according to their respective abilities. 

All the efforts of Congress have been directed to the lessening of 
Expenditures, to the procuring of supplies of money by Loans and Taxes, 
and by such means to prevent further Emissions. But all their Efforts 
must prove ineffectual if not powerfully aided by Similar Efforts of the 
States for carrying their Resolutions into Execution. 

Many States are availing themselves of the present plenty of money 
for the raising as much as possible by Taxes. The advantage of such 
policy and the Injury of delaying Taxation until the money becomes 
more difficult to be obtained, your Delegates presume are obvious, and 
cannot escape the Sagacity of the General assembly. 

What relates to foreign affairs being preserved in the Secret Journals 
of Congress will require a more particular detail, and I will here give 
as full a Relation as the Injunctions of Secrecy which [I] am under 
will permit. Premising, that tho' I hold myself not at liberty to declare 
any thing which I have been enjoined to keep Secret, unless I perceive 
its tendency to be Injurious to my Constituents : or, unless I am par- 
ticularly required by the assembly to lay such matters before them with- 
out reserve, yet in Such Cases I Consider the obligation I am under to 
my Constituents, superior to any which can be laid on me by Congress.® 
But in the Conduct of Wars, and foreign Negotiations Many things will 
Occur which if divulged might lose every beneficial Effect, and produce 
Consequences very Injurious to the general Welfare. Such it is to be 
presumed no one State would Require to be divulged, unless their own 
peculiar Safety made it Necessary, and I am too well Convinced of the 
Wisdom, discretion and public Spirit of my Constituents, to doubt their 

8 See nos. 401, 414, 420, ante. 



370 Continental Congress 

permitting silence on all affairs of Such Nature. The foreign affairs 
have been considered in Congress under two general Heads, the State 
and dispositions of foreign Courts, the Conduct and Character of our 
foreign Ministers, and each afforded very Interesting objects, and pro- 
duced long protracted Questions and debates. 

With respect to the Conduct of our foreign Ministers. It was so 
Indiscreet that dissentions and Animosities had arisen amongst them 
which produced reciprocal Suspicions and Accusations, Nor had they 
the prudence to suppress or conceal them, on the Contrary, they suffered 
them to break out into heats and altercations, disgraceful to the Country 
in whose Service they were. The Consequence was, that they ^ became 
almost useless. 

Doctr. F. and Mr. Dean who principally conducted our affairs at the 
Court of Versails Seemed to act in perfect Harmony, and to be fully 
possessed of the Confidence of the Court. Doctor Lee who was Joint 
Commissioner with them, accused them both of peculation, and criminal 
waste and misapplication of public money. Mr. Dean accused Doctor Lee 
of being Froward, proud. Supercilious, Malevalent, Suspicious, to so 
unreasonable a degree as to take unfounded Conjectures for facts, and 
to draw from them uncandid and disengenuous conclusions — with all, to 
be of a temper sordid and disgusting, and by his correspondence and 
Connexitions [sicl with British Subjects and Emissaries to have become 
Suspected by the French Court of Infidelity — and Doctor Franklin Con- 
sidered the same Gentleman as laboring under a Disorder of his under- 
standing. 

The appointments of the other Gentlemen were found to have been 
Useless and their part in the Enquiries, and proceedings of Congress, 
being inconsiderable, it seems enough to Inform the assembly that they 
were discontinued in office. 

The Congress made a very Minute and painful Enquiry Concerning all 
the allegations of the different accusers and accused, but so deficient were 
they in Materials for affording Testimony that no Satisfaction could be 
obtained with respect to the guilt or Innocence of any.^ 

Mr. Dean alledged that his accounts would very fully refute the charge 
of Mr. Lee, but that not knowing that he was recalled for any other pur- 
pose than to give Congress Information of the Political State of Europe 
as it affected the united States, and being desirous of giving them Satis- 
faction without delay, and of hastening the Departure of Count DeEs- 
taing for America with the fleet under his Command, he did not take 
time to settle them before he left France.^ The accusations against him 
were founded upon Conjectures Surmises and Inuendoes, and the Settle- 
ment of his accounts would certainly prove either his guilt or Innocence, 
but they were in france, and all farther proceeding became impossible 
so that the Sense of jCongress on the indisputable Merit of Mr. Dean as 

^ At this point the following words are erased, " lost the Confidence of the Court 
at which they resided and ". 

s See especially the proceedings Mar. 24, Apr. 15, 20, 21, 22, 30, May 3, June 8, 10. 

9 See sundry letters of Deane, July to October, 1778, Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., 
II. 668, 680, 710, 716, 736, 739, 761, 779. 



August, 777P 371 

an Assiduous, able, faithful, and Successful Minister, could not with 
propriety be given while he lay under so heavy a charge as that of pecu- 
lation. Doctor Franklin was involved with Mr. Dean. 

The charges against Doctor Lee were no better Supported, and he 
himself was not present to answer. Upon the whole it appear 'd to your 
Delegates, and in their Opinion to a great Majority of Congress, that 
the charges on all hands were much more the result of personal 111 will 
and Resentment than of Calm dispassionate observation and Enquiry. 
The Indiscrition of the JMinisters and their Consequent Inutility were to 
your Delegates and many others perfectly Evident. They also thought 
that when Ministers of such high trust were accused of such Enormities 
nothing less than a full and clear Investigation by putting the parties 
personally on their Defence before their Country, and obtaining all pos- 
sible light, concerning their Transactions, ought to satisfy the public, 
this was impossible unless the ministers were present, and therefore your 
Delegates were of Opinion that they ought all to be recalled. Agreeably 
to this principle they voted for the recal of Doctor Franklin," but, they 
confess, it was with great reluctance, they had a high Opinion of his 
Merit and Services, and gave little or no Credit to the charges against 
him, but they did not presume to think their opinion of his Innocence 
to be sufficient to satisfy the public without a Trial, they are glad of this 
Opportunity of Explaining their vote with respect to that able and faith- 
ful Minister, and honorable Patriot, and also to testify the pleasure they 
afterwards had when the Minister of France Informed Congress from 
the King that the appointing him sole Plenipotentiary to his Court gave 
him the highest Satisfaction, and would engage his utmost Confidence.^^ 

But the Sentiments of your Delegates, and of many others, in Congress 
were very different as to Doctor Lee. From his Letters, and from the 
concurring Testimony of many who were personally acquainted with him 
they Conceived him tol labor under that Imperfection of Capacity which 
gives to trifles too much Importance, and to be of a temper so suspicious 
and unconciliating as to embarass all public Business in which he might be 
engaged. 

They had also indubitable proof that he was not only denied the Con- 
fidence of the Court of Versails, but deeply suspected by them : and 
the Connection and participation of Councils and Sentiments, between 
that Court and the Court of Madrid were so well known to your Delegates 
that they could not doubt of his standing in the same Predicament with 
both, and Consequently to be, not only, useless, but injurious at either. 
The proofs referred to are the following. 

In Debate on the subject a Gentleman from Massachusetts Bay (Mr. S. 
Adams) declared that he had it from the highest Authority, that Mr. Lee 
was not denied the full Confidence of the Court of Versails. One of your 
Delegates (Mr. Burke) remarking this declaration, and observing that 
it was directly opposite to the Concurring representations of all who came 
from Europe, and to the general opinion, as he was informed, of France 

1° See the Journals, Apr. 22. 

1^ See the Journals, July 14 (p. 830), and nos. 401, 420, ante. 



372 Continental Congress 

and America he requested the Gentleman to name the authority he alluded 
to that other gentlemen might have an equal Opportunity of obtaining 
such good Information which might prevent their giving their votes, 
to the prejudice of a gentleman who possibly might be a man of great 
worth, tho misrepresented through prejudice and popular Error, the 
Gentleman declined naming the Authority, and Mr. Burke, in company 
with General Nelson a delegate from Virginia, paid the Minister of France 
a Visit, in which the Conversation being introduced, the minister delivered 
himself to the purport which is contained in a paper hereto annexed. Mr. 
Burke reduced it to writing, and comparing it with Mr. Nelson both 
agreed that the substance of the Conversation and almost the words were 
recited.^" 

other Delegates Impelled by the same Motives made more direct ap- 
plication to the minister and Mr. Paca, a Delegate from Maryland, and 
Mr. Drayton, a delegate from South Carolina, obtained from him an 
Extract of a letter from the Count de Vergens which Communicated 
certain dispositions, and transactions in European Courts to be Com- 
mitted in Confidence to Congress, of which our own Minister [s] were 
entirely Ignorant, and which in the Extract referred to accounts for that 
Ignorance by declaring that he feared Mr. Lee and those about him. 
These Several Testimonies were laid before Congress, but to the great 
surprise of your Delegates and many others the votes were, for recalling 
Mr. Lee 4, against it four, and four divided. By this Division he Still 
continued Plenipotentiary to the Court of Madrid." 

Your Delegates are unable to account for this division on any other 
ground than that of a Secret Combination in his favor formed by his 
Brothers, who had been Members of Congress for a long time preceding, 
but this, tho it obtruded itself on the observation and Conviction of your 
Delegates and many others in Congress, yet as it can only be the result 
of Conjecture, and from its Nature is incapable of direct proof it does 
not become your Delegates to assert it as a fact, and therefore they only 
Suggest it as a Conjecture which forced itself on the Minds of many of 
the Delegates, and which obtained additional Force from many Circum- 
stances' that could not escape observation, particularly the following. It 
was observed that several Gentlemen in debate threw out Suggestions 
that the House was divided into partizans of Mr. Dean and Mr. Lee, and 
that the Endeavour to recall the Latter was an attempt to Sacrafise him 
to the former, your delegates beared these Suggestions with Indignation, 
and Considering all Individuals and their Interests as inconsiderable ob- 
jects compared to the public Service, and being firmly persuaded that 
Neither of those Gentlemen could any longer be useful, they wished to 
see both removed. A Motion was made by one of your Delegates (Mr. 
Burke) for detaining the one and recalling the other for the purpose 
of Investigating more fully the allegations of Mr Lee against Mr Dean 

12 See no. 216, ante. 

13 See the Paca-Drayton Information, in the Journals, Apr. 30, and the pro- 
ceedings May 3. 



August, ly/p 373 

This motion was lost by an equal Division the members voting against 
it who favored or made the foregoing Suggestions.^* 

upon the whole, your Delegates could find no Sufficient Cause proved 
for degrading any of the foreign Ministers tho they saw plainly that 
none Except Doctor Franklin could be any longer useful and even him 
they thought it right to recall in Order to give Satisfaction to the public 
by a trial and that all of them, not excepting Doctr. Lee, had some Merit, 
particularly unwearied Attention and Industry. 

With respect to the State and disposition of foreign Courts Early 
last february the Minister of France in a private Audience informed 
Congress ^® by the special Command of his King That England had failed 
in her application to the Court of Russia for Succors, that peace had 
taken place between that and the Ottoman power under the Mediation of 
his Master, that Austria and Prussia had also Submitted their differences 
to his Mediation, in which at his own request he was Joined by Russia, 
That from all the Arrangements in Europe it appeared certain that Britain 
could Obtain no alliance among the Northern powers nor had our Con- 
federacy anj^hing to apprehend from thence. That the King of Spain 
had offered his Mediation between Great Britain and France, declaring 
that if it should be refused or Evaded he would no longer Stand Neuter 
and see the Arms and power of France Injured and Insulted, That as a 
prelimenary Article the Indep[end]ence of the united States of America 
must be acknowledged, he in the name of his Master also recommended 
to the Congress to be prepared to take their place in a Negotiation for 
Peace which would probably take place, under such Mediation, and might 
be daily Expected, and to furnish their Ministers with an ultimatum, 
as moderate as possible ; remembering ^always that the Events of War are 
uncertain, that peace is Exceedingly desirable as well to France as America, 
that nothing of Importance ought to be Committed to the former which 
could be obtained without, and that nothing ought to retard the latter 
which was not absolutely Necessary to our Safety. 

That in the Cabinet of Britain there was as early as October '78 a great 
party in favor of acknowledging our Independance, and that it was pre- 
vented only by the Hopes which the Commissioners gave of disunion 
amongst us, to excite and Continue which they had employed and re- 
warded Several Individuals in America. 

He also recommended Secrecy and dispatch that Spain might be 
properly informed of our resolutions and enabled to press Britain to a 
decisive declaration in time to take part in the War and to commence 
her opperations with the then Ensuing Campaign. 

Also that as it was possible the Pride and obstinacy of the British 
Monarch might still hinder the much wished for peace, we should be 
prepared to carry on the war against him with Successful Vigor, in 
order to which it was very adviseable to come to a friendly understanding 
with Spain, and, engaging her in alliance with us as well as with france, 

14 See the Journals, June 10; also Laurens's notes, Apr. 28, 30, May 6, June 10, 11, 
nos. 226, 240, 250, 337, 338, ante. 

15 See the Journals, Feb. 15, 17, 23 ; cf. ibid., Mar. 1,17, 19, July 14. See also 
Gerard's memorial of Feb. 9, Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 39, 



374 Continental Congress 

to obtain Effectual aid both of Force and Money from her, that in such 
Event we might obtain from her a Subsidy on very easy Terms which if 
prudently managed might restore the Credit of our Money, that the 
King his Master was prepared with all his force, which he would employ 
without reserve to force Britain into an acknowledgement of our Inde- 
pendence, That this was the only object which he proposed by the War, 
and when obtained he would chearfully lay down his Arms, But that he 
would assist with all his weight and Influence to obtain for us by Treaty 
any thing farther which we might require. 

In Considering this Important Communication the Congress were 
Necessarily led to take a view of all the objects which were Interesting 
to the States Individually or Collectively — to Insist on what were Essenti- 
ally Necessary to the latter was unanimously agreed to. 

but great difficulties arose concerning such as might be deemed pecul- 
iarly important to some, and remotely so to all. almost every State 
could point out such as were to her peculiarly Interesting, but the Impor- 
tance of many of them to the whole depended on remote contingencies, 
and the right to them was founded more on casuistry, and metaphisical 
reasoning, than on the received Laws and Customs of Nations 

Your Delegates Considered that the State of America in general made 
Peace too desireable to be delayed for the discussion of such rights, or 
for the obtaining of such objects, and very early fixed their resolution to 
observe a profound Silence with respect to all such objects, and insist only 
on such as were Indispensibly Necessary for the Safety of the whole. 
Thus to leave to the more vigorous growth of future ages to assert dis- 
puted claims while they would secure to the present what might be Neces- 
sary for fixing Deep the roots, and cherishing the National Strength to 
a prolific Maturity, pursuant to this resolution they declined insisting 
on some objects which were undoubtedly of great Importance to this and 
many of the Neighboring States, the delegates of such States concurring 
with them, the Delegates from some very respectable States did not seem 
Impressed with an equal Sense of the great Expediency of peace and 
insisted very Strenuously and pertinaciously on making a certain object ^'' 
part of our ultimatum which was peculiarly Interesting to the States they 
represented, and which is far from being indifferent or unimportant to 
the whole, some part of this object, (and in the Opinion of your Dele- 
gates sufficient for the purposes of America for many ages if not for 
ever) appeared to be involved in the general Rights of Sovereignty and 
Independance and so far every one was willing to Insist at all Events. 

But their claims Extended so far as to Interfere with the rights which 
must by the Law of Nations belong to britain after the War, and such 
rights as Britain is always Jealous of in so high a degree that She would 
make War at any time to prevent encroachments on them. 

The Delegates alluded to attempted, to support their claim to the Ex- 
tended object on the right of occupancy, [it appeared to your Delegates 

18 The fisheries. The principal discussions may be traced in the Journals by the 
following dates : Feb. 23, Mar. 17, 22, 24, May 7, 8, 12, 22, 27, June 3, 17, 19, 24, July 1,
6, 17, 22, 24, 29, 31, Aug. 3, 4, 5, 7, 13, 14. 



August, I//P 375 

and to many others That Such Occupancy could not be an Occupancy 
of the united States, because their poHtical Existance would not admit 
of it] " 

Your Delegates and many others who could not perceive the Justice 
or force of their arguements concluded that insisting on such an object 
would be, in Effect, refusing to make peace, and might even expose us to 
be deserted by our ally who might not think himself engaged to Continue 
in a state of Hostilities with a powerful Nation for such an object for 
his ally, and not chusing to risque the Continuance of the Calamities of 
War on the Success of reasonings which appeared to them futile, and 
which they were well persuaded would be wholly disregarded by States- 
men, they vigorously opposed the making of the object in the Extent 
required, an ultimatum. But being extremely desirous to gratify as far 
as they could the States who were peculiarly Interested, for whose People 
they have the highest respect, they Consented that it should be an ulti- 
matum provided our ally should be in Condition to Continue Hostilities 
for it in Conjunction with us. This passed the Congress by very general 
if not unanimous Consent but not being Satisfactory to the Delegates 
who contended for the object they moved to reconsider it and were 
Indulged. It was now the 24th of March, and every day for a consider- 
able time was expected to be the last which should delay this important 
Business. But tho' they and many others used their utmost Efforts to 
bring the affairs to a Conclusion yet it could not be Effected before the 
Middle of August, '^^ during all this time it was often postponed for 
Business which appeared to your del [e] gates of far less importance, and 
they were sometimes obliged to Concur for prudential reasons which 
the Sagacity of this Assembly makes unnecessary to mention. 

The Struggle was very arduous and pertinacious on both Sides The 
one Considering a peace as inadmissible without an absolutely [sic] ac- 
knowledgement of the right they claimed, and a Security for the undis- 
turbed Exercise thereof, The other Considering the clairn to all that 
Exceeded what was involved in the general right of Sovereignty and 
Independance as Extravagant and Insupportable, all, so involved, as Nec- 
essarily Secured by a Peace acknowledging that Sovereignty and Indepen- 
dance, and too well Convinced of the Expediency of Peace to Consent to 
its being delayed for objects of ambition or rapacity. 

The former availing themselves of all their Ingenuity and address to 
obtain resolutions of Congress, which, tho not apparently, might by Con- 
sequence prevent a peace until their favorite object should be secured, 
the latter firmly persuaded that the Sense of the great Body of the 
People through all the united States was with them, bee [a] use such must 
arise from their Interests and Circumstances, that it was their Indispens- 
able duty to prevent every obstruction to peace but such as were unavoid- 
able, and that the direct operation of every resolution which should be 
passed on so important a Subject should be plain and unequivocal were 

17 Opposite the passage in brackets Burke has written " Dele ", but the passage 
is not crossed out. 

18 See the Journals, Aug. 14. This is the last day on which Burke is recorded as 
present. 



376 Continental Congress 

ever watchful to pervade every proposition, and by proposing Amend- 
ments, to Strip it of every artificial Coloring until it was brought to the 
Simple Question " Shall the War be continued merely for that object ?[''] 

as in this form it was impossible to obtain a vote of Congress to the 
affirmative, so when it was perceived that no Question could be put 
but what must plainly come to this point those who Contended for making 
the object an ultimatum availed themselves of advantages which the rules 
of Debate and forms of proceeding in Congress gave them, and prevented 
the decision all together. Thus was much time wasted in Endeavouring 
to reconcile opinions So Opposite on Subjects of the highest Importance. 
At length it was rested on a resolve passed early in the progress that 
the object as far as it is supposed to be involved in the right of Inde- 
pendance should in no event be given up, but no other Stipulations relative 
to it in a Treaty of peace were permitted to be a part of the ultimatum. 

Some resolutions were entered into for the better securing the undis- 
turbed Exercise of the Right as[serted, to] which your Delegates did not 
Con [sent, as they did not believe] ^^ that their powers Extended to the 
entering into such Engagements as were proposed, but it would be prema- 
ture and Improper to mention the particulars of such Engagements at 
present, your Delegates hope it is Sufficient to inform the assembly that 
their dissent will appear on the Journal, and the State may avail herself 
thereof should it hereafter be deemed Expedient. 

The Minister of France had a Second private Audience of Congress in 
July and then informed us of some difficulties which prevented the suc- 
cess of the Mediation of Spain which it required the Wisdom and Mod- 
eration of Congress to remove. 

The Congress resolved on the Measures which appeared to them the 
best for removing them, and if not too late, your Delegates have strong 
hopes in their Success.^'* 

No Conclusive resolutions were entered into relative to the proposed 
alliance with Spain while any of your Delegates who have now the honor 
of informing the Assembly remained at Congress. 

475. John Armstrong to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philada. August 1 6th 1779 
Dear General 

.... At present we are favoured with a flood of good News, the tak- 
ing of St. Vincent and the Granada's together with some degree of Victory 
over Admiral Byrons Fleet by the Count De Estaign, are we believe mat- 
ters of fact, and anxiously wait to hear the consequences of the latter or 
in what manner the good Count may be directed to improve his Victory. 
The Agent of Congress (Bingham at Martinique whose name and the 
thing too Congress at present seems rather disposed to conceal) expressly 

^^ Some words in the manuscript at this point have become obliterated. For the 
resolutions referred to, see the Journals, June 19 (Gerry's propositions), 24, July 1,24, 29. 
These and the other resolutions relative to the fisheries are brought together in a docu- 
ment printed in the Journals under Aug. 4. 

20 See the Journals, July 10, 12, 14, 22. 
[475]^ N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XV. 298. 



August, I'j'jg 377 

tells us that the British Court hath rejected the mediation of Spain, the 
effect of which will instantly throw that Court into the scale of France 
and America.^ .... The harmony of Congress rather grows than other- 
wise, there being but one point now on the Carpet in which the House 

stand Martialed on every side (the retaining or \^sicY of Arthur 

Lee) for the Fishery I think has gained a sufficient political basis in 
effect amounting to an Ultimatum or Sine-qna-nonJ 

On Finance, particularly the Apreciation of our Money and means for 
domestick Loans in order to prevent farther emissions, a more vigorous 
and effectual stimulas to Money holders must in my Opinion be suddenly 
thrown out, that as little as possible on this essential point may be left to 
doubtful contingency and caprice, this will probably soon be agreed on 
to good effect ° . . . . 

A certain Committee ® whereof I am One have prepared a report for 
your reinforcement but a good friend of yours wishes the report kept back 
a little in hope of being able to make it better. I shall again press the Com- 
mittee upon it one way or other. My declineing Constitution has had a 
struggle to keep on foot for a week past but now somewhat better, and if 
the bow of Congress were fairly shot at a few capital things, I shall God 
willing take a final leave of all publick stations. 

I am dear General most sincerely 

And Affectionately Yours, 

John Armstrong 

476. The Committee of Conference, Report.^ 

Representation of the Circumstances respecting the Western Frontiers 
communicated by a Committee of the General Assembly of Pensylvania 
and also Copies of the Memorials and Letters from the Govern'rs of Con- 
necticut and New York respecting the Depredations on the said Frontiers 
as transmitted to the Commander in Chief, who is directed to take effec- 
tual Measures for the Protection of the Inhabitants and chastisement of 
the Savages etc." 

2 See the Journals, Aug. 2, and nos. 453, 454, 466, ante. 

3 Armstrong was evidently in doubt as to the word which he should use, inasmuch 
as the precise nature of the action to be taken was as yet a matter of uncertainty. 
Members generally used the word " recall " (see, for instance, nos. 250, 338, 474, ante, 
and nos. 580, 581, post) ; but cf. nos. 296, 297, ante, and the Journals, Oct. 13. 

* Cf. no. 462, ante, and see the Journals, Aug. 14. 

^ See the Journals, index, Finance. Cf. nos. 441, 449, 461, ante, and nos. 500, 
506, 508, 51S, 516, post. 

8 This was the committee (Marchant, Huntington, and Armstrong) appointed 
July 13 on Washington's letter of July 7. Cf. nos. 4ro, 462, ante. The "good friend" 
was evidently Henry Marchant. See his letter to General Gates, Aug. 24 (no. 491, post). 
[476] IN. Y. Pub. Lib., Myers Coll., Distinguished Americans, p. 634. The document 
is endorsed, " Report of Committee of Conference with the Commander in Chief 
16 Augt. 1779"- 

2 See the Journals, Feb. 16 (pp. 189, 190), 25, Mar. 13. This committee of con- 
ference was appointed Dec. 24. It comprised James Duane, Jesse Root, Meriwether 
Smith, Gouverneur Morris, and Henry Laurens. The report vvas evidently made in 
compliance with the resolution of July 26 calling upon the committee to make a report 
of its proceedings. A minute of the committee's proceedings Jan. 31 is found in the 
preface to vol. XHL of the Journals (p. 7). 



378 Continental Congress 

On the 9th of March their Report respecting the Number of Battalions 
of Infantry to be employed was agreed to in Congress. On the 16th your 
Committee offered their Report for inlisting Waggons during the War; 
And their Report that W^arr't Officers be put on the same Footing with 
regard to arrests as those of the Line. And a Report for the better regu- 
lating the Department of issuing Commissaries of Provisions. 

On the 22d your Committee reported a Plan for Cloathing the Army; 
and on the 23d it passed Congress. On the 12th of April, their Report for 
allowances of the full Value of Rations to Officers was considered and 
postponed and on the 13th recommited. On the 14th a Motion to recom- 
mend it to the several States to make Provision for Supplying their Offi- 
cers with certain Necessaries was referred to your Committee. On the 
1 2th of June, a Memorial from the Officers of Light Dragoons was re- 
ferred to your Committee, and they were directed to report speedily a 
provision for the Army. On the 5th of July a Letter of the 31st of May 
from Colo : Shephard and 16 other Field Officers, and on the 6th a Letter 
from the Commander in Chief of 27th June were referred to them : Your 
Committee have reported half pay for Life to the Officers and their 
Widows; And an additional Subsistance for the present.^ on the 12th 
They reported on the Letter from the Governor of North Carolina re- 
specting the March of the Troops of that state etc.* 

That the Letter and Enclosures from General Schuyler (respecting 
which your Committee with the Commander in Chief were to take order,)' 
containd a Request from the Oneidas, a friendly Tribe of the Six nations, 
for protection against the common Enemy; and your Committee have 
submitted it to the Commander in Chief to pursue such Measures thereon 
as he shall Judge adviseable 

That the rest of the Reports being on the Files of Congress your Com- 
mittee refer to them respectively 

Your Committee having thus presented a general Review of the several 
Matters committed to them beg leave to remark more particularly, that 
the Operations of the then ensuing Campaign were frequently the Sub- 
ject of Conversation. That the Commander in Chief's Sentiments and 
Observations thereon which are expressed in the Papers No. 1,2, and 3 
herewith presented ® appeared to your Committee to be Solid and uncon- 
trovertible, and that your Committee had the satisfaction of concurring 
with him fully on every Point ; and having nothing to communicate from 
Congress left him, under an explicite approbation of his Ideas, to the 
free Exercise of his own discretion in conducting the Militaiy Operations 
untill he might receive the orders of Congress. That your Committee con- 
ceive that he is by the Act of Congress of the 19th of January vested with 
competent Authority to conduct the Operations of the Campaign in every 
Quarter as he shall Judge fit : being under no other direction to their 

3 See the Journals, May 24, June 12, July 14, 30, Aug. 11, 12, 16, 17, 18. Cf. 
no. 470, ante, and nos. 477, 479, post. 

* The preceding paragraphs appear to be in the writing of Charles Morse, a clerk 
in the office of the secretary of Congress ; the remainder is in the writing of James 
Duane. 

^ See the Journals, Jan. 14. 

6 These papers have not been identified. 



August, ly-jg 379 

Knowledge than what is impHed in the Act of Congress of the 25th of 
February last and the references accompanying it, which are already 
noticed 

That two Reports of your Committee remain to be considered by Con- 
gress one respecting Prisoners of War in the Marine and the other the 
Appointment of Aids to the Brigr. General in the room of their Brigade 
Majors who are employ d in the Inspectorship. 

All Which is Submitted the 16 Aug 1779 

Jas, Duane, Ch. for the Committee 

477. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[August 16, 17, 1779.] 
Monday 16th Com'l Committee Congress. Letters, Memorials etc. 
A very extraordinary motion was made to Postpone the Resolution for 
half Pay for Life to the Officers to make way for a Motion for the States 
to Provide for them in their own way ^ 

Tuesday the 17th, P M. Sett off for Petersfield and Returnd to Phila- 
delphia in the morning of Monday August the 30th. ^ 

478. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

August 17th, 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favour of the 7th is in my hand. I am surprised that you had not 
then heard of the arrival of Ford on the ist, at Metompkin.^ Mr. Adams 
was at Braintree on the 3d, and Count Luzerne in Boston.^ I have no 
despatches from either, but I have a letter from Nantz of May 25th, an 
extract of which you will see in the paper of to-morrow, as well as the 
continuation of Rowland's communications, of part of what you think 
ought to be published.* You talk of your having a sort of right to a copy 
of the papers sent by Arthur. You little know of the droll motion made 
by your merry friend ° to stigmatize Arthur for having enclosed to an 

[477] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The Journals for Aug. 16 do not record such a motion. Cf. the resolves of 
Aug. 17, 18. See also nos. 470, 476, ante, and no. 479, post. 

3 See no. 498, post, where the entry is continued. 

[478]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collection: Deane Papers, IV. 61; Lee, Life of R. H. Lee, 
IL 146. 

2 Presumably Menokin, the seat of Francis Lightfoot Lee, is meant. The letter 
of Aug. 7 to Lovell has not been found, but letters of that date to Laurens and James 
Searle are in Letters (ed. Ballagh), pp. 100, 104. Concerning Hezekiah Ford, see Lee's 
letters to Jefferson and to Arthur Lee Aug. 12, to Laurens Aug. 13, to Whipple Sept. 4, 
and to Jefferson Sept. 20, Oct. 13 {ibid., pp. 112, 116, 117, 144, 152, 157). Cf. nos. 488, 
496, 533, post. For some account of Ford, see Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., L 539. 

2 See no. 471, ante. 

* Communications of "Rowland" (Richard Henry Lee) pertaining to the Deane 
controversy appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet Aug. 10, 17, 24, 31. They are found in 
N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, IV. 49, 63, y^, 79, and in Letters of Richard 
Henry Lee, II. 108, 125, 132, 138. See no. 460, ante, and nos. 501, 553, 599, post. 

5 Aleriwether Smith. In a letter to Henry Laurens, Aug. i {ibid., p. 98), Lee 
says: " I think with infinite contempt and a good degree of detestation of my Compatriot 
M. S. If he produces papers that can in any manner affect my character, I affirm they 
are forgeries, and thus I have done with him." 



380 Continental Congress 

individual what he desired might be communicated to a select committee 
of Congress, to prevent the consequences of a palam examination of the 
vouchers. But as on the one hand I contended for an open reading of the 
whole that was sent, I most easily convinced the House that every officer 
in their service has a right to communicate such papers as these in ques- 
tion to any individual friend, on whose judgment he chooses to depend, 
either to present or burn resignations, memorials, and defences, these be- 
ing personal concerns; and I mentioned having by me some things, thus 
enclosed, upon which I should act my sovereign pleasure. I thought this 
necessary, that I may act with a good grace, if I should see cause to give 
in any of the papers now in my trunk, at a time when it would not be possi- 
ble to prove a late arrival. The motion was withdrawn, inch by inch, I 
pledging myself to prove that Congress never had an official paper kept 
from them by the mode mentioned in the motion, viz., covering despatches 
of a minister to an individual. I mean, I pledged myself, so far as con- 
cerns Arthur Lee, Esq.® Your brother was totally mistaken as to D's credit 
here; but I wait with impatience to know more by Mr. Adams. Our 
Penobscot expedition is not yet well over. Collier ^ may do great hurt 
there. I have a few lines from Mr. Samuel Adams ; he is, as you think, 
greatly engaged in town and body meetings, and in the general assembly. 
They have great expectation of mending the currency by vigorous taxa- 
tion and loan ; but I look for credit to the poor eastern states mainly from 
a successful expedition, though even in that case W. H. D. will be against 
them. He spouted an invidious motion about their fleet to relieve South 
Carolina and Georgia. Observe the cursed rascality of sending to New 
York, as well as to Boston, the Paca-Drayton effort. Though in the 
former case, there is a supererogatory section, of its being a committee in- 
formation.® I find that paper is stolen from me. It was either Pough- 
keepsie or Fishkill; you can get it by inquiring of your printer. I have 
recovered it. The party are provoked beyond measure at seeing the vouch- 
ers sent out by Rowland ; but I tell them " they are free for any member 
who chooses to use them, only it is at his peril, if he does not guard against 
offending France, Spain or Prussia, or exposing honest whigs to danger " 

479. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

Aug. 17. 1779 
Dear Sir 

.... Do look at Holt's Aug. 12.^ See the Paca-drayton Folly authen- 
ticated as by a Com'tee. I think now we may any of us talk about general 

^ It is not clear just when these proceedings took place. With regard to Lovell's 
sundry suppressions, cf. no. 450, ante, and nos. 496, 536, 562, post. 

"^ Sir George Collier, British admiral, who, with General Tryon, had recently 
ravaged Connecticut towns (see no. 429, ante, and the Journals, July 19, Aug. 16). On 
Aug. 14, three days before this letter was written, Collier had defeated the Penobscot 
expedition. 

s See no. 471, ante, and no. 479, post. 
[479]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers (second sheet bound at end of 1780). 

2 That is, the New York Journal. The principal part of the article was reprinted 
in the Pemisylvania Packet of Sept. 2^, contributed by " Honestus ", with comments 
and suggestions. The latter is found in N. Y. Hist Soc, Collections: Deam Papers, 
IV. 105. Cf. no. 478, ante, and no. 533, post. Concerning the appearance of the Paca- 
Drayton Information in Boston, see no. 471, ante. Cf. no. 512, post. 



August, i/yp 381 

Pacificat. The Rascals mean to make some of us appear to be the sole 
Causes of the Continuance of War, throwing out of Sight that there never 
was any honest proposition or even desire of Peace in Britain that we 
knew of 

Cunning Folks here are for perfecting and forwarding, to a proper 
Negociation. the Patchwork nozv on our Table though the Mediation of 
Sp'n is rejected because, say they, it will shew our Moderation to Europe, 
when Gr Br. makes her Appeal to them of her Necessity to go on with 
Blood.^ I fear Mr. J. A. would not trust himself again in such a Kind of 
Ser\'ice as he [has] experienced. But by pushing for first and compro- 
mising for an utianimous Choice, our worthy Friend A would be the 
Man.* 

I believe we shall be able to combat Half pay for Life, only by an Ex- 
change of that Motion for a Recommendation to the states to do Justice 
by Half pay for Life or such other Provision as they may find adequate 
to the Intentions of the first Motion which are to keep the army together 
some of whom do, what I call, menace the Continent, making a stalking 
Horse of their real Sufferings.'^ .... 

480. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philada. Augt. 17th 1779 
Dear Sir 

Your favour of the 30th Ulto. No. 3. pr the Post Came to hand Yes- 
terday. I am hapy to find that our paper Currency is in Some Measure re- 
trieving its Lost Credit, And that the prices of the Necessaries of life has 
got the falling Sickness, that there is a prospect of a plentiful Harvest 
with You this Season. I am anxious to know the fate of the Penobscott 
Expedition. It is believed here that the Enemy have Sent a Considerable 
reinforcement from N. York — hope they will arrive too late to prevent 
our Success. Notwithstanding the reinforcement Said to be expected by 
the Enemy, from Great Britain, it is pretty Certain the movements of the 
French and Spanish Courts raised Such fearful apprehentions, at the 
Court of Britain, That Admiral Arbuthnott with 4000, of the land forces, 
destined for America, had not Sail'd, when our last accounts came from 
thence, which was Some time after they were Said to have Sail'd. And by 
Some Circumstances lately Come to my knowledge lead me to Conclude 
his attention will be engaged by objects Nearer home.^ I omit mentioning 
the favourable, intended, opperations of the Courts of France and Spain, 
on a presumption You will have intelligence much Earlier. I inclose You 
the Journuls of Congress as published from the 21 of June to the 26th of 
July — as also Several Newes papers which may Serv^e for the perusal of 
the Hon'le Committee of Safety. I need Not inform You that there is 
another Journal of proceedings not yet made Public as many matters to 
which they refer remain unfinished 

8 See the Journals, Aug. 14. Cf. ibid., Aug. 5, 7. 
* See nos. 547, 552-554, 556-559, S62, post. 

5 See the Journals, Aug. 17, 18, 19. Cf. nos. 470, 476, 477, ante, and no. 484, post. 
[480]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. II ("No. 5"). 
2 Cf. nos. 462, 464-466, 471, 472, 473, 475, ante. 

29 



382 Continental Congress 

I have many things to write unto you which must be postponed till a 
proper time to unbosom myself to you freely, if I live to return home 
Shall exert every Nerve to induce the State to assert, Support, and main- 
tain her Sovereignity and independance against the Tyranic strides of 

Certain Aristocratical Gentry Now in and Useing their Hostile 

influence to Subjugate the E. and force them to a Compliance with Meas- 
ures injurious degrading, and Contrary to every republican principal. 
This moment while I am writing a Long Letter dated Passey may 26. 
1779, has Come to hand from Dr. Franklin and as the Secretary is Read- 
ing it I extract the following viz.^ .... 

481. Francis Lewis to the Governor of New York 

(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia 18 August 1779. 
Dear Sir 

.... Mr. Duane who is now upon his journey to the Manor will I 
suppose, in person give you information as to the proceedings in Congress. 
By this Express I send you their weekly printed Resolves, for the perusal 
of the legislature now sitting. I have collected twenty Copies of each sett 
and now send you four of each, shall send the remainder by other oppor- 
tunities. 

I shall only beg leave to make the following remark i e the little state 
of Nw Jersey allow their Delegates in Congress twenty Dollars per diem, 
and a dollar is rated here in the purchase of necessaries equal to three 
pence of the old Currency. In the Years 1775 and 76 board and Lodging 
were at four dollars per week exclusive of liquors, it is now at 100 dollars 
per week, liquors 60 dollars, in short the Delegates of every other state 
in the Union have a more ample allowance than ours. You'l excuse this 
hint, but with me it is become necessary having been plundered of nearly 
my whole property by the Enemy. 

P. S. Pray communicate to the Chancellor ^ when you see him 

482. Samuel Huntington to Jeremiah Wadsworth.^ 

Philadelphia 18th August 1779 
Sir 

Your favour of the 8th Instant I receiv'd by Mr. Flint am very sorry 
you think of quitting your department so soon, the Risque is so great in 
appointing a new person to the Office which must be attended with most 
serious consequencies if he proves unequal to the business ^ 

Have Convers'd some with Mr. Flint and the Committee will obtain 
from him all the Information they can on the Subject of the Commis- 
saries department 

3 Franklin's letter is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 186. 
[481]^ Maine Hist. Soc, Revolution, IV. 

2 Robert R. Livingston. 
[482]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Jeremiah Wadsworth Papers. 

2 Concerning Wadsworth's resignation, see the Journals, Oct. 22, Nov. 29, Dec 4. 



August, lyjg 383 

483. Samuel Holten, Diary.* 

[August 19, 1779.] 
ig. Colo. Partridge arrived here from Mass'tts, a delegate. This day 
I took my seat at the marine com't, Congress having appointed me thereto. 

484. The President of Congress (John Jay) to 
George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 20th: Augt. 1779. 
Sir, 

Herewith enclosed Your Excellency will receive a copy of three Acts 
of Congress, of the 17, 18, and 19th: Inst.^ .... 

Congress have under Consideration further Resolutions on this Sub- 
ject, calculated to do equal Justice to the whole Army, and remove every 
cause of complaint in their power to remedy. 

485. A Committee of Congress to Nathanael Greene.^ 
Sir 

We have received your letter of the lOth, wMth the Accounts therein 
mentioned, and shall be obliged to you for the " Estimate " which you say 
you can furnish, " of the Camp Equipage and stores for such an Army 
as is mentioned, together with the Teams and Apparatus proper to put it 
in motion, with the Artificers, Waggoners, and other different Agents of 
every denomination to accompany it ". 

When we had a conference with Col. Cox, among other things, we de- 
sired in particular to have as soon as possible a Return of the number of 
Horses and Teams, purchased since the 2d of March 1778, and the prices, 
and the number now belonging to the Continent, which he gave us reason 
to expect we should receive in a short time. We also requested an account 
of the Quanity, Species, and Prices of Forage purchased in the same time. 
This Return and Amount we should be very glad to receive. 

We inclose a copy of Mr. John Bancker's Memorial referred to us, and 
as it relates to a transaction in your Department, we desire you will be 
pleased to order an Inquiry to be made, and a State of the Facts to be 
Transmitted to us.^ 

We are Sir, 

Your very Humbe. Servts. 

John Dickinson 
Nath. Scudder 
Philadelphia August 20th. 1779 
Major General Green 

\^%ZV- Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 27. 

[484]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XCIIL 309; President's Letter- 
Book, p. 177. 

2 The resolutions relative to half pay, etc. See, further, the Journals, Dec. i. Cf. 
nos. 470, 476, 477, 479, ante. 

[485] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia. 

- Bancker's memorial was presented to Congress Aug. 14. The committee for 
arranging departments (Dickinson, Sherman, and Scudder) was appointed May 28. For 
some of its activities, see the Journals, July 6, 8, 9, 15, 23, Aug. 2, 3, 11. 



384 Continental Congress 

486. The Marine Committee to the President of Pennsylvania 

(Joseph Reed)/ 

Philadelphia, August 20th, 1779. 
Sir, 

Your Excellencys favour of yesterday is now before us.^ 

It gives us great concern to hear that " a spirit of Insolence and Out- 
rage manifests itself in the Officers and men of the Continental Vessels ", 
and your Excellency may rest assured that this Committee will discounte- 
nance every attempt of the officers and men under their direction to treat 
the Magistracy or any Persons in the execution of office with insult and 
Contempt. 

We find ourselves embarrassed with the particular Cases referred to in 
your Excellency's Letter; as on the One hand, to pass censure on those 
Officers, without hearing them in their defence would be considered as an 
act of injustice ; and having no Authority to call before us any Citizens of 
this State whereby we might come to a thorough knowledge of the Merits 
of the Case Stated, an ex parte enquiry might lead to a partial decision on 
the other hand, we therefore hope that the civil Power will effectually 
redress the injuries complained of, and, we trust, prevent the like in 
future.^ 

We are with much Esteem and respect, 

Your Excellencys Most Obedient Hble Servants, 

Wm. Whipple, Chairman. 

487. The President of Congress (John Jay) to the President of 

Pennsylvania (Joseph Reed),^ 

Philadelphia, 22nd Augt, 1779. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of informing you that the Honble the Sieur Gerard 
has laid before Congress a commission from his most Christian Majesty 
appointing him Consul General of France in the United States of America 
with power to appoint Consuls and Vice Consuls, and that in virtue 
thereof he did on the 15th day of July, 1778, appoint the Sieur John 
Holker, Inspector General of the commerce and manufactures of France 
to be Consul in the Ports of Pennsylvania, and on the 19th day of Sep- 
tember, 1778, did appoint the Sieur Martin Oster to be Vice Consul of 
France in the Ports of Pennsylvania. These appointments have been 
made known to and approved of by Congress, and with the said Commis- 
sion are duly registered in the Secretary's office.^ 

[486]! Po. Arch., first sen, VII. 657. 

2 Reed's letter has not been found. 

3 A letter from Timothy Pickering to Reed the same day (ibid., p. 656) relates 
to impressment of seamen on the General Greene. For a complaint against Captain 
Harding of the Confederacy for impressment of seamen, see ibid., pp. 671-672, and the 
Journals, Oct. 23. 

[487] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 176; Pa. Arch., first sen, 
VII. 662. 

2 This letter was written in compliance with the action of Congress, Aug. 2, 
taken in consequence of memorials from Gerard July 26 and 28 relative to the inter- 



August, lyyp 385 

488. William Whipple to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

« 

Philadelphia, 23d August, 1779. 
My dear Sir, 

It gfives me pleasure to find, by your favour of the 8th instant,^ that you 
have got the better of your indisposition, and I hope shortly to have the 
additional satisfaction of being informed that your health is perfectly 
restored. 

The Confederacy is still waiting for her freight ; ' I fancy a late ar- 
rival * at Boston will hasten her departure. A long political letter has been 
received from Mr. Adams, in which he gives a high character of his com- 
panion in France. I hope this gentleman will receive such impressions in 
the country where he first landed, as will sufficiently guard him against 
the pernicious air of Philadelphia. From the character given of him, 
there is no room to apprehend much danger of his being drawn into 
party, by the insidious arts of base, designing men, but still it may not be 
amiss to fortify him against any such attempts.® The arrival of Mr. 
Adams may make a change in some political plans : I wish he would come 
this way, but I do not understand he has any such intention. The reading 
of Doctor Lee's vindication, etc., afforded me high entertainment; envy, 
malice, and every vindictive passion that disappointed malevolence could 
inspire, appeared on various countenances around the room. Fiddle head 
shook, swivel eye nestled and turned pale, the chair changed colour at 
every sentence, some others forced a sneer, endeavouring to conceal their 
chagrin and confusion ; this, you may well suppose, afforded me no small 
degree of enjoyment.® The Base- Viol has tarried a fortnight beyond the 

ference by a committee in Philadelphia with purchases of flour by the French agent and 
consul general, Holker, and Robert Morris. See nos. 445, 447, 455, ante, and the Journals, 
July 3, 15, 28, 30, Aug. 2, 4, 5, 9, ID. Concerning the powers of consuls, etc., see ibid., 
June 7, 23, Aug. 26. The principal documents in the case are in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., III. 258-262, 264-267, 268-269, 2:70-2y2, 286; cf. ibid., p. 237. See also Pa. Arch., 
first sen, VII. 557, SSS, 560, 579, 580, 595, 599-603, 604, 628, 631, 633, 639, 641, 653-655; 
Pa. Col. Recs. XII. 46, 47, 54, 56, 59, 60, 66, 68, 71, 80. Extracts from several documents 
relating to this affair are in Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1183, items 47, 48, 75, 76, 83, 84, 
393, 408, 409. 

[488]! R. H. Lee, Life of Richard Henry Lee, II. in. Addressed to him at Chantilly, 
Northern Neck, Virginia. 

2 Lee's letter of Aug. 8 is in Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 106. 

3 As early as June 25 the Confederacy was " designed for a particular service " 
and ordered to Chester. July 2 the vessel was ordered on a cruise of ten days, on Aug. 24 
it was again ordered on a cruise until Sept. 5, and Sept. 3 was ordered back to Chester, 
"where we expect you will remain but a few days ". Sept. 17 definite instructions were 
given to the commander (Seth Harding) to convey Gerard to France. Oct. 17 Harding 
was instructed to convey Jay and his suite also {Out-Letters of the Marine Committee, 
II. 91, 92, loi, 103, 109, 112, 122). See nos. 535, 546, 558, 572, 595, 606, 609, post. Alluding 
to Whipple's remark, Lee said in reply, Sept. 4 {Letters, II. 144), "I believe the Con- 
federacies freight will be a very guilty one, and the Sooner we are quit of it the better ". 

■* Luzerne, the French minister. See nos. 471 (note 5), 478, ante, and nos. 489, 
492, post. 

5 That is, that he may not play into the hands of the faction opposed to Arthur 
Lee, as the friends of the latter maintained that Gerard had done. 

" Lee, with Lovell's letter of July 17 (no. 420, ante) in mind, had asked, " Did 
you not enjoy some Phizs' when Dr. Lee's vindication and vouchers were read?" 
" Fiddle head " is one of the numerous aliases of Meriwether Smith as " Base- Viol ", 
below, was another (see no. 343, ante, and nos. 535, 557, post). "Swivel eye" was 
pretty certainly one of the New York delegates, and Whipple's use of the appellation 
in another letter (see no. 633, note 2, post) seems to point to Duane; "the chair" was 
of course John Jay. 



386 Continental Congress 

time he some time ago set for his departure ; he has met with something 
of late, that has lowered him exceedingly, but what it is, I know not, per- 
haps it may be the oath you mention.'^ What can become of Ford ; ® it is 
now ten days since a fellow passenger of his passed through this city, who 
informed, that Ford had despatches for Congress, but nothing further has 
been heard of him. It is hinted, by some, that he will not be permitted to 
pass this way, but those are not remarkable for their friendship for his 
late employer. I shall not be under the least concern for the fishery, if a 
proper person can be agreed on to negotiate the business; but that still 
remains a matter of uncertainty. The resignation of Doctor Lee, at this 
time, would certainly be injurious; though, I hope, when he has com- 
pleted the business that I now expect he is engaged in, he will ask leave to 
come to America ; but, in my opinion, it will be best not to resign ; the 
thought of his coming to this country, would make some of the villains 
tremble, but, if he resigns, it will be said he has no intention of coming 
here, and many injurious stories will be circulated, that may make an im- 
pression that may give him, or his friends, some trouble to remove. The 
few select friends, whom you honoured with your confidence, have con- 
sidered the subject submitted to them ; their opinions will be given you by 

Mr. L e, or Mr. L 1, who, no doubt, will write you fully on 

the subject. ° 

It is uncertain when I shall take my leave of this place, but I believe it 
will be October first. Whenever that happens, or wherever I may be, to 
hear of your happiness will always be a great addition to mine. 

I am, my dear sir, with the highest esteem, and most sincere affection, 

Yours, 
William Whipple. 

489. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philadelphia 24th Augt. 1779 
My Dear Sir 

When I last addressed you I intended to have given you a very long 
letter by this post, but being prevented by various incidents till post day 
arrives and now have but little time to acknowledge the receipt of Your 
favor of the 4th inst which came to hand Yesterday, Some of the Publi- 
cations I must confess give me great pain these are among the multitude 
of Evils America has to combat, these things will undoubtedly give a 
handle to our enemies and perhaps be a means of protracting the war, 
they serve to show that we have still conceal'd enimies among us, if we 
never had had any such the war wo'd have been at an end long ago, how- 
ever I comfort myself with hopes that the present evils tend to future 

"^ The allusion is to an expression in Lee's letter : " Fancy the ' Ugly instrument ' 
is considerably hurt by the dressing lately given by our assembly — The oath anti- 
commercial ordered to be taken." The " ugly instrument " was Meriwether Smith. See 
no. 369A, ante. 

8 Hezekiah Ford. See no. 478, note 2, ante. 

^ The names in this la-st sentence are doubtless Laurens and Lovell. The question 
submitted to his friends was probably whether Arthur Lee's resignation should be 
submitted to Congress. See his reply to Whipple Sept. 4, Letters (ed. Ballagh), IL 144. 
[489]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. IL 



August, ly/g 387 

good ; the more difficulty we are at in obtaining the jewel the higher value 
we shall set on it consequently shall be more careful to preserve it. as to 
the effect these things have on our present ally you may be assured she has 
too high a sence of our Friendship to suffer such matters to produce the 
least abatement in her exertions to support our cause. The arrival of the 
new Minister may be productive of great good it may be improper to 
enter fully into the Character of his predecessor at present.^ The acco'ts 
from Europe are highly Flattering England has not the least prospect of 
any powerful aid to support her in the war on the other hand there is the 
highest probabil[it]y that Spain has commenced Hostilities against her. 
after the arrival of the new Minister here I shall be able to give you a par- 
ticular acco't of things which I shall endeavour to do in the fullest manner, 
in the meantime I beg You will Comfort yourself with a full perswasion 
that everything respecting America is in the most promising scituation, 
except finance and I am far from being hopeless that, that will shortly be 
on a better footing. I must refer you to the papers for news where you will 
find some pleasing paragraphs, and some perhaps that might be as well left 
out. 

I am Yours my Dear Sir with sincere affection 

Wm. Whipple 
[P. S.] If I ever suffer'd myself to anticipate evil I sho'd tremble for 
Penobscot.^ 

490. GouvENEUR Morris to Robert R. Livingston.^ 

Phila: 24th Augt: 1779. 
Dear Livingston, 

.... Some persons have of late busied themselves to [stigmatize?]^ 
Arthur Lee the success of which will I imagine be counter to the attacks 
on Morris and equally disappoint the projectors 

491. Henry Marchant to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philadelphia Augt. 24th 1779 
Dear Sir, 

I was much obliged by your kind and polite Favour of the 2d Instant. 
Ever since Glovers Brigade was recalled from your Post, I have been full 
of Concern for you. I wrote the Govr. what I had done in Congress upon 
that Occasion, but as I could not get a Com^^ of which I was one, to report 
any other Mode of releiving you than by again calling upon the neigh- 
bouring States, I thought such a Report altogether ineffectual, and so 
your Post must still be committed to Our own internal Exertions, as has 
been for most of the Time the Case.^ .... 

2 See no. 488, ante. 

3 The Penobscot expedition had already failed. See no. 478, note 7, ante. 
[490]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, IL 193 (copy of part). 

~ The text here is destroyed by the seal. The word " stigmatize " is used by 
Lovell in his letter of Aug. 17 to Richard Henry Lee, but Morris may not have char- 
acterized the purposes of the anti-Lee faction by that precise term. 
[491]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XV. 333. 

2 See nos. 410, 462, 475, ante. 



388 Continental Congress 

492. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams/ 

Philadelphia, August 24. 1779. 
My dear Friend, 

I have only Time by this Days post to express the pleasure I feel on the 
News of your safe Arrival to your Family and Friends, and the prospect 
of an agreable and early Interview with you. the Letters to me which you 
mention in your's to Mr. Lovell never came to Hand, or I should certainly 
have acknowledged the Receipt of them; altho I have been under the 
Necessity of giving up my most agreable Correspondents. I am much in- 
formed by your sensible Letter to Congress,^ which has been justly ad- 
mired as an accurate History of the Relations, Inclinations, Interests and 
Dependencies, of the several Powers of Europe; and I fully agree with 
you in your private History of Men and Things, many of our Friends, 
by a Discovery of their personal Attachments and other impolitic Mea- 
sures, must now be sensible that they have in a great Measure defeated 
their honorable Intentions of supporting patriotism and Integrity, and. de- 
veloping Conduct which from present Appearances, is disgraceful to our 
Country and the Cause in which we are engaged : but not approving their 
policy, I presume that I must not expect their Confidence, your Letter 
relative to Expenses is referred to the Board of Treasury, and will be 
answered by the next post, pray make my Compliments to Mrs. Adams, 
and inform me what she will say, if I should again think it my Duty to 
promote your Appointment to an Embassy in Europe ; she cannot justly 
impute it to the Want of tender Feelings, which married Ladies will rarely 
allow to Batchelors, when she is truly informed of my Impatience to join 
your sacred order, however I shall never wish to see any of my Friends 
in important Offices under Congress untill they have adopted a Resolu- 
tion that no person shall be appointed to any office of profit of the united 
States, during the Time of or within twelve Months after his being a 
Member of Congress.^ I remain Sir in Haste with the sincerest Esteem 
your Friend and very hum. sert 

E. Gerry. 

493. Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia Augt. 24th 1779. 
Sir, 

I have the honor of inclosing a number of acts, lately passed by the 
general assembly of the state of New Jersey, and by what is wrote on 
the outside leaf you will perceive, that they were to be communicated, by 
direction, thro' the hands of their delegates in congress, and that they are 
desirous of a " communication in kind from the state of Massa. Bay ", if 

[492]! Adams MSS. 

2 Two letters of Adams, Aug. 3 and 4, were read in Congress Aug. 20. It is the 
latter that is here referred to, while the first is mentioned further on. The letters are 
in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 276, 278. 

3 For attempts to promote such a measure, see no. 543, post. 
[493]! Mass. Arch., CCI. 247. 



August, lyyp 389 

the proposal should be agreeable to the hon'ble board ; they will be pleased 
to give the necessary directions to the sec'y; and if it should be thought 
most adviseable, that they should be conveyed thro' the hands of your 
delegates in congress, they will be properly noticed, and delivered accord- 
ingly.' 

I have the pleasure of congratulating the hon'ble board, on the success 
of our troops under the immediate command of Major Lee ; I have not the 
particulars before me, but have no doubt, they will reach you before this. 

We are anxiously concerned here, for our fleet and army at penobscot. 

The honorable Mr, Partridge arrived (safe) here, on thursday last. 

494. Nathaniel Peabody to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare),^ 

Philada. 24th of Augt. 1779. 
Hon'd and Dear Sir 

.... We have nothing new here but what you will have in the papers 
herewith inclosed. Some important matters still remaining undetermined 
prevents my writing advantageously upon those Subjects. Shall as duty 
may direct, communicate to you every important matter that may come 
to my knowledge. 

I am apprehensive many and great advantages would be derived from a 
frequent Correspondance between the Authority of the Respective States, 
and their Delegates in Congress, and which, by their practice, appears to 
be the Sentiments of almost every State in the Union except New Hampv- 
shire. Frequent information of the Circumstances and Transactions of 
our Constituents even in matters which at first view might be thought of 
little importance, would serve many valuable purposes.^ .... 

495. John Jay to the Governor of New York (George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, August 27, 1779. 
Dear Sir: 

If New York and New Hampshire, by acts of their respective Legisla- 
tures, will authorize Congress to settle the line between them, and if New 
York will further, by act of their Legislature, empower Congress to ad- 
just the disputes with the people of the Grants on equitable and liberal 
principles, I am well persuaded it will conduce to the interest and happi- 
ness of the State. The apprehension of interfering with your police, on 
the one hand, and the apparent equity as well as policy of hearing the re- 
volters before a decision against them, on the other, are obstacles which 
at present embarrass Congress.^ 

Mr. Duane was of opinion before he left us that we should forbear 
further proceedings on the subject in Congress till the sense of our Legis- 

2 Similar letters were written about this time by other delegates. See, for 
instance, the letter of the Rhode Island delegates, Sept. 7, in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., 
p. 251. 

[494]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 8i A 116; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, p. 115. 

- The remainder of the letter is a further discussion of the same subject. 
[495]! Correspondence of Jay (ed. Johnston), I. 214; Clinton Papers, V. 117. 
2 Cf. nos. 453, 465, ante, and nos. 506, 544, 545, post. 



390 Continental Congress 

lature should be known. I hope it, will be one of their first objects, and 
that they will not be too nice and critical in their reservations and restric- 
tions. The jurisdiction is the great point ; it is of no great consequence to 
the State, who possess and cultivate the soil, especially as we have vacant 
lands enough to do justice to individuals who may suffer by a decision 
against them. 

There are many other matters about which I should write to you were 
it necessary; as Mr. Morris and Mr. Duane will be with you, you will 
obtain more particular information from them than from my letters.^ 

I wish the Legislature would make it a standing rule to direct the atten- 
dance of some of their delegates at every session and enter into free con- 
ference with them on the great affairs of the Continent. Many advan- 
tages, not necessary to enumerate, would result from such a measure. In 
times like the present it would be imprudent to trust some things to letters 
which at best cannot be so satisfactory as personal interviews. 

Several circumstances which have come to my knowledge lead me to 
suspect that pains have been taken to injure Mr. Morris in the opinion of 
his constituents.^ Justice to him, as well as regard to truth, obliges me to 
say that he deserves well of New York, and America in general. It has 
been the uniform policy of some, from the beginning of the contest, to 
depreciate every man of worth and abilities who refused to draw in their 
harness. Pennsylvania suffers severely from it at this day; many of their 
former faithful servants have been dismissed, and others called to office 
who rather receive importance from, than give weight to, the places they 
fill. The moment any State ceases to be ably as well as honestly repre- 
sented in Congress it becomes a cypher, and its vote will no longer be 
directed by the interest and sentiments of the State and Union, but by 
the art and management of designing and plausible politicians. 

I think it my duty also, upon this occasion, to assure you that Mr. 
Duane's industry and attention to business, and his invariable attachment 
to the welfare of those who sent him, deserve their commendation. 
Colonel Floyd's conduct while here gained him much respect ; he moved on 
steady, uniform principles, and appeared always to judge for himself, 
which, in my opinion, is one very essential qualification in a delegate, and 
absolutely necessary to prevent his being a mere tool. 

I have prevailed upon myself to make these representations, because I 
think them just and because I cannot suppose they will be ascribed to im- 
proper motives by any — by you I know they will not. Popularity is not 
among the number of my objects ; a seat in Congress I do not desire, and 
as ambition has in no instance drawn me into public life, I am sure it will 
never influence me to continue in it. Were I to consult my interest I 
should settle here and make a fortune; were I guided by inclination I 

3 Jay had written to Clinton Aug. 18 (Clinton Papers, V. 198) : "Mr. Duane, 
who set out from [for] home last Monday, will give you much interesting Information. 

Mr. Morris will also be with you soon Mr. Morris will explain to you very fully 

the steps which in our opinion are necessary to be pursued respecting the Grants. 
I, therefore, forbear saying anything on that Subject now." 

4 Cf. no. 521, post. 



August, ly/Q 391 

should now be attending to a family who, independent of other misfor- 
tunes, have suffered severely in the present contest. 

It is of great importance that your delegation here do not remain long 
in its present situation. Whatever men you may think proper to send, let 
me again and again press you to send able ones. The reputation of the 
State is exceeding high, and it would be mortifying to see it diminish. 

Permit me also to suggest to you the propriety of adopting the plan by 
which Massachusetts provides for th^ maintenance of their delegates. 
They have a house, and keep a table at the expense of the State, besides 
which an allowance is made them for the maintenance of their families, 
who ought not to suffer by the loss of that time which is devoted to public 
service. Your delegates, on the contrary, are not allowed sufficient to 
maintain, or rather to subsist, themselves. I have heard of two or three 
gentlemen proposed in your State for delegates — the Chancellor. General 
Schuyler, and General Scott. There is another, of whom I have heard no 
mention, Mr. Hobart, who, if he could be spared, would I think, be a good 
member; during the winter he might remain here without great incon- 
venience to you.' 

496. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Aug. 28th 1779 
Dear Sir: 

Very ill, probably with a settled fever, I must be short. Mr. Bennit on 
the 27th delivered to me all the Papers you specified.^ I send you what 
letters I have by me that I think you want. If you find them unnecessary 
you may spare the duplicates. 

You have a copy [of] Arthur's Letter of Feb. loth to the President 
with all the Vouchers ; ^ So that much trouble will be saved. 

By your sending me Feb. 2^th to the Chairm'n of the Com' tee etc with- 
out cutting off the last leaf I imagine you meant to have it presented in 
that form, I had thought otherwise, on seeing that you was to do as you 
pleased ; and I had struck out the word motley as it admitted of two refer- 
ences, when your Brother intended one only.* 

5 Jay's appointment as delegate was limited to " thirty days after the next 
meeting of the legislature" (see his credentials in the Journals, March i). By resolution 
of the assembly Aug. 25 his appointment was continued to Oct. 15 (see Clinton Papers, 
V. 261). See, further, nos. 565, 566, 587, post. 
[496] 1 Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 The papers referred to were despatches for Congress brought by Hezekiah 
Ford to Richard Henry Lee, and by him transmitted (Aug. 13) to the committee of 
foreign affairs by the hand of William Bennet. See Letters of Richard Henry Lee, II. 
112, 116, 117. Concerning Bennet, see Life of Lee, II. 229-231. Cf. nos. 501, 502, post. 

3 See the Journals, July 16; also Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 65. Cf. nos. 
415, 420, 421, ante. 

4 Arthur Lee's letter of Feb. 25 is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 63. Speaking 
of Deane's accounts, Arthur Lee says : " There were no books of accounts — nothing but 
a confused mass of motley refuse papers, without order, reference or effect." Lovell's 
alteration, although slight, of the text of Arthur Lee's letter, is on a par with his 
suppression of letters until it suited his own plans to bring them forward. Cf. nos. 450, 
458, 478, 071/^, and nos. 533, 535, 536, 553, 562, 599, post. 



392 Continental Congress 

There are remarks upon the Correspondence between the Doctr. and 
He relative to Papers.' I do not know but they are also to yr. Discretion 
but as they have appeared in the Congress Room I shall let them be read, 
so that I may probably add the last Sheet above hinted at, when there shall 
be Time, but a special order this day prevented.® 

A Letter of Apr 2y to the Chairman in answer to the 2d Paper of 
Deanes sent by the Marq's is reed, and has been offered. There is but little 
new I send you an extract prepared on purpose for you. I wish I may 
come at the double of it, as it would do better to lend to such men as J. B. 
Smith than the more lengthy performance '' 

My Pen, I can hold no longer. affectionately 

JL. 

[P. S.] I have pd. the Bearer in full 879 ^ dollrs. It was yr. Brothers 
intent that a Post Conveyance shd. be used. We shd. have had them 
sooner, without Expense. The Post I esteem safe now. 

497. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[August 29, 1779.] 
2p. Sabbath day. I attended public worship at Dr. Duffield's. He 
preached from Matthew, " And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer 
darkness, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth ", and his discourse 
was very agreeable. 

498. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

Monday August the ^oth.~ Congress the day chiefly spent in debates 
about, and reading A Lees and Wm. Lees Letters from France 

Tuesday, August the 31st, ///p. Commercial Committee Congress. 
This day spent in a disagreeable complaint of Mr. Lawrence against Secre- 
tary Thompson others Join'd at last a Committee was appointed to hear 
the parties ^ P. M, Marine Committee 

s This was doubtless the unsigned paper read in Congress Sept. 2, to which 
Lovell refers in his letter to Arthur Lee Sept. 17 (no. 533, post). The correspondence 
with Franklin relative to the papers of the commissioners is in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. 
Corr., III. 51, 52, 54, 76, 77, 89, 102. 

6 Cf. nos. 501, 533, post. 

'' Lovell appends here a list of letters from representatives in Europe read between 
Mar. 4 and Aug. 23. Under Aug. 19 he mentions the reading of William Lee's letter of 
Sept. 12, 1778, adding that this letter, one of Sept. 20, and one of Oct. 15, 1778, were read 
Feb. 22. The Journuls mention letters of Sept. 12 and 21, but not that of Oct. 15, and 
Wharton does not include any letter dated either Sept. 20 or 21. Lovell then mentions 
as " on hand " William Lee's letters of Feb. 25 and Mar. 25, Arthur Lee's of Feb. 25, 
Apr. 26 and 27 (with " Remarks on the following and Letters between A L and B F ajid 
Vouchers No. 1,2, 3, 4, 5, 6"), and "Apr. 23d. A L's Memorial respecting the 
accounts of Mr. Williams and the history of Doctr. F's Conduct connected with his 
Patronage of W — in particular ". Concerning this memorial of Apr. 23, see Wharton, 
Rev. Dipt. Corr., IIL 131. Concerning the letter of Apr. 27, see ibid., p. 138 n. 
[^q^]'^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVL 27. 
[498] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 This is a continuation of the entry under Aug. 17, no. 477, ante. The date is 
not, however, repeated in the original. 

3 The committee obtained statements from both Laurens and Thomson (see nos. 
504, 510, post), but if a report was ever made to Cx)ngress upon the matter it is not 
of record. 



August, ///p 393 

499. The President of Congress (John Jay) to the President of 
Georgia (William Glascock).^ 

Philadelphia 31st Augt. 1779. 
Sir, 

Your favor of the loth Ulto. has been received and communicated to 
Congress. By their Acts of the 24th and 30th Inst, you will perceive that 
they have unanimously resolved to assure you of their determination to 
give you all possible Support, and have allotted five hundred thousand 
Dollars for the Immediate Service of Georgia. 

Permit me to observ^e that the transactions of Persons who may under- 
take to act as spies for us ought to be kept as secret as possible and not un- 
necessarily exposed to the risque of detection ; your Letter upon this Sub- 
ject was rather too particular.^ 

500. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia, August 31st, 1779. 
D'r Sir: 

Since I had the honor of writing to your Excellency a few weeks ago,^ 
great changes have happened in the face of Political Affairs in Europe. 
The Court of London's refusing the Mediation of Spain brings the latter 
into an immediate Commencement of Hostilities, which by the latest ac- 
counts received, (tho' not officially communicated as yet,) are already be- 
gun, and may perhaps be a means of continuing the War some time 
longer ; should the Allies be successful this Campaign, perhaps Britain may 
be brought to reason, and agree to negotiate the next winter 

The Count De la Luzerne is not yet arrived from Boston. Mr. Gerard 
remains here until he comes, and then will proceed in a Frigate for France. 
The Count is represented as a Gentleman of great politeness, and a con- 
summate Politician, connected with many of the first families of France. 

It is impossible for a person at a distance to conceive the excessive 
prices every necessary of life is advanced to in this City. Congress seem 
determined to put a stop to further Emissions of money. I wish they may 
be able to accomplish this desirable object, and supply their Army; but 
many are apprehensive of the Consequences that may attend the measure. 

We are informed that the N. England Expedition against Penobscot 
has failed, and that the Enemy has destroyed or taken the little fleet. This 
misfortune has been long expected; expeditions by Sea are dangerous 

[499]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 183. 

2 Glascock relates that one of their spies, who was supposed to be friendly to the 
Loyalist cause, was invited to take breakfast with General Prevost and there had an 
opportunity to see two letters which Prevost had written, one to McGillivray in East 
Florida, the other to " Pariss " (Capt. Richard Pearis?), commander in West Florida, 
directing them to hold themselves in readiness to join the Creek Indians, etc. Later, in 
conversation, Prevost indicated his intention of turning the Indians loose upon the 
northern part of the state. 

[500]! A/^. C. State Recs., XIV. 201. 
2 Aug. II {ibid., ■p. 190). 



394 Continental Congress 

while the Enemy's Fleets continue the command of that Element. I hope 
this affair is not so bad as represented. Congress have not as yet received 
the account from authority.^ .... 

501. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Philadelphia, August 31st, 1779. 
My Dear Sir, 

Since the date of my last trouble, the 24th instant, I have been honoured 
with your favours of the 13th and 23d ; the former by an express messen- 
ger, who assured me he should not return till this day, but I learned last 
night, at Mr. Lovell's, that he went off suddenly on Sunday.^ Yesterday 
I received at Congress two packets and one small letter directed to you; 
these, I apprehend, came by the eastern post. At Mr. Lovell's request, I 
shall send them to him, to be forwarded in a proper manner. I am sorry 
to find you continue an invalid; but how can it be otherwise, if you also 
continue to fatigue both body and mind ? You must not allow the attempts 
and designs of wicked men to operate in the very manner they would wish ; 
let us proceed fairly, and softly, and wisely, and truth will drive them out 
of their entrenchments ; they are now closely hemmed in and cannot escape. 
On Tuesday last, at the reading of a letter from A. Lee, Esq., I moved 
to commit that letter, together with Mr. Lee's vindication, to a special 
committee; ^ besides the reason of the thing, I grounded my motion on a 
commitment of a late memoir from Mr. Deane, a copy of which you will 
receive herewith. You will give this performance a more proper name. 
The motion was laboriously opposed, and, in C. T.'s * language, after some 
time spent in debate, ousted by a motion for adjournment. On some day 
since Tuesday a report from the Treasury was taken up, recommending 
a warrant to issue for ten thousand dollars to the Hon. S. D, Esq., in full 
for his expenses from the 4th June, 1778. I opposed the payment of that, 
or any other sum to Mr. Deane, until he should account for the large sums 
of public money which have been in his hands. The question was put, shall 
ten thousand stand? Lost; motion to insert fifteen thousand? Question 
lost ; to insert twelve thousand ? Lost ; to insert ten thousand five hundred ? 
Carried, even by voices who were against ten thousand, or any sum, 
because they were worried, and had been worried,^ This deficiency of 

3 William Sharpe wrote to Thomas Burke Aug. 28 : " No certain accounts of 

the surrender of Penobscot ; reported that it surrendered on the 5th Instant 

Nothing of importance done in Congress since your departure. Have now taken up the 
subject for stopping further Emissions" (ibid., p. 199). 

[501]! N. Y, Hist Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, IV. 87; Lee, Life of R. H. Lee, 
II. 234. 

2 Lee's letter of Aug, 13 is in Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 117; one dated "21st 
August " (doubtless that to which Laurens refers) is ibid., p. 130. Concerning Bennet, 
the express messenger, see no. 496, ante, and no. 502, post. 

3 A letter of Arthur Lee, dated May 21, was read in Congress Monday, Aug. 23 
(see also the Jourtmls, Aug. 30, Sept. 2, 4), but there is no mention at this time of the 
" Vindication " or of Laurens's motion. The memorial of Deane to which Laurens refers 
was that of Aug. 16 (read in Congress Aug. 19). See nos. 517, 518, post. 

* Charles Thomson. It was on this day that Laurens laid in his complaint against 
Thomson. See no. 498, ante, and nos. 504, 510, post. 

^ See the proceedings in the Journals, Aug. 26; also nos. 331, 463, ante, and 
nos. 559, 595, post. 



August, lyyg 395 

firmness and perseverance is the source of much irregularity and much 
evil in public business. The yeas and nays were called for in every stage, 
and finally upon the resolutions. I reflect with pleasure that I stand uni- 
formly through the whole. A question was asked of the treasury, has 
Mr. Deane given in an account of his expenses? Artfully replied to, by 
a gentleman who had formerly given proofs of his abilities in answering 
interrogations, not a regular one! not a regular one! This gentleman ° per- 
fectly well knew that Mr. Deane had given in a very minute one, amount- 
ing to 29,000 dollars, and upwards ; he also knew the artifice which had 
been practised by one of his colleagues at the board, to repossess Mr. Deane 
of a paper, which he discovered could not be crammed down the throats 
even of the treasury. I had seen that account, and had been promised a 
copy of it; but, as I am informed, Mr. Deane, the very next morning, 
acted a high passion of offence at so shameful a demand, and his zeal for 
the public good carried him rather beyond the tone of prudence. He 
ordered that the account should be immediately carried back to the de- 
mandant, with a declaration that Congress would allow no such accounts. 
As Mr. Deane has not judged it proper to return that, or any other, 'tis not 
to be doubted but that a gentleman of Mr. Deane's candour now regrets 
his rashness in parting with the original. I received this relation from 
one of those worthy friends who sincerely wish to see right done, but who 
will not encounter trouble necessary to accomplish right. I shall endeavour 
to trace this matter to its source, and possible the whole House will be 
informed of it. Saturday last a letter from Mr. William Lee, accompanied 
by his vindication, was brought into Congress, but the " order of the 
day" laid those papers asleep; yesterday an attempt was made to keep 
them out of hearing a little longer. I complained heavily of the innova- 
tion, and after much debate they were in part read. The House grew thin, 
and at length, only eight states being present, adjourned. I believe I am 
wrong. William Lee's papers were read, those from Arthur Lee were not.'' 
My colleague Mr. Drayton had been confined to his bed some three weeks 
past. When I learned that he was really ill, I could not refrain from 
visiting him, his permission being previously obtained. When I ap- 
proached his bed, he clasped my hand, and wept affectingly; after recov- 
ering his voice, he signified great satisfaction at seeing me, and particu- 
larly requested I would write a state of his case to Mrs. Drayton. The 
physicians think him dangerously ill ; say he may live one or two weeks 
longer; that if he has strength for the discharge from an abscess in his 
side, they shall raise him again, but that he will remain an invalid several 
months.* Upon Mr. Drayton's recovery, or upon the arrival of another 
colleague, my continuance here partly depends; but I am much inclined 
to return homeward in the course of the next month. I believe I shall have 
the honour of waiting on you before the first of October. Finances as they 

6 The members of the treasury board present on Aug. 26 appear to have been 
John Armstrong, William Carmichael, Cyrus Grifiin, Nathaniel Scudder, and Henry 
Wynkoop. Carmichael was probably the member alluded to. 

^ See the Journals, Aug. 30, and no. 496, ante. Lee's reply to this letter, Sept. 12, 
is in Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 149. See also his letter of Sept. ig, ibid., II. 150. 

^ Lee's comment on this is a quotation of the aphorism, " A fever argues better 
than a Clarke ". 



396 Continental Congress 

were. News from Penobscot very unfavourable, but no particulars. I 
would compound for the loss of all our ships, provided the soldiers and 
sailors escape capture. Dunlap's paper of this morning will present Row- 
land some intelligence.^ I beg, sir, you will present my compliments to 
your brother. I shall have much to say to both you and him when I have 
the happiness of meeting you ; deferring to that time will be the best. 
Many clouds will in the mean time pass away, and subjects in embryo be 
matured. I remain with sincere esteem and respect, 

Your obliged and faithful humble servant, 

Henry Laurens. 

502. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

31st August, 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favour of the twenty-second came yesterday to hand. Mr. Ben- 
net ^ parted from me on Saturday, and will probably get home in less time 
than he came. 

I will attend, all in my power, to the subjects you have written about; 
but I am verily exceeding sick, confined to my chamber and my bed alter- 
nately. I have, in vain, dabbled with rhubarb; I go upon tartar-emetic 
to day. I was in bed yesterday, when I prepared a scrap for Dunlap's 
paper. I was unwilling to let a part of a day go over, without some con- 
tinuance of the vouchers of Deane's infamy. Mr. John Adams on hearing 
of De Vergennes and Mr. Arthur Lee, has sent me copies of his own cor- 
respondence with that minister, on the subject of Deane's publication ; in 
the course of which he gives such testimony from personal knowledge, in 
regard to Arthur Lee, and his brothers, Richard and Francis, as cannot 
fail to destroy any evil impression made by Deane's publication ; and which 
must do honour to the manly, ingenuous spirit of the writer 

503. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philada 31 of Augt 1779. 
Dear Sir 

.... I will Collect the most Material Circumstances, so far as I have 
been made acquainted, relative to the Situation of affairs in Europe, 
And forward the Same to you in a few days. 

The unlucky Penobscot Expedition will have a Tendency to revive 
the drooping Spirits of our Enemies if the Stories Currently passing here 
are true! and I Dread least the News that our fleet is totally distroyed 
will Soon be authenticated: 

9 A communication from "Rowland" (Richard Henry Lee) appeared in the 
Pennsylvania Packet Aug. 31 (it may be found in Letters of Richard Henry Lee, II. 
138; also in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, II. 79) ; and there was also a 
letter, presumably from Arthur Lee, May 21, touching upon the question of Jay's 
letter to Gerard Jan. 13. The letter of May 21 was communicated to the Packet by 
Thomas Paine and served to set his pen going once more on that subject. See nos. 
172, 180, 221, ante. 

[502J1 i^ifg of Richard Henry Lee, II. 231. 

2 See nos. 496, 501, ante. 
[503]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Oarr., vol. H. ("No. 6"). 



September, i/yp 397 

I inclose You Sundry papers wch. will Convey to you most of the 
intelligence Circulating in this City, my worthy friend and Colleague 
Mr. Whipple, who has Consented to Tarry here a few months Longer, 
has reed, information That, he is likely to be relieved by a Nother Member 
Comming on to take his place, in Consequence of which he is determined 
to Set off for home imedeately upon the other Gent. Ariving here.' 

504. Henry Laurens, Statement to a Committee of Congress.^ 

Gentlemen ^ 

My complaint against the Secretary of Congress for disrespectful be- 
havior to a member of that Assembly probably would not have been 
made on the circumstancei of Yesterday, had not his behavior upon that 
occasion been an unprovoked repetition of insults which the Secretary had 
at divers preceeding times offered to Delegates of Congress and to myself 
in particular. I shall confine myself to a few of the many instances which 
I have experienced in my own Person. 

At York Town on the ^ late in the afternoon the Hon'ble Mr 

Duer with Mons. Lanuville called upon me as President to enquire what 
was the result of the deliberations of Congress respecting Mons. Lanuville 
the preceding Morning. I replied I could not precisely inform them, be- 
cause the Secretary had not sent me a copy of the Resolution, but that 
as he lived within a few doors, I would send to him for it, accordingly I 
sent the Young Man who acted as my Secretary — the following is a 
very candid recital of what passed on that occasion. 

Mr. Custer, go to Mr. Thomson, give my Compliments to him, desire 
him to send me the Resolution of Congress of this morning respecting 
Mons. Lanuville. 

Mr. Thomson's Answer — It is not yet entered on the Journals. 

Go back to Mr. Thomson, give my Compliments and tell him Mr. 
Duer and Mr. Lanuville are now here, and that Mr. Duer is desirous of 
seeing it as it is. 

Mr. Thomson's Answer — I can't and will not send it — I have it only 
scrabled on a piece of Paper. 

Mr. Duer expressed great surprise at Mr. Thomson's behaviour and 
at my patience and then retired. 

I then sent Mr. Custer with the following message — Go back to Mr. 
Thomson, give my Compliments to him, tell him I am much obliged, 
and I must submit to him. 

Mr. T's Ans. — Well, tell him I am very glad he must submit. 

2 See nos. 452, 453, ante, and nos. 513, 537, post. 
[504]! S. C. Hist Soc, Laurens Papers, vol. XV. (in Laurens's writing); Potter's 
American Monthly, VL 172 (there stated to have been printed from the original, then 
in possession of Joseph J. Mickley ; presumably that delivered to the committee). 

2 Laurens made his complaint Aug. 31, and a committee consisting of Houston, 
Huntington, and Paca was appointed to inquire into the complaint. See no. 498, ante. 
If the committee ever made a report the Journals do not record it. 

3 Doubtless May 14, 1778, as the report debated and modified that day appears 
to be that to which Laurens and Thomson refer. Duer was, however, a member of the 
committee which made the report (though it was drawn by Laurens) and was present 
when the report was considered. Cf. vol. HL, nos. 265, 266, 267, 284, 285. 

30 



398 Continental Congress 

Mr. Custer assured me that Mr. Thomson had in every instance above- 
mentioned expressed himself with great anger and haughtiness. 

Mr. Thaxter, one of Mr. Thomson's Clerks who was present at the 
delivery of the Messages and answers abovementioned related the circum- 
stance to Major Young, and expressed his astonishment at Mr. Thomson's 
extraordinary behaviour. 

When the Hon'ble John Adams was appointed a Commissioner at the 
Court of Versailles, the Secretary produced to me, as President of Con- 
gress, a Commission to sign for that Gentleman. I observed to him that 
the writing was on a single Piece of Paper, much crowded, blotted and 
interlined, and that he should consider the Commission was to make its 
appearance before the Court of Versailles, and probably before the King 
of France, therefore I requested him to have a more decent and correct 
Copy made; he replied very abruptly, I can't do it over again. I then 
in the mildest terms said, Mr. Thomson, I will have it copied over fairly 
in a good hand, and will sign it and you will have nothing to do but to 
attest it — he imperiously answered, I won't.* 

After Congress returned to Philadelphia I had frequent occasions to 
send my Secretary for attested Copies of Resolves of Congress in order 
to forward them agreeable to the order of the House, in several instances 
Mr. Thomson returned me for answer, that he had not the Key of the 
Office, that it was with one of his Clerks, and he did not know where they 
lodged — these answers were brought to me by my Secretary Major 
Young, who avers that in many instances which he never reported to 
me * ^ the answers were given abruptly and unmannerly. 

To mark these facts as being barely disrespectful, is dealing tenderly 
with Mr. Thomson, because I must otherwise charge him with having 
entrusted all the Public Records in the hands of strangers whose very 
abode he was ignorant of. 

Some time in May last I went into the Secretary's Office and intimated 
to Mr. Thomson that I was desirious of taking out an old Printed Bill 
of the British House of Commons, commonly called the Fishery Bill, 
in order to extract a part of it. Mr. Thomson replied, I cannot let any 
Paper go out of thisi Office without an order of Congress. I said, Mr. 
Thomson this is not an Office Paper, 'tis an old Parliamentary Bill of 
no use to Congress, and besides here's a duplicate of it in the Desk, I will 
give you a receipt for this, and will return it in half an hour. Mr. Thomson 
answered, I can't help it, I will not let any Paper go out of the Office 
without an Order of Congress ; a receipt will not do. well Sir, said I, 
this is very extraordinary, however there is another way of answering 
my purpose. I then sat down in the Office and copied the clause or Section 
of the Bill which I wanted, wished Mr. Thomson a good Morning and 
thanked him for his politeness. 

Every Gentleman will admit this to have been a mark of great and 
unnecessary disrespectfulness — possibly the Committee may affix another 

* It is this incident probably to which Lovell alludes in his letter of Oct. i to 
John Adams (no. 572, post). 

^ See Moses Young's statement appended to this document. 



September, ly/p 399 

epithet, when I inform them that the Secretary has since that time suf- 
fered Papers to be taken even out of the secret depository and carried 
away without the permission of Congress.® 

I could recite other instances of gross partiality and arbitrary conduct of 
the Secretary, but if these are not sufficient to convince the Committee 
that the Secretary has treated a delegate of a State with wanton and un- 
provoked disrespect, nothing else will be so. The particular complaint 
made Yesterday, is of Mr. Thomson's affrontive answers when I re- 
quested him to let me have only two copies of the Journals for my State 
which I had an immediate use for. His first answer was — I won't. I 
replied, you won't Mr. Thomson, what language is this? I tell you I 
want them for my State — to which he again answered, I won't, but added, 
till I have given every member present one : Mr. Thomson then descended 
from the Platform; I reached out my hands to take another Copy, he 
snatched from me and said, you shan't have it. this repeated insult 
brought instantly to my mind his former conduct and provoked me to 
say, he was a most impudent fellow, that I had a good mind to kick him ; 
he turned about, doubled his fist and said you dare not, I recollected the 
time and place and let him pass on. When he had humoured himself 
he returned with many spare Journals in his hands and gave me one, 
I barely asked him if he might not as well have done this at first. 

From the number! of Members on the Floor compared with the num- 
ber of Journals he must have known there were enough for each Member 
present, and each absent Member, and that for my State I had a right 
to at least three, according to a rule established by himself without any 
authority that I know of. Admitting I had no right to demand, which 
cannot justly be admitted, or that I had been too peremptory in the 
demand which I certainly was not; the Secretary ought to have given 
decent answers, not insulting and irritating denials. 

I consider these affronts of the Secretary though offered to a Delegate, 
and however Mr. Secretary might have intended them, as abuses of power 
in Office; and affronts to that Assembly of which I have the honor of 
being one, and I trust the Committee will view them in the same light, 
and honor the Body by doing justice to its Members.' 

Henry Laurens. 
Philadelphia Wednesday A. M. 1st Sept. 1779 

* These instances I am ready to attest when required. I did not men- 
tion every one to Mr. Laurens as I thought it would only tend to chagrin 
him, and saw him disposed to pass Mr. Thomson's rudeness over without 
resenting it. 

Moses Young. 

505. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Wednesday September 1st ///p. Com'l Committee Congress. After 
some time spent in reading A Lees Letters it was Propos'd and carried 

8 Touching this point, see Thomson's note, in late October, 1778, wherein he 
indicates that he had been accustomed to send original letters to the printer (vol. III., 
p. 457 n.). 

^ See Thomson's statement in reply, Sept. 6, no. 510, post. 
[505]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



400 Continental Congress 

for Postponing to take up the order on finance, in regard to stoping 
the Press, after debate the Previous Question was call'd for per Mr. 
Lawrence and the Yaes and Naes call'd carried again [s]t it. the Motion 
was that on no acct. more than 200000000 should be Emited, and that 
40 Million of that sum should not be emited Provided the States would 
supply it, the Question was divided and agreed to stop the Press ^ near 5. 
oClock. 

Thursday Septr. 2d ^ C. Committee Congress. This day chiefly 
lost in reading the ridicolous Letters of Mr. A Lee. 

P M Marine Committee 



506. John Jay to the Governor of New York (George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, 2 Sept. 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

My last contained a few hints on the subject of our disputes with the 
people of the Grants. Congress have agreed to stop the press at two 
hundred millions or as far short of it, as the State of their other resources 
will permit. In the course of the debate, I intimated my doubts of their 
obtaining taxes from New York until Congress shall have decided the 
claims of Vermont.^ 

In my opinion the full tax should be assessed and levied, because we 
shall never be able to raise it with so little difficulty as at present. I would 
nevertheless detain every shilling of it till justice be done the State, 
and for this purpose Congress should be immediately authorized by law 
to do it effectually, unembarrassed by useless and perplexing provisoes 
and reservations.^ 

507. A Committee of Congress to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia 3d Septem. 1779. 
Sir, 

We have received Your Excellency's favor of the 20th Ulto. and re- 
turn our thanks for its contents, which will afford us much assistance 
in forming a Report to Congress respecting the Mustering department, 
but the Papers which accompanied our Letter of the 5th July are also 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 1,3. Cf. nos. 461, 500, ante, and nos. 506, 508, 515, 516, 
ZZ'i,post. 

3 Samuel Holten's entry for the day is : " The following gentlemen dined with 
us, viz., The president of Congress, The minister of France, The president of the state, 
Mr. Laurens, Mr. McKean, Mr. Paca, Mr. Matthews, Don Juan, Oalo. Leviston 
[Livingston?], Mr. Holker, secy to the min'r and Sir James Jay." 

[506]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XIL 88; N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., 
America, IV. 119 (copy). 

2 See no. 495, ante, and nos. 514, 544, 545, post. 
^ See no. 505, note 2, ante. 
[507] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXIV. 43. 



September, ly/g 401 

necessary to our further proceeding, we therefore request you Sir, to 
order these to be transmitted to us by an early opportunity. 

We have the honor to be with very great Esteem and Respect, Sir, 
Your Excellency's obedient and humble Servants 

signed by desire of the Committee - 

Henry Laurens. 
His Excellency General Washington 
West Point. 

508. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Friday September ^d /p. Com'l Committee Congress. This day the 
Question was finaly decided almost unanimou[s]ly not to Emit any more 
Bills then will amount to 200 Million of Dollars.^ And a Committee of 
5 were appointed to frame a Circular L<etter to the Legislatures of the 
different States, for the Purpose of raising the Supplys per. Taxes and 
Loans. ^ 

P M Marine Committee 

Saturday Sepr. 4 Commercial Committee Congress. Did not attend 
Congress this day, having been employ'd at the Commercial Committee 
in exam[in]ing the Books etc. Last night W. H. Drayton Died. 

509. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[September 4, 1779.] 
4. This morning about i o' Clock departed this life the Hon. W, H. 
Drayton, Esqr., a member of Congress from S. Carolina, and his re- 
mains was intered this evening and Congress followed as morners with 
crape round their arms. 

510. Charles Thomson, Statement to a Committee of Congress.^ 

Gentlemen, 

It gives me the most sensible pain, that anything relating to me should 
at any time and more especially at the present draw aside your attention 
from public concerns. However since even one member has thought it 

2 The committee (Laurens, Spencer, and Scudder) was appointed June 15, on a 
matter respecting the mustering department, made a report June 25, and was instructed 
to write to General Washington on the subject. The letter written (July 5) has not been 
found, but Washington's reply, Aug. 20, discusses in particular the question of abolish- 
ing the muster-master's department. To this letter of Sept. 3 Washington replied Sept. 
13, and transmitted the papers requested. Nov. 16 Partridge and Langdon were assigned 
to the committee in the places of Laurens and Spencer, who were absent, and Nov. 29 
the committee made a report, drawn by Partridge. Jan. 12, 1780, the report was taken 
into consideration and the department discontinued. 
[508]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 505, ante. 

3 Sept. 8 the duty of preparing the circular letter was assigned to the President. 
The letter is in the Journals. Sept. 13. See no. 523, post. 

[SogY Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 27. 

[510]^ Potter's American Monthly, VI. 265. (It is there stated that this document, 
as well as the statement of Laurens, no. 504, ante, was printed from the original, then 
in possession of Joseph J. Alickley.) 



402 Continental Congress 

necessary that my public conduct and character ought to be examined 
into and tried, I find some consolation that after a service of five years, 
two of them under the eye of a gentleman, my present accuser, who it 
seems has kept a strict watch over me and minuted my failings, he has 
nothing more criminal to lay to my charge than what is before you. 

Of five presidents, under whom, during that period, I have had the 
honor to serve Congress, I flatter myself I enjoyed the confidence esteem 
and friendship of four. And I deem it unfortunate that I cannot boast 
the same of the one who is the present complainant, especially when I 
recollect, that no gentleman ever came to Congress in whose favour I 
was more prejudiced and whose friendship I more sincerely desired to 
cultivate. At his first arrival and during the time Congress continued at 
Philadelphia in the year 1777 I think I gave him full proofs of this 
by every mark of respect and attention in my power, not only as a 
delegate, but as a man I wished to convince of my regard. When by the 
approach of the enemy Congress were forced to quit Philadelphia and 
remove to Yorktown, I carried with me the same disposition ; And when 
he was elected to the chair, I called upon him several times to pay my 
respects ; but the alteration I perceived in his conduct towards me and 
the manner in which he received my visits soon convinced me that they 
were not welcome and that I must for the future decline them. 

To what cause this was to be imputed I was at a loss to guess. To 
ascribe it to the effects of his new dignity would have been to disparage 
his understanding. I was sometimes induced to think it might be owing to 
his having, soon after his election, failed to make an impression on me 
by his 'attempts to vilify and lessen in my opinion the character of the 
late hon'ble Mr. Lynch, of whose understanding virtue and patriotism 
I entertained the highest opinion and for whom I had had the sincerest 
friendship and affection; and that he was not more successful in his 
endeavours to persuade me that Moses, the man of God and deliverer 
of Israel, was an imposter and that he deceived the Israelites at Mount 
Sinai by his having had the knowledge of the use of gun powder.^ 
But whatever the cause might be, I confess freely that I was of too proud 
a spirit to brook indignities and that I scorned to court any man however 
high in office, by fawning, cringing or servility. I therefore declined 
any farther attendance. This I presume gave mortal offence. 

Soon after, when by a severe attack of the cholera morbus, a disorder, 
to which my constitution is incident, I was prevented from attending 
Congress, he seized the opportunity, and at the afternoon meeting pro- 
nounced a furious invective against me, endeavouring to persuade Con- 
gress, that by some act, which he was pleased to construe into disrespect- 
ful behaviour to him, I meant to insult the dignity of that body. Of 
this I was informed the same evening by some members, who did me the 
honor to call and visit me in my chamber. As I was conscious I had given 
no just cause, and as I could not then bring myself to think this proceeded 
from a malicious intention to injure me, I imagined there must be some 

2 With regard to Laurens's religious views, see Wallace, Life of Laurens, pp. 
181, 438. 



September, ijjg 403 

misunderstanding. As soon, therefore, as I recovered strength sufficient 
to walk, I went to Congress and waited impatiently the whole morning, 
expecting he would have called upon me for an explanation of my conduct. 
As he did not condescend to do this, I took an opportunity after the 
adjournment, at night, to mention my surprize at what I had been in- 
formed of and desired him to let me know, in what I had so highly 
offended as to oblige him to complain of me to Congress. He denied 
his having made any complaint and asked, who informed me. I told him 
some members of Congress. He replied, it is a damned lie, they are 
damned liars that informed. The expressions struck me dumb with sur- 
prize. He left the room. Turning about I happened to see one of the 
gentlemen, who had given me the information. I told him what had 
passed. We walked out together. The night was dark. As we passed 
the end of the house conversing on the subject, Mr. Laurens had stopped 
and hearing our conversation, though we did not see him, he repeated 
aloud, It is a damned lie. I cannot say which was greatest, my wonder 
or resentment. However we passed on without making any reply; as I 
determined not to take any farther step until I had advised with my 
friends. But in a short time after my resentment was lost in grief and 
astonishment, when, in the midst of public distress, I saw him at the 
afternoon sessions so far unmindful of his station and dignity as to 
rise and debate questions as a delegate, then sit down and as president, 
hear himself replied to, and at one time in one of such debates so far 
forget himself as, to answer from the chair an honourable member from 
North Carolina,^ by singing aloud " Poor little Penny, poor little penny, 
sing tan-tarra-ra-ra " — and at another time when he was reading a report 
brought in by an honorable member from Massachusetts bay, which was 
under debate, to stop, in the middle of a sentence, and exclaim " Solomon 
gundy ! did you ever see such a Solomon gundy " which raised such in- 
dignation, that the honorable member left the room, and soon after Con- 
gress adjourned. 

After this I took no farther notice of what had passed respecting 
myself ; determining to be upon my guard and to give as little cause for 
complaint as possible. This I found the more necessary, as he continued 
by a thousand indescribable ways to teaze, irritate and provoke me. 

During that winter I enjoyed but a very indifferent state of health 
and had very little assistance in the office, while at the same time, by the 
critical state of public affairs and occurrences which happened, the busi- 
ness of the office was accumulated to a very great degree, and the sitting 
twice a day allowed me less time to dispatch it. This gave him many 
favourable opportunities which he studiously embraced to teaze me with 
messages and sending for papers which he must be convinced it was not 
in my power to have ready and which he must have known would be sent 
to him as soon as finished. These messages were generally sent by his 
coachman when I was at dinner or supper and sometimes when I was 
going to bed. For it seemed to me, he carefully attended to my hours of 

3 John Penn and Laurens were usually in opposite political camps in Congress. 
See, for instance, vol. III., nos. 74. 133. 4^2 (note 14), and nos. 19, 48 (note 5), ante. 



404 Continental Congress 

refreshment and rest and chose I should enjoy as Httle of either as pos- 
sible. This however I bore patiently without murmur or complaint, and 
I think without shewing any marks of discontent or uneasiness. Though 
for months together scarce a day passed without a visit from his coach- 
man at improper times and often with messages and on business, which 
with all due deference to his better judgment, I thought at the time, 
might as well have been dispensed with. However I took not the least 
notice of this nor did I keep minutes of transactions as they occurred. 
I wished to forget them, that I might preserve a respect for a man so 
highly honoured by his country. And this would have been the case, 
had I not, by the present occasion, been forced to this painful recollection 
which I thought necessary, in order to convince you that his present con- 
duct is only the result of a premeditated and long concocted plan to lessen 
me in the opinion of Congress. 

With regard to the affair of Mr. Lanueville,* I remember the circum- 
stances very particularly. A committee had brought in a report, to which 
many objections were made in Congress. The debates were warm and 
interesting so as to occasion the calling for the yeas and nays which was 
then not usual except on important questions. Congress differed in many 
respects from their committee, which occasioned many amendments and 
interlineations and prolonged the session till late in the afternoon. As 
soon as I got home, which was some time after Congress rose, as I 
had to stay and take care of the public papers, I sat down to dinner, and 
immediately after began to enter on the journal the proceedings and reso- 
lutions of Congress, when James his coachman " the young man who " 
as he informs you " acted as his secretary ", called with the president's 
compliments and desire that I would send him the resolutions that had 
passed respecting the french gentleman. I desired him to give my com- 
pliments to the president and inform him that they were not yet ready, 
that as soon as they were, I would send him an attested copy. With 
this message he went and returned immediately with the president's com- 
pliments and desire that I would send him the journal, as he only wanted 
to see the resolutions. I desired him to return my compliments to the 
president and inform him, I had not yet quite finished the entry. Presently 
he returns with a message which, as far as my memory serves he de- 
livered in these words, " The president desires you will send him the 
report, he wants to see it as it is " and added " Mr. Duer and the french 
gentleman are there waiting and want to see it ". 

The reason of this demand I could not comprehend and the manner of 
it surprized me. 

I replied give my compliments to the president and inform him I 
cannot send the report ; it is so erased (or scratched this term I may have 
possibly used) and interlined with amendments that it is not proper to 
be shewn to the gentleman. Presently after he came back and knocked at 
the door, I went into the entry, where he delivered the following message. 
" The president gives his compliments, says he's much obliged and must 
submit." I said it is very well and made him a bow. Then returning into 

4 See no. 504, note 3, ante. 



September, lyjg 405 

the room repeated by way of exclamation (for I was astonished at the 
proceeding) that part of the message He must submit! 

]\Ir. Duer immediately after called on me and told me the president 
was much incensed. I repeated to him the whole transaction and shewed 
him the report and he expressed himself as perfectly satisfied with the 
impropriety of sending it. 

That Mr. Custer might have delivered as from me the answer set 
down in the paper of charges, I will not dispute. But surely Mr. Laurens 
must have known that " I have it only scrabbled on a piece of paper " 
bears no marks of my language. 

As to what relates to the commission of the hon'ble John Adams, I 
cannot, with all my recollection remember a single circumstance. But 
the answers set down are so strange and to me so improbable, especially 
that one who, for these five years passed or at least from the loth of 
May 1775 has so wholly devoted himself to the business of Congress 
as to deny himself all relaxation and amusements, scarcely allowing time 
for refreshment and sleep, who in that time has written so many volumes 
and reams of paper and who by that close attention and devotion to the 
service of Congress has impaired his constitution, sacrificed his health 
and endangered his life, should without good reason refuse to take the 
trouble of only writing his name : This I say is so improbable, that I 
cannot admit the charge until it is better supported.' 

The next charge that I returned for answer " that I had not the key 
of the office — that it was with one of the clerks and that I did not know 
where they lodged ", though, I do not recollect it, I admit in its fullest 
extent. Because for some time after Congress returned to Philadelphia 
the office was kept in a room of the hon'ble doct Shippen's house. Mr. 
B. P. Smith andl Mr. Edison attended the office and in the evening one 
or other of them locked up the room and kept the key and for some 
time I did not know where they lodged. The mentioning these circum- 
stances which were true, to Mr. Young when frequently sent, as is 
charged, for attested copies of resolves proves that I was not accustomed 
to give short answers, and that I was willing to stand excused to the 
president for not instantly complying with his request, as I was wont to 
do, when the office was kept in the house where I lived. 

That my answers were given " abruptly and unmannerly " I must 
take leave with all deference to Mr. Young's opinion, to deny. I think 
I might safely rest it with Mr, Young to testify, whether on all occa- 
sions, as well when he was clerk in the secretary's office, as afterward, 
when secretary to the president of Congress, I did not treat him with 
politeness and respect. I cannot say that I shewed the same marks of 
personal attention to Mr. Custer. I treated him with the civility due to 
Mr. Laurens' servant. I did not ask him to sit down and enter into 
conversation with him, but dispatched the business on which he came and 
sent him back with it or with an answer to the message he brought as 
speedily as possible, which I thought was shewing the greater respect 
to his master. And even after I understood that he was employed in 

5 See no. 504, note 4. anie. 



406 Continental Congress 

the office of secretary as well as coachman, steward and butler to the 
president of Congress and entrusted with their most secret dispatches, 
I could not readily accommodate myself to the principles of despotic mon- 
archies, where the favour of the prince ensures honor and his pleasures 
levels all distinctions. 

As to the affair of the fishery bill the circumstances as I remember are 
as follow. That morning being afflicted with a nervous headach, I went 
into the office before Congress met and was sitting, my head reclined 
on my hands, when Mr. Laurens came in and asked for the bill. Mr. Bond 
gave him a bundle of acts and bills. He took out the one he wanted and 
having written something on a piece of paper delivered it across the 
Desk to Mr. Bond, then took up the bill which he had taken out of the 
bundle and was about to withdraw. As there had been just before a 
charge in the newspapers, that some papers which had been deposited 
in the office were missing, and an insinuation, that they were removed 
or secreted for sinister purposes, I had given strict tfharge to the young 
gentlemen, the clerks in the office to observe, in delivering out papers, 
the orders of Congress, which were that no paper should be delivered out, 
without leave first obtained from Congress and then leaving a receipt 
for the same. Lest the present might serve as a precedent for the young 
gentlemen to dispense with the strict line of rule, I rose and went to the 
desk and finding as I suspected that the paper, which the honorable mem- 
ber had delivered to Mr. Bond was a receipt, I told Mr. Laurens, that 
was not sufficient : that previous to a members taking a paper out of the 
office the order of Congress was that leave be obtained of the house and 
then a receipt given. When he doubted there being such a rule or order 
of Congress, I called for the journal and pointed it out to him. He then 
endeavoured to distinguish between that he had taken and an office paper 
and mentioned that there was a duplicate in the office. But as I could not 
see the distinction and was not satisfied that there being duplicates would 
warrant me in dispensing with the rule and delivering out one of them, 
I told him I could not consent. He then said he would speak to the presi- 
dent and afterward, that he would take the consequences, and walked 
towards the door. But turned and asked if he might not have a copy, I 
replied yes, every member has a right to a copy of every paper he pleases 
to demand, unless there is a special order to the contrary. Afterwards 
he sat down, made as I suppose an extract, called for his receipt, left the 
bill and withdrew. I had returned to the table and sat down, being in 
great pain. When he had got as far as the door, he returned towards 
me and with a formal bow thanked me for my politeness with a view as 
I supposed to provoke a reply. However I only returned the bow and 
kept silence. These are the circumstances as near as I can recollect. Mr. 
Bond and Mr. Edison were both in the office at the time and may if 
necessary be examined. What epithet the committee will be pleased to 
affix to this conduct I must submit to their judgment. As to the informa- 
tion that " since that time I have suffered papers to be taken even out 
of the secret depository and carried away without the permission of 
Congress ", I can only say that I never refused any member the free 



September, lyyg 407 

liberty of taking, without permission asked of Congress or receipt given, 
any paper he asked for down into the Congress room or into the chamber 
adjoining and there reading or making extracts as he pleased till the 
adjournment, at which time I expected the paper would be returned. 
I will also confess that at the adjournment several members have through 
inadvertence or not attending to the rule carried papers away, for which 
I have expressed uneasiness and dissatisfaction; but that I have know- 
ingly and designedly violated the rule will rest with him to prove.^ 

As to the late unhappy affair, which constitutes the last charge, I 
solemnly declare I had not the most distant thought or intention of giving 
the honorable member or any other the least offence. I had frequently 
heard Mr. Lovell who has had a principal direction and management 
in printing the weekly journals and ordering the distribution, for as to 
myself I never before took any concern in the matter as I did not 
consider it any part of my business, I say I had frequently heard him 
mention that there was only one for each member printed upon a fine 
paper and brought into Congress — that if any members wanted to send 
copies to their state they might be supplied with others printed on a com- 
mon paper. I had heard him likewise complain that by some members 
taking more than one of those brought to Congress others were deprived 
and by that means their setts were broken and if they had a mind to have 
them at the end of the year bound into a volumn, they must supply the 
deficiency with those on common paper which would disfigure the volumn. 
For this reason when I took up the bundle, as Mr. Lovell was absent, 
I determined to oblige all and as I imagined offend none by delivering 
each member one. Accordingly I opened the bundle and as there were 
several members at the table I distinguished Mr. Laurens by delivering 
him one first. When he asked for another, I desired him to stay till I 
had delivered one to each member. When he repeated his demand, he 
did it in a tone and manner, that I confess gave me offence, and at the 
instant determined me to pursue the resolution I had first taken. When 
he persisted and seized the bundle in my left hand and endeavouring 
to take it by force, I wrenched it from him. But afterward, when he used 
abusive language and threatened to kick me, I felt my indignation kindled 
to that degree, that I am glad, I had so far the command of myself as 
only to put myself in an attitude of defence and say " you dare not ". 

I have now lived fifty years, and this is the first time I ever received 
such an insult. 

After I had gone round the room and delivered one to each member 
present, he came up and asked for another, which I then gave him out 
of the few that remained. However the event shewed that I was right 
in my first conjecture that there was not more than one for each member 
attending; For as I continued to distribute to the members as they came 
in I found that Mr. McKean had the last and that there was not one left 
for Mr. Matthews. 

6 The rule is embodied in the regulation of the secretary's office, Mar. 22, 1777. 



408 Continental Congress 

Upon the whole, gentlemen, I submit myself to your judgment and am 
with the sincerest respect, Gentlemen 

Your obedient and most humble servt. 

Chas Thomson ^ 
Monday Septr. 6, 1779 

511. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[September 6, 7, 1779.] 
Monday Sepr. 6th Com'l Committee Congress Sundry Letters 
Memorials and Petitions 
P M Marine Committee 

Tuesday Sepr. yth. Com'l Committee Congress. A number of Let- 
ters, One from the Duke DiVirgenes advising of his suspicions, of 
making Peace without his Court. Refferd to a Committee of three vizt.^ 

512. Oliver Ellsworth (?), Communication to the Public.^ 

[September 7, 1779.]^ 
To the Unkown Letter Writer in Philadelphia, who lately revealed to the 
public the situation of their affairs.^ 

I cannot call you by name, Sir, but I see well enough what you aim 
at. You mean, if insinuations will do it, to overset the Congress and 
break up the Union; and perhaps you think you are doing God service 
too; but you certainly use the devil's means. If we did not know Con- 
gress better than we do you, we might perhaps believe what you say 
of them. If we had not tried them and proved them at home we might 
believe they are traitors and ass riden because you say it. In one thing 
you shewed your wisdom, it [in?] hiting upon a lucky time for your 
appearance. People are always cross and jealous enough when things go 
ill, and it was just then a time of great darkness. But you made a 
wretched mistake in another place ; you never tho't that to do your work 
effectually it was necessary to conceal your malice ; nor that saying things 
which could not be true would blast your whole design. 

If you had only told us that Congress were a slow body, and let their 
business run behind hand no body would have questioned you ; for we 
all know that such a body as Congress is can't move otherwise but slow. 
There are too many men, too many states represented, of different in- 
terests, customs and habits to get along with dispatch. And sometimes they 

"^ An account of this affair, by Herbert Friedenwald, is in Pa. Mag. of Hist, 
and Biog., XXI. 183. See also Wallace, Life of Laurens, p. 316. 
[511]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Fell failed to set down the names of the members, Houston, Mathews, and 
Huntington. The letter of the Comte de Vergennes, communicated by Gerard, is in 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 310. Cf. no. 513, post. 
[^12]'^ Connecticut Courant, Sept. 7, 1779. 

2 Although this article as printed bears the date Sept. 1,it is preferably placed 
here under the date of its publication. 

3 The letter or article to which this is a reply was the production signed " O 
Tempora! O Mores! ", of which some account is given under no. 401, ante. The article 
had been reprinted in the Connecticut Courant of Aug. 10. 



September, 1779 409 

will seem to be forever about a thing before they can get it into such a 
shape as suits them all ; and it may be a small matter too. But this is no 
new thing under the sun ; nor is there any help for it. 

If you had also gone further and told us that Congress sometimes 
grow warm and have high debates, and are zealous on one side and the 
other; this we could have believed to[o] ; for the same happens in all 
free assemblies under heaven. Freedom of thought and freedom of de- 
bate, among men of bold spirits, will sometimes make warm work, and 
would scare a clown out of his wits. 

But that Congress should be ass riden with a junto is a matter that 
wants proof. This junto, by your account of it, is as full of wonders as 
the beast in the Revelations is of horns, and near as powerful. It con- 
sists, you say, mostly of New England men; who we know are elected 
not without regard to their religion as well as their politics : Yet they are 
here combined to vote alike in all cases, let oath and conscience go where 
it will, and let the public interest go where it will. They are to take care 
of themselves and connections, and at all events hang together; and if all 
this is true they ought all to hang in one haltar; and I should have no 
objection. Sir, if you crave the jobb to your being hangman. This junto 
you tell us was formed in the first Congress, five years ago, and has 
continued and governed Congress to this day; carrying the votes just 
as they please ; and whom they would they set up and whom they would 
they pull down ; and the rest of Congress, the virtuous part, tho' a great 
majority, have all the while crouched down and born[e] it. And what 
is more astonishing still, the matter has to this day been left a profound 
secret. A wonderful work of great wickedness has been carrying on in 
Congress for five years and yet no mortal ever heard of it ; neither from 
good men within doors nor from bad ones without. Another wonder in 
the matter is, that this wonderful combination has held its own so long. 
The members of Congress have been continually changing from the be- 
ginning, so that scarcely one of the first set are left behind; yet this 
junto, ordained to last forever, remains fixed as fate ; and are preserved, 
you inform us, by a sort of Contrivance — they so contrive it as to keep 
in. This is the fie plus of the matter, and ends in magick and mystery. 
I must not however omit to observe, that the effects produced by this 
junto, are quite as inexplicable as the manner of its existance. To in- 
stance only in the case of Mr. Dean, to whom it is said to have been ever 
unfriendly and wrought against him. If so how can we account for his 
appointments from Congress one after another till he got to be their 
minister? This junto being all the while unfriendly and working against 
him, and all the while governing Congress at pleasure. This with some 
other difficulties you will note, Sir, to be explained in your next address. 
But to proceed and 

Attend a little to the account you give us of our Commissioners at 
Paris. These you represent as totally ignorant of what is transacted 
in France, Spain, or England and that Congress gain no information 
from them. Do you believe this. Sir, yourself, or expect that any body 
else should ? What have you to say of Dr. Franklin ? Has he no discern- 



410 Continental Congress 

ment? Who discovered and taught us how to manage the Hghtning 
and lead it about with a thread? Was not the Doctor received at the 
Court of France with unusual marks of honor and confidence? Does 
not Mr. Dean in his narrative, which it seems you had a sight of, celebrate 
him highly as a politician and philosopher as well as his friend : Yet 
you would now persuade us that he is perfectly insignificant and a fool ! 
And what, Sir, have you to say of Mr. Adams, whose character as a warm 
and enterprizing patriot, and able statesman, is I trust too well estab- 
lished in both countries to suffer by the attacks of envy. As to Mr. Lee, 
be his other talents or graces what they may, you know, if you know 
any thing about him, that it is the soul of that man to be forever prying 
into secrets and communicating them to his employers, and that he has 
written letters enough himself to Congress, since he has been in France 
to have made a volume ; and among much other interesting intelligence, 
has not failed to furnish them seasonably and very particularly from 
time to time with the secrets of thet British cabinet. And I will venture 
to add had he wrote somewhat less than he has he might have been 
less obnoxious to men both on that side of the water and on this. And 
yet. Sir, you would persuade us that since the recal of Mr. Dean [Con- 
gress?] have entrusted our foreign affairs to men of little discernment 
and no information at all. 

Not less groundless and malignant is your reproach of Congress upon 
the subject of a foreign loan. This you insinuate they ought to have 
obtained, if, according to Mr. Dean's opinion when he returned from 
France they had immediately sent a proper person after it; but that in- 
stead of sending immediately, they have been quarreling among them- 
selves, and not able to this day to agree who shall go after and have 
the handling of it. Do you not know, Sir, or do you suppose that others 
do not, that Congress, before Mr. Dean's return, had instructed their 
commissioners respecting a foreign loan ; and that the most likely courts 
in Europe from whence to obtain it had been sounded upon the subject 
more than a year ago, and the reason why it was done without success 
must be obvious to every one who will consider but for a moment that 
the warlike appearances and preparations in that quarter of the world 
make a good market for all their money nearer home, and borrowers 
enough that can give more unquestionable and established security than 
we as yet can. Nor ought we perhaps to regret the disappointment. W^e 
are now reduced to the necessity of taxing ourselves and paying as we 
go ; which though more irksome for the present, may be less so hereafter 
than a foreign debt and less dangerous to the liberties of the people. Nor 
are our finances by any means in that distressed and languishing state as 
that they must fail without foreign support. Since the expedient of taxing 
copiously has been adopted they have not languished. For three months 
past the money has sunk none ; I appeal to all purchasers and men that 
handle it. But, Sir, to proceed to your 

Fourth and last charge against Congress. Which is that they have 
neglected the proper means when offered to them for bringing the 
war to a close. That Spain was disposed to have negotiated with Great 



September, i/'/p 411 

Britain, and obtained a peace for us; could she but have known what 
our terms were. That Congress was acquainted of this so early as 
February last, and then and ever since pressed upon to give Spain an 
answer, but have never yet done it; through which neglect her media- 
tion has been delayed and she kept back and prevented doing anything 
for us or herself. That Spain has ever applied directly or indirectly to 
know our terms is false, absolutely so. She and all the world knows 
that we claim to be independent; and that Great Britain must be 
brought to acknowledge or rede that claim, before there is a possibility 
of a treaty between us upon national grounds. She must first yield to 
us the great point that we are in fact a nation or States independent of 
her, then and not till then may we go on to treat and settle our extent, 
appendages, rights of commerce, etc., and draw the lines between us. To 
pave the way for such a treaty on national grounds — to obtain from 
Great Britain the great preliminary concession of independence, is all that 
Spain or France has ever been concerned with, or ever will be. And if 
Congress has ever been admonished of any thing from Spain, it must 
have been to be ready and prepared for such a treaty if by her negotiation 
a door should be open therefor, which has not yet been the case; so that 
whether Congress have been more or less time in preparing and adjust- 
ing matters for such a treaty, there has yet been no door open for making 
use of them, and of course no delay has happened for want of their 
more seasonable preparation. That Spain, for want of Congress being 
ready to enter upon a treaty has been one moment delayed in her negotia- 
tions to pave the way for one, is absurd in the supposition, and contrary 
to fact. The curtain is now dropped, and all the world may see for 
themselves whether Spain has been prevented negociating for want of 
our terms or any thing else. The fact is, the negotiation began ten 
months ago and has been perseveringly pursued on the part of Spain 
ever since, until proving to be ineffectual for the ends hoped from it, 
it has now given place to arguments of greater force. These facts and 
your insinuations you cannot but see. Sir, are directly opposed to each 
other. I believe you are confounded; but I will not revile you, and am 
content in the public's having a fair opportunity to judge of your charac- 
ter and designs. 

A Friend to Truth and Fair Play * 
Hartford, September 1,1779 

■* Nehemiah Hubbard, deputy quartermaster-general at Hartford, wrote to Jere- 
miah Wadsworth Sept. 7 (the day on which the article appeared) : 

" You will see in the Hartford Paper an Answer to the Letter wrote in Philadelphia 

to his friend in Baltimore respecting a Junto formed in Congress You will at 

once guess this to be a Performance of our friend Shermans, but there you are 
mistaken, and must guess again. What will be your surprise when I tell you that it was 
wrote by Mr. Oliver Ellsworth, he writes feelingly and the Coat no doubt fitts him, 
or why should he put it on" (Conn. Hist. Soc, Wadsworth Papers). 

Ellsworth had been absent from Congress since Feb. 19 and did not return until 
Dec. 16, but so far as the earlier matters alluded to by " O Tempora ! O Mores ! " are 
concerned the author of this article writes as one having knowledge. 

In the Courant of Sept. 21 " Q " asks that, since this writer poses as " A Friend to" 
Fair Play", the printer give him a specimen of it by publishing a piece from the 
New York Journal, " Which will throw some light on the affair he seems to be hurt 
about ; he never will persuade the honest part of the commimity that there is not a 



412 Continental Congress 

513. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett/ 

Philad. Sept 7th 1779. 
My Dear Sir 

.... The Spanish Ambasador left the British Court the 18th of 
June last and went immediately to france. The British Court have Sent 
out two Emissaries to Seduce these States from their Alliance with 

France.^ I Should forward a long Copy of Mr. J. A ms report 

upon important matters of Public Concernment, made, officially. Since 
his return.^ but] you will Soon have it by Genl. Whipple who Sets off 

for home in Consequence of Mr. L d — n's arival here the 3d instant — 

A Circumstance, to me not a little Extraordinary. Genl. Whipple had been 
strongly urged, by order of the Supreme authority of the State to Tarry 
here as long as he Possibly Could — upon which Ocasion I had the hon'r 
to add my most ardent wishes for his Compliance — And notwithstanding 
his long absence from his family, and Domestic affairs, be willing to Serve 
his distressed Country Gratify the Good People of the State — Consented 
to Tarry till one month after he should advise the State of his design to 
leave Congress, which intention was made known to the Committee who 
approved thereof, and Gave the Necessary orders to Mr. L — don, of all 
which Mr. Whipple was fully advised.* .... 

If this N'ew meneover is by order* of Authority, I leave you to Judge 
what impression it must Necessarily make upon the mind of a Genlman 
of Mr Whipples Sensibility — but if it is in violation of Such orders You 
will Judge of the Designs of the Violation — and of the Measures Neces- 
sary to be taken upon the insult. 

Congress have resolved that the Emission of Bills of Credit, of the 
United [States] at no time Exceed Two hundred Million of Dollars, and 
that they will Stop as far Short of that Sum as the Exertions of the 
Several States Shall enable them: A particular account of the Several 

junto in Congress, until he can persuade them not to see with their eyes, and hear with 
their ears .... but a critical and honest investigation of the matter contained in the 
letter he winces at, will soon begin, and many others necessary to be known to the 
freemen of the United States, and this State in particular." " Dr. Franklin's knowledge 
in electricity " he continues, " does not prove him to be acquainted with the politics of 
the courts of Europe; nor does his leading the lightening with a thread prove he has 
lead us into any secrets of the British court. Members of Congress know the truth of 
this matter and some have dared to tell it: One of the N. England delegates being 
asked why the extract of a letter from Philadelphia printed in Baltimore, (the same now 
in question), was not answered, replied, because it had too much truth in it." 

The piece from the Nezv York Journal which he asked to have reprinted was the 
" Paca-Drayton Information" (see nos. 471, 478, 479, ante, and no. 533, post). It is 
printed in the Courant as " Signed by Two Members of Congress ", but their names are 
not revealed. 

[513]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. II. ("No. 7"). 

2 See Gerard's communication to Congress Sept. 7, mentioned in no. 511, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Aug. 20, Sept. i. The reference is to Adams's letter of 
Aug. 4 {Works, VII. 99; Wharton, Rev. Pipl. Corr., III. 278). A copy of the letter 
was transmitted by Peabody Sept. 21, with a note on the back of it : " This Copy of a 
Letter which was written to C — g — s by the same Mr. J. A. which wrote the Letters, 
from which I inclosed Some Extracts in my letter of the 7th ulto. to Col. Bartlett, is now 
humbly Transmitted to the Hon'e M. Weare and J. Bartlett, (to be communicated to 
Such only as they may Judge Expedient)", etc. Cf. no. 606, post. 

* See no. 503, ante, and no. 537, post. 



September, ///p 413 

Emissions, is making out, determining the Sum Now in Circulation, which 
I Shall Transmit you. 

N. B. You'l please to keep the Contents of this Letter entirely from 
the Connection of Mr. W. L d — n etc. I know I am Safe 

514. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

Wednesday Sepr. 8th 1779 Com'l Committee Congress. This day 
spent in Reading dispatches, etc 

A Memorial from the State of New York, relating to the disputes with 
Vermont Refferd to a Committee of 5 vizt. McKean, Paca, Houlton, 
Huntington and Smith ^ 

Thursday gth. Commercial Committee Congress. This day I nomi- 
nated Wm. Denning Esqr. to be appointed a Commissioner for the Board 
of Treasury.' 

P M Marine Committee 

515. Samuel Huntington to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia 9th Septem'r 1779. 
Sir, 

. . . .^ Congress have come to a Resolution to stop the Emission of 
Bills, which they mean to abide by at all Events — as necessity seems to 
require this Measure, I presume it will be generally approved. I have 
taken the Liberty to enclose the Resolution for that purpose, tho' not 
attested.' 

Further Measures for supplying the Treasury, I trust will soon be 
adopted, and Immediately forwarded to the several States. 

The aspect of public affairs in Europe at present, are very favorable — 
there seems great probability, that dire necessity will soon bring Great 
Britain, in spite of themselves to reasonable terms of peace with us ; God 
grant we may not be disappointed in the Expectation. 

516. Jesse Root to Jeremiah Wadsworth.^ 

Philadelphia Septr. 9th 1779 
Dear Sir 

Congress have resolved not to emit on any account whatever more than 
200,000000 dollars and Expect to depend on the States to Supply the 
Treasury by Taxes and loans.^ 

[514]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 8, 17, 20, 22-24, also nos. 495, 506, ante, 544, 545, post. 

3 Denning's name again appears in the list of nominees Oct. 12, but is erased. 
[515]! Library of Congress, Force Trans., Trumbull, vol. X., pt. L, no. 146. 

2 Huntington mentions that General Spencer intends leaving in about ten days, 
hopes that another delegate will come on to supply his place, and expresses a wish that 
he himself might be relieved as soon as public business will permit, to attend to his 
private concerns. 

3 Cf. nos. 500, 506, 508, ante, and nos. 516, 538, post. 
[516]! Conn. Hist. Soc, Jeremiah Wadsworth Papers. 

2 See no. 515, ante. Root used nearly the same language in a letter Sept. 8 to 
Oliver Ellsworth (Henkels, Catalogue, no. 731, item 161, facsimile). 

31 



414 Continental Congress 

By official accounts from France Spain has taken an active part in the 
war against England, and its thought in France that England, to avoid the 
hard necessity of acknowledging the Independance of America will Send 
Commissioners with power to with draw the Troops from america and 
attempt a Seperate Treaty, thereby to detach us from the Alliance — they 
may make a Merit of necessity, being obliged to with draw their Troops 
to protect their own territories, make it a ground of Treaty with us, but 
they must, however hard and humiliating to the pride of Britain, they 
must acknowledge America to be Independant. Your letter to the Com- 
mittee respecting the prize goods, being purchased for the use of the army 
is referred to the Marine Committee with orders to detain the whole of 
the united States part for the use of the Army 

517. William Churchill Houston, Proposed Report on 
Deane's Memorial.^ 

[September 9, 1779.] 
The Committee to whom was referred the Memorial of Silas Deane 
Esqr. of the 16 Augt. last,^ Report, 

That they have considered the said Memorial, and are of opinion, 
1st. That the Memorialist was directed in the Instructions given him by 
the Secret Committee to keep an exact and circumstantial Account of all 
his transactions of every kind from time to time, and that therefore Con- 
gress had a right to expect a fuller satisfaction in this particular than can 
be derived from the Papers and vouchers Mr. Deane has produced, even 
under the Idea that the Resolution of Congress of the 8th December 1777 
was an order immediately to repair to America. 

2. That it does not appear from any Vouchers produced by Mr. Deane 
that a considerable balance is due to him from the United States, but the 
presumption rather is, that if any balance is due it must be small, and many 
circumstances make it doubtful whether a balance is not due from Mr. 
Deane to the Public. That at any rate it would not be adviseable to author- 
ize Mr. Deane to receive any balance in Europe, the final settlement of the 
said Accounts being to be made at the Treasury of the United States. 

3. That Mr. Deane ought to be allowed his reasonable expences for 

Months to enable him to repair to Europe for the purpose of 
collecting and adjusting his said Accounts, agreeably to the Resolution of 
Congress of the 6th August last. 

The Committee therefore submit the following Resolutions 
1st. That Mr. Deane be allowed his reasonable expences for the Space 
of Months while repairing to Europe and there adjusting his 

[517] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XXVII. (in the writing of Moses Young). 
2 Deane's Memorial was read in Congress Aug. 19 and referred to a committee 
consisting of Houston, Laurens, and Meriwether Smith. A copy of the memorial, in 
the writing of Moses Young, is in the University of Virginia Library, Lee Papers; 
another copy is in the South Carolina Historical Society, Laurens Papers. It is printed 
in N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, IV. 68. Besides this proposed report of 
Houston, there is a report proposed by Laurens (no. 518, post). The committee brought 
in a report Sept. 9, but it is not known what that report was; for although consideration 
of it was set for Monday, Sept. 13, it does not appear ever to have been taken up. See 
Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 305, 411, and the Journals. Aug. 25. 



September, ij'jg 415 

Accounts for final settlement at the Treasury Board of the United States, 
and returning, to be charged in the state of his said Accounts. 

[Endorsed:] Mr. Houston proposed Report on S. Deane's Memorial 
1 6th Augt. 

518. Henry Laurens, Proposed Report on Deane's Memorial.^ 

[September 9, 1779.] 

The Committee to whom was referred the Memorial of Silas Deane 
Esquire of the 16th August last, beg leave to report,^ 

That the Memorialist as appears by the Minutes of the Committee of 
secret Correspondence dated 23rd January 1776, had undertaken a voyage 
to Martinique for the Public service. 

That on the 22nd February 1776 it was agreed by the said Committee 
that he should proceed immediately for France as an Agent of the Con- 
gress to transact such business and negociate such matters as may be com- 
mitted to him by Congress or their Committee. 

That it was certified by the Committee " To all whom it may concern, 
that the bearer, meaning the Memorialist, was appointed to go into France 
there to transact such business Commercial and Political as the said secret 
Committee, had committed to his care in behalf and by authority of the 
Congress of the thirteen United Colonies ". 

That in the sequel of instructions given to the Memorialist by the Secret 
Committee he was directed to keep a daily Journal of all material transac- 
tions in the conduct of his agency. 

That your Committee are of opinion the Secret Committee judged it 
unnecessary to give the Memorialist particular directions to keep fair and 
exact accounts of all receipts and expenditures of Money on behalf of his 
Constituents, the keeping and regularly transmitting of such accounts 
being the indispensible duty of every Agent, whether public or private, 
and that therefore Congress had a right to expect from the Memorialist 
upon his arrival at Philadelphia, circumstantial and accurate Accounts 
of his Contracts, if any, and a regularly stated Account Current of all 
Receipts and payments of Money for these States; together with Invoices 
and Bills of Loading for Goods shipped, and receipts or other Satisfactory 
Vouchers for payments made by him. 

That the Memorialist ought to have brought with him from France, and 
to have laid before Congress a fair Abstract of all Engagements on Ac- 
count of these States so far as he had proceeded in them, which is the duty 
and the practice of every faithful Agent acting for Private Persons or 
Public bodies. 

That no good and deciding reasons have occurred to the Committee 
sufficient to convince them that it was necessary the Memorialist should 
return to America in the Count d'Estaings Squadron, rather than by a 
conveyance some what later, after having taken the proper steps to afford 
Congress the satisfaction they were entitled to as to his transactions and 

[518] 1 S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XXVII. (in the writing of Moses Young). 
2 Cf. Houston's proposed report on the same memorial, no. 517, ante. 



416 Continental Congress 

Accounts, or sufficient to justify the Memorialist in leaving his Accounts 
and Vouchers in France, not in the hands of the Commissioners, and in 
such a state as not to be settled without his returning thither. 

That the Committee are of opinion the Memorialist ought to have de- 
posited in the hands of the other Commissioners at the Court of Ver- 
sailles, the originals or copies satisfactorily authenticated, of all his Ac- 
counts and transactions as aforesaid, especially as he was duly informed 
that another Commissioner was appointed to supply his place, whence he 
could have had no foundation for presuming that he was to return. 

That there is no evidence arising from any vouchers produced by the 
Memorialist that a considerable balance, or indeed any balance at all is due 
to him from the United States, and that it would be highly improper to 
give orders for the payment of any such balance in Europe, while the 
claim is rested on no better foundation. 

That the Committee are of opinion the Memorialist ought to be in- 
formed Congress have received the vindications of the hon'ble Arthur 
and William Lee Esquires against certain charges and insinuations re- 
specting their Public conduct published by the Memorialist in the Penn- 
sylvania Packet of 5th December 1778; and also of such charges as the 
said Arthur and William Lee have set up against him. 

That the Committie are of opinion if it be consistent to detain the 
Memorialist, he ought to be detained, and directed to send to France for 
all Accounts and Vouchers of his transactions, in order to adjust his ac- 
counts at the Treasury Board, and to answer the charges set up against 
him by the said Arthur and William Lee, and that the said Arthur and 
William Lee should be directed forthwith to attend Congress, as well, for 
the final adjustment of their own Accounts as for answering to such 
charges as have been brought against them respectively by the Memorial- 
ist, and for supporting their several charges and accusations against him; 
but if it be not consistent to detain the Memorialist the Committee are of 
opinion the generosity of Congress cannot be further extended than the 
following Resolution expresses which they submit. 

Resolved That Silas Deane Esquire be allowed his reasonable expences 
for the space of Months, while repairing to Europe and there ad- 

justing his accounts and collecting his Vouchers for final settlement at the 
Treasury Board of the United States, and returning; the said expences 
to be charged in his said Accounts.^ 

[Endorsed :] Mr. Ls * proposed Report on Mr. Deane's Memorial. 

519. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[September 9, 10, 1779.] 
p. At evening I attended the marine com't. 
10. I spent part of the day upon the affairs of Vermont. 

3 Cf. nos. 250, 255, 296, 297 338, 474, ante, 559, 595, post. 
* Laurens first wrote " Houstons ", then erased it and wrote " Ls " above. 
[Sig]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVL 28. 



September, ///p 417 

520. John Fell, Diary/ 

Friday Septr. loth 1779. Commercial Committee Congress. Sundry- 
Letters etc. Report from the Board of War for the States to Provide 
Cloathing for their Troops etc. Reports from Mr. Dickinson for a Nego- 
tiation with Spain, another by Mr. Huntington.^ 

P M Marine Committee. 

Saturday Septr. nth Com'I Committee Congress. This whole day 
taken up in the Proposals for a negotiation with spain,^ 

521. Henry Laurens, Notes for Remarks.^ 

[September 13? 1779.]^ 

notes for my remarks in congress. 

Finances, are the Revenues of a State or Kingdom. 

Financiers, are Men who devise ways and means for assessing and col- 
lecting revenues. 

He is the best financier who points out particular subjects in his State 
for assessment, from whom the largest Revenues may be drawn with the 
least expence. and which the people will pay with the least murmuring, 
for Taxes and murmuring more or less, are inseperable companions. 

The duty of Congress is be watchful over the expenditure of the Public 
Money, to call those Men in whose hands such Money has been entrusted 
to strict accounts, at stated periods — to make an Estimate year by year 
of the Public debt and to assign just proportions of the whole debt to be 
raised by the States respectively in order to discharge the whole annual 
Amount. 

It is the duty of the Several States to finance, agreeably to the custom 
or local circumstances of each, and to assess and collect by ways and 
means of their own devising, the proportion of the general debt, which 
shall have been assigned to each and to remit such proportions into the 
General Treasury within stated periods. 

[520]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Dickinson's motion is in the Journals under Sept. 9, Huntington's under Sept. 10. 

8 Among the Laurens Papers in the South Carolina Historical Society (vol. 
XXVL) is an undated memorandum which is probably a motion offered by Laurens at 
some stage of the discussion of the Spanish question between Sept. 9 and 17. The 
memorandum is as follows : 

"Although the free navigation through the Mississippi be not stated in the ultimatum 
yet Congress consider it as an object of great moment to the prosperity of the United 
States and therefore they charge the plenipotentiary to exert all his powers to obtain 
the freedom of that navigation to the citizens of the United States — and that in no event 
the right of the United States to that navigation be ceded." See the Journals, Sept. 9, 10, 
II, 17, Oct. 13. Cf. no. 524, post. 
[52i]iHist. Soc. of Pa., Laurens Papers. 

2 The allusion at the close of these remarks to Gouverneur Morris indicates quite 
definitely that the remarks must have been made at a time when Morris was absent, 
as was the case from Aug. 25 to Oct. 6. A committee on finance, of which Laurens was 
a member, was appointed Sept. 3 and brought in a report Sept. 13. Laurens probably 
therefore made his remarks on that day or on one of the succeeding days (Sept. 15, 
16, 21, Oct. 2) on which finance was under consideration. 



418 Continental Congress 

[^ Congress have in no Instance acted the Financier, except in the sin- 
gle article of Loan or borrowing Money. 

How that branch has been oeconomised both abroad and at home is 
known only to a few Members of this House, the rest are almost ignorant, 
our constituents at large are altogether so — when the burthens of Taxes 
fall heavily upon them, they will open their Eyes and enquire — and then — 
but here I draw a Veil. 

Congress being the most mutable public Body upon Earth is not tangible. 
Who shall applaud it for the benefits or censure it for the Evils arising 
from the Manoevres and voices of Men whose names are not upon Record, 
or from the dead preengaged Vote of one, whose voice has established 
many an important point when he had no right to sit here.* * — and whose 
detection and consequent cecession has nevertheless been much lamented.] 

522. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Monday Sepr. i^th. Com'l Committee Congress. A great number of 
dispatches took up the whole day till 5 oClock. Dined with Governor Lev- 
ingston at Mr. Jays. 

Tuesday Sepr. 14th 1779. Commercial Committee. Congress. Two 
memorials were read relating to the Lands of Indiana and [Vandalia] 
Signd by [William] Trent and Geo Morgan.^ Mr. Scudder moved for the 
first Memorial being Committed, after long debate on the Part of Virginia 
to oppose it, the Question was put and Pas'd in the Affirmitive then the 
Delegates from Virginia made a Motion that Congress had no right to 
interfere in the afair at all, and had no jurrisdiction nor right to appoint 
a Committee the Delegates of N Carolina and from So. Carolina made 
objections to Vote and were joind by the President under a notion that the 
Lands in Question were intended to be seperate States long debates till 
Adjournd ^ Did not attend the Marine Committee being unwell 

523. The President of Congress (John Jay) to the 
Several States.^ 

Philadelphia 14th Septr. 1779. 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed Copies of three Acts of Congress, 
[one] of the 21st August on the Subject of an Embargo, one of the 25th 

3 From this point to the end the original notes are enclosed in square brackets. 
The reason for this is not clear, but it is quite possible that Laurens decided to omit 
remarks of this nature in his speech. 

* " * Gouvr. Morris " [note in the original], C/. no. 495, ante. For some allusions 
to Laurens's attitude toward Morris at this time, see nos. 684, 685, 688, post. 
[522]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The memorial of George Morgan was on behalf of the proprietors of the 
Indiana tract, that of William Trent in behalf of those of the Vandalia tract. See the 
Journals, Oct. 8, 27, 29, 30, and no. 622, post. 

3 The Journals make no mention of the Virginia motion nor give any intimation 
of the discussion which followed it; but see the Journals, Oct. 8, 29, 30, and nos. 527, 
616, 628, 629, 632, 639, post. 

[523P N. C. Hist. Comm., Caswell Papers (Circular) ; N. C. State Recs., XIV. 207; 
id. to Massachusetts, Mass. Arch., CCI. 299; id. to Maryland, Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, 
VIII. 120; id. to Connecticut, Conn. Hist. Soc, Jonathan Trumbull Papers; Library of 
Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 186 (Circular). 



September, 1779 419 

Augt., against the Restrictions on the Inland Trade between the States, 
and the third of the loth Inst, for providing cloathing for the troops. 
The two first should have been, as usual, sent to the States directly after 
they were passed, but it was the sense of Congress, 'till within a few days, 
to delay their transmission. Your Excellency will also receive herewith 
a printed copy of a circular Letter from Congress to their constituents.^ 

524. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia, 14th Sept., 1779. 
Sir, 

.... Congress seem inclined to send the No. Carolina Brigade on for 
the defence of the Carolinas and Georgia. The Officers are in a most de- 
plorable situation for want of Clothing, none having been sent on of any 
consequence for their relief. The Delegates of our State are therefore re- 
duced to the necessity of applying to Congress for a sum of money to pur- 
chase necessaries to supply their wants ; whether they will be able to attain 
such supply they are not yet certain. Should the Enemy intend an incur- 
sion into the Southern States, your Excellency must know, much better 
than I can pretend to inform you, how deficient our State is in the Article 
of Arms, field-pieces, etc. Perhaps an application from the General As- 
sembly at such a crisis to Congress might be successful. 

Congress have determined on putting a stop to any further Emissions 
of paper money, and throw themselves on the Several States for Taxes 
and loans of money to enable them to carry on the War. A draft of a cir- 
cular letter is prepared, which, together with the resolutions of Congress, 
will be transmitted by the President to your Excellency in a few days.^ 
It is believed that the Salvation of the Country depends entirely on the 
exertions of the several States to supply the Continental Treasury. Spain 
is at open Hostilities with Britain, and will no doubt soon acknowledge 
the Independence of these States. No official account of the Court of 
Madrid's intentions has been as yet received in Congress. 

It is supposed Spain has had her eye on the Floridas. I think she has, 
and from thence am induced to believe she will make some advantageous 
offers to the United States, provided they will guarantee those provinces 
to her at the conclusion of the War. This is a matter which may require 
great deliberation, and the question may turn upon this point, whether it 
may be more for our advantage to have the Spaniards or the English for 
our neighbours.^ The Independence of America is, we think, secured by 

2 The circular is in the Journals under Sept. 13. See the Bibliographical Notes 
in the Journals, pp. 1457-1458; also Evans, Am. Bibl., vol. VI., nos. 1658-1661. Cf. no. 
508, ante, and nos. 524, 532, 589, fost. 
[524]! AT. C. State Recs., XIV. 205. 

2 See no. 523, ante. 

8 The following memorandum, found among the Laurens Papers (vol. XXVI.) 
in the South Carolina Historical Society, is probably an amendment offered by Laurens 
about this time (possibly Sept. 17) to one of the propositions concerning the cession of 
the Floridas : 

" That is to say, all the Territory of West Florida as that Country is now bounded 
and described and all the Territory of East Florida North and West of the River St John 



420 Continental Congress 

Spain's entering into the War, and nothing remains for us to do but to 
keep a good army in the field and support the public credit, and this de- 
pends solely on the patriotic exertions of the several States; but it is need- 
less for me to dwell on this great subject, as it will be so fully and judi- 
ciously discussed in the Circular letter which your Excellency will very 
soon receive 

525. JamesLovellto John Adams/ 

14 Sepr. 1779 
Dear Sir 

.... We have indeed had a Stormy Time ; and some Villains, I guess 
wanted to get hold of the Helm and the main Stays at a critical Moment. 
We are going to tell S she may have the Fl[orid]as before she asks, 
and we shall be too bashful ever to tell her we wish to get at the hundred 
of thousands of Acres of Virginia freely in Boats by that River on whose 
Banks they lay.^ .... 

526. Nathaniel Peabody to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

No. 6. 

Philada. 14th Septr, 1779. 
Honor'd and Dear Sir 

By yesterdays Post I had the pleasure of Receiving your kind favour 

ofthe3i.ulto Congress are takeing every measure in their Power 

to Appreciate our Currency, Lessen the Public Debt, and prepare for a 
vigorous opposition to our Enimies, or a happy and Glorious Peace, as the 
Book of fate shall determine. Mr. Langdon whom you mention in your 
Letter is also, among us. And of Course Mr, Whipple, who is at present 
unwell will, as soon as able set off for home.^ 

527. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Wednesday Septr. i^th 1779 ^ Commercial Committee Congress 
After reading the Journals, the Delegates moved for their motion made 
Yesterday to be Enterd ^ which caused a long debate on point of order and 
I not being well I left Congress. 

reserving the determination of the line running from the Mouth of the River St John's 
due West to Commissioners to be hereafter appointed by the Court of Spain on the one 
part and the U. S. on the other part 

" That all the territory including the Islands North of the River St John's shall be 
retained as part of the State of Georgia to be guaranteed on the part of Spain to these 
States." See no. 520, ante, and nos. 525, 533, post. 

[525]! Adams MSS., Boston. 

2 The reference is to proposed negotiations with Spain relative to the Floridas 
and the navigation of the Mississippi. See the Journ-ah, Aug. 5, Sept. 9, 10, li, 17, Oct. 13. 
Cf. nos. 520, 524, ante, and no. 532, post. 

[526]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia (now in N. H. Hist. Soc, Weare Papers, VII. 41). 
2 See no. 513, ante. 

[527]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Holten's record for this day is merely : " I met the medical committee at 
evening." 

3 Presumably the motion of the Virginia delegates which Fell mentions in his 
Diary for the 14th (no. 522, ante). The Journals are altogether silent on the subject. 



September, 7779 421 

528. Henry Marchant to Horatio Gates/ 

Philadelphia Sepr. 16th 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Monsr. Gerard takes Leave of Congress to morrow in a private 
Audience. We instantly expect the Count De Luzerne.^ I hope to find him 
a Gentleman made by Heaven for his important Mission. Would to God 
Our Ministers or Com'rs w^ere or had been all — so 

529. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

16 Sepr. 1779 
Dear Sir 

.... I have from Mr. J Adams and Arthur Lee such a Character of 
the New fr: Minister as makes me not care who has the first Interviews 
with him.^ He can and will judge for himself and will especially take care 
not to ally himself with dirty Schemes of money making which others 
have been entrapped at least to appear to patronize 

530. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin.^ 
Private 

Philada. Sepr. 16th 1779 
Hon'ble Sir 

On the 30th of Augst, I received yr. favr. of June 2d with the minis- 
terial Paper containing Mauduit's Speculations.^ And, since that, several 
Pamphlets wch. came under the Care of Cheval'r dela Luzerne and, I 
think, under a Superscription in yr. Grandson's handwriting, have reached 
me. I am sure Hartley is stumbling only over a Mistake about the eventual 
Alliance.^ It is now in Vigor. It is defunct of Course upon a Peace, ex- 
cept so far as a Guarantee of the Articles of that Peace, and there can be 
no Sincerity in any pacific Compact of Britain if she is not willing to have 
it guaranteed to us. He is more mistaken in his Idea of a distinction being 

[528]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XVI. 

2 He was at this moment at Washington's headquarters at West Point (see no. 
529, post). He arrived in Philadelphia Sept. 21. 

[529PN. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XVI. 

2 Samuel Adams had written to Gates Aug. 22 : " The Chevalier de la Luzerne 
has honord me with several private confidential Conversations, in which I have com- 
municated to him my Sentiments with Freedom and Candor. I have conceivd an high 
opinion of him and of M. Marbois, who is a Member of the Parliament of Meitz. I 
want him to see you and Governor Trumbull. The Chevalier has not yet determind 
what Route to take. Should he go thro Springfield I wish to know whether you could 
furnish him with an Escort to General Washingtons Head Quarters. Your Answer to 
this speedily will oblige me" {Writings, IV. 165). See no. 528, ante, and no. 579, post. 

On the day on which Lovell was writing Luzerne was at Washington's headquarters 
at West Point. The substance of a conference which he had with Washington that day, 
set down by Alexander Hamilton, who acted as interpreter, is in the Washington Papers. 
It is printed in Writings (ed. Sparks), VI. 540, and Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., III. 318. 
Luzerne spoke in this conference of conversations he had had in Boston with " several 
gentlemen of influence, some of them members of Congress ". 

[530]^ Univ. of Pa., Franklin Papers, III. 23 (on the same sheet with the letter of 
Aug. 6, 1779)- 

2 Franklin's letter of June 2 to Lovell is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 199. 

3 See Franklin's correspondence with Hartley (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 
36, 57, 90, 127-131, 154). 



422 Continental Congress 

yet in Vigor here, between the Ministry and People of Britain. A short 
Space of Time will probably produce for his Perusal a solemn Vow and 
Compact not only of the Delegates in Congress but of the whole Legisla- 
tures of the Union, never, nez>er to form even a commercial Treaty with 
Great Britain. It was indeed once held out here, for political Purposes in 
the days of our Irresolution, that this was not a popular War in England. 
But it is not now at all necessary to disguise the Certainty that from the 
Tyrant George down to the Shoe and Soot Boy, there is a proud desire to 
be yet able to say " our Colonies " 

531. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[September 16, 17, 1779.] 
16. Mr. Gerard came to take leave of us, but we were all from home. 
//. Mr. Gerard took formal leave of Congress. It is said d'Estang is 
off the coast. 

532. The President of Congress (John Jay) to the Governor of 
New York (George Clinton).^ 

Philada: 17th Sept: 1779 
Sir, 

With my letter of the 14th : Inst, was enclosed a copy of a circular let- 
ter from Congress to their Constituents. In that copy there is a mistake 
in the amount of the ballance of our foreign debt ; instead of two it ought 
to have been four millions of dollars. This Error was yesterday observed 
and corrected by Congress. The enclosed copy is correct.^ 

N. B. The same to Govrs : Trumbull, Greene, Powell, and Weare.* 

533. James Lovell to Arthur Lee.^ 
(private) 

Philada. Sepr. 17th, 1779 
Dear Sir 

I have written very frequently to you, but have no Copies of the Emana- 
tions of my friendly Attachment to your merits as they have at those 
Periods appeared on paper. But the Nature and especially the sincerity of 
them may perhaps be better judged of by seeing what I wrote to your 
Nonamicals — I find that a Mr. Cummins and a Mr. Smith ^ have been 
taken. By the latter I wrote in a private Capacity to all three of the Com- 
miss'rs but have only a copy of one to Dr. F. and perhaps never sent a 

[53"^]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 28. 

[532]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 186; Arch, of Mass., CCL 
306 (to Massachusetts). 

2 See no. 523, ante. The correction has been made in the letter as it appears in 
the Journals. 

3 That is, the letter was to the states of New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island, 
Massachusetts, and New Hampshire. 

[533]^ Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VL no. 

2 Samuel Smith. See no. 235, ante. Letters from him to Franklin, written from 
Nantes, Sept. 2 and 23, relative to his capture, are in Am. Phil. Soc, Franklin Papers, XV. 
162, 210. "Mr. Cummins" may have been James Cuming, merchant at L'Orient. See 
Hays, Calendar of Franklin Papers, and cf. these Letters, vol. HL, p. 522 n. 



September, ///p 423 

copy of that before this day.^ I have ordered the Bearer of this Scrawl to 
deliver one to you marked 4 {/ yoii are in France, if not to break the Seal 
and deliver the inclosed as directed. If it comes into yr. hand, break the 
Seal and you will find a second Envelope properly directed, to which you 
may put a Wafer. If you do not get that Proof, take my Word for it that 
what little Health I have left unsacrificed by 17 months Imprisonment 
and 33 months Drudgery here, shall be exerted on every necessary occa- 
sion to defend your Name and Character against vilainous attacks, the 
Spirit for which, however, has long ago become despicable. 

Your Choice from Salust of a Motto for one of yr. Friends came too 
late almost, for in a few days after my Receipt of it, quietus took absolute 
occupancy of turbidus inquietus atrox.* Dont start at the Expression of 
my Receipt ; but know that upon reading a Letter for R H L or F L L or 
J L ' I broke every Seal and by the advice of yr. hearty friends Mr. 
Lawrens Genl. Whipple and others, presented the Defences Replications 
Remarks and their Vouchers, not keeping back the last half Sheet wch. 
contained an a fortiori. 

A paper unsigned, among Mr. A Lee's Dispatches, read Sepr. 2d. 

This was a Course of Observations upon the Correspondence relative 
to yr. joint papers.^ 

The Remarks upon the Employment of W s ^ are at hand when- 
ever that Business shall be taken up, as also are Letters between J A. and 

Ct. V g ns.* Mr. A's Testimony in Regard to you and yr. two 

Brothers is manly as well as just. 

No Step is yet thought necessary with regard to the Affair of Sergeant 
and Ingersol,^ or that of evacuating the Post mentioned by you. The 
moving of the Waters are closely watched. 

3 See nos. 344, 345, 346, ante. 

* Richard Henry Lee wrote to Henry Laurens Sept. 5 {Letters, H. 146) : " In 
a letter from Dr. Lee to my brother F. L. L. is the following paragraph ' I expected 
W. H. D. would take precisely the part he has. His character is too much of the 
Catilinarian cast, for him to remain long among honorable men. Turbidus, inquietus, 
atrox — he should be always dealt with as one, who, tho your friend to day, may betray 
you tomorrow. But I am mistaken if his state dont put a mark upon him.' Can anything 
fit more exactly than ' foul, restless, wicked ' ? no glove ever fitted his hand better than 
this character does the Man." Laurens occasionally alluded to Drayton under the 
appellation " Black Coat ", and Lee, in turn, uses it in his letters to Laurens. In a letter 

" Black Heart 
to Laurens Aug. 21 (ibid., p. 130) he alludes to Drayton as " Black Coat " ' ^^^^''^ 

allusion here is to Drayton's death, which had occurred Sept. 4. 

5 Richard Henry Lee, Francis Lightfoot Lee, and James Lovell. Concerning the 
"last half sheet", see no. 496, ante. 

6 This document, mentioned in the Journals, Sept. 2, as having come " under the 
same cover with Mr. A. Lee's other letters ", has not been found. For the character 
of it, see no. 496, ante. 

'' Jonathan Williams. Concerning a Memorial of Arthur Lee relative to Williams, 
see no. 496, ante. 

* John Adams and Comte de Vergennes. See the correspondence between them 
relative to Lee and Deane, Feb. 11, 13, 16, in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 111. 42, 46, 50. 
Cf. no. 542, post. 

^ The allusion is doubtless to Arthur Lee's suggestion that Sergeant and 
Ingersoll be employed in bringing suit against Silas Deane. In a letter from Richard 
Henry Lee to Charles Lee Aug. 31 {Letters, II. 142) is the following passage: 

" My brother Dr. Lee in his letters to me expresses much friendship for, and a high 
opinion of Mr. Ingersolls abilities. He has written pressingly to have an Action of Libel 
immediately commenced against Silas Deane for his publication of December the 5th. 



424 Continental Congress 

.... La Luzern does not Speak English. I shall naturally be led to 
more Intercourse with him than his Predicessor, from that Circumstance. 

You See how S A and I are marked in the Company-T/im^r of Paca and 
Drayton,^** doubtless the latter tale bore many of our Honesties from the 
State House to the Hotel ; but I cannot say that I ever discovered a conse- 
quent manifestation of Dislike. Those Brow beatings however are never 
practiced against manly Indifference. Perhaps it would have been better 
if several of us had not, from an Aversion to even the appearance of Syco- 
phancy, left a Stranger without proper Warnings against that invidious 
Class. Ford " has not been here. You know by my Letters of April that 
he was judged by the State of Virginia to be not fit to be near the Person 
of an American Commissioner. R H L has been greatly indisposed but is 
mending now in his Health. I doubt whether you will by this opportunity 
know any thing decisive of our opinion respecting the 2 Spanish points of 
negociation ; but you may depend on it that we are disposed to do every 
Thing to cement a triple alliance whenever Spain shall signify her Wishes 
through you or other regular Channel. 

The Floridas are not ours ; they belong to our Enemy. A free naviga- 
tion of the Miss'pi is to be wished for but cannot be claimed if S 

owns both Banks near the Mouth though millions of Acres of Virginia 
lay also on the Waters of that River higher up.^^ .... 

You have had an abandoned Set at your Elbow to watch over. And you 
made some here very rancorous at the first of yr. Correspondence. I never 
cou'd find by the Books at the Com'tee who the two were that you was 
mistrustful of. The Letter Book is not signed, so as that I can see who 
were 2d and 5th. It will not do to take them as they stand on the Journals 
when elected. But if Complaisance put Franklin in the Chair I get Harison 
and Jay.^^ You also once said something about Mr. Duane's Servant. An 
attempt was made to embitter the mind of Govr. Reed who happened to be 
a member of Congress when the Dictionary came to light." But Mr. Reed 
says you did your Duty well. 

Something in yr. Letters to the Com'tee was in Cyphers. Merryweather 
Smith decyphered it readily otherwise I must have sent it on to Virginia 

And he desired that Mr. Ingersol might be retained and employed in this suit. The 
doctor sent his powers to Mr. Lovell Colo. F. Light. Lee and myself. I have written 
repeatedly to Mr. Lovell desiring that my brothers request might be immediately com- 
plied with. I had some money in the hands of old Dr. Shippen, which I proposed should 
be employed this way. Pray have you heard anything about it, or has the suit been 
commenced." Cf. no. 535, post. 

10 See nos. 471, 478, 479, 512, ante. 

11 Hezekiah Ford. See nos. 478, 488, ante. 

12 Cf. no. 525, ante. 

13 The reference is doubtless to statements in Arthur Lee's letters of Feb. 13 
and 14, 1776 (Wharton, Rev, Dipl. Corr., IL 72, 76), wherein he indicates a lack of 
confidence in the second and last (fifth) members of the committee of secret correspon- 
dence, presumably Franklin and Jay. See these Letters, vol. L, no. 377. 

1* In June, 1776, Arthur Lee sent to the committee of secret correspondence a 
dictionary to be used in cipher correspondence, which was delivered to the Secretary 
of Congress in September, 1778. On a fly-leaf of the dictionary was written a letter 
which contained the warning, " Beware of Joseph Reed, of Philadelphia ". See Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., IL 95; Force, Am. Arch., fourth sen, VI. 685. Cf. these Letters, vol. 
III., no. 467. Concerning the dictionary cipher, see ibid., p. 231 n. 



September, ///p 425 

to yr. Brother. I know that R H L thinks that mode is now as useless as if 
Deane knew it; need I say more? I think it would be clever to have a 
Cypher in Com'tee, but not to be also used to your Brother or yr. Friend ; 
those should be distinct ones. 



534. William Whipple to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Philadelphia, Sept. 18, 1779. 
My dear Sir, 

When I did myself the honour of writing to you last, it was my inten- 
tion to tarry here till the latter end of next month, but the arrival of a 
second colleague has altered my determination ; I shall take my leave of 
this city to-morrow,^ but I must confess, I shall not do it with the satis- 
faction I should, if Virginia, and some other states, that might be men- 
tioned, were represented in the manner I have known them. 

It affords me particular satisfaction to find, by your favour of the 4th 
instant,^ that your health is restored. I hope your influence will make some 
beneficial changes in the politics of Virginia. I am sure your endeavours 
will not be wanting, and I am very sure, you are convinced of the necessity 
of changing men, if not measures. If there is as much virtue and integrity 
in a certain Assembly, as formerly, there certainly is a languor, a want of 
resolution, to oppose vice, and stem the torrent of corruption, that at this 
time, threatens ruin to America ; but, I hope, that persevering spirit, which 
heretofore faced every difficulty, and looked all opposition out of counte- 
nance, will again revive and scatter the cloud that now hangs over us. 
I expect my retirement will afford me a satisfaction, impossible to be 
enjoyed in Philadelphia ; but, however happy my situation may be, it will 
ever be increased by hearing of the prosperity and happiness of those 
worthy patriots, who first stepped forward, braved every danger, and 
combated the greatest difficulties, and by their virtuous struggles, and 
ynremitted exertions, have thus far rescued their country from the hand 
of tyranny. Some of your friends, particularly Mr. Laurens, and Mr. 
Lovell, will give you an account how matters are going on here; * these 
gentlemen, I need not tell you, are real friends to virtue, and, conse- 
quently, to those devoted to the cause of virtue. I much approve Dr. Lee's 
intention, to come to this country, when the Spanish business is con- 
cluded. I think it necessary he should have a fair opportunity, of putting 
to shame, those base assassins, whose malice is wrought up to the highest 
pitch, by a consciousness of their own inferiority 

Hon. Richard Henry Lee, Esq. at Chantilly, 
Northern Neck, Virginia. 

[534]! R. H. Lee, Life of Richard Henry Lee, II. 112. 

2 He did not, however, take his departure until Sept. 25. See no. 582, post. 

^Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 144. 

* See nos. 496, 501, 502, ante, and nos. 535, 553, 559, 595, 599, post. 



426 Continental Congress 

535. James Lovell to Arthur Lee.^ 

Philada. Sepr. 21st 1779 
Dear Sir, 

I reed, nothing from you yesterday. I am in better health than lately. 
Mr. Gerard is on the point of sailing.^ He is at Bristol, to give a Ton, 
I will not Say positively a ban Ton to the Successor. Decision is over ^ 
respect'g Flor[i]da, and I am told that the greatest Exertion will be made 
to prevent the Instructions going to A. L., they will be pushed thro Frank- 
lin or some new appointment.^ I have every Thing arranged to elucidate 
the new members and make the old sin, if they do sin, with full Convic- 
tion before their Eyes. W. H. D. is off the Stage. Jemmy D. and Gov. M. 

are behind the Scenes; Judge F 1 and Wody L don are on their 

pillows. But the main Chair is full.^ The Farmer the Fidler and the 
Boatswain are active.^ I cannot really tell Events before hand. But I think 
I shall not want the advice of any Man to make me present the Triplicate 
and consult Ingersol and Sergeant '^ if a Slight is put on my Friend. If 
things go to my mind ; I shall not undertake a troublesome course, of un- 
certain Issue, and inferior triumph if attended with a verdict for the Plain- 
tif S. A was well the 9th. Ellery the 2d 

536. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

Sepr. 2 1 St 1779 
Dear Sir 

.... Resolves have passed respect'g the main one of the two Ques- 
tions asked us in Augst. if not in April 1778 and again in Octr. with In- 
formation that A L would not think himself authorized to treat on those 
Points with Spain without our Special Direction.- But lo ! noiv, there is 
an Intention to send the Answer to A L's Question to Doctr. F or to some- 
body to he appointed. So that the 4 to 4 and 4 divided is probably to be a 
resumed Question.^ I am prepared to inform new Members and to make 

[535]^ Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VL 113. 

2 See nos. 546, 558, 572, 595, 606, 609, post. Cf. no. 488, ante. 

2 The word " over " appears to be written over the word " made ". The alteration 
was probably due to the use of the word " made " in the next clause. 

* Cf. no. 533, ante, and no. 536, post. 

^ Which, by interpretation, is to say, William Henry Drayton is dead, James 
Duane and Gouverneur Morris are absent, John Fell and Woodbury Langdon are sick, 
but John Jay continues to occupy the President's chair. 

6 The " Farmer " was John Dickinson ; the " Fidler " was Meriwether Smith 
(see nos. 343, 488, ante) ; the "Boatswain" may have been William Carmichael. 

■^ See no. 533, note 9, ante. 
[536] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 In a letter of Aug. 31, 1778, Arthur Lee asked for instructions relative to 
negotiations with Spain on the questions of providing the Spanish navy with masts and 
the cession of the Floridas (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., IL 699). See, further, the 
correspondence between Lee and Gardoqui Aug. 13 to Oct. 6 {ibid., IL 683, 690, 694, 700, 
750, 757), also Lee to Vergennes Oct. 12 {ibid., p. 782), Vergennes to Lee Oct. 17 
{ibid., p. 799), and Lee to the committee of foreign affairs Oct. 19 {ibid., p. 800). 
Cf. his letters of Feb. 10 and Apr. 2 {ibid., pp. 491, 536). For the proceedings in 
Congress relative to negotiations with Spain, see the Journals, Sept. 9-1 1, 17, 28 (instruc- 
tions). Cf. no. 554, post. 

3 The allusion is to the divided vote on the recall of Arthur Lee, May 3. See 
no. 345, ante. 



September, lyyg 427 

the old ones sin with Conviction before their Eyes, if they are bent upon 
sinning.* My opinion is that if De Vergennes wrote on Octr. 19th — 78 
that he " feared Mr. Lee and those about him ",® yet that he pd. so much 
Regard to the Testimony given by Mr. J Adams on the i ith of Feby. and 
will be so desirous of confirming his own Assertion made a few days after 
" that he had none of the Prejudices endeavored to be excited in Amer- 
ica ",® that he will treat A L with Confidence, and even be anxious to re- 
pair the Injury connected with former Diffidence by supererogatory Com- 
plaisance, in future. If a Slight is to be in this Instance put upon A L 
I will proceed in two Peices of Business which I have suspended, one of 
which you mention in yr. Letter,'' and the other I have before hinted to you. 
I hope that the one you mention is not talked of in yr. Quarter. For, tho' 
I have maintained a Right of Suppression of what is sent thro the Discre- 
tion of a private Friend by a public officer, yet I do not want to have a 
noisy Discussion of the Question.® .... 

We are struggling very hard about our money. Gerry will not have a 
Tooth or Nail left if several whimsical Financiers do not go home soon. 
He is truly anxious to have something decisive done, and he labors at it 
Night and Day 

537. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philada, Sept 2 1 St 1779. 
Dear Sir 

Your kind favour of the 4th instant, without Number Came to hand 
pr. Post. I feel myself exceedingly Chagrinn'd at the News of the unfor- 
tunate, disgraceful, afifair of the Penobscott expedition, hope Soon to 
know where the blame ought to be Charged, it Gives the Enemies our 
E. States ocasion to Speak Evil. Mr. Langdon is here. Somewhat unwell 
which prevents Mr. Whipple from Setting out, for a few days.^ nothing 
material here Since my Last. Inclosed you will have, the present opinion 
of Congress respecting finance. So far as it relates to that Subject — the 
News you will have in the papers. I Should forward Sundry other papers 
respecting our public affairs, but find my packet will be too large to admit 
of any further Addition. I need not mention to you the Necessity of de- 
f reying our public Expenses by Taxing and Loans, that there be no further 
demand for future Emissions of money. The efforts of Congress will be 
Totally insufficient, unless they are aided by the virtuous Exertions of our 
fellow Citizens 

* Cf. no. 542, post. 

5 See the Paca-Drayton Information in the Journals, Apr. 30. The date of 
Vergennes' letter to Gerard there given is Oct. 29, 1778. Cf. no. 542, post. 

6 See no. 542, post. 

'' This letter of Adams appears not to be extant. One or possibly both of the 
two pieces of business may have been the presentation of the letters of John Adams 
mentioned by Lovell in his letter to him, Sept. 28, no. 557, post. 

8 Cf. nos. 478. 496, 533, 535, ante, 553, 562, 599, post. 
[537]^ Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. IL 

2 See no. 513, ante. 



428 Continental Congress 

538. James Forbes to Thomas Sim Lee/ 

Philadelphia Septr. 21st 1779 
Dear Sir, 

.... Inclosed you have a Circular Letter from Congress to the States, 
which will fully informe you as to our Emissions etc.^ this day Congress 
goes into a Committe of the whole to consider of ways and means for 
supplys to carry on the War. at present they have in view a requisiation 
on the States for Taxes and Loans to an amount that I am affraid will not 
be complyd with I was with a very small Minoriety on the grate question 
for stoping the Press, not that I thought the measure rong, but that it was 
nessary first, that the States shoud engage to furnish supplys.^ I shall be 
very happy to find I was mistaken by the several States furnishing their 
Quotaes as requested by Congress, which requissian you may expect next 
week 

Your Acco't of the Emigrations from our frontier Counties are very 
allarming and the measures persuing in Virga. of disposing of their Lands 
at this critical time I think shoud be put a stop to, but I see no inclination 
in Congress at this time to take it up 

539. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

Philadelphia 21st Septem. 1779. 

I had the pleasure my Dear Son of writing to you the 17th Inst 

I prospered yesterday in carrying through a Report which I had the 
honor of presenting to Congress from a Comm'ee appointed to correspond 
with General Lincoln, [promis]ing Aid to So Carolina by dispatching 
three frigates or Armed Ships of War and the North Carolina Brigade to 
Charles Town; there was much opposition to the measure from certain 
quarters and the Report underwent some alterations which may possibly 
be made use of to defeat my views, but as the execution [was] Committed 
to the Marine Board where Mr. Mathewes [is] a Member, I have stren- 
ously recommended the subject to his attention and I confide greatly in 
his zeal and fortitude. Should we receive certain accounts of a French 
Fleet operating on your Coast, all that we have here determined to at- 
tempt for your relief will instantly be reconsidered and probably vanish.^ 

Gentlemen aver that the Continental Frigates [work] no advantage 
to the Port of Boston either in a Commercial and pecuniary view, or as 
a defence, on the contrary the Prizes which those Frigates carry in, work 
a prejudice to the Citizens of that Town by encouraging monopolizers and 

[538]^ Hist. Soc. of Pa., Dreer Coll., Members of the Old Congress, II. 19. 

2 The circular is in the Journals, Sept. 13. See nos. 523, 532, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 1,3, and no. 505, note 2, ante. 

[539]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, John Laurens Papers. Addressed to Colonel John Laurens, 
South Carolina. 

2 The committee to correspond with General Lincoln, of which Laurens was 
chairman, was appointed July 8. To this committee was referred, Sept. 13, a letter of 
Washington of Sept. 7, and it brought in its report Sept. 20. Sept. 22, on recommendation 
of the marine committee, the orders of the 20th were modified. See the Journals under 
the dates mentioned, also under Sept. 26, 27, relative to co-operation with D'Estaing. 
Cf. nos. 540, 559, 560, post. 



September, 1779 429 

extortioners and by stripping the Port of Seamen who would otherwise be 
,more usefully employed in the service of [the] Merchant Ships and pri- 
vate Ships of War. this doctrine strange as it may appear to Men of no 
more than common understanding, is proved and illustrated by the ex- 
treme reluctance with which Gentlemen representing Massachuset[t]s 
and Boston consent to part with them only for a few Months in favor of a 
much distressed Sister State, but when some Men talk of defending So. 
Carolina and of the necessary measures of recovering Georgia methinks I 
hear blind Men describing colours, or Misers haranguing on liberality. 

Has not So Carolina contributed her quota to the raising of a Navy? 
Has she not a rightful claim to some of benefits which may be derived 
from that Navy? Oh ! but So Carolina is defended by taking the Enemy's 
Privateers from New York, and if you send our Frigates to So Carolina 
the Enemy will soon know it, way lay and capture them, do not the 
Enemy as well know when those Frigates sail from Boston on a Cruize 
for Prizes ? is it not as practicable for British Men of War from Halli- 
fax, Rhode Island and New York to way lay them coming out of, and 
returning to, the Bay of Boston, as going to Carolina or cruizing from 
thence? Did not [they know] of the ill concerted enterprize to Penobscot? 
Had I prevailed in my repeated recommendations more than twelve 
Months since, to send three Frigates to Cruize near Charles Town we 
should probably have added three or four British Frigates to our Ameri- 
can Fleet etc. 

It has been falsely transmitted to Charles Town that I am too closely 
connected with the Eastern States.' you have now proof of the contrary 
and I glory in the reproach of being with no Man, with no party longer 
than he or they steers or steer by the Pole Star of reason, Justice, reci- 
procity, when Men diverge into the Road of Self Interestedness, I walk 
no further with them 

In a word, I fear I have given offence to some of my friends If it is so, 
I can't help it. I would rather offend my Father than meanly or wittingly 
transgress against those principles, the offended will upon reflection, per- 
ceive their mistakes and without suit forgive me nor will this be a strange 
Phoenomenon in a true account of my Pilgrimage 

540. John Mathews to Thomas Bee.^ 

Philadelphia, Septr. 21, 1779. 
To the Hon. Thos. Bee, 
Dear Sir, 

I inclosed you a few days ago an address of Congress to the several 
States.^ It is a matter of the last importance, and to reconcile it to the 
minds of men, will require deep reflection. When I left Congress last year 
a system of Finance was then nearly Compleated, and was afterwards 
finally so. But soon after, those who did not like it, took the opportunity 

3 The reference is doubtless to Laurens's attitude on the question of the 
fisheries. See his notes, nos. 152, 255, 270, 307, 360, ante. 
[540]^ Charleston Lib. Soc, Misc. Letters, p. 109. 

2 The circular of Sept. 13. See nos. 523, 532, ante. 

32 



430 Continental Congress 

of moving a reconsideration of the whole, and succeeded, which set the 
whole plan afloat again, and before anything effectual could be done upon 
it,^ Congress were apprised of the mediation of Spain to bring about a 
peace between Britain, France and America. This necessarily led them 
into a discussion of points which were proper to be insisted on as the Ulti- 
mata for peace. This single object, (I may justly say so, for no other busi- 
ness of importance was done) ingrosed the attention of Congress, from 
the ninth day of February, untill sometime about the beginning of August. 
To find things in this situation, no less chagrined, than astonished me. 
Which produced from me some Phillippics not very pleasing, and which 
I really believe in the end had a good effect. You are doubtless no stranger 
to the grand obstacle to the completion of this business, to wit, the fish- 
eries. The New England States had got some others to join them in a 
determination to make no peace, unless Britain acknowledged their right 
to an equal participation of the fish[er]ies on the American coast. This 
subject was twisted and tortured in all the variety of modes human in- 
genuity could invent, to gain and to oppose, this important object. I took 
the opportunity, when this point was warmly agitated, to deliver my sen- 
timents fully and freely on it. I had taken pains to inform myself of the 
progress and then state of the business, and had well considered the impor- 
tance and consequence of the claim, and was prepared to decide on it. I 
was a fresh hand. No man knew my Sentiments and every one listened 
with avidity to hear on which side I should determine. It was [manuscript 
torn'] and grievously distressed country, for reasons too well known to be 
herein mentioned. Here the matter rested, the question was taken, and 
finally decided on.* .... 

I refer you to a plan we had formed for your relief, to a letter I wrote 
Ed. Rutledge a few days ago. It was then before a Committee, we have 
this day carried it through Congress in its full extent, and in about a month 
you must keep a sharp lookout.^ 

I am D'r Sir with the most sincere esteem 

Yr. Obedt. Servt. 

Jno. Mathews. 

541. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[September 21-23, 1779-] 

21. The Chevalier de la Luzerne, Minister Plen'a from the Court of 
France arrived here from Boston. 

22. I made a short visit to the new minister and welcomed him here. 
I dined with the President of Congress. 

2^. Congress spent part of the day upon the affairs of Vermont. 

8 Mathews left Congress Nov. 12, 1778; the finance measure was put into final 
form Jan. 2, 1779, and on Apr. 13 the committee on the treasury reported its opinion 
" that the present arrangement cannot be carried into practice ". See, further, the 
Journals, Apr. 22, 27, and passim (index, Finance, and Loans). Cf. no. 183, ante. At the 
time Mathews was writing another financial measure was before Congress. See the 
Journals, Sept. 13, Oct. 2, 6, 7. 

■* See no. 539, ante. 

^ See the Journals, Sept. 20, 22 ; cf. ibid., Sept. 26, and no. 539, ante. See also 
Mathews to Bee, Jan. 5(?), 1780, in the next volume. 
[SA'^V Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 28. 



September, i/yp 431 

542. James Lovell to Arthur Lee.^ 

private. 

Sepr. 22d 1779 
Dear Sir 

.... I expect in a few hours to be able to show you whether yr. honor 
is properly regarded here or not. If the Decision in regard to the Floridas 
and Mississ'i are to be conveyed to Doctr. F or to a third person, your 
replicatory and defensive Letters have been in vain laid before IVIen 
willfully blind. But I hope better Things. I have Papers so arranged as to 
enlighten new Members and make the old sin against conviction, if they 
so sin.^ 

De la Luzerne arrived last Evening in this City. 

If De Virgennes did write on the 29th of Octr. " Je crains M. Lee et ses 
Entours ",^ yet after the Testimony of such a man as he says both he and 
the King think Mr. J Adams, was laid before him on Feb. 1 1, I judge the 
minister will prove by his actions what he asserts on the 13th of that 
month. 

Si nous avons pu etre instruits de vos contestations nous n'y sonvmes 
entres pour rien. et L'Estime personelle que nous avons cherche a fair 
remarque a chacun de Messrs. Les Commisaires fait preuve que nous 
n'avons point adopte les preventions qu'on semhle vouloir inspirer a 
VAmerique, et dont le fondement nous est inconnu ici.* 

JL. 
Hon. Arthur Lee 

543. Henry Laurens, Notes.^ 

Friday 24th Septm. 1779 ^ 
Mr. IVIathewes, offered a written Motion That no person iDcing a Mem- 
ber of Congress shall be eligible to any place of trust or emolument under 
Congress. 

Seconded by ' 

[542]^ Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VL 114. 

2 Cf. no. 536, ante. 

3 See the quotation in the Paca-Drayton Information, Journals, Apr. 30. Cf. no. 
536, ante. 

* The quotation is from a letter of Vergennes to John Adams Feb. 13, 1779, in 
reply to one from Adams Fe6. 11 (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 42, 46). See also 
John Adams to Samuel Adams Feb. 14, to Vergennes Feb. 16, and to Lovell Feb. 20 
{ibid., pp. 47. 50, 52). Cf. no. 536, ante, and nos. 553, 557, post. 
[543]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, XXVII. 

2 There is no mention of this motion in the Journals Sept. 24, but it is recorded 
under Saturday-, Sept. 25, and a copy of the motion in N. Y. Pub. Lib. bears that date. 
Laurens says, however, in his letter to John Laurens Sept. 27 (no. 552, post) that his 
colleague had labored hard two days to carry his motion. It was probably therefore first 
offered Sept. 24 (cf. note 3, below). Concerning a similar motion in the spring of 1776, 
see vol. I., no. 622, note 3, and no. 709. 

5 According to the Journals, the motion Sept. 25 was seconded by Elbridge Gerry. 
James Lovell says, however (no. 554, post), that he seconded the motion. Probably the 
Journals are in error, for Gerry is also recorded as having seconded the motion to 
amend. Gerry's interest in the measure is indicated in his letter to John Adams Aug. 24 
(no. 492, ante). On the other hand, if the motion was actually offered on the 24th, it 
may have been on that occasion that Lovell seconded it. Lovell's account of the matter 



432 Continental Congress 

Mr. Laurens. I must oppose the Motion of my Hon'bl Colleague for 
several reasons — ist. A Resolution than [that] no Member of Congress 
shall be eligible etc. in the moment we mean to fill up a blank in the Com- 
mission for a F ^ 

[Endorsed:] Mr. Mathewes self denying Motion — 24 Sepr. 1779 

544. The President of Congress (John Jay) to the President of 

New Hampshire (Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia 25th September 1779 
Sir, 

I have the honor of transmitting to You herewith enclosed, a copy of 
an Act of Congress of the 24th Inst, providing for the Settlement of all 
disputes between the States of New-Hampshire, Massachusetts-Bay and 
New York relative to their Boundaries, and between those States, and the 
People of the district called the New-Hampshire-Grants who claim to be 
a separate Jurisdiction. Congress are so sensibly impressed with the Im- 
portance of these objects that this Act passed Unanimously, and they 
flatter themselves that the same Sentiments will influence the States in 
question to adopt without delay the measures it recommends.^ 

545. John Jay to the Governor of New York (George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, 25th September, 1779. 
Dear Sir: 

Whether the resolutions of Congress of the 24th inst.,^ providing for 
the settlement of all disputes between New York and her neighbours, as 
well as revolted', citizens, will please my constituents as much as they do 
me is uncertain. Nor am I convinced of the prudence of committing to 
paper all the reasons which induce me to think them (all circumstances 
considered) perfectly right. Some of them, however, I shall communi- 
cate. My first object on coming here was to prevail upon Congress to 
interpose, though in the smallest degree; well knowing, that if they once 
interfered ever so( little, they might with more ease be led to a further 
and more effectual interposition. 

suggests, however, that the vote upon the motion as recorded in the Journals followed 
immediately upon his second. At all events, Lovell subsequently indicated (see nos. 569, 
581, 684, 685, 688, 695, post) that his support of the measure rose up to embarrass him. 
For still another attempt toward a self-denying resolution (moved by Gerry and seconded 
by Sherman), see the Journals, Nov. 15, and no, 649, post. 

•* The note was left unfinished. Laurens was probably about to write " Foreign 
Minister " and give his reasons for opposing the motion. In his letter to John Laurens 
(no. 552, post) he states explicitly his attitude toward the motion. 

[544]^ Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of 
Philadelphia; Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 189. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 8, 17, 20, 22-24. One of the resolutions of Sept. 24 was 
modified Oct. 2. Cf. nos. 495, 506, 514, ante, 545. 561, 563, 565, 598, post. 

This is the last of Jay's letters recorded in the President's Letter-Book. It is followed 
on the next page by a transcript of the proceedings recording Jay's appointment to the 
Spanish mission (Sept. 27) and of Huntington's election to the presidency (Sept. 28). 

[545]^ Corr. and Pub. Papers of John Jay, I. 237; Recs. of the Governor and Council 
of Vt., II. 185 ; Clinton Papers, V. 283 n. 

- See no. 544, ante, and nos. 561, 563, 565, 566, 598, post. 



September, ///p 433 

Soon after my arrival, I found the following objections to an interfer- 
ence with Vermont generally prevailing. 

1st. That Congress, being instituted for the sole purpose of opposing 
the tyranny of Britain, and afterward of establishing our independence, 
had no authority to interfere in the particular quarrels of any State. 
Hence all their former resolutions on the subject were merely negative. 
2d. That the confederation had not yet taken place, and that the business 
should be postponed till all the States had acceded: an event then daily 
expected. 3d. That it was an improper season to interfere, and that the 
attention of Congress ought not to be diverted from the general objects of 
the war. 4th. That harsh measures against Vermont might induce them 
to join the enemy and increase their force. 5th. That they possessed 
a strong country, were numerous, warlike, and determined; and that 
more force would be required to reduce them, than could be spared from 
the general defence. 

These were some of the ostensible objections. Besides which I had 
reason to suspect the following private ones : 

1st. That divers persons of some consequence in Congress and New 
England expected to advance their fortunes by lands in Vermont. 2d. 
That Vermont, acquiring strength by time, would become actually inde- 
pendent, and afterward acknowledged to be so. 3^d. That being settled 
by New England people, and raised into consequence by New England 
politics, it! would be a fifth New England State, and become a valuable 
accession of strength both in and out of Congress. 4th. That ancient 
animosities between New York and New England naturally inclining the 
former to side with the middle and southern States, the less formidable 
she was the better, and therefore the loss or separation of that territory 
was rather to be wished for than opposed. These and many other con- 
siderations of the like nature induced me to postpone bringing on the 
matter till I could have an opportunity of preparing the way for it by 
acquiring a knowledge of the characters then in Congress, etc. 

It is also proper to observe that the House was for the greater part 
of the winter so heated by divisions on points of general importance, 
that it would have been improper and imprudent to have called upon them 
to decide on this delicate business till more temper and calmness had taken 
place. When these began to appear the subject was introduced, and you 
have had a copy of the resolutions proposed by New York on that occa- 
sion.^ Against them all objections before mentioned operated, with this ad- 
ditional one, that it would be highly unjust and impolitic to determine 
against Vermont, without previous inquiry into the merits of their claims, 
and giving them an opportunity of being heard. This objection, so far as 
it respected their claim to independence, was absurd though plausible; 
but it was not to be overcome ; and though we might have carried a reso- 
lution against it by a slender majority, that majority would have con- 
sisted of southern members against a violent opposition from New Eng- 
land and their adherents. A resolution carried under such circumstances 
would rather have encouraged than disheartened Vermont, and was, 
therefore, ineligible. 

3 The resolutions were offered May 22. See nos. 313, 314, 318, 319, 322, ante. 



434 Continental Congress 

Hence I conceived it to be expedient to promote the measure of 
appointing a committee of inquiry; * knowing that if Congress proceeded 
to inquire, it would be a ground for pressing them to go further and 
determine, especially as I was apprised that the result of these inquiries 
would be in our favour. 

The committee, you know, never had a formal meeting ; ' it, neverthe- 
less, had its use. The individual reports of the members who composed it 
advanced our cause ; and even Mr. Witherspoon, who was and is suspected 
by New York, made representations in our favour. 

Your last resolutions ^ were of infinite service, by evincing the modera- 
tion, justice, and liberality, and, at the same time, the spirit of the State. 
On the other hand, the law of Vermont for whipping, cropping, and brand- 
ing your magistrates made an impression greatly to their disadvantage. Be- 
fore these emotions should have time to subside, as well in observance 
of our instructions, I pressed Congress from day to day to adopt such 
measures as the public exigencies called for, and thereby prevent the 
flames of civil war from raging. It would not, I believe, have been 
difficult to have obtained what some among you would call very spirited 
and pointed resolutions, but which, in my opinion, would have been very 
imprudent ones ; because, among other reasons, they would not have been 
unanimous. You will find the recitals and particular resolutions numbered 
in the margin of the copy herewith enclosed, from i to 13. I shall trouble 
you with a few explanatory remarks on each of them, under heads 
numbered in like manner.^ 

1st and 2d. These recitals were inserted to show the reason why Con- 
gress now proceed without the report of the committee, after having 
resolved to postpone the further consideration of the subject till their 
report should be made. 

3d. This recital justifies the facts set forth in your representations, and 
in case an appeal to the public should become necessary, may be used with 
advantage to New York. 

4th. This recital destroys the doctrine that the Union (independent of 
the articles of confederation) had no other object than security against 
foreign invasions. 

5th. This recital is calculated to impress the people with an opinion 
of the reasonableness and policy of the requisition or recommendation 
which follows, and therefore will the more readily induce those States 
to adopt the measures recommended to them. 

6th. You may inquire for what reason I consented to this recital, as 
it puts Massachusetts and New Hampshire on footing with New York; 

■* See the Journals, June 1,2. 

5 See the committee's report in the Journals, July 13. Cf. nos. 403, 407, 409, 
428, ante. 

6 The resolutions are found in O'Callaghan, Doc. Hist, of N. Y., IV. 987. 

'' The resolutions with their preamble are not arranged in numbered paragraphs, 
but it is not difficult to determine to which clauses Jay's comments respectively apply. 
The remarks under 1,2, and 3 refer to the first three paragraphs of the preamble 
(Journals, pp. 1095-1096), 4, 5, and 6 to the fourth paragraph of the preamble (middle of 
p. 1096), 7, 8, and 9 to the first resolution (pp. 1096-1097), 10 to the second resolution 
(middle of p. 1097), n to the third resolution (foot of p. 1097), 12 to the fourth resolu- 
tion and its preamble (p. 1098), and 13 to the last resolution (p. 1099). 



September, ly/p 435 

whereas I well knew that New York alone had a right to claim jurisdic- 
tion over Vermont. My reasons were these : Vermont extends over 
Connecticut River into the acknowledged jurisdiction of New Hampshire; 
as to Massachusetts, the recital admits only her claims, not her title; 
and it is as impossible to deny the existence of claims when made, as it 
is to prevent them. Their delegates pointedly asserted and insisted on the 
claim of Alassachusetts ; and it appeared to me expedient to provide for 
a speedy determination of all claims against us, however ill-founded. You 
may further ask why Vermont is made a party ? The reason is this : 
that by being allowed a hearing, the candour and moderation of Congress 
may be rescued from aspersions ; and that these people, after having been 
fully heard, may have nothing to say or complain of, in case the decision 
of Congress be against them, of which I have no doubt. 

7th. It is true that by this resolution the merits of former settlements 
with these States will be again the subject of inquiry, discussion, and 
decision; and therefore it may at first sight appear improper; but these 
settlements will still remain strong evidence of our rights, however ob- 
jectionable they may be represented to be by those States. Nor will Con- 
gress be easily prevailed upon to annul them, because in that case all their 
boundaries would be afloat. Besides, in my opinion, it is much better for 
New York to gain a permanent peace with their neighbours by submitting 
to these inconveniences, than by an impolitic adherence to strict rights, 
and a rigid observance of the dictates of dignity and pride, remain ex- 
posed to perpetual dissensions and encroachment. Peace and established 
boundaries, under our circumstances, are, I think, almost inestimable. 

8th. The reason of this is assigned in the last sentence under the 6th 
head. 

9th. For the same purpose of preserving the appearance of equality in 
claims, whatever difference there may be in titles, the three States are 
mentioned in this recommendation. The object of it is a settlement of all 
disputes respecting interfering grants, in case Vermont should be abol- 
ished, and that district in part, or in the whole, adjudged to either of 
the three States.^ 

loth. I am sure you will admit my prudence in giving your voice for 
this resolution. 

I ith. As it was not absolutely certain that New Hampshire and Massa- 
chusetts would pass the laws in question, and as I was sure that New York 
would, it appeared to me highly expedient to provide, by this resolution, 
that the dispute between New York and Vermont should be determined, 
whether the other two States came in or no; and, lest the former guarantee 
contained in the tenth resolution might be construed to be contingent, and 
to depend on the event of all the three States adopting the measures 
recommended to them, it is here repeated. You will observe that neither 
of the three States are to vote on the decision. 

1 2th. On the plan of hearing Vermont, this resolution, however in- 
convenient, became indispensable. Care, however, has been taken in it 

8 The clause to which this applies (" and also to authorize ", etc.) was repealed 
Oct. 2 and a substitute adopted. 



436 Continental Congress 

to exempt all persons from their jurisdiction who profess allegiance to 
either of the three States. But you will say, Why to the three States? 
Why not to New York only ; from whom they revolted, and under whose 
actual jurisdiction they last were? Because it would have clashed with 
the equality of claims before mentioned, and the least opposition to 
which would have prevented these resolutions from being unanimous ; 
a circumstance, in my opinion, infinitely more valuable than the preserva- 
tion of useless etiquette. And, further, because the district is here so 
described as to extend over the river and afifect New Hampshire. In a 
word, the necessity of the resolution was so obvious that there was no 
avoiding it. These inconveniences will be temporary, and, if the principles 
laid down in it are observed, will not be very great ; especially as Congress 
have determined a violation of it to be a breach of the peace of the 
confederacy, and have declared their resolution to maintain it. 

13th. This resolution, needs no comment, the policy and justice of it 
being extremely evident. Anxious to avoid a moment's delay in sending 
you these resolutions, I have not time by this opportunity of adding any 
thing further than that upon this occasion I have acted according to the 
best of my judgment, after having maturely considered and well weighed 
the force and tendency of every consideration and circumstance affecting 
the business in question. When I first received my special commission, I 
did not apprehend that this matter was in a more particular manner con- 
fided to me than to my colleagues, though some of them considered it in 
that light. The commission vested me with no further power than what 
any other of your delegates possessed ; nor was any matter given more 
particularly in charge to me than to the others by the Legislature. Their 
late instructions, however, speak a different language. I am satisfied to 
be viewed in that light, that is, to be the responsible man ; and, provided 
the measures I adopt are not thwarted, I am confident that I shall be 
able to bring all these matters to a happy conclusion. I hope, however, that 
this will not be considered as a hint for my being continued in the 
delegation ; I assure you, nothing but an adherence to the resolutions and 
principles of action I adopted and professed at the commencement of the 
war would induce me to remain here at the expense of health as well as 
property; for though I shall always be ready to serve my country when 
called upon, I shall always be happy to find it consistent with my duty 
to remain a private citizen. I am, sir, 

Your most obedient servant, 

John Jay. 

546. The Connecticut Delegates to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Septr. 25th, 1779. 
Please your Excellency, 

.... Captn. Niles's papers and accoumpts have been laid before Con- 
gress and are referred to the Board of Treasury who have not yet re- 

[546]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 441. 



September, lyyp 437 

ported thereon.- Proper attention will be paid to your Excellency's wishes 
respecting* your son, aiid nothing will be wanting on our part to further 
them in case an appointment of the kind should be judged necessary. 
The new Minister of France, the Cheveleer de la Luzern, arrived here 
last Thursday, but has not yet been formally announced to Congress. 
Mr. Gerard will sail soon in the Confederacy for France." Our foreign 
affairs are bro't nearly to a close. 

The great business of finance grows daily more and more pressing and 
important. Some resolutions ascertaining the sum that will be necessary 
to supply the Treasury, assigning to the States their respective quotas, 
and fixing the time of payment, are under consideration and will soon 
be passed upon and transmitted to the States.* There is not hard money 
in the Treasury, otherways your application would have been complied 
with. 

No Journals have come out since our last 



547. Henry Laurens, Notes of Proceedings.^ 

Saturday 25th Septr. 1779. 
Nominations for a Minister Plenepotentiary to treat with the Court of 
Great Britain for Peace and Commerce. 

Mr. John Adams by Mr. Laurens. 

Mr. Jay by Mr. M. Smith. 

Sunday 26th Septr. 
1st Ballot — 5 States for Mr. Adamsl 

4 for Mr. Jay pbortive. 

3 divided J 

2nd Ballot — 6 States for Mr. Adamsl 

5 for Mr. Jay pabortive.^ 

I divided J 

Resolved to appoint a Minister Plenepotentiary in lieu of a Commis- 
sioner to treat with the Court of Spain on Alliance, and for Amity and 
Commerce.^ — Manouvre. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 20. Capt. Robert Niles had been sent to France in 
May, 1778, to carry the ratification of the French treaty and other despatches. See these 
Letters, vol. III., no. 297, note 3. 

3 See no. 535, ante, and nos. 558, 572, 595, 606, 609, post. 
■* See the Journals, Sept. 13, Oct. 2, 6, 7. 

[547]^ Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers (in the writing of Moses Young, except the last 
sentence, which, with the signature " H. L.", is in Laurens's own hand). 

2 The Journals, Sept. 26, mention three indecisive ballots, but neither Laurens 
nor Lovell nor Fell gives indication of more than two. Lovell, however, records the 
votes for Adams and Jay by states. See nos. 548, 553, 554, 556, post. 

3 The phrase "in lieu of a commissioner" was not included in the resolve as 
adopted on Sunday, the 26th, but was inserted the next day when the resolution was 
reconsidered. 



438 Continental Congress 

Nominated 

Mr. Arthur Lee by Mr. Laurens. 

Mr. John Adams by Mr. Paca — divide and Conq.* 

Mr. Jay by Mr. Mercer. 

^ .. si To the honor of Mr. Langdon. 
J New Hampshire for Mr, Lee 

Massachusetts 

Connecticut 

New York — Mr. Jay's own vote was necessary 

New Jersey I Mr. Jay 

Delaware squeezed in. 

Maryland 

Virginia 

North Carolina 

Rhode Island 1 

Pennsylvania ^divided, and did not vote. 
South Carolina J 
Ballot for a Minister to treat with the Court of Great Britain. 

For Mr. John Adams, eleven States. 
One State either pertinaciously or inadvertently voted for Dr. Frank- 
lin — the ballot according to rule not counted, as Dr. Franklin had not 
been nominated, therefore the vote for Mr. Adams unanimous.® And I 
congratulate with my Country upon the occasion. 

H. W 

548. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[September 25, 26, 1779.] 
Saturday 2^th ^ First day I went abroad since being sick. It was 
moved that a Minister to Negotiate a Peace with great Britain and a 

4 " Divide and Conquer." 

5 According to the Journals the nominations were made at the close of the session 
on Sunday, Sept. 26, and this ballot was taken late on Monday, the 27th. The Journals 
do not record in detail any of these ballots, either of the 26th or 27th. See also nos. 
557. 559. 562, post. 

6 Dickinson of Delaware. Cf. nos. 553, 554, 557, 562, post. 

"^ These are doubtless the notes which are mentioned in Laurens's letter of Sept. 
28 to Richard Henry Lee (no. 559, post). 

[548]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Holten's entry for the day is : " An express arrived here with the account 
that the Count D'Estaign arrived off Georgia the Sth instant. I wrote to Mrs. Holten 
by Genl. Whipple." 

In the Connecticut Courant of Oct. 5 are extracts of three letters, all dated Sept. 26, 
mentioning the news by this express. One is from a member of Congress " to a gentle- 
man in this town ", another from a member of Congress " to a gentleman in the State 
of New York ", and a third " from a gentleman in Philadelphia to his friend in this 
town". The first says that the express left Charlestown on the 9th and that the attack 
on the enemy, concerted between D'Estaing and Lincoln was to be made that day. He 
adds, " there is the highest reason to believe that Georgia and the British forces in 
those parts are before this in our possession ". The second says, " I have only time to 
communicate the joyful news, that by express arrived last night in 15 days from Charles- 
town South-Carolina, with letters from Count D'Estaing, who arrived with his fleet 
of 21 ships of the line, with frigates, etc. the 5th instant off Georgia ", etc. The third 
speaks of the express as from Georgia and says that D'Estaing was accompanied by 
" 25 ships of the line and 8 or 10.000 land forces, and on the 9th was to begin the attack, 
when his success was not doubted ", etc. 



September, ijjg 439 

great deal of disagreeable altercation and debate occasiond by Mr. Lees 
being so often mention'd at last Mr. Jay Mr. Adams and Mr. Lee were 
put in Nomination. Adjournd 

Sunday 26 Congress met. great debates as before. Balloted. Mr. 
Adams 5. Mr. Jay 4. Mr. Lee i. no Choice Balloted 2d time Mr. x\dams 
6. Mr. Jay 5. no Election.^ 

549- John Jay to the Several States.^ 

(Circular) 

Philada. 26th: Septr: 1779 
Sir, 

You will receive, herewith enclosed, a copy of an Act of Congress of 
this day earnestly recommending it to the several States to exert them- 
selves in furnishing the allied Armaments in America with such aids 
of Men and Provisions as may enable them to operate effectually against 
the common Enemy, and expel them from this Country. 

The Reasons for this Recommendation are fully assigned in the Pre- 
amble to the Resolution ; I forbear therefore to multiply Arguments to 
induce a compliance with a Requisition which every motive of Interest, 
Safety, Honor, and Regard to the Alliance loudly call upon every Ameri- 
can to regard and fulfil.^ 

3 For accounts of this contest see no. 547, ante, and nos. 552-554, 556, 557, 559, 
562, post. Sparks quotes from a report of Gerard to Vergennes the following account 
of the proceedings upon this election {Writings of Washington, VI. 385; found also in 
Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 337; copy of original in Library of Congress, Stevens 
Facsimiles, "French Alliance"): 

" September 25th. Congress proceeded to the choice of a minister to Spain. The 
friends of Arthur Lee made strong efforts to have his commission renewed. The motion 
was put in a direct form, and lost by so large a majority, as to destroy all hope of his 
succeeding. A motion was then put, that they should proceed to a choice of a person or 
persons, who should be charged with the powers of making peace. This was carried. 
A member then proposed, that Franklin and John Adams should be appointed jointly. 
Many members were opposed to a junction of any sort. The party from the east then 
proposed Mr. Adams, and the party from the south Mr. Jay. The decision of the 
question was deferred till the next day. The event of the election would seem to be 
problematical. Four States have declared for Adams and the same number for Jay. The 
accidental presence or absence of any of the deputies of the other States would decide 
the question. Your letter to Mr. Adams has produced an impression highly favorable 
to him." 

" September 26th. — The election of ministers plenipotentiary occurred to-day. The 
first ballot gave five States for Adams and four for Jay. The act of confederation 
requires seven votes for a valid election. The second ballot gave six votes for Jay and 
five for Adams. The friends of the former, perceiving that Arthur Lee was perpetually 
the cause of division on this subject, as on all others, put the motion, ' Shall a minister 
plenipotentiary to Spain be nominated?' The affirmative was sustained by seven States 
against two. Only seven individuals of thirty-eight were for the negative. By this 
vote the commission of Arthur Lee was virtually revoked. One of his partisans then 
named him as minister plenipotentiary. There are now three candidates, and the election 
is deferred till to-morrow. It is hoped by some, that Mr. Adams will be named for 
Spain, and Mr. Jay for the peace. This arrangement promises to conciliate the parties, 
and M. de la Luzerne thinks with me, that we shall have reason to be satisfied." 

[549]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIII. 122; Mass. Arch., CCI. 315; N. C. Hist. 
Comm., Caswell Papers; A^. C. State Recs., XIV. 210; Pa. Arch., first ser., VII. 716. 

2 This circular letter is not recorded in the President's Letter-Book. See no. 
544, note 2, ante. 



440 Continental Congress 

550. Henry Laurens to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

26 September 1779 
Dear Sir 

On the 1 2th Inst I had the honor of receiving your excellency's letter 
of the 6th together with the several papers referred to in a list which came 
inclosed. The french papers were immediately put into the hands of our 
public translator ; ^ the work being long he detained it five days, as soon 
as he returned it, I gave notice to Congress that I had received such dis- 
patches from your Excellency and should beg leave to present them the 
next day when that day arrived I found it impracticable to obtain a 
reading and patient hearing, and so the next and the next — Congress 
being anxiously engaged either on the Vermont or Foreign afifairs to 
the exclusion even of public dispatches. I then judged it necessary to 
consult the honorable Mr. Huntington on the expediency of detaining 
Mr. Brown, he was with me clearly of opinion he ought to be dispatched 
because we could discern no prospect of getting the papers properly be- 
fore the House in any certain reasonable time. I had therefore intended 
Mr. Brown should have gone away early yesterday but from a variety 
of public calls I could not accomplish my wish, yesterday I returned 
from Congress at half past 4 o'Clock I rose this morning an hour before 
day and am now writing by candle light in order that he may begin his 
journey early. 

The paper printed in low Dutch is in the hands of a gentleman for 
translation who intimates that it will be the work of some days but that 
he will lose no time, when this is done all the papers shall be offered to 
Congress and afterwards returned to your Excellency when I shall en- 
deavor to reply particularly to such parts of the letter above mentioned 
as from necessity I am obliged to pass over at present. The packet for 
the Baron Van Der Capellan will go in the Frigate Confederacy com- 
mitted to the care of Mons Girard to be forwarded agreably to your 
Excellency's desire.^ 

Your Excellency may freely command me in every thing in my power 
for forwarding the inclinations of Mr. John Trumbull but I do not think 
there is any opening for him in a public character abroad and were he 
my Son I should dissuade him from an attempt of that kind in the present 
temper of the times — I might have said, distemper 

Congress will this day (Sunday) vote for a Minister Plenipotentiary 
for negociating in due time Treaties for Peace and Commerce with 
Great Britain — the candidates are only two, Mr. President Jay, and Mr. 

[550]^ S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Papers, volume of copies (1777-1783) , p. 281. 

2 Paul Fooks was appointed June 2, 1778, " interpreter and translator of languages 
to Congress ", with a salary of one hundred dollars per month. Dec. 22, 1779, he was 
granted a salary of 2400 dollars per annum " for acting as interpreter to Congress in 
the French and Spanish languages ". In March, 1778, there was no one available to 
Congress in York Town who understood Spanish (see vol. III., no. 172). 

2 See no. 609, post. The " paper printed in low Dutch " is doubtless what he 
speaks of in the letter of Oct. 19 as " the Dutch Book ". It has jiot been identified. 



September, ly/p 441 

John Adams. If I penetrate bosoms there will be no choice unless Mr. Jay 
shall think and act as I would on such an occasion.* 

" I hear there be divisions among you " — Who can read the Yeas and 
Nays and not " believe it ", at least in part. 

From the beginning I wished to explode those Yeas and Nays which 
your Excellency seems displeased with, the state from Whence I came 
at a time directed their Delegates to call for them on every vote — the call 
is certainly right and useful on some occasions, and Men will choose for 
themselves. Sometimes they are held out in terroroii and the ^ will 

appear afterwards desirous of expunging, but when I detect a cunning 
crafty Man in his trick, I baulk him. being called for and taken, let the 
Prompter and his produce appear before his fellow Citizens. 

A heavy Weight lies on my mind from a consideration of the wretched 
state of our Paper Currency. Congress determined a fortnight since and 
more, to make no Emissions beyond 200 Million Dollars. We are verging 
fast to that amount, yet not one solid step trodden in the road of future 
Ways and Means for replenishing our Treasury and carrying on the 
War. We have in my humble opinion inverted the order of things, made 
that an harbinger which in Wisdom ought to have been secondary — Will 
the Chapter of Accidents again relieve us? God only knows. 

I dare not detain Mr. Brown a moment longer, therefore for the 
present I must take leave by assuring Your Excellency that I continue 

With the most sincere respect and esteem Sir 

Your Obligd and ^lost Obedt. Servt. 

H. L. 

551. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Sir, Phila'a Sepr. 26th 1779 

P. S. The enclosed Letters were referred to the Maryland Delegates 
who have not been able to get information of any such man in our State. 
They therefore refer the same to Your Excellency and the Council The 
Count De Stainge with his Fleet and Army are off Georgia.^ 

552. Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

Philadelphia 27th Septem. 1779. 
My Dear Son, 

.... Congress have authorized General Washington to Co-operate 
with the French Admiral and General in such manner as he shall judge 

* See nos. 547, 548, ante, and nos. 552-554, 556, 557, 559, 562, post. 

5 The meaning probably is that the very persons who called for the yeas and 
nays became eager afterward to have them expunged. The blank may not of course 
have been in the original, which has not been found. 

[551]! Arch, of Md., XXI. 537; Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 41. 

2 The letter is signed by Paca, Carmichael, Forbes, and Jenifer. A letter from 
Governor Livingston of New Jersey, Sept. 20, relative to the case of James Tagart 
(Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 46) bears an endorsement in the writing of Charles 
Thomson: "Letter from Govr. Livingston 20 Sept 1779 respecting Mr. Tagart. Read 26 
Referred to the Delegates of Maryland." 
[552] i-S. C. Hist. Soc. John Laurens Papers; 5". C. Hist, and Geneal. Mag., VL 154. 



442 Continental Congress 

conducive to public good without applying to them for further directions 
and have strongly recommended to the middle and eastern States to give 
the General all possible aid of Men and provisions and also to furnish 
provisions of flour for the use of the Fleet and Army of our Ally.^ 

That Assembly met yesterday for the Sole purpose of appointing a 
Minister Plenipotentiary for treating vi^ith his Britanic Majesty on Peace 
and Commerce, an Act which in my estimation is extremely premature. 
Mr. Adams and Mr. Jay were nominated, the Ballots twice taken without 
effect. 1st Ballot, 5 for Adams 4 for Jay 3 States divided. 2d 6 for 
Adams, 5 for Jay South Carolina divided.^ My Colleague had laboured 
hard two days for carrying a resolution to disqualify any Member of 
Congress or any one who had been a Member within nine preceeding 
Months for any office of trust or emolument under Congress.* I opposed 
the Resolution but coincided in the Idea and wished it might be under- 
stood by the whole House that a Member should not be appointed, 
among other reasonings my Colleague in favor of his Motion had urged, 
that the appointment of a Member to be a foreign Minister would be de- 
grading ; by Sending one from soverignty into servitude, you can't Sup- 
pose I could hear Such sentiments and forbear laughing inwardly, find- 
ing me to be clear in his opinion that on the present occasion we ought 
not to appoint a Member he earnestly requested me to think of a proper 
Character out of doors after Some hours reflection I named to him 
Mr. John Adams as a Gentleman in every respect well qualified, against 
whom there could be no exception and to whom these States were much 
indebted, there rested the matter, until the proposed Resolution and its 
proposed amendment were ousted by Yeas and Nays, when the Ballots 
were about to be taken, my Colleague declared for Mr. Jay. I expostulated 
with him on what had passed between us; observed, that among other 
motives, I had nominated Mr. Adams on his own principles and candidly 
and honestly declared to him Such exceptions against Mr. Jay as neither 
himself nor any Man could remove, he nevertheless persisted and South 
Carolina was deprived of a vote. I explained to Congress in terms nearly 
as above written the ground of our division as an apology for my own 
conduct.^ 

I think no honest Man will censure me, nor would I have it understood 
that I mean to censure Mr. Mathewes, we are perfectly good friends and 
I beleive him to be a very honest Man. I am also persuaded he had not 
been let into the secret of his self-denying motion, but this must be re- 
served as a subject for a future moments discussion. * See note within.® 
these things I say to you and to my good friend Gervais, and to nobody 
else, unless you shall find it necessary which I hope will never 
happen 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 26. 

3 Cf. no. 543, ante, and no. 554, post. 

* See no. 543, ante, and the Journals, Sept. 25. 

5 See no. 547, ante, and nos. 554, 575, post. 

6 This remark was evidently inserted after the letter had been written. The 
note will be found below, appended to this letter. 



September, I'j'jg 443 

[Note on separate slip enclosed:] 

* This Morning Monday 27th September according to my imaginary 
foresight will be devoted to the appointment of a Minister Plenipotentiary 
to treat with the Court of Spain on Alliance and Amity and Commerce. 
Mr. Lee will be, as tis intended and expected superceded by Mr. Jay, an 
avowed and inveterate Enemy. Gods will be done. 

553. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

(Confidential) 

Monday 27th Sept. [1779.] 
The Vote for appointing a minister plenipotentiary in lieu of a Com- 
missioner to negotiate a Treaty of Amity and Commerce with Spain 
having passed as I have shewn, and A Lee being nominated with J Adams 
and J Jay, I produced the two Letters ^ of which I send you Copies, for 
the purpose of showing the Appeal of the Count de Vergennes to his own 
manner of Behavior towards the Commissioners jointly and separately 
as the Test of his not having adopted the Prejudices which were appar- 
ently attempted to be inspired into America This appeal on Feb 13 
after such a Testimony as Mr. Adam[s]'s had been presented shows 
either that the Count had not really been afraid of Mr. Lee and those 
about him or that he had become sensible his Fears were ill-grounded. 
I performed this last Act of Friendship or rather Justice to a cruelly 
injured man and then left the Body to proceed on Business with only 
entreating for due Weight to be given to the abundant Proof which is on 
the Files of the execrable Falsehood and Vilainy of the Assertions and 
Innuendoes which had been made and published for the Purpose of 
blasting the Character of the virtuous and faithful Commissioner now in 
Nomination as a Minister plenipotentiary. The Baloting was called for 
first for a Minister for Spain, with Latent to put J A there ; but it being 
found that the prudent Class were too prudent indeed for that, the Plan 
was changed to J J for Spain, and the crowning act of all Deanes base 
Arts took place. ^ 

N. Hamp. A. Lee. R. Is. Mass. 

Pens. Conn. 

Sth Car. N. Yk. 

no Vote. N. Jer. 

Del. Dickinson. 

Mary. 

Virg. 

N. Car. 

/ Jay 
A minister for Peace 

J A only nomination all the votes except one for Doctr. Franklin.* 

[553]! Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 Presumably John Adams to Vergennes Feb. 11, 1779, and Vergennes' reply 
Feb. 13. See nos. 536, 542, ante. 

3 Cf. nos. 554, 562, post. For the ballot see also no. 547, ante. 

* This one vote was that of John Dickinson. Cf. no. 547, ante, and nos. 557, 
562, post. 



444: Continental Congress 

The Ballot of my 3 Colleagues stands as mine for, by the yeas and nays 
a little before I appear to be present in Congress. This is but one of the 
many Stains which we are liable to in this Sort of Business.^ 

And now, my dear Sir, I shall strive to lay aside all my Anxieties 
about your Brother. He ought instantly to come over and do himself all 
that Justice before the World which his Patriotism will permit. I cannot 
at present see how he will accomplish it without exposing to censure [the] 
more than Wretch who raised the Flame that has so long been burning 
here. 

Yr. Brother will be able to tell that he sent his Resignation in Time ; 
But, that his Friends, conceiving no capital Injustice would be done him 
after the full Vindication against all Deane's Slanders had reached Con- 
gress, chose to suppress that Resignation, by which, otherwise. Congress 
would have been kept from adding Iniquity to Transgression.*^ 

Your Letters of the 12th and 18th as well as Col. Frank's of the loth 
reached me to day. I cannot particularly acknowledge the latter myself 
but beg you to give Love to him and communicate what you please of my 
Informations to him, only using the Precaution to seem both of you to be 
ignorant till you acquire the Knowledge from the Emanations of the 
glutted malice of a Set who almost say they were sent from yr. Quarter 
for this sole purpose. They certainly act zealously in their mission if 
such it was. 

I have proceeded on the powers but nothing decisive will be concluded 
till tomorrow Evening.^ 

I wish Arthur may get some Item of these Things before Gerard 
carries the whole Budget. 

I have so much to write to Boston that I must now bid you adieu, 
with an Assurance of being very affectionately Yours 

J L 

[P. S.] 3 Secretaries are wanted. Time must show whether the 
Choice of these will fall on Devotees or Watchmen. 

Carmichael Houston and Brockholst Livingston are hinted. I believe 
Dana wd. go with Adams. B. L is J Jays Brother in Law and now his 
Secretary.® 

5 What Lovell means to say in this paragraph is not entirely clear. Assuming 
that the word " for " belongs to the first statement and not to the second, he means, 
first, to say that he and his three colleagues all voted for Adams as minister to negotiate 
peace. On the same assumption the second statement has no necessary connection with 
the first. Lovell had mentioned above that after presenting the Adams-Vergennes letters 
he had withdrawn from the floor of Congress, though at what precise stage in the 
proceedings he does not make clear. In his letter to John Adams Sept. 28 (no. 557, post) 
he mentions that the letters were presented " prior to the choice for Spain ". Lovell's name 
is among the yeas and nays taken just before the balloting, but his statement that these 
yeas and nays make him " appear " to be present seems to indicate that he was not" 
actually present when that vote was taken. Nevertheless he does seem to indicate that 
he was present and voting when the ballot for a minister to negotiate peace was taken, 
which, according to the Journals, was immediately after the election of Jay. 

« Cf. nos. 478, 496, 533, 535, 536, ante, 553, 554, 562, 599, post. 

"^ The reference is presumably to the authority given to the friends of Arthur 
Lee in Congress to use their discretion as to measures to be taken in his behalf. Cf. 
no. 488, ante. 

8 Cf. nos. 557, 568, 572, 605, post. 



September, ///p 445 

I shall write only a short closing Speculation as Rowland.® Many- 
Vouchers may be used honorably in a Law Court which cannot be in a 
news Paper. The best Way is for all the Friends of the injured, at this 
Period, to be silent, unless the opposite Party shall give fresh occasion. 
I will speedily attend to what you want but I suggest to you the Pro- 
priety of my getting Fooke " to translate all the french Vouchers which 
may be wanted so that he may swear to the Translation. 

That we may have compleat Understanding of each other's opinions let 
us observe great Silence as to the Lights we get, in this Channel of our 
Correspondence. We shall have Room enough to quote others, I dare 
say. 

Let your honest zealous past Endeavors be yr. Comfort tho Innocence 
and Worth have not been entirely defended by them." 

J L 

554. James Lovell to John Adams.^ 
Confidential 

monday 27th of Sepr. [1779.] 
Not knowing, my dear Sir, how certain things now in agitation may 
this day be terminated here, I chuse to state, at this time some proceedings 
two days old, that I may not be thought to give them a Gloss in the Stile 
of an After-Prophet turned Historian or Painter, for a Ground Work 
I refer you to the Report of the Com'tee of thirteen with its consequent 

^ See nos. 460, 478, 501, ante, and no. 599, post. Lovell evidently had a considerable 
part in the preparation of the " Rowland " articles. 
10 Paul Fooks. See no. 550, note 2, post. 

^1 On the same day on which Lovell's letter was written a small contribution of 
fuel to the anti-Lee faction was transmitted from Virginia and probably was presently 
utilized by that faction in Congress. This was a letter from John Perm, then on his way 
to North Carolina, to his colleague, Joseph Hewes. The letter was written from " Colo. 
Pendleton's ", and in part is as follows : 

" Col. George Mason of Virga. drew a Bill of exchange on Mr. William Lee in 
France for near iiooo which money Mr. Lee was indebted for Tobacco consigned to 
him several years ago. The Bill was protested and the history of Mr. Lee's shifts to 
avoid being seen, is written at length. I am told by those that has seen it that Mr. Lee's 
character is much hurt, as he would hide himself but the French Gentlemen would 
by the assistance of one of his maids oblige him to retreat from his concealment. How- 
ever, Lee tho' good at manuevring, was at last reduced to his ne plus ultra by the 
indefatigable zeal of his pursuer. He denied he was the man that it must be his brother. 
He was answered that the Bill was drawn on William Lee, that his Brother was named 
Arthur. He then refused to pay anything and immediately went to Nantz, and wrote 
Col. Mason that he had directed his Brother to pay him in Virginia money, what he 
owed him. This is to be done at 33^/3 pr. ct., and to crown all antedates his letter 
three or four months. This Col. Mason says he can prove. 

" The manner that these things are told make it very necessary, I think, to inquire 
into Mr. Lee's conduct, as it is disgraceful to employ any man in the service of the 
United States that conducts himself in such a manner as this Gentleman is said to do. 
I am promised a copy of the protest. It is diverting it seems as every circumstance 
relating to the running Lee down and the questions and answers to and from his servants 
are told." (A copy of this letter, from the original, was courteously furnished by the 
Rosenbach Company of Philadelphia.) 

This affair between George Mason and William Lee, already several years old, 
appears to have been still in the courts ten years later. See Richard Henry Lee to 
Charles Lee June 24, 1789 {Letters, II. 492), where something of the other side of the 
case is presented. 

[554]^ Adams MSS., Boston; Works (ed. Adams), IX. 486; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. 
Corr., III. 339. 

2i 



446 Continental Congress 

Yeas and Nays, which is certainly now in your Hands in print ; ^ and also 
to what you must have some how or other come to the Knowledge of, 
respecting a long Struggle about Cod and Hadock ; ^ and further, to 
your own Reading and Judgment concerning the parliamentary Propriety 
of appointing a Man to carry into effect by all the Powers of skilful 
Negociation, a Measure to which he has been opposed Tooth and Nail in 
the whole preparatory Progress of it. Nor can I omit to call to yr. mind 
what I already must have written either to you or the lovely Portia that 
the Lentor of Proceedings here should account for the Appearances of 
Injustice done you by an Assembly, 9/ioth of which profess, and prob- 
ably have, an Esteem for you. Two Things are to be transacted with 
Britain, a Major and consequent Minor, as soon as her Madness and 
Folly begin to subside.* But only one Agent is to manage them. The 
Commissions are drawn, and Instructions also. The Blanks are to be 
filled. Doctr. F. was nominated, out of order. This led one Man ^ to 
suggest that he should find himself obliged when such a Nomin: shd. 
again be attempted, and done in order to follow it with the Nomination of 
Doctr. L as a much more suitable Character, which he would en- 
deavor to make plain by various Testimonies in his Possession part known 
and part yet unknown to the Assembly. A Question was then moved by a 
Gentleman in that Company named Matthews and seconded by one named 
Lovell ^ that no Member while there acting, or for nine Months after, 
should be elected to a place for which he or another for him reed, [any 
salary, etc.] and — by Yeas and Nays the nine months part was lost and the 
other part by the previous question. J Adams was nominated by Mr. 
Laurens, and J Jay by Mer: Smith. Adjurned to meet on the next day 
(Sunday) at 10 oClock. met; baloted, 5 for J A, 4 for J J, 3 could not 
agree, on a 2d tryal 6 for J A, 5 for J J ; one could not agree. The mover 
of the motion above not l>eing likely to consent with his Colleague to carry 
it into effect, The baloting was postponed.'^ 

It had been frequently pressed on the Members to order some Resolves 
now on the Table, and but very lately passed (resptg: points on which 
the temper of Spain towards us greatly depends) to be forwarded to 
the Commissioner at that Court, as answers to the Questions which he 
hinted to us in 6 days after the Treaties with France, again on the 2d of 
Apr, again plainly and urgently for our Answr : on Augst. 27 again more 
urgently on Oct 19 again on Deer. 5th etc. etc.^ a cut and dried Com- 

2 A committee of one member from each state on foreign afifairs was appointed 
Jan. 20, 1779, and brought in a report Mar. 24. The proceedings upon the report may 
be followed by consulting the index to the Journals, title, Foreign affairs. 

3 That is, the question of the fisheries. 

* The treaty of peace and the treaty of commerce. 

^ This was evidently Lovell himself. See nos. 547, 553, ante, and nos. 557, 
562, post. 

6 According to the Journals, the motion was seconded by Elbridge Gerry ; but see 
no. 543, note 3, ante. 

7 See no. 552, ante. Lovell records below the votes of the several states for 
Adams and Jay respectively in these two ballots. See also no. 547, note 2, ante. 

8 The letters of Arthur Lee to which Lovell appears to refer are those of Feb. 10, 
Apr. 2, Aug. 31, Oct. 19, Dec. 5, 1778, in Wharton, Rev. Dipt. Corr., II. 491, 536, 699, 
800, 850. See also no. 536, note 2, ante. 



September, ///p 447 

mission such as must pass hereafter was produced moved for and sec- 
onded out of order, a motion was then made and seconded for chusing 
a Minister plenipotentiary to do exactly what a Commissioner is now 
fully authorised to do ; as much so, exactly, as were the 3 at the Court of 
France. The pretence for this was the accepted 2d Paragraph of a Report 
vid Apr 15th that Ministers plenipotentiary were only necessary at Ver- 
sailles and Madrid. The Spirit and Intent of which Paragraph lay in 
the word only and not in a technical use of Ministers as setled by France 
and us on the Arrival of Mr. Gerard. Some good and not young Men, 
on this question, saw not the Trap under the Chaff. Who could deny that 
we have assented to additional Parade and expence in a Minister above 
a Commissioner? Who could deny that two Persons would be on pay, 
for a time, at once, to do the same business? who could deny that A. 
Lee's compleat Vindications were on the table of Congress? This last 
Matter and all characterising was said to be untimely, as much as in a 
question about creating a Quarter Master General when we had a Quarter 
Master; for that A Lee stood as fair for nomination to the new Com- 
mission as any Man else, and then we should be allowed full Liberty to 
speak to Character. A Majority can thus kill but it requires seven to make 
alive. But seven thus killed. For Mr. Laurens tho' he spoke against the 
Question voted for it, and then nominated A Lee This act of his in such 
a desperate case does not make up for depriving a much injured man 
of the advantage of showing that he was artfully knocked down by six 
upon a presumption that seven could not be found to assist in recovering 
him from the Violence of the Blow.^ Mr. J : Adams was also nominated 
for Spain by Mr. Paca Mr. J Jay by Mr. Mercer of Virga. 

This Accommodation Scheme had been proposed in Whispers early 
in the Morning, to provide places for the two nominated the day before. 
One to have a Post of the highest honor, and the other to take the post 
of a Man murdered on purpose to make room.^" Are not these doings a 
compleat Appendix to the Report of the Com'tee of 13 and the proceed- 
ings thereon months ago? Look at the Names. Here I must join in an 
old Exclamation of F. L. L when he had seen a whole day wasted. " What 
d d dirty Work is this of Politics " ! 

I will now state the votes, Remarking, that, being Sunday, Mr. McKean 
was able to attend ; but yr. sworn Friend the Farmer ^^ will alone finish it. 
N Yk is represented by Mr. Jay and Mr. Lewis, not by one. N Jersey 
by Mr. Fell and Mr. Houston. Con[necticu]t by Mr. Huntingdon or 
Mr. Root." 

* See Laurens's statement in his letter to John Laurens Sept. 27 (no. 552, ante). 
The vote to which Lovell alludes, wherein " seven thus killed ", is that on the question 
of appointing a minister plenipotentiary to Spain (Sept. 26). 

10 Gerry's explanation of the adjustment is doubtless more accurate (letter to 
Adams Sept. 29, no. 562, post). 

11 John Dickinson. See nos. 547 (note 6), 553 (note 4), aute, and nos. 557 (notes 
4 and 5), 562 (note 2), post. 

12 By the " ands " and the " or " Lovell no doubt means to say that New York 
and New Jersey each requires two delegates to cast the vote of the state, whereas one 
of the Connecticut delegates might do so. The New York rule, as adopted Oct. 15, 1778, 
is found in the Journals under Nov. 19, 1778. A provisional modification was adopted 
Oct. 15-18, 1779 (Journals, Nov. 20, 1779). New Jersey likewise at this time required 



448 Continental Congress 



1st Ballot^' 


2d Ballot 


1st 


2d 


/ A 


/ A 


/ / 


/ / 


N H 




N Yk 


(( 


Mass 




Maryl. 


(t 


R Is 




Virg 


(( 


Contt. 




Nth. Car. 


(t 


Delaw. 




4 


N Jers 


5 


Pens 
6 


14 


5 



555. Henry Marchant to Horatio Gates.^ 

Philadelphia Sepr. 27th 1779 
Dear Sir, 

I was honored with yours without a Date, whereby I am so happy as 
in some good Measure to have my Apprehensions, of the Dangers your 
Post was in, removed : I hope however you will readily excuse a Sollici- 
tude dictated by the sincerest Regard to your Interest and Honor, and 
the Prosperity and Happiness of my Country. I read from my Place 
in Congress that Paragraph in your Letter respecting the gallant Talbot, 
but the reading of His Letter to you was unnecessary as a similar one 
from Him to Congress had been read. Col. Talbot stands high in the 
Estimation of Congress. The Difficulty was how to promote him in the 
way his Talents seem to call for. A Resolution was moved for and 
carried for granting him a Commission in the Contl. Navy, with Instruc- 
tions to the Marine Com'ee to furnish him a Vesell as soon as in their 
Power. In an Hour or two after that Resolution was passed, Providence 
seemed to provide for Him. Information was reed, that a very fine 
Copper Bottomed Brigg was carried into Boston by two of the Contl. 

two delegates to cast the vote of the state. Although the credentials of Nov. 6, 1777 
(Journals, Dec. 11, 1777), prescribed that "any one or more of them be empowered to 
represent and vote in behalf of this state", those of Nov. 6, 1778 (Journals, Dec. 5, 1778), 
and those of Nov. 17, 1779 (Journals, Nov. 29, 1779), say "any two or more". Never- 
theless the credentials of William Churchill Houston, May 25, 1779 (Journals, July 9), 
read " any one or more ". The record of yeas and nays shows, however, that in those 
instances where only one delegate from New Jersey was present the secretary applied, 
with one exception, the rule of two. See the Journals, July 26, Aug. 26, Sept. 17, 24. 
The exception (Sept. 17) is probably an error in carrying over the "no". The result 
was not affected. Connecticut had formerly required not less than two delegates to cast 
the vote of the state (see the credentials of Oct. 21, 1778, in the Journals, Dec. 15, 1778), 
but the question having been raised Feb. 24, 1779, in an instance wherein the vote of 
Connecticut's single delegate would have given an affirmative decision, the state adopted 
the rule of one, Apr. 7 (Journals, Apr. 27). 

13 Laurens gives, in his minute of proceedings Sept. 26 (no. 547, ante), the 
summary results of these two ballots, recording in addition that in the first ballot three 
states were divided and that in the second ballot one state was divided. In his letter 
to John Laurens Sept. 27 (no. 552, ante) he states that the latter was South Carolina. 
It is evident therefore that in the first ballot the three divided states were New Jersey, 
Pennsylvania, and South Carolina, and that in the second ballot New Jersey went over 
to Jay and Pennsylvania to Adams. 

1* Lovell has recorded here the vote by states as shown in the yeas and nays 
Sept. 26 (Journals, p. 1109). 

[555]' N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers, XVL 



September, ijjg 449 

Frigates. The Marine Com'ee have ordered that Vessel to be purchased 
for Col. Talbot, which I hope he will accept of, if she is as described. 
For at present Congress have it not in their Power to give him a better 
Vessell. I would not wish to see him in private Service. Money, indeed 
he may get then, but Honor and Promotion is only to be had where he 
is, and if he now should quit it, he perhaps quits it forever.- .... 

Monsr. Gerard is not yet gone, but has taken Leave of Congress in a 
private Audience.^ The New Minister has not yet been reed., nor is 
the Day appointed 

556. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[September 27, 28, 1779.] 
Monday 27th Com'l Committee Congress. Agreed that a Minister 
Plenoptentiary be appointed for the Court of Spain Mr. Jay was ap- 
pointed Agreed that a Minister Plenoptentiary be appointed to negotiate 
a Peace wath Great Britain Mr. Adams was Elected. - 

Tuesday 28th C. Committee The Congress Elected a New President 
by Ballot, vizt. Mr. Huntington.^ A Secretary for the Embasey were 
Put in nomination vizt. Mr. Carmichael per Mr. Searle 
P M Marine Committee Dined w'th Jos. Wharton * 

557. James Lovell to John Adams.^ 

Confidential 

Tuesday 28th of Sepr. [1779.] 
Dear Sir 

yesterday in Whispers the proposal was made to send J A to Spain, 
the Baloting for that Business being tirst called for. But Connect't and 
Pensylvania discovered a total abhorrence of the Consequences in the 
second balot; therefore the Plan was dropped;- and the balots were 

2 See the Journals, July 30, Aug. 5, 31, Sept. 17, Nov. 30, 1779, Feb. 25, 28, 
Mar. 1,1780. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 17. 
[556]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 547, 548, 552-554, ««*^. and nos. 557, 559, 562, post. Gerard's account 
of these proceedings (see no. 548, note 2, ante) is as follows: 

" September 27th. At length the plenipotentiaries are chosen. Mr. Jay is destined 
for Spain, and the full powers for peace are confided to Mr. Adams. One vote only was 
found in favor of Arthur Lee. The choice of Mr. Jay leaves nothing to desire. To much 
intelligence and the best intentions, he joins a conciliating spirit. As to Mr. Adams, I 
am not acquainted with him, nor is he known to but a few of the present members of 
Congress. He has the reputation of an honest man; and the presumption, that he would 
be agreeable to you, has influenced their opinion." 

3 Huntington's first letters as President, written this day, were to Lord Stirling 
and to Maj. Henry Lee, expressing the thanks of Congress to them as directed in the 
resolutions of Sept. 24. They are in the President's Letter-Book, p. 191. The original 
of the former is in N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 8165. 

* This last memorandum is in the margin opposite the date of the next entry, but 
it probably belongs to the record of Sept. 28. 

[557]^ Adams MSS., Boston; Adams's Works, IX. 489; Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., 
in. 345- 

- Cf. no. 553, ante, and no. 562, post. 



450 Continental Congress 

N Hamp A Lee R Is. Pensyl S'th Car. no vote my Colleagues Connect't 
N. Yk N Jersey Dickenson Maryld. Virga. N. Car.^ J Jay 

For the 2 other Comis'ons J A the only Nomination all the States but 
one for Doctr. Frankling * if this was not the Pidler^ it might be the 
Oddity ^ of Virginia. 

Prior to the Choice for Spain I produced your two first Letters as 
appertaining to the only one point which had ever appeared incontestible 
against A L /^ crains Mr. Lee et ses entours. For the Minister disavow- 
ing on Feb 13th his having adopted Prejudices such as were attempted to 
be inspired in America; and proving his Disavowal by an Appeal to his 
Conduct to you " ensemble et separernent " shows either that he meant 
only avec ses Entours, or that he felt convinced he had been drawn into 
unjust doubts, and intended to show double Confidence in future. 

The whole members even Jay praise " my perseverance ["] but he says 
["]in Friendship to Arthur", Time will show whether it has not been 
to prevent Congress from an Act of injustice, and to maintain the Sacred- 
ness of the Approbation or Disapprobation of our united Supremacy; 
which is what the Servant of Republicks should look up to rather than 
to Salaries and Perquisites, which the Levity of Monarchies makes their 
Servants catch while they can, without striving to deserve them. 

I am freed from a Load. For I have long practiced upon David's 
Rule away with Sackloth and Ashes when evitables become inevitable. 
J. J. desires me to be true to him " only zvhile he continues to do honestly ". 
That I most assuredly will, and to every Name that the public Choice 
shall fall on. But I cannot forget the past so far as not to think that 
if S Deane is not stone blind he may now see from what Source he got 
his Fund of Advice towards Measures apparently his own. Carmichael 
Houston and Mr. Jays brother Livingston are talked of as Secretaries 
to the Embassies. Gerry tells me Dana may be induced to go with 
you There seems to be an Infinity of Good Humour in Conse- 
quence of the late Elections. I suppose if C 1 ^ succeeds on The 

morrow we shall go on swimming in the smooth Pool of Complacency. 
The Chance is for him against his present single Competitor.^ I am not 
distressed about the Event tho I think I have seen full Proof of an 
Instance or two of radical Disingenuity in him.^ .... 

3 See nos. 547, 553, ante. 

* In his letter to Richard Henry Lee (no. 553, ante) Lovell says, " all the votes 
except one for Doctr. Franklin ". He means to say that all the votes were for Adams 
except one, which was for Dr. Franklin. See also Laurens's Notes, Sept. 25-27 (no. 547, 
ante). Gerry indicates (Sept. 29, no. 562, post) that this vote was cast by Dickinson, 
who alone represented his state, Delaware, on the 27th, although McKean had been 
present the day before. 

5 John Dickinson. The nickname " Fiddler " is derived from a phrase in John 
Adams's famous letter of July 24, 1775, to James Warren, in which he referred to 
Dickinson as " a certain great fortune and piddling genius ". See vol. H., no. 244. 

6 Meriwether Smith. See nos. 343, 478, 488, 535, ante, and Letters of Richard 
Henry Lee, IL 69, 70. 

^ Carmichael. Cf. no. 553, ante, and no. 568, post. 

8 James Searle was put in nomination (Sept. 28), but his name is erased and noted 
as " withdrawn ". See no. 572, post. 

^ Adams's reply to this letter, Oct. 17, is in Works, IX, 499. See also his letter 
to Lovell Oct. 25, ibid., p. 501. 



September, ///p 451 

558. John Dickinson to the Governor of Delaware 
(Caesar Rodney).^ 
Sir. 

1 have the pleasure to inform you, that the President of Congress this 
moment call'd upon me, to inform me, that he has received advice, that 
the Count D'Estaing with a fomiidable Fleet has arrived at Georgia, with 
a very considerable Body of Troops on Board — one of the principal offi- 
cers landed in South Carolina, held a council of war there, in which the 
plan of operation was settled, and then returned to the Count — and if no 
Blunder is committed, the Event will be what we wish it to be.^ .... 

Mr. Gerard has taken Leave of Congress, and is expected to sail every 
day in Frigate, Confederacy} We have dismist him with as honourable 
Testimonial, respecting his public and private Conduct as We could give. 

I have been for Some time exceedingly indisposed. I intend soon, if I 
get better, to make a Trip to Kent, and if the State has any particular Busi- 
ness requiring immediate Dispatch, I should be glad to have advice of it as 
early as possible. I beg leave to recommend in the most earnest manner the 
providing every kind of cloathing for our Battalion of brave and worthy 
officers and men, and also the having our Militia in the most respectable 
Readiness for action. I speak the sense of Congress on these subjects. 

Philadelphia September 28th 1779. 

559. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Philadelphia, September 28th, 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

I have not had the pleasure of writing to you since the 14th instant. 
Yesterday I was honoured with your favour of the 12th and 19th. You 
have quite mistaken the motive for " committing for consideration " ; the 
motion was made by a very sincere friend of yours ; he had entertained 
hopes of bringing before the House a proper report; a tolerable one was 
prepared, received, and read, and Monday 12th or 14th, I forget which, 
"set apart" for considering it in the House; but, although repeatedly 
called for, its unpleasantness, I apprehend, proved a bar against taking it 
up. Your friend did not think it quite perfect ; he had, therefore, prepared 
certain amendments, which he would have brought on the book, and I will 
still endeavour to make the whole appear to public view. You shall be par- 
ticularly informed in due time.^ You will have heard before this day of 

[SS^V Delazvare Archives, III. 1360. 

- Cf. the Rhode Island delegates to Governor Greene Sept. 28, Staples, R. I. in 
Cont. Cong., p. 251. 

3 See no. 572 (note 4), post. 
[559]! R. H. Lee, Life of R. H. Lee, II. 236. 

2 Lee's letters of Sept. 12 and 19 are in Letters (ed. Ballagh), II. 149, 150. It 
is a passage in the first of these to which Laurens alludes. " I have long since ceased ", 
Lee says, " to wonder at any determination of the Conclave, and I shall continue in the 
same state of mind until I hear that a certain set have quitted, or been removed from 
that assembly. It would otherwise have been a matter of surprise to me that a body 
of men representing that kind of government the corner stone of which is virtue, should 
discover so shameless a partiality as to commit for consideration the insulting memorial 
of a guilty man, and refuse the same respect to the application of the faithful servants 



452 Continental Congress 

Count d'Estaing's arrival near Charleston, South Carolina; that opera- 
tions against the enemy at Beaufort and Savannah, were in hand. I ex- 
pect every hour to learn some important event in that quarter; probably 
the first intelligence will be brought by the count himself, who may be 
daily expected at Sandy Hook or Rhode Island. Our commander in chief 
is properly authorized to co-operate vigorously with him. The season of 
the year was much against the forces of our ally to the southward. A few 
days easterly winds, with autumnal rains, would blast our prospect; but 
I hope the weather has favoured them. 

Enclosed herein you will find a general account of three days' work; it 
will be an exceedingly painful task to recite by and by the particulars.^ I 
shall make no comment. I have acted one uniform and consistent part, dic- 
tated by conscience for the good of my country, as well as for doing jus- 
tice to a meritorious individual. My wishes are not accomplished; but, 
I am nevertheless persuaded the day will come, when that injured indi- 
vidual will receive both justice and honour from his country. By the next 
post I shall determine whether to leave Philadelphia this winter ; and you 
shall, if I determine to go, be informed precisely the day. At present, 
time will not permit me to pay that respect to your favours now before me, 
which is due. I must hasten to the square room, where I often meet many 
crooked things. I pray God to bless you ; and entreat you to be assured 
that I continue, with sincere respect and esteem, 

Dear sir, your obliged and obedient servant, 

Henry Laurens. 
The Hon Richard Henry Lee, Esq. 
Virginia. 

P. S. We have advices to be relied on, that the second division of 
Arbuthnot's squadron, seven ships of war, having under convoy trans- 
ports, containing about four thousand troops, arrived this day seven night 
at New York. The troops are said to be ''wild Irish" and Hessians; 
the term " wild Irish " is repeated in several letters. 

Twelve o'clock. A circumstance has just happened, which renders a 
transmission of the paper intended to have been enclosed, with certain 
comments on it, inconsistent with my honour. Therefore I have with- 
drawn it.* 

of the public ! And not only so, but to compliment guilt with a present of 10500 dollars 
of the peoples money." Cf. no. 463, ante. 

Lee was replying to Laurens's letter of Aug. 31 (no. 501, ante), in which Laurens 
states that he himself had made the motion to commit a letter of Arthur Lee, together 
with the latter's " Vindication ", to a special committee, in like manner as he had moved 
to commit Deane's memorial of Aug. 16 (see the Journals, Aug. 19, where, however, 
the maker of the motion is not recorded). The committee on Deane's memorial made 
a report Sept. 9, when the following Monday (Sept. 13) was assigned for its con- 
sideration. It does not appear that the report was ever afterward taken up. See nos. 
517, 518, ante, and no. 595, post. 

3 Presumably Laurens's account of proceedings Sept. 25-27, no. 547, ante. The 
postscript indicates, however, that some incident had occurred touching the injunction 
of secrecy which caused him to withdraw the paper at the moment of despatching the 
letter. See Lee's comments on the matter in his reply Oct. 15 (Letters, 11. 159). 
Laurens transmitted the document with his letter of Oct. 12 (no. 595, post). 

* Cf. no, 56c, post. 



September, ly/g 453 

560. Henry Laurens to William Whipple/ 

Philadelphia 28th Septr. 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

.... Our hopes of hearing in a very few days of the arrival of Count 
d'Estaing on the Coast of New York or at Rhode Island has induced Con- 
gress to countermand the orders given for dispatching the Frigates at 
Boston to South Carolina,^ hence your Commission on the purchase of a 
Pipe of Wine will be stayed. I must defer that scheme to a future day. 

Inclosed with this you will find a general history of three days, some 
of our friends at the Corner House may give you the particulars, which 
indeed would be a tiresome recapitulation. 

Mr. Gerard I suppose will leave us tomorrow but if the INIinister for 
treating with Spain means to accompany him, which I think very probable, 
he will dole away three or four days at Chester. Our friend Arthur Lee 
will rise again. God bless you my Dear General. I wish you every happi- 
ness and assure you with great sincerity of the Love and Esteem of Your 
obedient and most humble Servant 

Henry Laurens 
The Honorable William Whipple Esquire. 

[P. S.] . . . . You will not shew the inclosed paper to any but the 
faithful. 

12 oClock 

A circumstance has happened which obliges me in honor to pause before 
I make the intended transmission — a Gentleman just now brought me his 
hand in such terms as have softened me to him as a Man to a Man — altho 
no terms nor terrors could soften or warp me toward any Man connected 
with measures which appeared to me improper.^ 

561. Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Sep. 28, 1779 

P. S. The disputes between the State of New York and the people 
stiling themselves the state of Vermont, have arisen to such a height that 
Congress have been obliged to interpose (to prevent a civil War) and 
have come into a number of Resolutions, which I suppose will reach you 
(by express) before this." .... 
Sepr. 2Qth lyyg 

The post not setting out yesterday as I expected, gives me an oppor- 
tunity of adding. 

Congress have made choice of the Hon'ble John Adams Esqr. Minis'r 
plenipotentiary, to negociate a Peace (he had the votes of eleven states, 

[560]^ Md. Hist. Soc, Gilmor Papers, III. 5. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 20, 22, 26, 27. Cf. nos. 539, 540, ante. 

3 Cf. no. 559, ante. 
[56i]iMass. Arch., CCI. 316. 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 24 ; also nos. 544, 545, ante, 563, 565, 598, post. 



454 Continental Congress 

there being twelve present) and the Hon'ble president Jay, is appointed 
Minis'r plenipotentiary to the Court of Spain ; And the Hon'ble Mr. Hunt- 
ington (of Connecticut) is chosen president of Congress. 

Yours, ut supra, 

S. HOLTEN 

562. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, Sepr. 29 1779 
My dear Mr Adams 

It is with the greatest pleasure, that I inform You of the late Arrange- 
ment of our foreign affairs, in which You are appointed to negotiate the 
Treaties with G Britain and our Friend Mr Dana to be your Secretary. 
Mr. Jay is to negotiate with Spain, Mr. Carmichael to be his Secretary, 
and Colo. John Laurens, Son of the late president Laurens, to be Secretary 
to Doctor Franklin. 

I shall not be able at this Time to give You a History of the proceedings 
of Congress, relative to their foreign Affairs; the Embarrassments Diffi- 
culties and Delays attending this Business, in consequence of the Disputes 
between the late Commissioners, have exceeded every thing of the Kind, 
which I have before met with : So far have some of their Friends in Con- 
gress been influenced by Attachments and Prejudice, as to render it im- 
possible to preserve their Friendship and Confidence, and at the same 
Time to act with becoming Freedom and Independence. 

I flatter myself that You will not hesitate a Moment, at accepting the 
highest office of Honor and Trust, under the united States, when elected 
thereto by the Voice of eleven States, indeed it may be called unanimous, 
as there was only a single Vote for Doctor Franklin, who was not in nomi- 
nation, and it was said to have been put in by Delaware, at that Time repre- 
sented by your old Friend Mr. D n.^ great Exertions were made to 

send You to Spain, and Mr. Jay on the other Embassy, but the Opposition 
of your Friends produced from the Gentlemen in favour of Mr. Jay, a 
proposal of Accomodation, in Consequence whereof he was appointed by 
eight States. The Appointment of Mr. Dana is in my humble opinion of 
the next Importance, and should he accept it, he may stand Candidate for 
the next Vacancy in Europe.^ 

It is almost Time to acknowledge the Receipt of your esteemed favours 
of the 27th of Novr. 1778, and of the loth and nth Instant.* the first is 
of so early a Date as not to require an answer, and a prudent Use shall be 
made of the last. Agreable to your Request in the other, I transmit by 
the Bearer Mr. the Journals of Congress to the present Time, as 

far as they are printed, those for 1778 are now in the press. With Respect 
to the Circumstances of your first Appointment, It was in Consequence of 
a Nomination which I ventured to make, after having endeavoured to dis- 

[562]! Adams MSS., Boston; Adams's Works, IX. 491. 

2 John Dickinson, see no. 559, notes 4 and 5, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 26, 27, and nos. 547. 548, 550, 552-554, 556, 557, 559, ante ; 
see also no. 635, post. 

* Adams's letter of Nov. 27, 1778, is in Life of Gerry, I. 281, that of Sept. 10 
is in Adams's Works, IX. 483. 



September, ///p 455 

cover your Sentiments on the Subject. I remember You was more reserved 
than I tho't You Ought to have been, and two of your Collegues then in 
York Town, to whom I proposed the Matter, objected to it, as not being 
agreable to You. When the Nomination was made, if I rightly remember, 
the one that remained in Congress after You left it, expressed his Doubts 
on the Occasion, but being determined to try the Experiment, I informed 
the House that I had communicated to You my Design of Nomination, 
and that, altho You was very silent on the Affair, I was fully persuaded 
You would not decline the Duty, this fixed the Matter in the Minds of 
your Friends. ]\Ir. R. Livingston was nominated by New York, and by 
recurring to the printed Journals, You will find the Voters in your Favour 
distinguished by Dots, Vol° 3d page 547.^ It is some Time Since this 
Transaction happened, and I may be mistaken in some points, but I further 
recollect, that in conferring with You, I mentioned my former Intention 
of nominating You in the Fall of the Year 1776, and that Mr. R H Lee 
told me. You had informed him, that You would not accept the Appoint- 
ment if made which last Circumstance, not being remembered by You, was 
an additional Argument in my Mind for pushing your Election at York 
Town. 

I conceived myself bound by every principle of Honour, Integrity, and 
policy, to " vote You clear of Suspicions, etc. dishonorable to the State "."^ 
When the Question was proposed for inserting your Name in that Reso- 
lution, I opposed it as unjust. And the inclosed Copy of the futile Charge 
against You, and Evidence to support it, will I think warrant my Conduct. 
If unjust, then surely it was impolitick, as your future Usefulness would 

^ The editor of John Adams's Works makes the following note : 

" Mr. Folsom, representing New Hampshire ; Messrs. Gerry, Lovell, and Dana, for 
Massachusetts ; Mr. Ellery. for Rhode Island ; Messrs. Dyer, Law, and Williams, for 
Connecticut ; Messrs. Morris, Roberdeau, and Clingan, for Pennsylvania ; Messrs. R. H. 
and F. L. Lee and Harvie, three of four from Virginia. Mr. Laurens's name is marked, 
but at the foot of the page is the following: 

" ' N. B. South Carolina did not vote on the above occasion, but was represented 
by Mr. Laurens.' 

" Mr. Duane and Mr. Duer, representing New York ; Messrs. Smith and Rumsey for 
Maryland ; Alessrs. Penn and Harnett, for North Carolina ; Mr. Jones, of Virginia, and 
Mr. Langworthy, of Georgia, appear to have voted in the minority." 

The vote, which took place Nov. 28, 1777, is not recorded in the Journals, but Gerry 
here indicates it (apparently from memory) by using the names in a record of yeas 
and nays of that day taken on another question (see the Journals, vol. IX., p. 980). 
According to a memorandum of Henry Laurens, nominations for the French mission 
were made Nov. 21, 1777. See the Journals under that date (Library of Congress 
edition, IX. 947, note i) ; also these Letters, vol. II., no. 769, note 8. The names men- 
tioned in this memorandum are Dana, Wilson, Lafayette, Richard Henry Lee, John, 
Adams, and Joseph Reed. The names of Lafayette and Richard Henry Lee are how- 
ever erased. In Lee's letter to Samuel Adams Nov. 2;^, 1777 {ibid., no. 753), he does not 
mention Livingston as among the nominees, but Lovell does mention him in his letter to 
John Adams Dec. 8, 1777 {ibid., no. 769). It is Lovell to whom Gerry alludes as "the 
one that remained in Congress after You left it ". 

6 In his letter to Gerry Sept. 10 (see note 4, above) Adams says: "Thank you 
for voting me clear of suspicion, etc. dishonorable to the States. I have a bone to pick 
with Adams and Lovell for their votes on that occasion." For the charges against Adams 
see the Journals, Mar. 24 (p. 368) ; cf. ibid., Apr. 15. The vote referred to is probably 
that of Apr. 20 (p. 484). For Lovell's explanation of his vote see his letter to John 
Adams June 13 (no. 344, ante). 



456 Continental Congress 

have been destroyed for a Time, at least. I conceived it so, and was there- 
fore bound in Honor not to sport with your Character. I mean not how- 
ever to thro' a Reflection on the Conduct of Gentlemen of a different 
Opinion, they probably had a different View of the Subject, and may be 
highly commendable for a Measure which it would have been criminal in 
me to have adopted. While I am on this Subject, give me leave to observe, 
that your Letter to Congress, desiring a Copy of the Charges against You 
was yesterday read, on which I moved the House to comply with your 
Request; but It was objected to from several Quarters as an improper 
Measure, since the House had almost unanimously, by your late Appoint- 
ment rejected the Charge, and had in the first Instance Cleared You of 
the animosities subsisting among the other Commissioners, it was also 
said, that the Admission of Weight in the Charge, was dishonorable to the 
House, which, in that Case would have been in Duty bound to postpone 
vour Appointment, untill You were acquitted of the Charge, the Objec- 
tions were agreable to my Mind and I with drew the Motion, at the same 
Time informing the House, that I should furnish You with the papers 
requested.^ 

Upon the Whole, I am of Opinion, that in the Esteem of Congress, your 
Character is as high as any gentleman's in America, that as much is ob- 
tained in the Arrangement and Determinations of our foreign affairs as 
could be expected, that if Matters had been driven further. We should have 
been more deeply involved in Animosities and Dissentions, and have put 
a total Stop to our foreign Negotiations, that in Consequence thereof, we 
must, on the Return of Mon'r Gerard, have sunk in the Esteem of our 
Ally, of the Court of Spain, and of all Europe, that Doctor Franklin ought 
to be recalled, that however some late Measures may not be equal to our 
Wishes, it becomes our indispensible Duty to support them with Vigour, 
and to listen no more to Insinuations without Evidence to support them, 
that an able, upright, firm Friend to America, is greatly Injured in Doctor 
Lee, as well by the Impolicy of some of his Friends,® as by the undeserved 
Reproach of his Enemies, but that his Usefulness being destroyed, had it 
been practicable to have continued him in office, he could not have served 
with Satisfaction to himself, or Advantage to the public. I have been well 
informed that Hints have been thrown out here, relative to my Votes for 
recalling Doctor Lee, which I do not relish ; I have however suppressed my 
Feelings, because it is extremely injurious to the publick Interest, to have 
their Servants involved in Disputes with each other. I shall return pre- 

7 Adams's letter to the President of Congress asking for a copy of the charges 
against him is dated Sept. lo, and is in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 313. According 
to the Journals, it was read Sept. 29, but the proceedings on it are not recorded. 

8 Gerry elucidates this statement by the following note : 

" I am informed, and I think from the best Authority, that a Resignation of Mr. Lee's, 
conceived in Terms that would do Honor to any man on Earth, has been in the Hands 
of a Friend of his in Congress, and suppressed two months, by which Means he has 
been prevented from avoiding a supersedure." 

Concerning Lovell's action in the matter, see nos. 450, 458, 478, 496, 533, 535, 536, 553. 
554, ante, and no. 599, post. 



September, 1719 457 

pared to justify my Conduct in every point, and should any Attempts be 
made to misrepresent it, I shall be under the necessity of shewing, that it 
has been ever directed in Congress by disinterested publick Motives ; that 
it has been always free from Views, of extending my personal Interest or 
Influence, or of supporting private Attachments; and I think I can answer 
for the policy of the measures which I have adopted, perhaps You may 
think this deviating from Delicacy, but conscious of the Rectitude of my 
Intentions, I cannot bear the Breath of Reflection. I voted for the Recall 
of all the Commissioners inchided in the Resolution of the 20th of April 
last, as an indispensible Obligation arising from the Resolution itself, and 
also, as a preliminary Measure for fully enquiring into the Conduct of 
those Gentlemen, that the Character of each may be fairly known, and 
represented to the publick. the States divided on Doctor Lee and he was 
continued in Office, contrary in my Opinion to every principle of Govern- 
ment, where a Majority is to rule, this happened by the Mode in which 
the Question was put, " shall he be recalled ", instead of " shall he be con- 
tinued ". in the latter Case a Division would have lost the Question, and 
he would have been recalled, which the States who were against him being 
apprised of, conceived the Matter as it stood, both unreasonable and un- 
fair.® after Congress had finished their Instructions, relative to Negotia- 
tions, a question arose. Who should execute them? Reference being then 
made to a Resolution of the 15th of April last, " that Ministers plenipo- 
tentiary for these States are only necessary for the present, at the Courts 
of Versailes and Madrid ", a Motion was made, " That a Minister pleni- 
potentiary in lieu of a Commissioner be appointed to negotiate a Treaty 
of Alliance, and Amity and Commerce, between the united States of 
America, and his catholic Majesty ", and the Question was carried as fol- 
lows, six ayes, one no, and four divided. Massachusetts was amongst the 
latter, Mr. Holten and myself, aye, Mr. Lovell and Mr. Partridge, no. 
I tho't it necessary to agree to this proposition, as it was consonant to the 
Resolution of the 15th of April ; as it would give the States a fair Opper- 
tunity of electing their Ministers and thereby of correcting the Error Men- 
. tioned, as a Decision of the Question in the Negative would have post- 
poned a Negotiation with Spain, and for some Reasons beforementioned, 
and others with which I shall not trouble You. to convince You of the 
Necessity of this last Measure, I need only inform You, that before the 
Resolution was proposed, Congress endeavoured to appoint a Minister to 
negotiate the peace, and failed in the Attempt, there being six States for 
Yourself, five for Mr. Jay, and one divided. Those who were for Mr. Jay 
then declared, they would never alter their Votes, unless they had a fair 
Oppertunity of electing a Minister for Spain, and accomodating Matters 
to the Sense of a Majority of the States, which was prevented by the 
Failure of a Vote of the States when divided.^" 

One Word with respect to your Instructions, pray give me your Opin- 
ion on the Boundaries of Massachusetts Bay, and if any thing is amiss, 

» See the Journals, May 3, June 8, 10. 
10 See the Journals, Sept. 27, 28. Cf. nos. 553. 554, 557, ante. 



458 Continental Congress 

Mr. Samuel Adams, if he thinks it expedient, may inform the State 
thereof, that they may give Directions for having it rectified in Congress 

Cannot You attend to the Settlement of the Vermont affair on the first 
of Feby. next, agreable to certain Resolutions sent to Massachusetts, which 
by her Delegates has claimed a Right to the Jurisdiction of those Lands. 

I should not have troubled You with such a Volume of small politics, 
did I not conceive it impracticable to weary the patience of a great politi- 
cian. My best Respects to Portia, her Irony is by sovereign power, turned 
into Fact. I wish that our Friend General Warren may peruse this Letter, 
and no other person at present, as it ma}^ otherwise be the Cause of my 
commencing Disputes, which I wish to avoid. Brother Dana may correct 
my Information relative to your first Election, adieu my dear friend with 
Assurance of Sincerity in your very huml. sert., 

E Gerry 
His Excellency John Adams Esqr. 

Is not Caution necessary in sending Letters or papers, which on certain 
Occasions ought not to be communicated ? It sometimes happens that one 
Friend is nearly sacrificed to support another. I was on a Committee which 
reported £3000 ster per year for each of the Ministers and £1000 ster 
per annum for each of their Secretaries, the Salary to begin and end as 
prescribed by a former Resolution relative to the Commissioners ; but I 
expect a Reduction of the first Sum will be made by some of ouf patriots. 
I am in Favour of £2500 sterling for the first and half that Sum for the 
Secretaries " 

563. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

Philad'a Sepr. 29th 1779 
Dear Sir 

.... Both New York and Vermont drove so hard at each other that 
we were obliged to take up the matter, but not without the request of both 
and a Promise to submit to our Decision. Jay pushed that because two 
Parties had consented to leave their whole dispute to us, we shd. oblidge 
others to do the same. But I hope our State will never let Congress be a 
Tribunal to decide Bounds and Right of Soil. I think we have got so far 
without committing Enormities, in that Case.' .... 

564. James Lovell to Arthur Lee.^ 

[September 29?, 1779.] 
Sir 

I have lately heard what it is interesting to you to be apprized of. 

It is Said that Congress, having determined to appoint a Minister Pleni- 
potentiary in Lieu of a Comuiissioner for the Court of Spain, did on the 

^1 See the Journals, Sept. 28, 29, Oct. 1,4. Cf. nos. 577, 579, post. 
[563] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 
~ See nos. 544, 545, 561, ante, 565, 598, post. 
[564]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VL 115. 



September, lyjg 459 

27 of Sepr. appoint J Jay who was in Nomination with you and one other : 
That on the 29th Mr. Carmichael was chosen his Secretary: That Silas 
Deane has been arrested in yr. name. 

A Friend to your Merrits.^ 

565. John Jay to the Governor of New York (George Clinton).^ 

Ph'a 29 Sept. 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

I have so many things to say, and so httle Time for the Purpose, that I 
hardly know where to begin or conclude. The Inconveniences resulting 
from the Derangement of our Foreign affairs are at length removed. 
Doctr. Franklin with young Col. Laurens are to remain in France, Mr. J. 
Adams, with Mr. Dana for his Secretary is to negotiate a Peace with 
Britain, and Congress have been pleased to appoint me with Mr. Car- 
michael, for my Secretary, to negotiate Treaties of alliance amity and 
Commerce with Spain. x\ll this was done with most uncommon unanimity 
and Concord. The Importance of the object and a Conviction that my 
Brother would under such Circumstances readily supply my absence from 
the Family, enduced me to accept the appointment and I shall sail for 
France with Mr. Gerard. 

Mr. Huntington of Connecticut is now President of Congress, and I am 
persuaded will fill that office with Propriety. The sooner you provide for 
a Representation of your State here the better. God grant it may be an 
able one. 

The Resolutions respecting Vermont if prudently managed will estab- 
lish perpetual Harmony between you and your neighbours. I am confi- 
dent of this. Temper and firmness will be indispensable. Let us not differ 
with them about Triffles, or by unnecessary Heats retard a Settlement sat- 
isfactory to all. It gives me Pleasure to assure you that the State stands 
high in the Esteem of the Confederacy, and a Continuation of the same 
means by which it was obtain'd will be necessary to perpetuate it. At this 
Season it is particularly expedient that your Delegates should be wise and 
prudent men. You will then find it easy to settle your Disputes advan- 
tageously. 

I sincerely wish that the Chancellor and Mr. Hobart may be sent here, 
as you know their Characters ; you will be at no Loss to perceive my Rea- 
sons for it. Mr. Duane will be a useful man, but in my opinion, his atten- 
tion should be confined to general objects, and ought by no means to in- 
terfere respecting the Vermont and New England Business, further that 
as a private, out of Door Counsellor Morris will be serviceable. His abili- 
ties enable him to promote every Cause he may advocate, but if I may be 
permitted to advise, he should restrain himself from taking any Part or 
pushing any measure respecting your Disputes, without previous Concert 
with Livingston and Hobart. If this Plan be persued I have not the least 
Doubt of Success. I found it the most delicate affair to manage I ever was 

2 The letter is undated and unsigned, but it is in the writing of James Lovell. 
[565]^ Clinton Papers, V. 288. 



460 Continental Congress 

concerned in, and whoever it may be committed to, will soon concur with 
me in this Sentiment. It is of such great importance to the State that no 
means however inconvenient, ought to be omitted to bring it to a happy- 
Termination.^ Some members of Congress have just come in to do Busi- 
ness with me. Coll. Livingston will set off directly. I must, therefore, re- 
luctantly conclude this Letter with assuring you that I am, your obt. and 
affect. Servt. 



566. John Jay to Robert R. Livingston and Gouverneur Morris.^ 

Philadelphia 29th Septr. 1779. 
My Dear Friends, 

I address this letter to you both because I have not time by this oppor- 
tunity to write to each separately. In a few days I shall write you both par- 
ticularly. Mr. Gerards being about to sail happily prevailed upon Con- 
gress to proceed rapidly and unanimously in arranging their foreign af- 
fairs. Young Coll. Laurens is going secretary to Doctr Franklin, and had 
the general approbation of Congress for that office. Mr. Adams is ap- 
pointed to manage the business of pacification with Britain and Mr. Dana 
has been chosen his secretary. I am going to Spain to treat with that Court 
on the subject of alliance amity Commerce, etc. and Mr. Carmichael is my 
secretary. On all these matters I wish to write particularly because the 
knowledge of them will be useful especially to Morris. I exceedingly re- 
gret his not being sent to Europe where his abilities would have done honor 
as well as service to his country. But it seems that period has not yet ar- 
rived, and Congress must for some time longer remain his field. I shall 
write a long letter to the Governor, on the subject of the delegation from 
New- York and the settlement of our New-England and Vermont dis- 
putes, which are now in a good train, and if prudently managed must ter- 
minate to our satisfaction.^ Of this I am certain in my opinion Duane 
Hobart and yourselves ought to be sent. The first is well acquainted with 
the minutie of the Controversy and his information from time to time on 
the different points that may be the subject of investigation will be useful. 
Hobart is very agreeable to the people of New-England and this circum- 
stance independent of his other qualifications, invite attention. Your man- 

2 See nos. 544, 545. 561, ante, and no. 598, post. In his reply, Oct. 5 (Clinton 
Papers, V. 309) , Clinton remarks : 

" I am sensible it is of the utmost Importance to have a wise Representation in 
Congress, but tho all appear to agree in this the Election to that Office will frequently 
be governed more by personal prejudice than the public Good. The Members elected 
for the present year are, yourself, Messrs. Duane, Floyd, Scott and I'Homedieu. The 
latter and Mr. G. Morris on casting up the Votes had an equal Number, but on the 
ballot of both Houses it went in Favour of Mr. I'Homedieu by one or two Votes. The 
imprudence of some of Mr. Morris's friends in voting, occasiond the loss of his Elec- 
tion; however I am inclined to believe that he will be appointed [to] fill up the Vacancy 
which will [be] occasioned by your Absence, and should this be the Case he must not 
decline serving, as his refusal woud not only Injure his own Interest but that of his 
best Friends." The vacancy was, however, filled by the election of Schuyler. See the 
credentials in the Journals, Nov. 16, 20. Cf. no. 495, ante, and nos. 566, 587, post. 
[566]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Bancroft Coll., Livingston Papers, II. 199 (copy). 

2 See no. 565, ante. 



September, i//p 461 

ners abilities and address will give New- York great advantage in con- 
tested matters, and if Morris governs his imagination will conciliate 
friends.^ « 

567. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Mr. Peabodys Complements to the Hon'le Mr. Bartlett, and beg leave 
to inclose a paper, and Some Copies of Genl. Burgoyne Private letters. 
the Post did not arive here till ten Clock last even'g is now Going off. 
Mr. Peabody is happy to inform that, Count D Estaing is Now on our 
Coast with 21 Ships of the line 6 frigates and 6,000 land forces, to Coop- 
erate with the American Arms the remainder of this Campaign, at the 
direction of the french minister here — in Consequence of which the neces- 
sary orders are Sent to Genl. Washington with ample Power the Strength 
of the french fleet and army is to be kept a Secret as well as the intended 
opperations. the States will be addressed to lend Such aid as the Ge'l may 
request. 180 Hessian prisoners arived at Philad. the 26 
Wednesday morn'g 29th Sept. 79 - 

3 With the election of Huntington as President, Jay appears to have ceased 
attendance in Congress. His account for attendance, apparently not rendered until 1785 
(N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 689), is as follows: 

" State of New York 

" To John Jay Dr. 

" To my allowance as one of the Delegates from the 7th December 
1778 the day I first attended in Congress to the 28 Sept. 1779 
the day I ceased to attend Congress is 296 days at 34/ Specie 
per day agreeable to an act of the Legislature passed the 1st 
July 1781 Page 205 ^503-4 

" To 6 days allowed for going and 6 days for returning is 12 

days 34/ 20.8 

523.12 
" Credit 
" 1778 Nov. 10 By Cash of Mr. Bancker Treas'r of the State 
of N York £400 Contl. 
the exchange where the money was expended at 6 for one 
is specie £66.13.4 

" 1779 Sept. 15 By Cash reed, out of the Contine'l Treasury £1200 

Contl. at 24 for one 50.0 

116.13.4 

• 

"Ball £406.18.8 ." 

This passed the auditor's office Jan. 14, 1785, and was receipted for by Jay on the 
same day. 

[567]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. H. ("No. 9"). 

2 Peabody wrote to Whipple the same day. That letter has not been found, but 
Whipple's reply (Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722), written from Portsmouth Oct. 
18, is in part as follows : 

" My Dear Sir, Your favor of the 29th Sept. came to hand before I left Boston, but 
time not permitting me to acknowledge the receipt of it per last post, I take the earliest 
opportunity after my arrival here to thank you for the information it contains. 

" Surprising events it seems have taken place since I left you — the causes you leave 
me to conjecture, 'tho you flatter me with hopes of something more particular hereafter. 
I hope my curiosity will be satisfied per next post for I assure you it is much raised, 
were it not for the trouble it wo'd give you I should ask for a particular History of a 
few days subsequent to the 25th Sept. I am puzzled to find out from whom the 8 Votes 

34 



462 Continental Congress 

568. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Wednesday 2gth C. C.^ Congress. After the dispatches, Reports from 
the Board of War and Treasury were finishd then Balloted for a Secretary 
For Mr. Jay, when the Votes for Mr. Carmichael were unanimous Can- 
didates for Mr. Adams Secretary were Mr. John Trumbull Mr. Jonathan 
Trumbull and Mr. Dana, first Ballot John Trumbull had 4 Votes Mr. 
Dana 6. seccond Ballot Mr. Dana 1 1 he was Elected. 

For Secretary to Dr. Franklin the Candidates Mr. Skull and Mr. 
Laurens. Mr. Laurens had Eleven Votes and was Elected. A Commis- 
sioner to Examine the Accts. in France was appointed, the Candidates 
were Mr. Edm'd Jennings, Mr. Laboushire,^ and Mr. Joshua Johnson 

first Ballot ...i 3 6 

second do 4 7 

Mr. Johnson was Ellected.* A Report was brought in from the Commit- 
tee to allow the Minister Plenoptentiary £3000 Sterl'g per annum and the 
Secretary £1000 Sterl'g per Do. Postponed 

would come. I could not possibly suppose so large a proportion would be lost to every 
sence of Honour and justice, however, I am sure the character that the Malevolence 
of some People are endeavoring to destroy will rise superior to all his Enemies the 
other Vote is not so much to be wondered at, for in days not more corrupt than the 
present even the presence of the Deity did not keep a greater proportion than Eleven out 
of twelve in the paths of Virtue, but is there not some mischief still lurking behind the 
curtain, why should one Person be called Minister Plenipotentiary and the other whose 
Business is of much greater importance have the title of Commissioner only? I must 
defer saying anything more to you on this subject till I have a more particular acct. 
of things. 

" I can give you no account of what is doing here till I have time to look round me 
but I very much fear the cursed regulating schemes will do infinite mischief, it seems 
all the sea port towns this way are starving in the midst of plenty." 

[568]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Commercial Committee. 

3 The resolution to appoint a person to examine the accounts of the commis- 
sioners in Europe was adopted Aug. 6 (see no. 463, ante, where Laurens indicates his 
opposition to the measure), and the nominations were made Sept. 28. The Mr. 
Labouchere nominated by Laurens was doubtless one of the Huguenot family of 
Labouchere long settled in Holland, and at this time connected with the banking house 
of Hope and Company of Amsterdam. Peter Caesar Labouchere, who presently settled 
in England and married (1796) the daughter of Sir Francis Baring, and whose son 
Henry was created Baron Taunton in 1859, was probably too young in 1779 to have 
been considered by Laurens for this appointment. 

* Richard Henry Lee wrote to Laurens Aug. 21 : " The appointment of a person 
to settle the accounts in france may be a wise or a wicked measure as happens to 
be the person appointed for the purpose. Send a man from here invested with proper 
powers, and let him be skilful in business, firm, and of unimpeachable integrity — in no 
manner whatever concerned with any of the parties having accounts to settle. After all, 
I will suppose Deane in France or Holland and refusing to settle, where is the coertion? 
Observe if attempts are not made to have a Mr. Johnson Merchant in Nantes to settle 
these accounts. The very circumstance of his having been already proposed by Deane 

for this purpose is an argument why he ought not 

" Mr. Deanes friendship for Mr. Johnson of Nantes is evident from the former 
having proposed the latter either for a consul, or for settling accounts, or both : which 
may be seen in some of the papers on the files of Congress." In his " Narrative " Deane 
had suggested Johnson for a consulship (N. Y. Hist. Soc, Collections: Deane Papers, 
III. 201). See nos. 572, 607, post. 



September, lyyp 463 

Thursday Sepr. ^oth 1779 Commercial Committee Congress. A num- 
ber of Letters Memorials etc. were read P M Marine Committee Capt. 
Read ° appointed to the Frigate Bourbon. 

569. James Lovell to Horatio Gates.^ 

Confidential 

Phila. Sepr. 30th 1779 
Dear General 

Your favor of the 26th has reached me w'th 3 inclosed. Arthur Lee is 
sacrificed. John Jay goes to Spain with Carmichael for Secretary. John 
Adams is to Negociate Peace and Alliance with England, Dana is chosen 
his Secritary, and Col. John Laurence is chosen Sec'y to Franklin at Ver- 
sailles.^ 3 of the 5 carry no ill Look. I was nominated for Versailles as 
Sec'y and am sure that my Resolution is wanted there to disperse the fas- 
cinating crew of Stock Jobbers who live upon the Secrets of our Minister.' 
But having from seven Months Conviction in an Heel-tripping Contest 
seen the Necessity of pushing a Vote that " no Member while acting +iere 
or for nine months after shd. be chosen into Office ",* I could not consent, 
tho the vote fell, to stand in Nomination, where the whole Run of this 
Business wears the Face of shuffling and cutting in a Closet by ourselves 
for " who shall be in " ? Some of us look as calm as if we were sure we 
had laid the Devil. Others look as much relieved as David was when he 
became certain that the little Innocent was beyond hope, dead.^ .... 

570. Cyrus Griffin to Benjamin Franklin.^ 

Philadelphia September 1779. 
Sir 

I do myself the honor to enclose a packet of letters which being carried 
by your servant to the place directed will greatly oblige me. We thank you 
for the trouble of attesting a Bond executed by the late Earl of Traquair. 
(This Letter will be conveyed by Mon. Gerard, a most valuable and most 
amiable man indeed ! and who has given all the satisfaction possible in his 
public and private Character.) no doubt you were astonished how any 
part of Congress should wish that all the Commissioners might be recalled 
to Philadelphia : it was for the purpose of explaining those unhappy dis- 
sentions and animosities which have arisen among them ; and tho yourself 
would have left Europe at a most critical period, yet returning to France 

5 Capt. Thomas Read, previously in command of the brigantine Baltimore. See 
the marine committee to the commissioners of the navy board of the Eastern department 
Oct. 12, and to Captain Read Oct. 21 {Out-Lctters, II. 121, 123). 

[569]! N. Y. Hist. Soc, Gates Papers. XVI. Addressed: " Hon'ble Major General 
Gates Hd. Quarters Providence By Mr. Brewer who may deliver it to any Express 
on the Road if going directly to Providence otherwise let it go by Boston." 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 25 to 29, and nos. 547, 548, 550, 552-554, 556, 557, 559, 
562, ante, and no. 572, post. 

3 Cf. nos. 581, 684, 68s, 688, 695, post. 

* Mathews's " self-denying resolution ". See the Journals, Sept. 25, and nos. 
543, 552, 554, ante. 

5 II. Samuel 12: 15-23. 
[570]! American Philosophical Society, Franklin Papers, vol. XV., no. 231 ("copy"). 



464 Continental Congress 

with accumulated honors after receiving the blessings of America and 
convincing Congress in v^hat path to vv^alk upon this unhappy and most 
disgraceful business, perhaps the whole matter impartially considered the 
united States would have found great benefit if such a plan had taken 
place. 

The French are a gay people and entertain a good deal ; I am afraid 
Mon. Gerard has thought the Delegates in Congress were rather deficient 
in that respect ; but really the expence of every article is so very enormous, 
and the allowance from the different states so very trifling, that a person 
of a handsome American fortune could not entertain frequently without 
absolute ruin in the period of two or three years — and especially since 
some of the states think it best for their Delegates to live in seperate 
houses. In the course of conversation you would do some of us a singular 
favor to hint this matter to Mon. Gerard since it has the appearance of not 
paying proper Civilities to a man of his worth and elevated station. 
I have the honor to be. Sir, 

Your most obedient sert. 

C. Griffin 

571. James Mercer to the Speaker of the Virginia House of 
Delegates (Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Philadelphia, Oct. ist, 1779. 
Hon'ble Sir 

The singular Honour done me by the General Assembly, by their ap- 
pointment to Congress at a time when Matters of Importance were said 
to be before them, induced my acceptance, in hopes that Integrity and 
Diligence might render some Service to my Country. But the experience 
I have allready had, convinces me that a still greater change must hapen 
in Men and Measures, to make it either Hon'ble or Safe to continue in 
Congress. I must therefore beg leave to decline the appointment for the 
year ensuing after the first day of November next. As a Friend to a 
Congress I think it my Duty to recommend it to the General Assembly of 
Virginia to reduce the number of Delegates to three, let these be Men 
of Integrity and Diligence, and abilities too if to be had. The Idea of 
Rotation is totally improper, as a member must be here near a month 
before he can be acquainted with the business on Hand and Rules of Con- 
gress, and if he is to be allowed to go home every quarter upon the plan 
of the present Act, he must ever remain a stranger to the business and 
an useless member, and when more than three members do attend you 
may rest assured that a great deal of time is wasted in needless debate, 
moreover the example of Virginia may influence other States and thereby 
occasion the recall of certain old Members who had been too long here 
allready. as this is intended for the General Assembly and not for the 

[571]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels. 



October, ijyg 465 

Galler}^ I hope it will not be read in public. I have the Honour to be, 
Hon ble Sir your most respectful! and very hu'ble Servt. 

Js. Mercer.^ 

572. James Lovell to John Adams/ 

The Resolve of the 26th of Sepr. for appointing a Minister plenipo- 
tentiary for Spain was reconsidered on the 27th and the words in lien of 
a Commissioner were added, by the Urgency of Brother Gerry least our 
State should appear to be against an Alliance with Spain, on this Mass : 
was div'd and S'th Carolina all the rest stood as the day before. 

On the 28th order for Tomorrow for appointing Secretaries and a Per- 
son to examine accounts in Europe agreable to the Resolve of Augst. 
6th. 

The Nominations you know except in the last Case Mr. Joshua John- 
ston Brother to Govr. Johnston of Maryland.^ 

A Com'tee to draught a Commiss'n for Spain and Commiss'ns for 
the Secretaries. 

Another Com'tee to report Salaries Mathews Gerry Root 

Carmichael for Spain. Mr. Searles name being previously withdrawn. 
I wish therefore you would blot it from my former letter as it is blotted 
from our Journals.^ 

Mr. Dana for Peace. 

Col. John Laurens for France 

Mr. Joshua Johnstone for Accounts 

Com'tee reported Salaries 

Oct. I 

Report of the Com'tee recommitted upon my Suggestions as to unde 
derivetur. 

Your Return in the Frigate which brought you must be more agreable 
than even one of ours with a new set of Faces. If Dana does not con- 
sent, the answer should be immediate. For though I do not think the 
Door for your Business is yet opening, the Delay of the Frigate is to be 
considered, notwithstanding Mr. G[erar]d has kept ours more than two 
Months.* 

2 Mercer had served in Congress only three weeeks, and in accordance with the 
determination expressed in this letter he retired at the end of October. He had been 
overcome with disgust even more quickly than had his colleague, Cyrus Grififin, a year 
before. Probably if he had remained longer he would have acquired a taste for congres- 
sional politics, even as did many of those who had preceded him and others who came 
after him, not a few of whom, however, in their fondness for political manoeuvre, too 
often lost sight of the fundamental issues. 

If Mercer thought three delegates sufficient and five too many, as a matter of fact, 
at the moment this letter was written only three were in attendance ; for Meriwether 
Smith and William Fleming had obtained leave of absence three days before (Sept. 28), 
and the retirement of Mercer and Fitzhugh at the end of October left Virginia with 
only one delegate in Congress, Cyrus Griffin; and this deficiency continued until the 
coming of James Madison the following March. 

Meriwether Smith's account for attendance in 1778 and 1779 (Va. State Lib., Exec. 
Papers), which does not appear to have been adjusted until some two years later, is an 
instructive document, but it is too long and too complicated to be inserted here. 

[572] 1 Adams MSS., Boston. 

2 See no. 568, ante. 

3 See no. 557, ante. 

* See nos. 488 (note 3), 535, 546, 558, ante, 595, 606, 609, post. 



460 Continental Congress 

I wish heartily I could render you such Service as I think Dana can. 
It is tripping no Man to become your Secy, though in a former Case I 
should have been charged with putting my foot against the faithful 
Bancroft. 

Pray miss no possible Chance to inform A L. of what has happened. 
It may reach him before an Authenticated account by Mr. Jay; and be a 
warning to take his measures. I was [wish] him immediately here to 
see to his Suit which was commenced 3 or 4 days ago. He can have 
no Accounts to cause Delay. And as he has Power to borrow Money ; he 
cannot be obliged to apply to F[ranklin] I will suggest the Thought of 
empowering you to make sure of a Loan if possible. I am persuaded the 
English would many of them seize the Opportunity of serving us and 
themselves all under one. 

You will have a decent Commission this Time. I wish I could see 
your old one ; as do the Secretary and Mr. Laurens between whom there 
have been formal Proceedings in doors respecting some Indecencies of 
the former.^ 

your afiFect'te 
J. L. 
[Memorandum:] Mr. Lovell Octr. 1,1779. 

573. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[October 1,2, 1779.] 
Friday October 1st Com'l Committee Congress. Several Letters etc. 
Read. Genl. Arnolds Accts. of his Expences for 9 Mo. extravigant in- 
deed Committed to 5 vizt.^ Moved for the thanks of the House to be 
given our late President Mr. Jay. agreed. 

Saturday Octr. 2d. Com. Committee Congress After reading the 
Journals went into the order of the day which was for the house to goe 
in to a Committee of the whole house on Finance. 

574, Henry Laurens to John Laurens.^ 

Philadelphia 2d October 1779 
My Dear Son, 

.... You were put in Nomination in Congress by the Hon'ble Mr. 
Gerry the 27th Ulto. for the Office of Secretary to the Minister Plene- 

5 Concerning the Laurens-Thomson affair, see nos. 504, 510, ante. One of 
Laurens's complaints against Thomson was that the latter had refused to prepare a 
more decent and correct copy of Adams's commission. Replying to Lovell Oct. 25 
{Works, IX. 503), Adams says: "I do not know what indecencies you mean in my 
commission. I have looked it up, and have it before me. It is on a large sheet of paper, 
written very well, all in the handwriting of our much respected secretary, signed by 
President Laurens, sealed with his seal, and attested by the secretary. It is not upon 
vellum, nor parchment, it is true, and the paper is not of the best, but I believe as good 
as any we had at that time. Upon the whole, I think it a very decent, respectable and 
honorable commission. It was treated with great respect at Versailles, and I see no 
reason to object to it. Pray let me know what the question is about it." 

[573]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The names were not entered. They were Laurens, Mercer, Peabody, Holten, 
and Paca. 

[574P S. C. Hist. Soc, John Laurens Papers. 



October, 7779 467 

potentiary at the Court of Versailes and were on the 28th Unanimously 
elected by eleven or twelve States^ — the Salary not fixed — £1000 St 
Recommended in a Report. I shall oppose every thing above £700, but 
from what fund or funds is even that Sum to be paid ? I know not.^ the 
appointment is honorable to you in every appearance and will put you 
in a road leading to the Service of your Country. I know you are equal 
to the task, nor could I forbear my testimony ; it was due to a meritorious 
fellow Citizen, but I could not engage for your acceptance, therefore 
you are by no means bound by any promise or even seeming promise on 
my part. I shall be glad to converse with you before you finally deter- 
mine aye or no. You may, if you please, receive from me an honest and 
faithful and I beleive accurate State of our afifairs foreign and domestic. 
No attempts will be made on my part to induce or dissuade, you will 
be left by me to judge for your self. I need say no more but that I long 
to embrace you. 

I pray Grod to direct you in all things and I commend you to his 
protection. 

Henry Laurens 

.... 5th October. This address remaining on my Table unsealed 
gives me an apportunity to add, the Salaries of the Ministers Plenipo- 
tentiary are £2500 St'lg per Ann. each — of their respective Secretaries 
£1000 — in full of all expences etc. my protest against both stands on the 
Book No ! — Men who are sincerely devoted to the service of their Coun- 
try will not accept of Salaries which will tend to distress it.* 

575. Henry Laurens to John Adams.^ 

Philadelphia, 4 October, 1779. 

The receipt and perusal of your favor of the loth ultimo afforded me 
a very high satisfaction. The answer with which you honored my letter 
of May, 1778, has not yet reached me. 

From the earliest intelligence of your return to America, I felt a strong 
disposition to wait on you with a line or two of sincere congratulation 
on your happy return to your family and American friends; but there 
were certain irresistible pull-backs to the intended operation. I am not 
addicted to commonplace ceremony, and I perceived it extremely difficult 
to compose a palatable address of blended gratulation and condolence 
to an exauctorated fellowcitizen, who had deserved well of his country, 
and who, at the same time, stood in the most awkward situation that 
an honest, susceptible mind can be reduced to. Sent, without his own 
desire, and probably inconsistently with his interest and inclination, on 

2 According to the Journals, the motion and election were on Sept. 28 and 29, 
respectively. In a letter of Dec. 6, read in Congress Dec. 10, Laurens declined the office. 

' See the postscript of Oct. 5, below. 

* See the Journals, Oct. 4. In the Library of Congress (" U. S. R.") is a state- 
ment of the account of Henry Laurens with the United States for the year October, 
1778, to September, 1779, which was rendered about this time. He had drawn 40 pounds 
of bacon, 20 pounds of soap, 2| bushels of salt, and 44 gallons of spirits. The state- 
ment is inscribed, " Commissioner's Office, Philada. September 1779 Errors Excepted ". 
[575]^ Adams, Works, IX. 496. 



468 Continental Congress 

an embassy beyond the Atlantic, kept unemployed and in the course of a 
few months virtually dismissed, without censure or applause, and without 
the least intimation when or in what manner he was to return and report 
his proceedings; from these and other considerations I found myself 
constrained to wait future events. These, though a little clumsily brought 
forth, have happened as I wished; and now, my dear Sir, I not only 
congratulate you on a safe return, but I have another opportunity of 
rejoicing with my countrymen on the judicious choice which Congress 
have made in their late election of a minister plenipotentiary to treat — 
in due time, be it understood — with his Britannic Majesty on peace and 
commerce. The determination of Congress in this instance will be grate- 
ful to the people of these States, and may expiate the queernesses of some 
of the queerest fellows that ever were invested with rays of sovereignty. 
Let me entreat you. Sir, for my country's sake, to accept the appointment 
without hesitation or retrospection; you know " whereof we are made ".^ 
Wisdom and patriotism forbid exceptions on account of past circum- 
stances. I speak in pure truth and sincerity, and will not risk offence by 
uttering a word respecting your fitness, or peculiar or exclusive fitness 
for the important office; but I will venture to add, it is necessary you 
should accept and stand ready to execute it. Your determination to do 
so will make the true friends of American independence happy, and will 
abate their apprehensions from, incompetency or negligence in other quar- 
ters. Not that I believe you will be directly the object of negotiation; 
the pride of our haughty enemy will lead him to manoeuvre by mediation, 
and my ideas teach me to suppose you are for some time to remain behind 
the curtain; but the moment cannot be far distant, according to present 
appearances, when you will step on the stage, and act a part productive 
of substantial good to your country, of honorable fame to yourself and 
to your posterity. My prayers and good wishes for your success will 
be accompanied by the utmost exertions of my feeble powers to insure 
it.^ .... 

I wish I had time to speak of the awful state of our national debt and 
credit : and the field is too wide for the compass of a letter ; but believe 
me. Sir, while we are decorating our fabric, we are censurably careless 
of the foundation. Censure, if ever it comes, will not light wholly on those 
whom the pious Duffield calls " the great council of these States ". 
Each State, at too late a day, will find cause to apply blame to itself. 
We are at this moment on the brink of a precipice, and what I have long 
dreaded and often intimated to my friends, seems to be breaking forth — 
a convulsion among the people. Yesterday produced a bloody scene in 
the streets of this city ; * the particulars you will probably learn from 
other friends ; and from circumstances which have come to my knowledge 
this morning, there are grounds for apprehending much more confusion. 
The enemy has been industriously sapping our fort, and we, gazing and 
frolicking; peradventure we, meaning every State, may improve the 

2 See no. 389 (note 4), ante. 

3 Adams's reply, Oct. 25, is in Works, IX. 503. 

4 The "Fort Wilson" riot. See Life of Joseph Reed, II. 149-155, 423-428; also 
Pa. Arch., first ser., VII. 732, 735, 744- 



October, lyjg 469 

present alarm to good purpose ; but what shall we do by and by, and not 
far distant, for quieting a hungry and naked army? Shall we call forth 
a grand convention in aid of the great council? This may become ab- 
solutely necessary/ 

I will presume on your kindness and friendship to trouble you by the 
next post with a packet for my friends in Europe, and no further in the 
mean time, but to subscribe with great truth, dear Sir, your faithful, 
obliged, and affectionate friend and servant, 

Henry Laurens. 

576. The Maryland Delegates to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).'- 

Phila. Octr. 4th 1779. 
Sir, 

Your Excellencys Letter of the 28th ulto. together with the applica- 
tions from the Executive Council and Board of War of Virg'a we laid 
before Congress, and in consequence thereof, you have an Act recom- 
mending the permitting of as much Bread, flour and wheat to be exported 
for the State of Virginia as may be wanted for its Public supply.^ 

The State of Maryland it is said suppl'd the Baltimore Packet Capt. 
Reed with 10, 3 or 4 Pounders. On her return to Philadelphia, they 
were left in the care of the Navy board, and have been delivered to 
Mess's Morris and Nesbit, who say, that they purchased them. The 
Navy board want these Guns, and would give a great price for them. Be 
pleased to inform us whether the Guns belong to our State, or to M and N. 
if to the Former is it your opinion that we may let the Navy board have 
them at the present prices of Canon ' 

We are with the greatest respect and esteem 

Your Excellencys Obedt. Servts. 
Wm. Paca 
James Forbes 
Dan of St. Thos. Jenifer 
PS. Perhaps you may meet with an oppertunity of Transmitting the 
Enclosed Act of Congress to your Brother.* 

577. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[October 4, 5, 1779.] 
Monday 4th Commercial Committee Congress. This day spent in 
Reading dispatches Memorials, Treasury Reports etc. NB a great 

5 Cf. Laurens's suggestion in his letter to Governor Livingston July 5 (no. 389, 
ante). 

[576]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 27 (in the writing of Jenifer). 

- See the Journals, Oct. 2. Cf. no. 591, post. 

3 A letter from the marine committee (signed by William Whipple as chairman) 
to Governor Johnson, Aug. 31, relative to these cannon, and enclosing a letter to them 
on the subject from John M. Nesbitt and Co., is in Out-Letters, 11. 103. A copy of the 
committee's letter, from the original, together with a copy of a letter from J. M. 
Nesbitt, dated Feb. 3, 1779, was courteously furnished by C. F. Libbie and Company. 
The latter may not, however, be the letter which the committee enclosed. 

^Joshua Johnson. See nos. 568, 572, ante. 
[577]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



^yes 3 


Naes 3. 


Devided 4 


do. 5. 


do. 3 


do. 2 


do. 5. 


do. 3 


do. 3^ 



470 Continental Congress 

tumult in the City and some Lives Lost several Wounded and several 
sent to Goal ^ 

Tuesday 5th Com'l Committee Congress A very long Letter from 
Genl. Sulevan was Read giving an Account of his expidition in to the 
Indian Country, destroying 40 Towns, etc., etc. On the Report from the 
Committee to ascertain the Sallery per Annum of the Minister Plenop- 
tentiary and the Secretary. 

Motion first for £3000. Sterl'g. 
do. for £2500. do. 

do. for Secretary 1000 do. 

P M Marine Committee 



578. Edmund Randolph to the Speaker of the Virginia House of 
Delegates (Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Wmsburg October 5th 1779. 
Sir, 

I repaired to congress, in obedience to the commands of the general 
assembly at their last session, and in conformity to my own opinion, 
that no citizen ought to decline a service, to which he might be called by 
the voice of his country without good cause. To such of my friends, as 
urged me to accept the appointment, I repeatedly represented my situation 
in life, and the dependence of my family on the fruits of my profession. 
They thought, that I might discharge both public and private duties by 
returning from Philadelphia to the different courts. With this Idea I 
yielded to their application. But after having made the experiment I find, 
that to be in Virginia at those seasons, when the office of Attorney-general 
may require my presence, will leave a small portion of time indeed for 
my attendance at congress. This will appear to be the case, when it is 
remembered, that the interest of the commonwealth makes an advocate 
necessary in the courts of Appeals and Chancery, and in the general court, 
some one of which will be sitting, with scarcely an interval of two months, 
from this time to the end of my delegation. I therefore intreat the 
general assembly, whose frequent instances of favour towards me would 
render any defection from the service of my country unpardonable; to 
consider my embarrassments, and to believe, that nothing, but my obliga- 
tions to those, who look up to me for support, would induce me to 

2 The " Fort Wilson " riot. See no. 575, ante, and nos. 582-585, post. 

3 According to the Journals, the report on this subject was brought in Oct. 4, 
and the balloting took place the same day. The fact that Laurens, in his letter to Samuel 
Adams Oct. 5 (no. 579, post), speaks of the discussion as then proceeding bears out 
the correctness of Fell and the error of the Journals. The proceedings were entered 
only in the Secret Journal, Foreign Affairs, and may therefore have been given a 
wrong date. 

[578]^ Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels. 



October, ///p 471 

resign a seat, so honourable in itself, and demonstrative of public appro- 
bation. 

I am Sir with sincere respect 

yr. mo. ob. and obliged servt. 

Edmund Randolph.^ 



579. Henry Laurens to Samuel Adams.^ 

My Dear and respected friend, 

I have been honored with your favors by the hands of Mons'r le 
Chevalier la Luzerne and Mons'r son Secretaire ^ and thank you for the 
several introductions, but I want much a reply to one part of my Letter of 
the respecting the amount paid by order of His Most Christian 

Majesty to the Owners of the Hancock and Boston ' — the arrival of our 

2 This letter bears the endorsement : " Letter of Edmd. Randolph Esq. resig- 
nation. October 26th 1779. to lie on table." 

Randolph left Congress about Aug. 15; he is last recorded as voting Aug. 14 (Satur- 
day). In his account for attendance he credits himself with attendance of 2j days in 
July and August, but whether this is counted from July 22, the day he first attended, 
or from the time he left home, is not stated. Probably it was the latter. Following is 
his account (Va. State Lib., Executive Papers) : 

The commonwealth of Virginia in account with Edmund Randolph Dr. 

1779. July. To travelling from Williamsburg to Philadelphia, as a delegate 

to Congress 320 Miles at 6s. per Afile £96 

To ferriages at Port Royal '. . 14 

Hooe's 5 8 

Patapsco 10 

Susquehanna i 14 

Schuylkil 5 

July and August. To attendance 27 days at 12i each day 324 

To travelling on return 264 Miles 79 4 

To ferriages at Schuylkil 5 

Wilmington 12 

Bay 30 

London town i 

Mount pleasant 10 

Young's o 



^549 2 

Cr. 



1779 July By cash received from the treasury £1000 

549 2 



Bala, due to the commonwealth £^^ 13 

[Ejidorsed:] 

Edmd. Randolph. 

Wages £549 2 

Pd. G. W 450 18 



ilOOO 

8 Sepr. 1779 
Delegate in Congress. 

[579] 1 N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 Barbe-Marbois. Cf. nos. 528, 529, ante. 

3 See the Journals, June 18, 27, 1778. 



472 Continental Congress 

worthy friend of Bra[i]ntree will enable you to be accurate and I think 
it a matter of consequence. 

We are at this instant on the subject of Salary to our Ministers Pleni- 
potentiaries, shall £3000 per Annum stand or £2000 be inserted — for the 
Secretaries £1000 or £700.* but I must attend to business, you will be 
better informed from the corner House ^ of every thing worth your notice 
than you could be by me, therefore I shall at present only repeat that I 
continue with great affection and respect 

Dear Sir, Your obliged and obedient Servant 

Henry Laurens, 
State House Tuesday 5th October 1779 

580. William Churchill Houston to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

Philadelphia, October 5th, 1779. 
Sir, 

I am sorry that it has not been in my power to command as much time 
as I should have wished to employ in giving a distinct account to the 
legislature of the most material occurrences in the progress of business 
since I came to Congress. It is certainly the duty of every person 
in public trust to make those from whom he derives his appointment 
acquainted with the manner in which he executes it, that they may be able 
to decide how far he fulfils or deceives their expectations, and to form 
at any time, a clear estimate of his character. Next to want of fidelity, 
I look upon the neglect of giving due information to his constituents, 
the greatest crime in a public man. 

The principal intention of this is to point at a question which, from 
accidental circumstances, has acquired a magnitude and importance above 
what, simply considered, it was entitled to — A question which has excited 
much inveteracy and ill-blood in Congress, and not a few speculations and 
suspicions abroad. I mean the recall or rather the super-session of Mr. 
Arthur Lee, Commissioner of the United States at the Court of Madrid.^ 
I have carefully read over the papers and attended to every feasible means 
of unbiased information relative to this question, and I think I have done 
it with a temper divested of prejudice. The result is this ; I take Mr. 
Arthur Lee to be a man of a jealous, suspecting, difficult disposition; 
trusty, capable and industrious. Indefatigable above others in procur- 
ing and transmitting intelligence; accurate and frugal in expenses and 
money matters ; simple, severe, and republican in his manners, so much so, 
as to be thought by many sour and inimical. This I take to be his charac- 
ter; and in many essentials I am not afraid to call him equal to any 
person Congress ever employed in a similar capacity in Europe. The 

4 Cf. no. 562, ante. The Journals (evidently in error) record this discussion 
under Oct. 4 (Monday). See no. 577, note 3, ante. 

5 That is, from the Massachusetts delegates. 

[580]! Af. /. Rev. Corr., p. 191; N. J. State Lib.; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
XXXVI. 335- 

2 Cf. nos. 250, 296, 297, 237, 338, 474, ante. 



October, ly-jg 473 

stor>^ hawked about that his indiscretions prevented the Court of Spain 
from treating with him, I cannot think beheved by those who propagate 
it, as that conduct in the Spanish ministry is ascribable to different reasons 
which must strike every person at once who has the least knowledge of the 
state of matters as they respected that power. But admitting he was 
the best qualified and most meritorious man on earth, is it not my duty 
to vote for removing him, when the funds of Congress, are absolutely 
wasted, and the public business not only retarded but stopped by unavail- 
ing altercations concerning an individual? When a general offers up a 
forlorn hope to save an army, the alternative is dreadful ; but the prin- 
ciple is defensible and the practice of it often necessary. I confess that 
in a republic, where approbation, honor, and praise, more than money and 
emoluments, are the reward of faithful services, such things ought to 
be admitted with reluctance and caution ; yet still they may not be always 
avoidable. But further, should it turn out to be a fact, that France was 
doubtful of him, and that Spain hesitated, it mattered not how good a 
man he was, one every way inferior, if free from such exception, would 
have been preferable for the purpose of treating. The real cause of delay 
being now removed, it is to be hoped the gentleman who succeeds Mr. Lee 
will be successful. As I would ever wish to be simply just, but at the 
same time to do what is best, all things considered, I have no other re- 
quest than that this state of facts may be remembered another day, when 
time will throw light upon what is now dark, prejudice will be extinct, 
and the means of judging fairly will come within the reach of all. Into 
what course of conduct, or to what length of crimination, resentment 
may impel this unfortunate man, I am excused from surmising. Whether, 
as many have done, he will adhere to the part he has taken in spite of 
what he may think ill-treatment ; or whether, as many have also done, 
he will transfer himself to a situation where he will expect more atten- 
tion, does not belong immediately to the present decision ; at least, I have 
taken the liberty to throw it out of the balance. At all events I am happy 
this troublesome affair is ended, and I hope it will never rise up to dis- 
turb the counsels of America more. Subjects of contention and animosity 
are retiring one after another, and unanimity reviving in Congress where 
it is so essentially necessary. Trifles have had their day, and too long a 
one it has been; matters of moment have a claim to this, and that it 
may not only be longer but perpetual, I am persuaded is the ardent wish 
of every honest man. 

Upon reviewing what I have written, a suspicion occurs that the above 
representation may imply a reflection on the conduct of some of my col- 
leagues, which is far from my meaning, as it would be repugnant to 
justice. The time is not the same, other circumstances also disagree; on 
the contrary, I must declare that I think their situation hard and unde- 
served. The whole train of the transaction I can trace minutely. To the 
quarter from whence the accusations have originated, the motives which 
inspired them and the instruments which have been employed for their 
circulation, I am not a stranger, nor am I surprised at anything thus 
far. But that their fellow-citizens should entertain impressions unfavor- 



474 Continental Congress 

able to those they once thought well of, and not call for an investigation 
of their conduct, or suspend their opinions till an explanation should be 
had, may perhaps be a matter of some discouragement. If the gentlemen 
know what is alledged to their charge, I am astonished they do not apply 
for an opportunity of justification. Certainly if I should ever be of im- 
portance enough to be found fault with, I should expect the liberty of 
explaining facts and motives ; after that it is the part of an honest man 
to submit in silence to the judgment of those who have a right to pass 
upon his conduct 



581. James Lovell to William Whipple.^ 

Oct. 5th, 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

Your favor from West Point reached me yesterday. You are mis- 
taken as to how much a man can do for himself. The newspapers of 
today will show you what a Body of men can do against themselves.^ 
Arthur Lee is recalled by an authenticated newspaper which will reach 
him accidentally, before any official information can go in the usual and 
decent course. So that if Jay is taken, or drowned, we shall have a total 
suspension of negotiations for a time. Will you not think it strange after 
what I see [say?], that I should have an idea of being willing to go with 
Mr. J. A. in case D^ refuses? As it is precarious in regard to D's 
situation, I wish I had been chosen in the first place. I know your idea 
is for France, but I should have the most implacable enemies there who 
think they have a right of occupancy in the Secretaryship. Besides the 
latter is residentiary, the former temporary.* .... Peabody will give 
you at Portsmouth all the manoeuvres of Chestnut St. I have not yet 
seen the Tall Boy ; ^ the Tall Man good uncle Roger arrived the day after 
the Sacrifice. He is " shocked at the Ingratitude of that proceeding". 

New Hampshire was the only State for A. L :, our's was divided with 
R. I., Penna. and South Carolina. 

I declared openly that I did not approve Mr J's conduct in the Chair — 
some others followed me in like declarations, but I would not go to the 
dirty work of Yeas and Nays and urged that, if a Majority were so dis- 
posed, he might receive a Formality.'^ .... 

[581]^ Library of Congress, Force Trans., Whipple, p. 723; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., no. 52, vol. IL, p. 233. 

2 Lovell's chief worry, as indicated in the next statement, is over the supersedure 
of Arthur Lee. The Pennsylvania Packet of Oct. 5 contained an extract from the pro- 
ceedings of Congress Sept. 28, recording the election of Jay as minister plenipotentiary 
to Spain, another of Oct. 1,expressing the thanks of Congress to Jay for his conduct 
in the chair, and Jay's response of Oct. 4. The latter is in the Correspondence of Jay 
(1. 245). The items are found also in the Pennsylvania Gazette of Oct. 6. 

3 Francis Dana. See the Journals, Sept. 28, 29. 

•* Cf. no. 569, ante, and nos. 684, 685, 688, 695, post. Lovell gives some account 
of the " Fort Wilson " riot. 

s Probably Gouverneur Morris. He had doubtless arrived in Philadelphia, as 
he took his seat in Congress the next day. See no. 633, note 2, post. 

6 Cf. nos. 547, 552-554, 556-559, 56-', 572, ante. 



October, ///p 475 

582. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philada. Octo. 5 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

.... My worthy friend Mr. Whipple departed this City on the 25th. 
ulto 

I informed you in my last if I mistake not all the official accounts we 
have had respecting Count D-Estaing, his strength, and Destination. 
This moment pr. Post we are informed, but not officially, that Count 
D-Estaing has taken all the Land and Sea forces of our Enemy in Georgia, 
have some reason! to hope it is true, but am not Sanguine.^ the Enemy 
at N York are daily embarking in Considerable Number but where des- 
tined, remains Still with them, as we Can only Conjecture by Some 
Circumstances, that they Aim either at Virginia, or the west indias but I 
flatter my Self, the intended movement of the Allied fleets And Armies, 
will point out their Employment 

583. A Committee of Congress to Jeremiah Wadsworth.^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 6th 1779 
Sir 

yours of the 26th ulto. to the Comm'ttee was reed, last Monday, the 
Expectation of the French Fleet on our Coast makes it necessary to pro- 
vide for them our encouragements for flour in this quarter are at pres- 
ent unpromising, notwithstanding every exertion that has been used, 
we have the promise of Eight hundred barrels of flour from this State 
ready to be delivered which will be forwarded immediatly unless pre- 
vented by the present Commotions, we have further prospects of flour 
from below, and also from this State, but how Much or how Soon is 
uncertain, we place Much Dependance, in this Critical Juncture, on your 
abilities and unremitting exertions for the Supplies immedeatly wanted. 

Inclosed you have an Order from the Marine Comm'ttee on our Agent 
at Boston for any quantity of Sugar not exceeding 100 Hog's to enable 
you to fulfill your engagements for flour — also for 200 Hog's of rum for 
the use of the Army. 

The Resolutions of Congress in favour of New York we hope will 
have the most Salutary effects, you will know how to make the proper 
use of them 

in behalf of the Comm'ttee on the Commissary's Departm't etc. 

I am your obedt. humble servant 

Jesse Root, Ch'n.^ 

[582] 1 Dartmouth College Library, Bartlett Corr., vol. II. ("No. 10"). 

2 The information came through a letter of Elisha Walton, written from Shrews- 
bury Oct. 3 (see the Journals, Oct. 5), and was from a source, Walton says, which 
he believed to be reliable. 

[5831^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Jeremiah Wadsworth Papers. 

2 Cf. the private letter from Root to Wadsworth the same day, no. 584, post. 



476 Continental Congress 

584. Jesse Root to Jeremiah Wadsworth/ 

^^y Philadelphia Octr. 6th 1779 

I reed, your favour of the 28th uUo. Supplying the army with bread 
is and has been a very Serious business every exertion has been made in 
these States to procure and forward flour to the army for some time 
past wath but Httle Success, and our dependance has been on the Contracts 
you entered into with the people of New York to exchange Salt Sugar etc : 
for flour, you will before this reaches you receive the resolutions of 
Congress on that head.^ the Com'ttee early reported and urged the 
necessity of the reports being taken up, but our foreign affairs pressing, 
it was delayed more than a fortnight, although some Members not 
rightly understanding the business at first blamed the Measure, yet the 
Committee was able to vindicate your Conduct and I beleive you will find 
by the resolution passed no blame is thrown upon you in this Instance, 
our foreign affairs, the business of Finance, and the daily orders neces- 
sary to be passed, prevent the attending to the appointment of a Successor 
in your office. So early as otherways they would I beleive, Sir, your 
early attachment to the Cause of your Country, the zeal and activity you 
have shown through the whole of the time, the Signal Services you have 
rendered in your present office, being Called to it in the worst of times, 
will not be forgotten by Congress nor rewarded by delivering you up to 
be sacrificed, it is the wish of Congress you should Continue to Serve, 
but it is beleived you are in earnest to resign and they Expect to part with 
you.^ your Commissions indeed have a great Sound and may Excite the 
Envy of Some people, but in reality no more than in A D 1775 — yet 
may be Considerable Compared with what some other persons who have 
been engaged in the public Service have got or rather lost — yet this 
does not go to the Justice of the Commissions you receive. Mr. Jay is 
Appointed Minister Plenipo : to negociate a Treaty with the Court of 
Spain and goes with Mr. Gerard. Mr. Huntington is Appointed Presi- 
dent of Congress. Some letters from Virginia and Maryland Say, We 
hear that Count de Estaing has taken Savannah and Made prisoners of 
all the british Sea and land forces in those parts, but this wants Con- 
firmation. Genl. Sullivan has sent a long letter to Congress Informing 
that he has Conquered all the Indians and destroyed their Country and 
is returning.* .... 

585. Samuel Holten, Diary. ^ 

[October 6, 1779.] 
6. Gen. Arnold applied to Congress for a guard and Congress informed 
him that his application should have been to the executive of the State.^ 

[584]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Jeremiah Wadsworth Papers. 
2 See the Journals, Sept. 30. Cf. no. 583, ante. 
2 See the Journals, Oct. 22, Nov. 29, Dec. 4. 
4 The remainder of the letter relates to the " Fort Wilson " riot. 
[585]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 29. 

- Following is Arnold's letter, addressed to " His Excellency Samuel Huntington 
Esqr Presidt. Congress " : 

" Philada. Octr. 6th 1779. 
" Sir A Mob of Lawless Ruffians have Attack'd me in the Streets and threaten my 
life now I am in my Own House, for defending myself when attacked. As there is 



October, ///p 477 

586. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

Wednesday October 6, lyyQ Com'l Committee Congress After the 
dispatches were Read a Committee of 12 was appointed for the apporten- 
ing the Quotas for the Payment of the 15 Million 

Thursday /th Com'l Committee Congress The Committee of 12 
brought in a Report as follows, viz.^ .... 

NB the Delegates from New Jersey as well as some other States did 
all they could to lower their sums but all in vain. 

P M Marine Committee 

587. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO THE GOVERNOR OF New YoRK 

(George Clinton).^ 
Public. 

Phila: 7 Octr. 1779. 
Sir, 

Congress Yesterday determined to raise 1 5 Mills : per Month from 
the 1st. Feby. to the 1st Octr. inclusive. They did me the Honor to 
appoint me on the Comm : for apportioning this Sum. I was unadvised 
from the State on this Subject but from what I learned at Kingston 
deemed it my Duty to endeavor at lowering our Proportion which was 
Effected as well in the Comm : as in the House without Dissatisfaction 
tho' not without Difficulty. Perhaps I may not have thoroughly accorded 

no protection to be expected from the Authority of the State for an honest Man, I am 
under the Necessity of requesting Congress to Order me a Guard of Continental Troops. 
This request I presume will not be denied to a Man who has so often fought and bled 
in Defence of the Liberties of his Country. I have the honor to be with great 
respect Sir, Your most obedt. Hble. Ser\'t. B. Arnold. 

" N B I believe 20 Men with a good officer sufficient." 

The refusal of Congress to order the guard was probably as much because of Arnold's 
insinuations against the Pennsylvania authorities as for any other reason (see the 
resolution). To the letter of President Huntington transmitting the resolution, Arnold 
at once replied as follows : 

"Sir This Instant I have the honor of receiving your Letter and the Resolution of 
Congress of the Present date. I am extremely sorry Congress should have misunder- 
stood my meaning when I said, ' There was no protection to be expected from the 
Authority of the State for an honest Man [' ], their Disposition to protect the honest 
Citizens I did not Doubt, their Abilities I doubted and still have reason to doubt, from 
the fatal Consequences of yesterdays Commotions." Some citizens, he says, had applied 
for protection, but the authorities had been unable to afford it. He continues : 

" Agreable to the Sense of Congress I shall immediately make application to the 
Executive Authority of this State for Protection. I must beg leave at the same time 
to observe, I think it will be ineffectual, as I do not believe it is in their Power to 
Protect every honest Citizen who is in danger from a Mad Ignorant and deluded Rabble, 
from whose Brutality I have every thing to fear and reason to think my life in danger. 
And must again beg leave to renew my request to Congress for a Guard, that Honorable 
Body will pardon me for observing I think my Rank in the Army Intitles me to a Guard 
of Continental Troops. If I am not happy enough to obtain one, and am again Attack'd, 
Self Preservation will Induce me to defend myself to the last Extremity, and I hope 
the Hon'ble Congress will not think me Chargible for the Consequences." 

This letter appears to have been read in Congress at the last moment prior to adjourn- 
ment, and no action was taken upon it. The letters of Arnold are in Papers Cont. Cong., 
no. 162, vol. I., ff. 185, 187. It will be observed that this occurrence was two days after 
the "Fort Wilson" riot (see nos. 575, 577, 582-584, ante). 

[586]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Fell records here the quotas as found in the Journals, Oct. 7. 

[587] 1 Mass. Hist. Soc, Washburn Autographs. 

35 



478 Continental Congress 

with the Views of my Constituents if so let me bear the Blame singly and 
none of it fall on my worthy Colleagues as I am the blameable. If I sup- 
posed the weak Voice of their Servant would weigh with those whom 
I represent amid the loud Calls of public Necessity the risque of public 
Honor and Safety the Incitements of all good Men and the Weight and 
Magnitude of the Objects we contend for I would pour out to them my 
earnest Supplications by speedy vigorous and repeated Taxation to strike 
at the Root of a Disease which may prove dangerous if not fatal. I 
would add one Word to caution agt. those palliative Remedies which 
under the Name of Regulations and under the Appearance of Patriotism 
have been at once ineffectual in the Instant tyrannous in the Execution 
and pernicious in the Effect. But I rely on their Wisdom on their Ex- 
perience on the Reason and Nature of things which must at length draw 
all things into those proper channels from which temporary Expedients 
may vainly have forced them.^ .... 

588. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[October 8, 9, 1779.] 

Friday Octr. 8th Com'l Committee Congress Letter from General 
Washington relating to ^ The Memorials of G Morgan and 

Trent, Respecting the Lands of Indiana and [Vandalia] Refferd to a 
Committee of 5.^ 

Several Reports from the Treasury etc. 

Marine Committee 

Saturday October pth * Com'l Committee Congress. After the dis- 
patches were Read the Committee on Ways and mea[n]s brought in the 
draft of a Letter to be sent to the Governours and President of Each 
State for the Requisition of the 15 Million etc.^ the Committee brought 
in the draught of Commission and Letter of Credence for the Secretary 
appointed to go to Spain 

589. Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke.^ 

Philadelphia, October 9, 1779. 
My Dear Sir: 

.... Spain's declaration against Britain may, as you conjecture, pro- 
long the war. Mr. Jay is appointed Minister Plenipotentiary to the Court 

2 Jay wrote to Clinton at some length on the same day (Clinton Papers, V. 311),, 
discussing in particular some phases of the Vermont question. He also remarked : 
" Morris is again with us, and I am glad of it. His Constituents must be either infatuated 
or wretchedly misinformed, if they omit continuing him in the Delegation. But you 
know my Sentiments on this Subject, and it is unnecessary to dwell on it. For Heaven's 
Sake, send an able Delegation and preserve the high Rank you hold among the States. 
I wish Hobart may be sent; at this Season he would be particularly useful, and I am 
sure until your Vermont Business be over, a special occasion for his being here will 
clearly exist." See nos. 495, 565, 566, ante. 

[588]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Washington's letter (dated Oct. 4) related to the matter of co-operation with 
Comte D'Estaing. It is in Writi)igs (ed. Ford), VIII. y2< (ed. Sparks), VI. 368. 

3 See nos. 522, 527, ante, and nos. 616, 622, 628, 629, 632, 639, post. 

* Holten records under this date, " I dined with Mr. Laurens and about 12 more 
members of Congress ". 

s The letter is in the Journals, Oct. 9. 
[589]! A^, C. State Recs., XIV. 347- 



October, ///p 479 

of Madrid, and Mr. Carmichael his Secretary; John Adams is appointed 
Minister Plenipotentiary to negotiate a Peace, Mr. Dana his Sect., and 
Colo. Lawrence, son of old Mr. Lawrence, Sec'tary to Doct. Franklin. 
Fifteen millions per month is called for from the Sev. States. Quere: 
will it be paid ? I believe not. The consequences, you must know, will be 
distressing indeed. The quota of our state is out of proportion, but this 
could not be avoided. 

.... The press stops at 200 Millions, which I believe will be ex- 
pended in December. Out of the 60 Millions which was heretofore called 
for from the states, only 3 millions have been received. How the war can 
be carried on after that period (Dec.) I know not. I do not expect the 
Treasury can possibly be supplied by the States 15 million per Month: 
North Carolina, I am confident, can not supply her Quota Monthly. I 
dread the consequences, but, as you say, " we must take events as they 
happen ". 

For God's sake come on to relieve me in Nov., but at the furthest the 
very beginning of December, and make that Domestic creature, Whitmell 

Hill, come with you Could not Hooper, Nash, Johnston, or some 

such, be sent with you ? Believe me, they will be much wanted. I acknowl- 
edge it is cruel in me to wish you to return ; you have already suffered more 
in your private Concerns than any man who has been in the Delegation 
for some time past. But you have this Consolation : that, should you fail 
of receiving your reward in this world, you will no doubt be singing 
Hallelujas in the next to all Eternity, Tho' I acknowledge your Voice is 
not very well Calculated for that business 

Mr. Jay Draughted the Circular Letter. Hooper and yourself know his 
manner.^ 

590. Henry Laurens to Benjamin Lincoln.^ 

Philadelphia, 9th Octr. 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

I had the honor of addressing you under the 24th ulto., and recom- 
mended my letter to the care of Col. Malmadi.^ 

On the 4th inst., and no earlier, I received your favor of the 20th July, 
together with Doctor Oliphant's ^ return of the state of the hospital in the 
southern department. These papers had been detained by Doctor Read,* 
who, being retarded by sickness, was a long time performing his journey 
from Charleston. I shall be particularly attentive to your recommenda- 
tions, and Doctor Oliphant may rely on my endeavours to obtain an estab- 
lishment of the medical department, in So. Carolina and Georgia, under 

2 The circular letter of Sept. 13, found in the Journals under that date. See nos. 
523, 524, 532, ante. 
[590]! Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XII. 390. 

2 Col. Frangois Malmedy. 

3 Dr. David Oliphant, director general of hospitals in the state of South 
Carolina. See the Journals, Aug. 24, 1779, Feb. 25, 1780. 

* Dr. William Read (1754-1845). See i'. C. Hist, and Gcncal. Mag., XXV. 17, 
where he is spoken of as deputy surgeon-general. Some " Reminiscences " of Dr. Read 
are found in Gibbes, Doc. Hist, of Am. Kcv., III. 248-293. 



480 Continental Congress 

his direction. The Chairman of the Medical Committee ' is not yet re- 
turned ; consequently, no report, on the commitment spoken of in my 
last, has been made. I judge it best to hold in my own hands Doctor Oli- 
phant's return, till that Gentleman shall appear, the presentation will then 
act upon him as a stimulus. Public business is exceedingly delayed in Con- 
gress, by this fluctuality of its members, but I will not leave Philadelphia, 
before I see the article in question determined 



591. A Committee of Congress to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Phila. Sepr. [October] 9th 1779 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will be informed by the inclosed Copy of a Letter 
from the Commander in chief to Congress, that a large quantity of Flour 
will be immediately wanted for the Army. We have calculated upon the 
State of Marylands furnishing Ten thousand Barr's over and above what 
Mr. Holkers Agents want for the Count D'estaignes Fleet, which we 
have reason to believe is more than half laid in. The Agent for Virga. 
should suspend his Purchases for that State till the Ten thousand Barr's 
for General Washington are procured. Vessels must be had if possible for 
the Transportation of this Flour to such place or places as his Excellency 
the General shall hereafter direct. 

To enable you to furnish the Purchasers with Money, you will from 
time to time draw from your Treasury such sums as have, or may come 
into it from Continental Taxes; and whatever may be further wanted, 
must be sent from this place of which be pleased to forward an Estimate : 
But as the Continental Treasury is very low, we beg of you to press as 
little upon it as possible. 

Altho it is well known to the Enemy that the Count D'estaigne may be 
hourly expected, yet as it is not known that the General and he are to act 
in concert. Congress have enjoined its Members to secrecy, which you and 
the Council will be pleased to observe.^ 

With the greatest respect and esteem we are, Sir, 

Your Excellencys Most Obedient Servts. 
Nich's Van Dyke 
Wm. Paca 
James Forbes 

Dan of St. Thos. Jenifer 
Jno Mathews 
Two Resolutions of Congress are inclosed. 

5 Probably Nathaniel Scudder. He appears to have been absent from Sept. 18 
to Oct. 20. A report was brought in Oct. 27. See, further, the Journals, Oct. 28, 
Nov. 16, 19, 20, 22. 

[591]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 33 (in the writing of Jenifer). 

2 This letter is in accordance with the reference, Oct. 8, of Washington's letter 
of Oct. 4 to the delegates of Delaware, Maryland, and South Carolina. Cf. no. 576, ante. 



October, lyjg 481 

592. John Fell, Diary,^ 

Sunday Odor. 10, 1779 Dined at Frankford. 

Monday Octr. nth. Commercial Committee. Sundry Letters Memo- 
rials etc. A Memorial from the Legislature of New Jersey relating to 
fixing the Price of Produce etc. Committed to a Member from Each 
State.' 

Tuesday 12th. Commercial Committee Congress. Letter from Coll. 
Broadhead giving an Acct. of his Transactions and Expedition again [s]t 
the Indians, etc. Moved that the Commissioners etc. for the Board of 
Treasury hold their Offices during Pleasure.^ 

P M Marine Committee 

593. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee.^ 

Virginia 12 October 1779 "^ 
Your [enemies]^ have triumphed at last, [wicked] persevering and 
under no kind of [restraint] they have fairly [worried] out the [friends] 
of [virtue] and their [country]. By various manoeuvers and after re- 
peated and frustrated attempts to recall, one was fallen upon that suc- 
ceeded and Jay of [Congress] is to go [plenipotentiary] to [Spain] 
Mr. John * [Adams] is to [negotiate] the [peace] with G. B. when that 
comes on. I sent your [resignation] long since to Philadelphia to be sub- 
mitted, as to presentation, to Americas best friends, and it was deter- 
mined to [withhold] it until it was seen how [Congress] would act in 
[Deane's] affair. In the mean time, the above manoeuvers took place — 
I believe it will now be presented. Your best friends are of opinion that 
you should come immediately over and before [Congress] demand a full 
hearing and a complete vindication — If it is [refused] the [public] will, 
on an [appeal] do right to the injured. In your Letter to Loudoun of 
May 28 Last, you deliver a sentiment that is perfectly just, that in a free 
country like ours their is no disgracing a man who is shielded by inno- 
cence and evidence — far less can a wicked faction do any such thing. Bad 
men may impose for a time, but cannot stand against the truth fairly 
displaied and properly enforced, our [frigate], [Confederacy], will 
carry [Gerard] (and perhaps [Deane]) home, by her [return] you and 
Ludwell may [return] here. These two men have been most intimate 
here, and tho constantly declaring for many months past that they must 

[592]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 594, post. 

3 The motion is not recorded in the Journals Oct. 12, but see ibid., Oct. 20, 23, 
and no. 614, post. It is significant that when a vote was taken on this question (Oct. 23) 
every voice from New England except one (Gerry) was in the negative, while from 
the states south of New England only three members voted no. It is perhaps also 
significant that the motion was made by Fell, who had served on the bench. He was 
chosen one of the judges of the common pleas of Bergen County Sept. 6, 1776, and was 
reappointed Sept. 28, 1781 (N. J. Arch., second ser., I. 54, 456). 

[593]^ Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VI. 121. The body of the letter is a copy, but 
the date line at the beginning, a few minor emendations, the signature (which is in 
cipher), and postscript are in Lee's own hand. 

2 Although Richard Henry Lee had been absent from Congress since May 24 
and had in fact resigned his seat, it is deemed proper to include this letter here. It does 
not appear to have been hitherto printed. 

3 Words in square brackets are written in cipher. See no. 87, ante. 
* The copy has " Jhon " here and also near the close of the letter. 



482 Continental Congress 

depart in a few days yet they never stirred until their [point] was 
[gained] and now I suppose, as a certain gentleman says, they are glutted 
(even to statiety with revenge) they will realy go. Wisdom and perse- 
verence are excellent qualities, to secure success and to vanquish finally all 
wicked combination. If you can, I would advise you to land at Ports- 
mouth in Newhampshire where I am assured you will be well received, at 
that place and at Boston you will have an opportunity of seeing General 
Whipple and Samuel Adams Esqurs. with other wise and virtuous friends 
of America, who loving their Country, esteem and honor its able and vir- 
tuous Citizens. You will thus have an opportunity of seeing a valuable 
part of this union which you have not yet been personally acquainted with. 
Mr. John Adams, since his arrival here and before he came has in his Let- 
ters (for he has not been at Congress) done great justice to your char- 
acter. The above business was determined in Congress before the arrival 
of the Chavalier de la Luzerne, he has since arrived at Philadelphia. The 
Virginia Delegates in Congress are James Mercer! Wm. Fitzhugh of 
Chatham! Flemming! Cyrus Griffen! Mery Smith [!] I wish that Mr. 
Wm. Lee and Mr. Izard would come with you. 

Farewell 

[First Survivor Brother] 

[Congress] neglected for very obvious reasons to publish your [Vindi- 
cation], but I expect to get it done immediately leaving out such parts as 
might be improper on account of [foreign powers]. An honorable Mem- 
ber of Congress says he doubts not but that your Country will yet do you 
honor. ^ I think so too. A temperate, firm, and wise conduct is only 
necessary. 

Virginia 12 Oct 1779 

594. The Virginia Delegates to the Speaker of the Virginia 
House of Delegates (Benjamin Harrison).^ 
Sir 

The good Intentions of a neighboring state having committed to our 
charge the conveyance of the enclosed paper, we do ourselves the honor 
to hand it to the Virginia assembly under your address, we have only 
to add that in consequence of a representation from the same state ad- 
dressed and received by Congress the business is so far began as to be com- 
mitted to a member from each state.^ 
We have the honor to be. Sir, 

your most obedient humble Servants 
C Griffin 
Js. Mercer 
William Fitzhugh 
October 12th [1779.] 

5 Henry Laurens. See no. 559, ante. 
[594]^ Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels. 

2 This was a representation from the state of New Jersey with regard to limita- 
tion of prices. A month later the proceedings of the convention of committees of the 
eastern states, held at Hartford, Oct. 20, was referred to the same committee. See the 
Journals, Oct. 11, 21, Nov. 10, 15, 18, 19. See no. 592, ante; cf. nos. 596, 603, 61G, 642, 
648, 6S4, 657, 659, 689, 697, 700, post. 



October, 1779 483 

595. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee/ 

Philadelphia 12th October 1779. 
My Dear Sir, 

Since my last Letter to you under the 28th September I have not been 
honored with any of your favors, nor, from a former intimation, could I 
have expected to hear from you.^ 

We remain without any addition to the first advices of Count 
d'Estaing's arrival near Georgia, this circumstance detains me in Phila- 
delphia, which I cannot conveniently depart from, until I shall have seen 
and conversed with the Young Grentleman lately appointed Secretary to 
the Embassy at Versailles. I mean to give him a faithful unbiasing ac- 
count of Foreign and domestically-transacted-foreign affairs and leave 
him to judge and determine, if he reads my heart he will return thanks 
and decline acceptance.^ 

You will receive with this a Copy of the Journal containing the Yeas 
and Nays formerly spoken of. the different principles alluded to by a 

Note in the Margin were — I thought 10 or 15. by far too little. L 

was of opinion that any thing would be too much.* The Report for which 
a certain Monday was " set apart " remains unconsidered and probably 
will remain so to the day of Judgement.'* Yesterday I received Packets 
and Letters ten in number directed to yourself and colo. F. L. Lee from 
France which I have delivered to Mr. Lovel who has shown me Copies of 
two which will be read this Morning in Congress. I shall move to have 
them printed, if refused, and I can obtain Copies, they shall be printed. 
Mr. Lovel will enlarge on these points.^ The P. S. to my Letter above 
recited informs you that I had paused upon the propriety of transmitting 
a Paper which had been inclosed. Upon mature reflection and consider- 
ing circumstances which have since happened I see nothing improper in it, 
therefore I shall inclose it with this in its original state, probably it may 
at this distance of time convey no information.'' the Salaries to Minis- 
ters Plenipo : £2500. Stg per Ann. to their Secretaries £1000, in full of all 
expences etc. passages excepted. I moved for £2000, and £700. and was 
uniformly no! against every thing higher and my motives and reasonings 
I trust will meet the approbation of my thinking fellow Citizens, we have 
made the appointments where are the funds? Mr. Carmichael had no 
competitor, but I refused my Vote; upon proper reflection I am persuaded 
he himself will applaud my candor and I will take the liberty of adding, 
my judgement.* 

[595]^ Am. Phil. Soc, Lee Papers, vol. II., p. 188, no. 52. 

2 See Lee to Laurens Oct. 15, in Letters of Richard Henry Lee, II. 159. 

3 The young gentleman referred to was John Laurens. 

* The reference is to the proceedings Aug. 26 respecting compensation to Deane. 
In his letter of Sept. 12 Lee had asked for these yeas and nays. See nos. 501, 559, ante. 
" L — " was evidently James Lovell. 

^ See no. 559, ante. 

*> See no. 599, post. No letters of Arthur Lee were read in Congress Oct. 12, 
but several communications were read Oct. 13. That of Apr. 26 is in Wharton, Rev. 
Dipl. Corr., III. 136; that of May 31 is ibid., p. 196. 

^ See no. 559, note 3, ante. 

8 See the Journals, Oct. 4. Cf. no. 574, ante. 



484 Continental Congress 

He who had repeatedly acknowledged that he had called an American 
Minister in Office a Rascal and did not deny that he had called him Vil- 
lain too and said he would display his Villainy to Congress, must have 
been either right or wrong. I need not deduce the logical conclusion. I 
think I have acted as if I understood it. 

The two Legs are made Ult : but yesterday there was a proposition for 
reconsidering and expunging the southermost. I opposed it, after an hours 
debate, adjourned, we shall hear more of it to day I told the advocate 
for expunction, I had long since heard every word he had offered in sup- 
port of his motion — out of doors ® 

The Confederacy is still at Chester her Passengers will embark in the 
course of this Week.^° 

God bless you my Dear Sir, have patience and all things will work to- 
gether in support of honesty and truth 

I am with sincere Esteem and regard 

Your obedient and most humb. Servt. 

Henry Laurens. 

I have heard some people impudently talk of meanness in a 



but I have not in my life seen more marks of sordid meanness than has 
been for some days past displayed by a monosyllable.^^ 

596. Henry Marchant to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Oct. 12th, 1779. 
Sir, 

Mr. Collins sat out last Tuesday for Providence, meaning however to 
take the Camp in his Tour; and proposed to wait there a few Days for 
Count De Staing's arrival, and to put himself on Board, if possible. Before 
the Receipt of This Your Excellency will have reed. The address of 
Congress, and the late subsequent Resolutions calling upon the States 
for all future Supplies. Your Excellency will perceive that from an 
Arbitrary and unreasonable Depretiation of the Currency, no ways pro- 
portioned to the Emissions, The amazing high Prices have caused the 
monthly Expenditures for the Support of the Army and the Common 
Cause to be very enormous. It cannot be doubted, but that the very As- 
sessment of those Taxes, at least the first and second monthly Collections 
must have an Effect upon Prices and appretiate the Currency, as soon as 
this shall be happily effected ; I should presume that Congress will be able 
proportionably to relax in the future Taxes. As The State I have the 

^ The two " Legs " were the fisheries and navigation of the Mississippi. The 
proposition for " reconsidering and expunging the southermost " was probably the motion 
(Oct. 13) by Wither spoon and seconded by Gouverneur Morris to recede from the latter 
claim on conditions. The Journals of Oct. ii and 12 give no indication of a discussion 
of the subject. See Lee to Laurens Sept. 19 (Letters, ed. Ballagh, IL 150). 

1° The Confederacy was to convey Gerard, Jay, and Carmichael to France. See 
the Journals, Oct. 2, 16. Cf. nos. 488, 535, 546, 558, 672, ante, and nos. 606, 609, 617, post. 

^1 The allusion is doubtless to Jay. 
[596]! R. L Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1779-1780, p. 19; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 252. 



October, lyjg 485 

Honor to represent has hitherto taken more than its Proportion of Taxes, 
and its Situation from the Invasion of the Enemy, and the Consequent 
scattering of a great Part of its Inhabitants, and other Considerations 
have most severely distressed the State, I v^^as so happy as to prevail in 
reducing Our Proportion of the Taxes for the Year 1780 One Third less 
than heretofore.^ .... The State of New Jersey have addressed Con- 
gress in the strongest Terms upon the Subject of regulating Prices and 
pray that Congress will take it into serious Consideration, and recom- 
mend a Plan for that Purpose to all the States. Indeed New-Jersey never 
repealed their Former Act. but suspended it only till as They say The 
Wisdom of the other States should perceive as they do the absolute Ex- 
pediency of the Measure. Congress have committed the Address of New- 
Jersey to a Committee of one Member from each State. The Legislature 
of New-Jersey have sent forward to the Delegates of all the States in Con- 
gress, an Address to every State, requesting that those Addresses may be 
forwarded by the Delegates of their Respective States, And I have ac- 
cordingly enclosed one to your Excellency. Should such a Measure take 
Place; The Expenditures would be diminished, and Taxes I presume pro- 
portionably lessened. I should be glad of the Sense of my Constituents 
upon so important a Subject. Should I not receive any — I shall endeavour 
to act from such Principles, as I conceive were the Inducements in Their 
late Transactions in Convention.' .... 



597. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams. ^ 

Philadelphia, Octr. 12, 1779 
My dear Sir, 

I have received from Mr. Lovell your Accounts and Vouchers, and 
shall deliver them to the Board of Treasury ; how far they will be able to 
comply with the proposition of returning the latter, which is contrary to 
their usual Practice, I am unable to say, but will use my best Endeavours 
to accomplish it. 

Having lately explained to you some Matters,^ relative to our internal 
political Manoeuvres, It is needless to trouble you farther on that Sub- 
ject. I must however acknowledge that your good Opinion is flattering 
to the person who is so happy as to enjoy it, and at the same Time that it 
exceeds his Merit, it cannot fail of increasing his Desires of deserv'ing it. 

I mentioned in my last, that Dr. Bancroft and Sir James Jay will prob- 
ably be nominated, if Mr. Dana declines his Apf)ointment, to the Office 
of Secretary ; since which the Powers thereof are enlarged with the Com- 
mission of Charge D'Affaires in Case of the Absence or Death of the 
principal, and the Office is so desirable as to be sought, by others of Influ- 
ence and Abilities. It is uncertain therefore, who will succeed in the new 
Appointment, and it is for the Interest of the publick, to prevail with 

2 See the Journals, Jan. 5 and Oct. 7. 

3 See no. 594, note 2, ante. 
[5971^ Adams MSS. 

2 See no. 562, ante. 



486 Continental Congress 

Mr. Dana, if he has any Doubts, to annul them on this Occasion, and 
accept the Office 

[P. S.] The Salary of a Minister is fixed at £2500 sterl. and of his 
Secretary at £1000. 

Your Appointment I think ought not to be divulged at present, but find 
that [it] is generally known, and as generally approved.^ 

598. Woodbury Langdon to the President of New Hampshire 
(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia, Octobr. the 12th, 1779 
Sr 

.... You will have received sundry Resolutions relative to Vermont 
from the President of Congress a Copy of the last of which I herein in- 
close, the others of the 24th September were pass'd while I was confined ^ 
and I cannot say are altogether to my mind, this Business in my opinion 
is of the greatest consequence to New Hampshire and requires her most 
serious attention for many very weighty Reasons.^ .... indeed there 
does not appear to me the least probability that Vermont will be allowed 
to be a seperate State and every step that has been or may be taken by 
New Hampshire to countenance it weakens her claim far beyond what 
many Gentlemen of New Hampshire have any conception of¥ and will be 
so construed in desiding the dispute, therefore I wish most heartily that 
New Hampshire and the Inhabitants of what is called the Grants or Ver- 
mont would for the interest of both lay aside every thought of making the 
latter a seperate State and unite in their endeavours to be one State in 
which case in my opinion they will succeed, but if Vermont persists in en- 
deavoring to be a seperate State and New Hampshire appears to acquiesce 
they will very likely both be disappointed and in all probability Vermont 
will be adjudged to New York.* .... 

3 John Lowell of MassachuseUs, who was at this time in Philadelphia, wrote 
to Adams on the same day : 

" I have but a few Minutes in which I can write, and I cannot devote one of them 
to any other, than the main Purpose of this Letter — you must accept the Appointment 
which Congress has lately made you, a more important and more critical one never fell 
in your Way — every restraining Motive must be forgotten or banished — your Choice was 
unanimous ; save one Vote, yet there are not a few, who wish you, being appointed, may 
refuse, that the Election from another Quarter may take Place, no other New England 
Man will be chosen, the Interest of America requires, blind as some People are to it, 
that a New England Man should negotiate a Peace — our Friends in N E. ought and will, 
if the Provision is not adequate, make it so; they ought not to expect you will go on 
sacrifising your whole little Fortune to their good, but if they are so ungratefull, I think 
you will yet do it — I have ventured on the Friendship I feel for you and I flatter myself 
you have for me, to add this Weight to a Scale which I hope will preponderate without — 
I am told that even an Hesitation or Delay may be dangerous — you have every Wish 
that I can form for your Success and Happiness" (Adams MSS., Boston; Hist. Maga- 
zine, I. 259). 

[598]^ Hist. Magazine, XXHL 105; N. H. State Papers, X. 355. 

2 In the beginning of the letter Langdon speaks of his prolonged illness. See nos. 
535, 537. ante. 

3 The principal reason advanced by Langdon is that New Hampshire without 
Vermont would be small and weak in comparison with her neighbors, and adds that 
the same reason would apply against Vermont becoming a separate state. 

* See nos. 544, 545, 561, 563, 565, ante, and no. 619, post. 



October, ///p 487 

Yesterday was forwarded to you by express Sundry Resolutions of 
Congress respecting a Supply of the Treasury, the Letter accompanying 
them together with the inclosed of the 13th Sepr past sufficiently point out 
the necessity of the measure without my ading any thing on the Subject,^ 
it gives me much pain to find that there appears to be a necessity for call- 
ing on the States for such large Supplies and confess that I am not with- 
out my fears respecting the success of it, but you must see what will be the 
consequence if it does not succeed, your Delegates have been able to pro- 
cure the Proportion of Tax for New-Hampshire to be much lower than 
what it has hetherto been,^ but it must be remembered that when hereafter 
the proportions of the Taxes of each State shall be finally fixed agreable 
to some former Resolutions of Congress if it shall then appear that New 
Hampshire or any other State has been deficient it will be then liable to 
make good such deficiency and on the other hand if any State has been 
overrated it will have credit for the same 

599. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

[October 13, 1779.]^ 
Dear Sir 

I believe I made some mistake in putting up the Papers for you by last 
post, as I find a Letter of the Kind which I intended to have sent — Direc- 
tion on the Cover — 

His Excellency The President of Congress 

Paris June 5th 1779. 

.... Tho' dated June 5th it is the exact copy of May 31st which was 
this day read in Congress and produced the inclosed Resolve.^ I imagined 
such an Entry on the Journals would be a sort of decency beyond total 
Silence and therefore moved it. The Letter was listened to with Gravity 
and some Remarks I made were approved and confirmed by each one who 
spoke and by no one more than Mercer who acknowledged that this Letter 
gave him new and pleasing Ideas of Mr. Lee. I was sure yr. Brother 
would so conduct if he found his ability to serve these States to be im- 
paired by the malignant arts of his avowed Enemies strengthened by the 
unbecoming Tameness of those who ought to be the Patrons of his Honor 
on the meer ground of official Relation, to say nothing of his proved 
Capacity his acknowledged Integrity and his unwearied Zeal. 

I did not venture to put into the President's Letter, as a copy now sent, 
one of the old Letters of March 1st for had I been interogated as to its 
arrival I should not have been in the State that honest Davus wished to be 
in regard to the placing of the Infant, iit liquido faciam says he, if I am 

5 See no. 6io, post. 
« See the Journals, Jan. 5, Oct. 7. 
[599]! Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 This letter bears a date in pencil, by a hand other than Lovell's, " Aug. 28, 
1779". probably because found with Lovell's letter of that date (no. 496, ante). The 
date is fixed by the mention of the resolve upon Arthur Lee's letter of May 31. 

3 The letter of June 5, which Lovell quotes, is merely a repetition of Arthur Lee's 
letter of May 31, offering his resignation (Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 196). Con- 
cerning Lovell's suppression of Lee's resignation, see no. 562, ante. Cf. Lovell's remarks 
in the next paragraph of this letter. The resolve referred to is in the Journals, Oct. 13. 



488 Continental Congress 

called upon to deny it. There would be a meaness in putting in now what 
I intend readily to own, when there is occasion, that I aided to suppress.* 
I have by me a Letter from Capt. Fowler ^ to a Friend of his here Col. 
Semple, in which, upon Sight of Rowlands ^ Peice of Augst. loth, he was 
induced to insert the strongest Testimony of the Stock jobbing Schemes 
of Wharton, Bancroft, etc. wishing however to have his own name con- 
cealed. He writes from Ohio Sepr. 22.'^ 

600. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[October 13, 14, 1779.] 
Wednesday Octr. jj ^ Com'l Committee Congress. Dispatches Let- 
ters and Memorials were Read, Also Reports from the Board of Treasury 
Dr. Weatherspoon moved for the Ultimatom in the Instructions to the 
Minister of Spain, instead of insisting on the Free Navigation of the 
Missisipi to have a free Port only 6 ayes 4 Noes i devided.^ 

Thursday 14th Octr. Com'l Committee Congress. Long debates about 
the title to be given the President of Congress whether Excellency or 
Honor* and the filling up the Secretary ['s] Commission. Dr. Wether- 
spoon not in Congress. State not Represented 
P M Marine Committee 

601. James Lovell to Arthur Lee.^ 
private 

Oct 14th, 1779' 
Dear Sir 

Mr. Bonfield on the 30th of June and 22d of July ' wrote to us and 
forwarded many Letters from you one only of which was new — a Letter 
of May 31 which was read in Congress Oct 13th and produced an Entry 
somewhat palliative in regard to the Doings of Sep. 27. I know not 
whether you was in France at the Time Mr. Bonfield wrote. I had been 
hoping that you would finish yr. Commission in Spain before Mr. Jay's 
Voyage could be compleated. The late Conduct of the Court of Madrid 
seemed to give a fair opening for it. I lament the Length of Time be- 
tween the Dates and Receipts of yr. Letters. I was sure that if you 
found yr. Ability to Serve us to be in fact impaired by the malignant 

* See note 3, above. Cf. no. 478, ante. There seems to be no letter from Arthur 
Lee extant bearing date of March i. 

^ Capt. Alexander Fowler. See no. 43, ante. 

s The article by "Rowland" (Richard Henry Lee), printed in the Pennsylvania 
Packet Aug. 10, may be found in Letters (ed. Ballagh), IL 108. See nos. 460, 478, 501, 
553. ante. 

'' If there was more of this letter it is missing. 
[600] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

- Holten records under this date, " I met a Committee this evening on Gen. 
Arnold's accounts ". 

3 See the motion in the Journals. 

* The Journals make no mention of this discussion. 
[601 ]i Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VL 123. 

2 A second letter of the same date (no. 602, post) is essentially a duplicate of 
this letter but is somewhat more ample with respect to one or two matters. 

3 These letters of John Bonfield were read in Congress Oct. 11. 



October, 1779 489 

proceeding of Deane and the unbecoming Tameness of those who ought 
to have shown themselves the patrons and Guardians of yr. Honor, you 
would tell us so, and make way for a Successor. Your Letter of May 
31st was listened to with gravity, and commented upon with approba- 
tion as well by former Cons as by constant Pros. Mercer owned he con- 
ceived new Ideas of you, and he looked Repentance. He has a curious 
Correspondent, a Brother of the same name in France who is very ready 
wth. his Opinions on our Affairs there. I would have you know his real 
Business. It has been hinted to me that he is in Pay as a Spy upon our 
Agents at Court.* 

I cannot but hope to find you very speedily in America. I think it 
highly interesting to yr. Suit that you should be on the Spot. 

The Circumstances of yr. having only 3 Months allowed after yr. 
Recall may prevent you from waiting the Arrival of the Confederacy with 
Mr. Gerard etc. I have therefore covered to Mr. Bonfield and Mr. 
Schweighauser what is for you of Importance by that Opportunity which 
is expected to sail in a very few Days. I really cannot send Copies of the 
Many Sheets put up to go by her. 

Doctr. Shippens Family are in Health. Your Friends in Virginia were 
so Sepr. 25th. 

Your affectionate humble Servant 

JL 

602. James Lovell to Arthur Lee.^ 

^'''''''\ Octr. 14th. 1779 

Dear Sir 

By Letters from Mr. Bonfield of the 30th of June and 22d of July 
I do not discover that you were gone to Spain as has been reported, nor 
do I know by them that you were yet in France a Copy of yr. Letter 
to the Presidt. of Congress to which the inclosed Resolve refers, has come 
to hand dated June 5th from Paris. I had been hoping that the late Turn 
in the affairs of Spain would have been embraced by you so far as that 
you would gain an Acknowledgement of us openly if not conclude a 
Treaty, before Mr. Jay could perform his Voyage. 

Many Things have concurred to give force to the Schemes of yr. in- 
veterate Foe. But I lament most of all the Length of Time between the 
Dates and Receipt of yr. Letters. The principle on which you asked to 
be recalled May 31st governed the Votes of some good men in the 
Business of appointing a Minister Plenipotentiary in Lieu of a Commis- 
sioner, and in their consequent Ballot, while others went on fas aiit nefas. 
Some of the Delegates of Virginia have conceived as they say new Ideas 
of you from yr. Letter, particularly Mr. Mercer who has- a curious Cor- 
respondent near our Plenipo at Paris. I Pray you to get and bring with 
you accurate accounts of the real Business of that Correspondent at this 
Time in France. He is Brother of the Delegate of the Same Name. I am 
told he is a Spy on our affairs.^ .... 

* George Mercer? 
[602] 1 Harvard Univ. Lib., Lee MSS., VI. 124. 

~ The remainder of the letter is nearly identical with the corresponding passages 
in the preceding letter of the same date. 



490 Continental Congress 

603. Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

Philadelphia Octr. 15th 1779 
Sir, 

The inclosed address, from the Legislative Council and General As- 
sembly of the state of New Jersey, came to hand a few days since; which 
I do myself the honor to transmit ; the representation made to Congress 
therein mentioned, respecting the utility (etc) of the measure, is now 
under consideration of a Committee of twelve; being a member from 
each state.^ 

The late application from the hon'ble Board to Congress, respecting 
the Penobscot affair, is referred to a Committee.^ .... 



604. John Armstrong to George Washington.'- 

Philada: 15th Octobr. 1779. 
Dear General 

.... It has not been in my power with any degree of facility, yet to 
get in the farther subsistance for the General Officers of the Army, but 
a good foundation is laid for it, and a short time will bring it on I hope 
to their satisfaction without the necessity of a memorial.^ A farther 
provision for the surgeons of the Hospital, has been already committed 
and will probably soon be reported.^ Mr. Gerard and Mr. Jay sets out in 
two or three days, preparations for foreign Courts and the revision of 
some points formerly determined, has of late much engrossed the atten- 
tion of Congress, in which I cannot but apprehend that rather hard mea- 
sure has fallen to the Lot of Dr. Lee. The Late appointment of Mr. John 
Adams may serve as a spunge to wipe of the stain of culpable neglect, a. 
tryal this sufficient in my Opinion to all that gentlemans gravity and plain 
brown hairs .... 

I am now leaving Congress having exerted the last dregs of any 
remaining talent I had under various impedijments. Finance, ( for which 
I never had any talent) is the only present ghost that stares every honest 
man in the face. Taxation, altho' the radical means of appreciation as 
well as of the payment of publick; debt, is a remedy too remote for our 
support the disease has ran too long to be overtaken by any common 
cure. A general Regulation of prices by Law is said to be impracticable. 
I have therefore wished to throw out some higher inducement to money 
holders on lone than any yet offered rather than the Ship shou'd get 
aground, but a large majority thought the present offers sufficient to pro- 
cure all we shou'd want untill supplyed by Tax. the expectation is futile 
and without political foundation. I presume however that some new push 

[603]! Mass Arch., CCI. 365. 

2 Cf. nos. 592, 594, ante, and nos. 610, 642, post. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 4, 21, Nov. 16, Dec. 28; also nos. 642, 652, post. 
[604] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXIV. 122. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 19, Nov. 18, Dec. 1,31. Cf. nos. 613, 623, 655, post. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 19, 22, 27, 28, Nov. 16, 19, 20, 22. 



October, ///p 491 

will be made for a foreign Loan.'* Retrenchmt. of expences is in it's 
place highly necessary and sooner or later a great share of the burthen 
of such a plan is likely to fall upon you, which rather ought to be done by 
others 

605. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[October 15, 16, 1779.] 
Friday 15 Odor. Com'l Committee Congress. Mr. Jay requested 
leave for Lt. Coll. Levingston ' to goe with him to Spain, a furloe was 
granted for 12 IMonths 
Marine Committee 

Saturday October 16th Com'l Committee Congress. After the dis- 
patches etc. were read,^ Congress went in to a Committee of the whole 
on a Report for obtaining a Loan for 5 Million of Dollars and having 
the same sold in Bills of Exchange or laid out in the Purchase of Goods 
to be disposed of by order of Congress, with a long train of Commis- 
sioners etc. after debate adjourned * 

606. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett/ 

Philada. 1 8th Octobr. 1779. 
Dear Sir 

.... Mr. Lowell from Boston is now here upon Some meratime 
Causes and Gives it fully as his opinion that the first Grant must inevitably 
hold the Lands against all Subsequent Claims. I Should write you par- 
ticularly respecting The Vermont affair but Suppose Genl. Whipple, who 
is fully possesd of that affair, will personally give you every Necessary 
information upon that head, no official News here from Count D. E^taing 
Since the first account of his Comming on the Coast of S. Carolina tho' 
reports about Town are that he has wholly exterpated the British Troops 
and Tories in that Quarter of the world. I hope Soon to have this report 
Confirmed, that the way may be open for future Success. 

Monsr. Gerard, and T^Ir. Jay with their attendance this day left Philada. 
for Europe I forget whether I have inform'd you that Mr. J. Adams of 
Boston was Elected ^Minister Plenipo. to Negociate Treaties of Peace 

and Commerce with G. B n and Mr. Danna for his Secretary, Mr. 

Jay minister Plenipo. for the Court of Madrid, and Carmichael his 
Secretary and Col. John Laurence Sec'y to the Court of Versailles, the 
particulars of which I have forwarded to Genl. Whipple. These things 
are most upon the Secret Journals but if I had a Sure Conveyance would 
Transmit you many matters that might be agreeable, and yet Safe when 
in your hands Tho you, as well as others, are not wholly exempted from 

* See the Journals, Oct. 15, 18, 21, 26, Nov. 8, 19, 23, 26, 29. Cf. nos. 636, 672, 
674, post. 

[605]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

- Col. Henry Brockholst Livingston. See no. 553, ante. 

3 Holten enters under Oct. 16, " We have a report that the enemy in Georgia 
are all made prisoners ". 

* See the Journals, Oct. 15, 16, 18, 19, 21, 26, and nos. 608, 611, 617, post, 
[606] 1 Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corr., vol. IL ("no. 12"). 



492 Continental Congress 

Companions who if I am not mistaken are of Such a kind, benevolent 
and ReHgious Temper and Disposition, as to Embrace every opportunity, 
in giving friendly advise and intelligence, even to our Enemies ! ! You'll 
please to observe, I dont Say you have a Man in your Secret Councils 
that is of Such a Religious Turn of mind. Some Suspicions you and I 
formerly had of Certain Persons I think were not ill founded. Congress 
have Call'd for a Tax of 15, million dollars pr. month for nine months 
Commin'g on the first of feby. Next and Ending in ocr. in the apportion- 
ing of which among the Several States, by a Committee of which I had 
the hon'r of being a member, with much difficulty the Quota of New- 
Hamp'r was Reduced one hundred thousand dollars pr. Month below its 
former proportion. I am uncertain how much advantage it will be to the 
State, as what we overpay will be placed to our Credit on interest, on the 
Contrary Shall be Charged the interest of any Sum we may finally be 
found in arrears^ Congress have recommen[d]ed the 2d Thursday in 
Deer, next to be observed as a day of Thanksgiving throughout these 
States. I have the hon'r to inclose you the Copy of a Letter from Mr. J. A. 
which will give you the fullest accot. of the real Situation of Europe 
last Spring or rather in the Summer, I think the letter was dated in July 
or augt. 79,^ which I find is omitted in the Copy. Genl. Whipple has 
Carried a Copy with him So that it is very probably you may have read 
it before this reaches you, however as it Contains So many useful observa- 
tions, hope tho' late will not be Disagreeable to you. 

my knowledge of your prudence forbids the necessity of hinting that 
the afore mentiond Letter is Transmitted in Confidence, and not to be 
made Public. 

P. S 



607. The Committee of Foreign Affairs to William Carmichael.^ 

Philadelphia 18 Oct. 1779. 
Sir 

I enclose to you copies of some resolves respecting the examination of 
accounts in Europe by Mr. Johnston.' It appears to me to be a very unde- 
fined sort of business as it has been managed, but in respect to that 
Gentleman's attestation and recompence, such as it is, I beg you would 
communicate one of the copies to Dr. Franklin, and one to Mr. Johnston. 
Ask the Doctor to let Certified Copies be sent to all who he knows ought 
to have them, as I shall only forward by other opportunities a number 
sufficient to secure arrival at his hands in case you should be unfortunately 
obliged to throw your papers overboard. Deus Meliora. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 7, and no. 598, ante. 

3 The reference is to Adams's letter of Aug. 4. See no. 513, ante. 

[607]^ Library of Congress, Papers Cont. Cong., no. 79, vol. L, f. 262 (Letter-book 
copy). 

2 The proceedings enclosed were presumably the resolve of Sept. 28 to appoint 
a person to examine the accounts of the commissioners and others in Europe, and the 
election, Sept. 29, of Joshua Johnson to that position. See no. 568, ante. 



October, ///p 493 

608. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[October 18, 19, 1779.] 
Monday the 18th Octr. Com'l Committee Congress, after the dis- 
patches, went in to a Committee of the whole when the Loan was agreed 
to and some Persons Put in nomination for Negotiating the Loan and a 
long debate about Imposting the goods. ^ 

Tuesday igth. Com'l Committee Congress. After the dispatches, 
went into a Committee of the whole, when the Question was put abt. 
Imposting the goods carried in the Negative per a great Majority After- 
wards a Printed Report of an other Committee was read, ( full of com- 
plex'd Idieas)^ Committe[e] Rose and had leave to sitt again. After 
some motions made in Congress Adjournd ; Mr. Huston came today * 
P M Marine Committee 



609. Henry Laurens to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, 19th Octob., 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

Since the date of my last of the 26th Septem. I have not been honoured 
with any of your Excellency's favors. After repeated tenders to Congress 
of the letters which your Excellency desired should be presented to the 
House, I obtained about a week ago a commitment of them without read- 
ing. Yesterday I put them into the hands of Mr President Huntington, 
when they were read and again committed,, therefore they are now out 
of my reach, otherwise they should have accompanied this ; ^ the trans- 

[608]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 605, ante, and under Oct. 19, below; also nos. 611, 617, post. 
5 The committee of the whole also had under consideration the report of the 
committee on departments (referred Oct. 18), which is doubtless the report to which 
Fell here alludes. The report is found in the Journals, July 23 (see no. 441, ante, also the 
Bibliographical Notes, p. 1457, and Evans, Am. Bibl., vol. VI., no. 16632). 

* William Churchill Houston, delegate from New Jersey. He had been absent 
probably a week or ten days. See no. 600, ante, and no. 61 x, post. 

[609]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., H. 444. 

2 See no. 550, ante. Governor Trumbull had submitted some correspondence 
between himself and Lieut.-Col. J. G. Diriks and with Baron Van der Capellen respecting 
a loan from Holland. (Concerning Diriks, variously called also "Derricks", "Derick", 
"Dirck", and " Dircks ", see these Letters, vol. HI., no. 457, and the Journals, Nov. 23, 
Dec. 15, 29, 1779; also ibid., 1780, passim.) On Oct. 13 this correspondence was referred 
to a committee (Laurens, Jenifer, and Woodbury Langdon), to whom were joined two 
members of the committee for foreign affairs, Witherspoon and Lovell. Oct. 15 the 
committee made a report, an outcome of which was the decision to send a commissioner 
to Holland to negotiate a loan, Henry Laurens being chosen for that mission Oct. 21. 
Trumbull replied to this letter of Laurens Nov. i (Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh 
sen, n. 449), sending another letter of Van der Capellen to be translated, but when his 
letter arrived Laurens had departed. See also a letter from Trumbull to Huntington, 
Dec. 13, one from Governor Livingston of New Jersey to Trumbull, dated December, 
1779. together with a letter from Baron Van der Capellen to Livingston, July 16 (ibid., 
pp. 458, 466, 468), and Huntington to Trumbull, Jan. 6, 1780 (ibid., HL 3; also the 
next volume of these Letters). Some correspondence between Van der Capellen on the 
36 



494 Continental Congress 

lation of the Dutch book goes on slowly.^ Mr. Mecklenburg, who was 
so obliging as to undertake to get that work performed, says the trans- 
lator is nevertheless not idle. 

I should have explained on the first above mentioned commitment by 
saying the Committee had made a favorable report on the letters and 
then returned them into my hands. I was desirous because you seem to 
have been so, and because the letters deserved attention, to have them read 
in full Congress. This was done yesterday and thence came the second 
commitment 

Your Excellency's packet addressed to the Baron Van der Capellen is 
committed to the protection of Monsr. Gerard, with a particular request 
to convey it in such manner as to avoid a heavy expence of postage. 
M. Gerard is now on board the Confederacy at Chester, and will sail with 
the first fair wind, probably this day.* 

If the intelligence which we have received through various channels 
of the Count d'Estaing's success at South Carolina and Georgia shall 
prove true, those States will enjoy a temporary tranquility and the enemy 
will feel the weight of a heavy loss and severe mortification ; according 
to those accounts, we have ground for expecting to hear of the Admiral's 
arrival at Sandyhook or Rhode Island to day or to morrow. All this 
looks very fair, but alas ! alas ! we are threatned with an empty Treasury 
before the 1st day of December. Vigoros and virtuos exertions of the 
citizens of these States, immediately put into action, must so far heal the 
wound given by rash, bad policy as to save us from a violent convulsion. 
Your Excellency has before this day seen the plan of ways and means; 
the medicine is rather rude, but if it be taken in time and in chearful 
spirits it may produce much relief, but cannot perform a radical cure; 
how is that possible when the expenditures continue to increase beyond 
the stretch of the amazing expected returns of 15 Mil. per month. It will 
however afford us a little time for breathing and recollection, and will 
stimulate the States to look a little more narrowly into things which 
concern their temporal salvation. 

one hand and Trumbull and Livingston on the other, as also with other Americans, 
is to be found in Bricven van en aan Joan Derek Van der Capellen van de Poll (Histor- 
isch Genootschap, Werken, No. 27), edited by W. H. De Beaufort. Bearing particularly 
upon matters of present concern are : Van der Capellen to Trumbull, Dec. 7, 1778, 
July 6, 1779, accompanied by a letter to Livingston (of which the letter of July 16 
mentioned above is a duplicate, though given a later date), Livingston's reply, Mar. 15. 
1780, and Van der Capellen's reply to him, May 25, 1781 (pp. 84, 108, in, 213, 246). 
See also these Letters, 11. 400 n., IIL 365 n. Letters of Van der Capellen relating to 
the question of an American loan are also found among the Franklin Papers (see 
L M. Hays, Calendar). 

3 See no. 550, note 3, ante. 

* " Three days since Mr. Gerard and Mr. Jay sailed for France " (William 
Sharpe to Governor Caswell, Oct. 24, N. C. State Recs., XIV. 213). Cf. nos. 595, 606, 
ante, and no. 617, post. The Confederacy was seriously disabled in a gale off New 
Foundland Nov. 7 and steered for Martinique, arriving at St. Pierre Dec. 18 or 19. 
Gerard and Jay took passage thence Dec. 28 in the Aurora. A detailed account of 
the troublesome voyage is given by Jay in letters to Congress and to Franklin (Wharton, 
Rev. Dipl. Corr., fiL 432, 435, 436, 446, 448, 450, 470). 



October, ///p 495 

6 10. Woodbury Langdon to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare)/ 

Philadelphia Octobr. the 19th 1779 
S'r 

The circular Letter refered to in my last I neglected to send at that time 
but have herein inclosed it, tho' you must have received one long ago from 
the President of Congress, inclosed is also a Paper from the State of 
Newf Jersey which I am desired by the Delegates from that State to 
forward, the Subject therein recommended is now before Congress but 
what will be the result of their deliberation thereon is very uncertain 
but I think it must be clear to every man for obvious reasons and late and 
repeated experience that it is very impolitic for any particular State to 
regulate Prises unless it becomes general throughout the united States 
and in determining that Question I hope that Wisdom and Prudence will 
direct.^ .... I have also inclosed the JournaUs of August and shall 
continue to forward them to you monthly for the future while I remain 
here. I shall send you the Journals from the date of those sent by General 
^Vhipple to the present time when they are ready and there is an op- 
pertunity (they are not yet printed for part of the year 1777 and the whole 
of the year 1778) 



611. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[October 20, 21, 1779.] 
Wednesday Octr. 20th. Com'l Committee Congress K number of 
dispatches Reports from Committees etc. A Report for the form of the 
Prayer to be used on Thursday the day of Deer, was read and agreed 
too,^ (Mr. Huston gone home having had an acct of the death of his 
Child) 

Thursday Octr. 21st. Com'l Committee Congress Some dispatches 
and several Reports from Committees.^ Order of the day for Balloting 
for a person to be sent to Europe to Negotiate a Loan Mr. Laurens was 
appointed Mr. Laurens 8 Votes, Mr. Adams 3.* (NB Mr. Scudder)^ 

[610]^ Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels. 

- The New Jersey representation relative to thei limitation of prices was 
presented to Congress Oct. 11. See nos. 592, 594, 603, ante, 642, post. 
[611]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The " recommendation " for a general thanksgiving December 9 is in the 
Journals, Oct. 20. 

3 One of the reports brought in this day was that of the committee on the 
memorial of Gideon Olmstead relative to the case of the sloop Active (see nos. 57, 91, 
ante). The committee, which was appointed Sept. 29, consisted of Root, Paca, and 
Laurens. It was probably in connection with the deliberations of this committee or its 
report to Congress that Laurens offered the following resolution (S. C. Hist. Soc, 
Laurens Papers, Congressional, undated) : 

" Resolved, that from and after this day the Captors of all prizes made by any Ship 
or other Vessel in Continental service shall be entitled to and enjoy the whole amount 
or value of such prizes without deduction any Resolve of Congress to the contrary 
notwithstanding." 

* See nos. 605, 608, ante, and no. 617, post. 

^ That is, Mr. Scudder had returned to Congress. 



496 Continental Congress 

612. Samuel Holten, Diary/ 

[October 20, 21, 1779.] 

20. I met the Committee and we prepared a Proclamation for a day of 
General Thanksgiving. 

21. I attended the committee on General Arnold's affairs. 

613. GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO GeORGE WASHINGTON.^ 

Phila'a 2 1 St Octr. 1779 
D'r General, 

Two Days ago I was placed on a Committee to report the necessary 
Provision to be made for Officers not heretofore provided for. I recollect 
at present the general Officers and Erskine's Corps (The Surgeons are 
already reported and the Report set down for this Day when as the Devil 
will have it I cannot attend) but as it would produce many Inconveniences 
to make this Provision which Congress intend to be general in any Respect 
partial I am sure you will pardon me the Liberty of requesting your 
Thoughts as to the two Points 1st — who farther shall be provided for 
and 2ly — what Provision all things considered is properly consistent with 
the last step taken by Congress relative to the Line.^ most sincerely I am 
D'r Sir 

yours 

Gouv Morris 

P. S. I recollect that it is long since I received a letter from you recom- 
mending Union in Congress.^ I could not answer it then as I wished for 
I could * truly say it existed or was like to exist. I would not go into a 
Detail of the Reasons it would have envolved too much Egotism and of 
Consequence could not have been quite impartial. At length let me con- 
gratulate your virtuous Moderation (I do not compliment) that we are 
united as much as is safe for the Public. 

614. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Friday October 22d 1779 Com'l Committee Congress. Memorials, 
Letter [s] Treasury Reports etc. 

Saturday 2^d. Com Committee Congress. After the dispatches the 
order of the day on the Report for the Sallerys of the Treasury B'd agreed 
as follows That the Commissioners and other Officers have their Places 

\612Y Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 29. 

[613]! Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXIV. 126. 

- See the Journals, Oct. 19, Nov. 18, Dec. 1,31, also no. 604, ante, and nos. 623, 
655. post. Washington's reply to this letter, Nov. 6, is in the Library of Congress, 
Washington Manuscripts. 

3 The letter referred to was probably that dated May 8, in Writings (ed. Ford), 
Vn. 449- 

* Morris must have inadvertently omitted the negative. Apparently he meant 
to write, " I could not truly say ", etc. 

[614]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



October, 1779 497 

during Pleasure. (Resolve Past some time since that the Election should 
be annual)^ Sallerys per annum. ^ .... 
Sunday October 24th. Rainy Day 

615. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[October 22-24, 1779.] 
22. I met the committee on the Post-office and the com't of 12 ^ and the 
com't on Gen. Arnold's accounts. 

2^. Congress settled the Salarys of the new board of Treasury. I at- 
tended the com't on the Post-office. 

24. Sabbath day. I drank tea with the Governor of this state. 

616. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to the Governor of Maryland 
(Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Phila. Octr. 25th 1779. 
My dear Sir, 

.... Congress have applied for Loans in Europe and lately in forced 
their applications, and there is now some prospect of Success. 

I have still hopes that the Back Lands, at least a considerable part of 
them, will come under the direction and disposal of Congress 

I did intend to set out for Annapolis on to day, but the business I men- 
tioned in my last not being yet brought before Congress, owing to the Ab- 
sence of Mr, Witherspoon, I have determind to stay all the week rather 
then leave this business unreported.^ I must therefore request the Senate 
(should I not be down in time) to choose a President in my room. By 
Thursday the 4th of Novr. if God spares me I shall be down in the mean- 
time I am with the greatest affection and esteem 

D'r Sir Your friend and Servt. 

Dan of St. Thos. Jenifer 

617. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Monday October the 2jth lyyg Com'l Committee Congress. Letter 
from Genl. Washington dated 21st advising that the Enemy had Evacu- 
ated Stoney and VerPlancks Point, and Reported they were going to 
leave Rhode Island. Report from the Committee with Instructions to 
Mr. Laurens to Negotiate a Loan ^ 

2 The ordinance establishing the board of treasury, July 30, had provided for 
annual elections. See no. 592, ante, and the Journals, Oct. 20, 23. 

3 Fell sets down here the list of sallaries as provided for in a resolution of 
this day. 

[615]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 29. 

2 The committee appointed Oct. 1 1 on the New Jersey representation. 
[616]i Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, V. 8; Arch, of Md., XXI. 566. 

2 The business was evidently the report of the committee on the memorial of 
George Morgan. The committee, of which Witherspoon was chairman, was appointed 
Oct. 8 (see the Journals, Sept. 14). Witherspoon returned to Congress the next day 
after this letter was written, and the report was brought in Oct. 27. See, further, the 
Journals, Oct. 29, 30; cf. nos. 522, 527, ante, and nos. 622, 628, 629, 632, 639, post. 
[617]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 605, 608, 611, ante, and under Oct. 26, below. 



498 Continental Congress 

Tuesday 26th Octr. Com'l Committee Congress After some dis- 
patches were Read the Report for Instructions to Mr. Laurens was taken 
up and debated the whole day to no Purpose 

P M Marine Committee NB. Dr. Weatherspoon ^ 
Confederacy * and Eagle Packet Saild this day from the Capes 

618. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

Octr. 26th 1779. 
Dear Sir 

.... I shall attend to what you say of the Post Office And a Report 
is this Day in Train. I hope the office will have added to it all or most of 
the present Expenditures for Expenses ; or rather, that the office will be 
enriched with one twentieth Part of that enormous Siim.^ 

You must e'er this have heard of the Secretaries, and Joshua Johnson 
to examine accounts. But as Mr. Laurens is going to Holland I think he 
will be able, if directed to scrutinize many Things in France also. 

I have nothing from Mr. Jno. A and Fra D yet. But if the latter refuses 
I understand that Gov. M and Sr. J J are desirious of filling that Vacancy, 
or the principal one if J A refuses. I would even strive, therefore, for the 
2d place.^ 

I hope I shall have more leisure to write by next Opportunity. 

Yr. affectionate Friend and humb. Sevt. 

J.L. 

619. Nathaniel Peabody to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

Philadelphia Octor. 26th 1779 
My Dear Sir 

.... The affair of Vermont is a matter of Serious Consideration for 
if I can Judge by present appearances, that District will finally be ad- 
judged, either to N. Hamp're or N. York, and not to be a seperate Juris- 
diction. It therefore becomes Necessary for the State of N. Hamp're to 
Exert every Nerve to prevent a State by her vast Extent of Territory, and 
still Greater Claims, already Troublesome to her Neighbours and Tyrani- 
cal to the last degree over all such as are the unhappy victims of their 
resentment, from Extending Jurisdiction so as to Circumvolve the State 
of New Hamp're however I rest assured that the wisdom of the General 
Assembly is Equal to the importance of the undertaking, and it might 
Justly be stiled Arrogance in me to pretend to point out a mode of pro- 
ceedure for them, my worthy friend Genl. Whipple is able to give the 

3 That is, Witherspoon had returned to Congress. He had been absent since 
Oct. 14. See no. 600, ante. 

4 Cf. nos. 595, 606, 609, ante. 
[618] 1 Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. 

2 See the Journ-als, Oct. 23, Dec. i. 

3 Cf. nos. 553, 554, 557, 569, ante. The names above are John Adams, Francis 
Dana, Gouverneur Morris, and Sir James Jay. 

[619]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 125; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, 
p. 124. 



October, lyjg 499 

fullest account of the most material Circumstances, and I have no doubt 
but his opinion will be attended to. I imagine there is a Copy of a pro- 
posed Act respecting the Grants sent forward to some Gentn. in the State 
wh. I am far from thinking will suit a N. Hamp're Tast if I can judge of 
others by my own palate if such a Draught should appear, I beg leave 
Just to observe to you that it was hatched up by N. Y. and Consented to by 
some who are better acquainted with N. Y. Air and Secret designs than 
I have the hour to boast of!! I suppose the State of N. Hamp'e Com- 
petant without my particular direction to pass Acts, if agreable, exactly 
to Comport with the several resolves of Congress relative to the Grants.^ 
The Situation of my private affairs is such as makes it exceeding diffi- 
cult for me to tarry here longer than this fall ; and by some Inuendo lately 

dropt by ^ here have reason to imagine he has been inform'd from 

some of his friends, that my return home is soon expected by the State — 
however that may be give me leave to assure you with that Sincerity 
which becomes the Noblest Work of Deity, that I have not a Secret wish 
to be continued here a single moment longer, and hope some Gentleman 
will be appointed to take my place whose abilities may be adequate to the 
arduous Task. Not that I should ever be unwilling to serve my Country 
at any future period, if I should be so happy as to obtain their appro- 
bation.^ 

620. Henry Marchant to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, Oct. 26th, 1779. 
Sir, 

I was yesterday favoured with your Excellency's Favour of the 12tli 
Instant. I have with the greatest Pleasure communicated to Congress the 
spirited Measures which continue to be exerted by the Legislature, and by 
all Ranks and Degrees of the good People, of the State I have the Honor 
to represent. At the same Time I have not failed repeatedly to represent 
the Difficulties, grevous Expenses and peculiar Distresses that State hath 
hitherto sustained. I shall make an Application for a further Supply of 
Monies on Account : — But as all Supplies are in future to be expected 
from the States, your Excellency will readily suggest how difficult it may 
be to procure such an order from Congress. My most strenuous efforts 
shall not be wanting, and I am confident there will not be wanting a Dis- 
position in Congress to comply with the Request of the State. Yet I dare 
not flatter myself or the State with any great Success.^ .... 

621. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Wednesday Octr. zj. Com'l Committee Congress. Several Memorial 
Letters and Reports from Board of War and Treasury A Report from 

2 See no. 598, ante. 

3 Evidently Woodbury Langdon is meant. 

4 He adds a postscript to say, " N. B. I will finish this letter the next time 
I have the hon'r to write ". See no. 653, post. 

[620] iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1779-1780, p. 17; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 254. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 12, and no. 651, post. 
[621]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



500 Continental Congress 

the Medical Committee for further Provision for the Director General 
Surgeon Phisicuns etc. in the Army for Subsistance cloathing etc. 

Thursday Octr. 28th 1779- Com'l Committee Congress. After the 
dispatches, A Report from the Marine Committee was taken up to Estab- 
lish a Board of Admiralty consisting of 3 not Members of Congress as 
Commissioners and two Members of Congress w'th a Secretary. Sallery 
of the Commissioners 14000 D's per annum and Secretary loooo. 

622. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[October 29, 30, 1779.] 
Friday 2pth. Com'l Committee Congress. After the dispatches etc. 

were Read, the Committee to whom was Referrd the Memorials of Coll. 

Morgan and Coll. Treat [Trent] Respecting Lands claimd per Virginia 

brought in a Report, which Virginia objected to on which a long debate 

ensued.^ 

P M Marine Committee 

Saturday ^oth. Com'l Committee Congress. Resolved to Reccomend 

to the State of Virginia not to dispose of any unlocated Lands etc. 

623. John Armstrong to William Irvine.^ 

Carlisle, 30th October, 1779. 
Dear General, 

.... Before this time I hope farther provision is made for the sub- 
sistance of the General Officers of the Army, which at leaving Congress ^ 
I impressed on the minds of some members who promised suddenly to 
have it on the carpet, and to which I think there wou'd be no opposition.^ 
If any uneasiness shou'd arise to you, my advice still is that you write either 
to Congress directing to the President or to the Board of War, mention- 
ing only the facts and your confidence that justice will be done you.* 



[622]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 522, 527, 616, ante, and nos. 628, 629, 632, 639, (jost. Holten records 
under this date, " Congress spent part of the day considering the Indian affairs ". The 
Journals do not mention the consideration of Indian affairs on the 29th, but do record 
a matter of the sort under Oct. 27. 

[623]-^ Hist. Mag., VIII. 17. 

2 Armstrong obtained leave of absence Oct. 11, but was present Oct. 12. In the 
beginning of this letter he says, " I reached home about a week ago ". 

3 See no. 604, ante. Cf. no. 655, post. 

* See vol. III., no. 631; also the Journals, May 11, 12, 15, 1779. In a letter of 
May 15, read in Congress the same day, Irvine presented a claim of rank, primarily as 
between him and General Hand. Hand had been promoted, he said, while Irvine was 
a prisoner in Canada, although the latter was the older colonel by virtue of the date of 
his commission and also according to the state arrangement. Sundry other brigadiers 
had lately been appointed whom, he believed, he had " a right to the rank of on every 
principle ". See, further, the Journals, Jan. 29, Feb. 29, 1780. 



November, 1779 501 

624. Thomas Burke to the North Carolina Assembly/ 

To the Honorable the General Assembly of the State of North Carolina. 

Thomas Burke, one of the Delegates of the said State to the Congress 
of the United States, (his Colleagues being absent,) most respectfully 
represents : 

That, by the articles of Confederation, Nine States are required to conu- 
sant to every affirmative vote for Peace, for War, and for borrowing and 
emitting money — and five States, consequently, have a Negative. 

That, being now in a state of War, this negative might prevent a peace, 
tho' offered on reasonable Terms. 

That even a smaller number would be invested with this dangerous 
power, should any one or more of the States be absent, which has hap- 
pened with respect to Georgia for many months, and may also happen 
with respect to any which may be overrun by the enemy. 

That for every purpose of common defence and common Exertions in 
the progress of the present War and for the conclusion thereof, the States 
are unquestionably, united by former acts of the Several States, nor can 
this union derive strength from a partial Confederacy for the same or 
other purposes; on the contrary, such partial confederacy may lay the 
foundation of disunion, or, by seeming to do so, may have such Effect on 
the hopes of the British Ministry as to induce them to a longer Continua- 
tion of Hostilities. The present times are critical, and it seems prudent 
to decline every thing which may occasion, even an appearance of divided 
councils ; a partial Confederacy must be followed by confusion, the states 
so confederated, and such as are now so Confederated, could no longer 
form one Common Council ; and separately they could not form or Exe- 
cute any Common resolutions ; in a word, it would destroy the old union. 

It is Evident that the Confederacy, formed for thirteen, will not fit a 
smaller number, and that if a partial Confederacy be found Necessary, 
the articles thereof must be previously adjusted. The said Thomas Burke, 
for these reasons and many others, most respectfully submits to the Con- 
sideration of the honorable Assembly whether it be Expedient that the 
Delegates from this State be peremptorily required to recommend or enter 
into any partial Confederacy, pursuant to the instructions and resolutions 
of the 28th instant? or whether it be more Expedient to impower them 
to Act as Circumstances may require in a matter of so much Delicacy and 
Importance whose Consequences cannot now be actually foreseen.^ 

Thomas Burke. 
Halifax, October 31st, 1779. 

625. Thomas Burke to Arthur Middleton.* 

Halifax, Novr. 1st 1779 
D'r Sir 

Yesterday your obliging favor was delivered to me by Mr. Rutledge. 
and I beg leave to thank you for the Introduction of so agreeable and 

[624]! iV. C. State Recs., XIV. 349. 

2 Concerning the instructions alluded to, see ibid., XIII. 868, 960, 962. For other 
remarks of Burke upon the Confederation, see vol. II., nos. 739, 740; cf. vol. III., no. 162. 
[625]! 5". C. Hist, and Gcneal. Mag., XXVII. 153. 



502 Continental Congress 

valuable a Gentleman.- I hope his particular business with Congress will 
be attended to with the diligence and regard which a Subject so important 
requires, and I sincerely wish he may be as successful as in Justice and 
good Policy he ought to be. was I present in Congress he should have all 
the assistance which I could give him, but as I shall not be able to reach 
Philadelphia before December, I suppose my feeble Efforts may not come 
time enough to be of much Service. I cannot say the Complaints of your 
Country are unreasonable, or entirely unfounded, it cannot but appear 
Strange to them that a large body of good Troops were employ'd against 
Enemies so very Contemptible as Indians while your Country was left, 
almost defenceless. This affair is still involved in mistery — and perhaps 
your own Citizens or some of them may one day be called on for Expla- 
nations. I cannot enter fully into this Subject at present, but I hope such 
folly will not be repeated in future. The 111 Success of the Expedition 
against Savannah, Threatens you again with new distresses and difficul- 
ties, our Country, I believe will exert themselves to the utmost, but they 
are very much Exhausted and their affairs appear exceedingly deranged. 
I wish our Northern Neighbors had made Exertions equal to their 
Strength and professions. 

I know very well the Reluctance with which you must again undertake 
the business of Congress, but I confess it gives me pleasure to find that you 
can be prevailed on to perform that Essential Service to your Country. 
I have often, in the bitterness and Anguish and Indignation, lamented 
that you stayed away, the representation of your Country was at the time 
I speak of very different from what it was in your time, and I fear much 
of the Sufferings of all America, as well as of your own Country is Justly 
chargeable to some of the Individuals of Congress. This I shall be able to 
explain to you whenever I shall have the pleasure of a little private con- 
versation with you 

626. Jesse Root to Oliver Ellsworth.^ 

Philadelphia Novr 1st 1779. 
D'r Sir 

I reed, your favours of the 13 and 17th ult. with one Inclosed to Mr. 
Wilson " which I delivered, this day reed, yours of 25th, with the in- 

2 Middleton's letter, dated Oct. 18, is in A'^. C. State Recs., XIV. 211. Following 
is the essential part of it : 

" Give me leave to introduce to your acquaintance my Brother-in-Law and very par- 
ticular friend, Mr. Edward Rutledge. He comes to solicit the attention of Congress to 
his Country, which, unless aided in such manner as it has a right to expect from the 
Union, will probably soon undergo a most severe trial, and you must not be surprised 
at receiving disagreeable Intelligence. The Body of the people complain loudly of neglect 
in the Fathers of the Continent, and there is no knowing to what lengths their ill humor 
may carry them, however firmly determined particular characters may be to remain true 
at every risk to a contract which heaps upon them Burthens without Benefits. We are 
much obliged to your Country, which has been friendly ; I wish I could extend the 
Epithet further North. Notwithstanding my unwillingness even to re-enter the State 
House of Philadelphia, I fear I shall shortly be obliged to do it. If I should, I hope to 
meet you there and some other of my friends, whose presence will render the hard duty 
much less irksome. Mr. R. will tell you that I have not escaped Scotfree in the late 
incursion of the Enemy, but ' Salva Republica, salvus sum '." 

[626]^ London, Congregational Library, Sprague Collection. 
- Probably James Wilson. 



November, ly'jg 503 

closed paper and thank you for the Communication, our delegation is out 
this day and we are not Informed of any New appointment ^ Conclude 
the state dont mean to be without a delegation in Congress, shall be glad 
to be at liberty to return home, however at any rate shall leave Congress 
the latter end of this ^Month and depend you will releive me as I conclude 
you will be reappointed altho, you have Modestly Omitted your own name 
in the Votes for Nomination 

627. John Fell, Dl\ry.^ 

Monday November the 1st I'/yg Com'l Committee Congress. The 
Instructions and Commission for Mr. Laurens, his Sallery £1500 Sterl'g 
and a Secretary £300 Sterl'g. Dr. Wetherspoon gone home 

Tuesday Novr. 2d. Com'l Committee This day a doubt ariseing 
whether the Connecticut Delegates could set after the first Monday in this 
month, and not being Members sufficient without them no Business was 
done.^ 

628. Cornelius Harnett to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia November 2d 1779 
Dear Sir 

.... A Resolution of Congress passed yesterday ' will be transmitted 
to Your Excellency to be laid before Our General Assembly, to put a Stop 
to the further granting of Vacant Lands until the Conclusion of the war. 
the reason held forth for the adopting this measure, is the very great Emi- 
gration of people which will naturally follow the Measure, which I must 
acknowledge has some weight. But it is a well known fact that the Osten- 
sible reason ^ is, that the States at the end of the War, may Appropriate 
such vacant lands to the benefit of all the States in the union, to enable 
them to pay the Public debt. Virginia and No. Carolina Opposed this 
measure, and it is left to the Wisdom of the Legislatures of the States 
similarly Circumstanced with Virginia, to agree, or not, with this Pro- 
posal. I have to request that your Excellency will be pleased to send for- 
ward the Delegates to relieve us. It is impossible for you, Sir, to conjec- 
ture how disagreeable it must be to the State to pay the extravagant ex- 
penses we are at here, and how much more disagreeable it will be for us 
to require it. I have called out of the Treasury more than the half of my 
Salary, and shall be obliged to call for more to enable me to return to my 
family, where I hope I shall have the happiness to spend the remainder 
of my days in retirement; my time of life requires it 

3 See nos. 627, 6jo, 631, 640, 644, post. 
[627]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 626, ante, and nos. 630, 631, 640, 644, post. 
[628] 1 Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels; Harvard 
Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XXXVL 508; N. C. State Recs., XIV. 215. 

2 The resolution referred to is found in the Journals under Oct. 30, not under 
Nov. I. 

3 Harnett evidently means the actual reason. Cf. nos. 522, 527, 616, 622, ante, 
629, 632, 639, post. 



504 Continental Congress 

629. The Virginia Delegates to the Speaker of the Virginia 
House of Delegates (Benjamin Harrison)/ 

Philadelphia, Novr. 2d 1779. 
Sir, 

Our Collegue mr. Smith ^ having charged himself with the Copies of 
the Petitions of the Indiana and VandaHa Companies then before Con- 
gress to lay before the House of Delegates of Virginia It falls to our Lot 
to hand the enclosed to you for the further and full Information of your 
House as to the progress of that business A Business which we conceive 
may in Consequences greatly affect the Interest of Virginia in the first 
place, and ultimately injure the Rights of all the States in the Union.^ 

Your Hon'ble House may be assured that no pains were spared by the 
Virginia Delegates to defend the Rights of the State and to prevent Con- 
gress from establishing a Precedent so dangerous to the common Rights 
of the United States, but to how little purpose may be readily discovered, 
when you are informed that tho' the Committee determined this Case pri- 
vately and without Notice to any of the Virginia Delegates, and tho' their 
Report was so expressly counter to the Instruction of Congress, Yet 8 
States to 3 were against recommitting the Report. 

We must however observe that we understood on that Occasion that 
some of the Voters agt. the recommitment were agt. the Jurisdiction of 
Congress, upon Information of the facts laid before the Committee which 
were read in Congress and not denyed. But we are sorry we are obliged 
to say, that Congress were so determined to proceed upon this business 
agt. the Rights of Virga. that on the next day, tho' the business of In- 
diana and Vandalia was an order of the Day, and we had no Doubts the 
said Petitions wou'd be rejected, we discovered the Members for this 
business had changed their Ground and not only declined proceeding on 
the Resolution of the Committee, thereby meaning to retain that pre- 
tence for interfering in this Business, But were also pleased to pass the 
Resolution of the 30th a Copy of which is now subjoined to the other 
Proceedings. 

You'll please observe that the ostensiable Motives for this Resolution 
expressed in the preamble by the words mu<:h Mischiefs were understood 
to be the Clamours of Maryland and the discontented States of Jersey and 
Delaware, and the general Inconvenience of weakening the United States 
by encourageing Emigrations to parts remote from the defence agt. the 
common Enemy, the later assertion being thought improper for the pub- 
lic knowledge, was avoided and thought to be sufficiently expressed in the 
words before alluded to. 

We have been thus particular in the detail of this business that your 
House being fully informed may consider this business on its true Prin- 

[629]^ Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels. 

2 Meriwether Smith obtained leave of absence Sept. 28. See no. 571, note 2, ante. 

3 Memorials of the Indiana and Vandalia companies, presented through their 
agents George Morgan and Willian Trent, came before Congress Sept. 14, and a com- 
mittee was appointed upon them Oct. 8. The committee made a report October 27, which 
was taken into consideration Oct. 29, and a consequent resolve adopted Oct. 30. Cf. 
nos. 522, 527, 616, 628, ante, and nos. 632, 639, post. 



November, 1779 505 

ciples without regard to the misconduct of Congress, and adopt such Reso- 
lutions thereupon as they may think consistant with the Interest of Vir- 
ginia and the united States. 
We have the Honour to be, Sir 

Yr. most obedt. and very huble Servts., 

C. Griffin 
Js. Mercer 

W. FiTZHUGH * 

* Mercer and Fitzhugh were chosen to serve until the first Monday in November 
(see the credentials in the Journals, July 22). Accordingly they did not attend Congress 
after Saturday, Oct. 29. Following is Mercer's account for attendance (Va. State Lib., 
Executive Papers) : 

" 1779. Dr. The State of Virginia in Account with James Mercer. 
Sept. 3 To Tavern expences and Ferriages from Freb'g to Congress 

pr. Journal 84 4 4 

II To I Nights expences of 2 Horses i Servt. at City Tavern 

Philadelphia 7 16 

17 To paid for washing 7 4 

19 To Mrs. House part of one weeks board 42 

To Market expences this week Mr. Fitzhugh and self each 

half my part 63 6 

26 Do 85 13 

Oct. 9 Do 71 

16 Do 69 3 

To Palmer for Rum Wine etca. the whole time my pt 133 2 

To House Rent i quarter — my part 25 i 

23 To Market expences this week 59 12 

30 Do. 35 12 

Nov 4 To keeping 2 Horses in Continental Stables the whole time.. 121 13 

To George Meade Esqr. for Candles 28 10 

To expences at Market pt. of a week 24 10 

To use of Furniture on Rent per Contract which may prove 

50 £ more 6 

19 To Tavern expences and Ferriages 2 Horses and i Man from 

Congress per way of Annapolis 231 12 

£1085 18 4 
reed 810 18 4 

^275 

Cr. 
By former Drafts on the Virga. Treasury to wit — in favour 

of J. F. Mercer 150 

of Maj r. Dick 600 

of J. F. Mercer 61.2 

811 2 

Balla. due Jas. Mercer 910 16 4 

£1721 18 4 
E — Excepted Js. Mercer 
Wmsb'g, March 24th 1780. 
750 
60 18 4 

810 18 4 

Memorandum — there is an Acct of Continental Qur. Master for some Flour, wood 
and Salt which Mr. Wm. Fitzhugh paid and which I do not know, therefore when he 
settles Allow him the whole charge, which will save further charge by J. Mercer. 
Sworn to before Thos. Everard 25 March 1780 

The following order from Mercer " To the Treasurer of Virginia or whom else it 



506 Continental Congress 

P. S. I beg the House to be informed that I was directed by the Com'ee 
on my first Conference with them, to commit my objections to writing, 
and forbid to mention any thing of Charters or prior Treaties zvitli In- 
dians which Rule I adopted to prevent their having any pretence for go- 
ing into the Merits of the Treaty of Fort Stanwix on which the Indiana 
Company founded their Claim. 

Js. Mercer 
[Addressed :] The Hon'ble The Speaker of the House of Delegates of 
Virginia 



'fe' 



630. Samuel Holten, Diary/ 

[November 3, 1779.] 
J. Congress have done no business these two days past on account of 
the state of Connecticut not being represented, the Prest. being from that 
state. ^ I dined with the Hon. Mr. Griffin. 



631. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[November 3, 4, 1779.] 
Wednesday jd. Com'l Committee This day no Business done for the 

reasons mentioned Yesterday 

Thursday 4th. Com'l Committee The Secretary did Business to day 

in the absence of the President. 
P M Marine Committee 

may Concern", dated at Philadelphia, Oct. 24, 1779, is explanatory of two of the 
credit items in the account : 

" Please to pay Capt. Alexander Dick two thousand Dollars which please to place 
to my allowance as a Delegate to Congress, not hav'g drawn any money here on that 
Account, this and a former draft for 500 Dollars in favour of my Brother Majr. 
Mercer, amount to less than the state of Virginia owes me on that Account." Figures 
in the lower margin convert the 2000 dollars into £600 (Va. State Lib., Executive 
Papers). 

A note from Mercer to the governor Oct. 23, requesting his signature to an order 
that he may obtain a warrant on the treasury, bears a memorandum by Jefferson 
pointing out that, according to the act, the auditors and not the governor are to give 
the warrant (ibid.). 

Following is an expense account of William Fitzhugh (copied from the original, 
then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels) : 

" 1779 Dr. the State of Virginia, in Acct. with William Fitzhugh 
Sepr. To Expences in travelling to Philadelphia i186 9 

" To Domestic expences in Philadelphia 591 9 

" To extra charges Horses etc 486 5 

Novr. To Expences travelling from Philadelphia 688 18 

£ig^3 I 

"E. E. 

W Fitzhugh." 

[620]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 30. 

2 See nos. 626, 627, ante, and nos. 631, 640, 644, post. 
[631]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



November, ijjg 507 

(il2. The North Carolina Delegates to the Governor of North 
Carolina (Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia Novr 4th 1779. 
Sir 

We have the honor of sending inclosed to your Excellency a copy of 
sundry Acts of Congress, in which we conceive the State over which 
you preside and that we have the honor to represent in Congress is both 
directly and indirectly interested; and on which we beg leave to make a 
few remarks. 

The principle on which the Indiana company found their memorial is, 
that the Territory which they claim is not within nor subject to the Juris- 
diction of either of the States, but to the whole United States in Congress 
Assembled, a principle which we humbly conceive by no means admissible, 
it being against one of the principles of the general union. This contro- 
versy is not between two States, but between one State and individuals ; 
therefore we are of opinion that Congress, more especially in an uncon- 
federated state, has not jurisdiction, and if Congress has no jurisdiction, 
consequently it was an improper subject for their deliberation, which was 
the foundation of the objection against committing it to a special Com- 
mittee; nevertheless you may see that was overruled by a majority on 
the 14th of Septr. last. Two or three States objecting to balot for a 
Committee was the reason why that subject lay dormant until the 8th of 
Octr., at which time a Committee was appointed with an instruction to 
report first on the question respecting the jurisdiction of Congress ; it 
being thought by some as a proper and necessary preliminary. You will 
please to observe how cautiously that matter was evaded in the Commit- 
tee's report, which brought on the question for recommitment in order 
that the Committee should pursue the direction of Congress. We need 
only refer you to the Journal of that day. Viz., the 29th of Octr., for the 
farther explanation of the report of the Committee. 

On the next day you may observe that to cut the matter short a sett of 
propositions were moved instead of the report, and were found to be in 
Order as appears by the Journal. 

On the whole it appears to us that there are great jealousies particularly 
respecting Virginia's extensive claim of Territory and generally of the 
other States under similar circumstances. We are induced to believe that 
with many the question respecting the justice or injustice of the claims 
of the Indiana and Vandalia companies is not so much in View as that 
of laying down some principle or pursuing such a line of conduct as may 
be most likely to obtain the main object, namely, that Congress shall have 
the disposal of all the unapropriated lands on the Western frontiers of 
these States and that such lands may become the common property of 
the whole. We believe that at present the representatives of some States 
do not wish Maryland to confederate, hoping that by some means or other 

[632] 1 Library of Congress, U. S. R. ; A^ C. State Recs., XIV. 216 (with the signature 
of Sharpe only, and lacking the postscript). 



508 Continental Congress 

those States who Claim the back Lands may be prevailed on to surrender 
them.^ 

According to present appearances, Newhampshire, Massachusetts bay 
and Connecticut who formerly insisted strenuously on their claim to 
Lands Westerly, are indifferent about them. 

The Legislature of Maryland at their last Session advised their Con- 
stituents to give them explicit instructions on the subject of confedera- 
tion, against the Session which is sitting. What effect that measure will 
produce is not yet known to us. 

These things we think our indispensable duty to communicate through 
your Excellency to the Legislature of Our State, as a subject worthy their 
serious attention; and we beg leave to reiterate our wishes that their 
Delegates in Congress may be seconded by being furnished with explicit 
instructions on that subject; as we apprehend it is very probable it may 
yet be a subject of serious debate in Congress. 

In the mean time we shall oppose to the utmost of our power every 
measure which appears calculated to injure our claim or violate the 
Charter in which our State has pointed out our Territorial Rights, and over 
which we have declared the right of our Citizens in sovereignty 

With the highest esteem and consideration, we have the honor to be 
Your Excellencies Most obt. Humble Servants, 

Corn's Harnett 
Wm. Sharpe 

P. S. Mr. Hewes has been confined to bed with sickness five days past 
and his situation not very promising.' 

633. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philada, 5th Novr. 1779 
Dear Sir 

Your favour of the 9th and 20th ulto. have Come, to hand, I am ex- 
treamly obliged by the Continuance of your Letters, and Should have 
done my Self the Hon'r of writing more particularly if I had Certainly 
known where to have directed my letters to be left in order that they might 
find a Safe Conveyance, without the danger of their being intercepted 
however I have wrote Genl. Whipple Some anecdotes respecting the 
management of foreign Ambassys, with the names of Persons Elected for 
that purpose, etc. which as you are acquainted with many Characters here 
might be Somewhat amusing.^ There Seems a little Prospect of obtaining 
a foreign Loan, in Some of the Low Countrys^our Friend Mr. H. 
L n is to negociate that business. No official Accounts from Count 

2 See nos. 628, 629, ante, 632, 639, post. 

3 He died Nov. 10. 

1633]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. 55 ("No. 14"). 

2 Peabody endorsed Whipple's letter of Oct. 18 (see no. 606, ante) as "reed. 
Novr. 1st Answered same day as per copy herewith filed ". The letter has not, however, 
been found. Whipple's reply, Nov. 22, is in part as follows : 

" I thank you, my Dear Sir, very sincerely for the favorable sentiments and expressions 
of kindness contained in your very obliging favor of the 1st inst which came to hand 
by post. I am also much obliged for the history of certain proceedings 'tho I hope the 
determination you mention on the ' Doctrines of Election and Reprobation ' are not 
intended for established Presidents [precedents]. I have no doubt there is still Virtue 
enough in America to do some degree of Justice to her Faithfull Servants : The worthy 



November, ///p 509 

D-Estaing, Sincef that of his having beseiged the Savannah. Nor of the 
movements of the Enemy worth Notice Since their Evacuating R. Island, 
in Dunlaps Paper of last Saturday you will See a very Curious Manifesto 
which may be relied upon as authentic altho not officially Recd.^ .... 

634. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Friday 5. Com'l Committee Congress. Letter from Genl. Gates ac- 
quainting that he took Possession of Rhode Island that 26th Octr. the 
Enemy having left it the day before 

P M Marine Committee ^ 

Saturday Nozr. 6 iy/9. Commercial Committee Congress. After 
the dispatches etc. a Report of the Committee to answer the Speech in- 
tended to be made per the Chevalier Lusern was Read.' 

Character you hint at I am sure will rise superior to the dusty grovling machinations 
of his Ejiemies whose malice is not confined to him but extends to every object that has 
the least pretensions to Integrity and Virtue. As there must be a seperate appointment 
for Holland I think the choice is well made tho in my judgment it wo'd have been as 
well to employ Mr. A in that business 'till he has something else to do and I should 
have been better pleased if Mr. L — had been employed to settle all commercial affairs 
abroad. 

" The Tall Boy will not be hereafter troublesome to you as I hear he has no longer 
a seat in a Room where he has at least shewn a disposition on some occasions to perplex 
business. I could wish another person whose heart in my opinion is much more mis- 
chievously inclined had also been dropped, that swivel Eyed genius will give you much 
trouble in the Vermont business. I understand Your Colleague intends soon to leave you, 
but you will not be long alone as Genl. Folsom will set out within a fortnight. I hope 
you will continue where you are till the Vermont business is compleated. Mr. Livermore 
is appointed to prosecute the Claim of N. H. but by what I can learn is not to have a 
seat in Congress, its probable he will be with you in Jany." (Haver ford College, 
Roberts Coll., 720; Hist. Soc. of Pa., Papers of John Langdon, draft, with variations.) 

The " worthy character " alluded to was doubtless Arthur Lee. " Mr. A " was 
presumably John Adams. The " Tall Boy " was probably Gouverneur Morris, who had 
recently been omitted from the New York delegation (see no. 581, ante). It seems 
less likely that the allusion could be to Jay. See, however, no. 465, ante. The " swivel 
Eyed genius" must have been James Duane (see no. 488, ante), for the allusion is 
pretty certainly to a New York delegate, and Duane was the only one of that delegation, 
aside from Morris and Jay, who was likely to give New Hampshire trouble in the 
Vermont business. The reason for the application of such an epithet to him is not, 
however, apparent. 

Whipple had been re-elected to Congress Oct. 29 (see the credentials, in the 
Journals, Dec. 30). Nov. 8 he wrote to President Weare asking to be excused from 
further attendance at Congress, on account of the pressure of private business (Henkels, 
Catalogue, no. 1139, item 392). 

3 There were two proclamations or " manifestoes " in Dunlap's Pennsylvania 
Packet of Saturday, October 30. One was the proclamation of Congress Oct. 20, setting 
apart Thursday, Dec. 9, as a day of general thanksgiving ; the other " A Proclamation 
for a Day of Public Humiliation and Prayer ", put forth by the council of Massachusetts 
Oct. 15, and designating Thursday, Nov. 4, for the purpose. Just what Peabody regarded 
as curious in the latter, if it was that to which he referred, is uncertain. It is hardly 
possible that he alludes to the instructions of the Pennsylvania assembly, Oct. 10, to 
their delegates in Congress, a document found in the same issue of the Packet. One 
passage of these instructions may nevertheless be pertinently quoted : " Appeals to the 
world and public recrimination among the confidential servants of the public, we consider 
as highly derogatory to the honor and interests of these States, occasioning future 
distrust and suspicion, great waste of time, and kindling animosities and feuds destructive 
of that harmony and order so necessary for the despatch of public business, and so 
truly honorable to those who are to conduct it." 

[634] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Holten's entry for the day is, " I attended the medical committee and the 
marine board ". Under Nov. 6 he records, " The medical committee met in my 
chamber ". 

3 See no. 637, post. f 

37 



510 Continental Congress 

635. Thomas McKean to John Adams.^ 

My dear Sir, 

On my return from the circuit a few days ago I was honoured with 
your letter of the 20th Septemr. last,^ and proud to find that I was not 
forgotten by one I so much esteem 

Since the date of your letter I suppose you have been fully informed 
of what has passed in Congress respecting our foreign Ministers, and 
particularly yourself. You might have been Minister to Spain, which 
would have been a more permanent Appointment than that of Minister 
Plenepotentiary to negotiate a peace, but your friends had a greater 
regard to the interest of their Country than to your's; however I rest 
assured you will have peace (if to be obtained at all) on such terms, as 
will intitle you to the gratitude of that Country, and to secure such a 
proof of it as to render the present employment not only more honor- 
able but more beneficial than the other.^ You have escaped the obliquy 
but not the jealosy of one of the parties in Congress,, tho' the latter is 
almost done away. I have not been able to find that any of your Col- 
leagues have censured you; they have been rather silent respecting you, 
tho' Doctor Arthur Lee considers you as an honest man and as his 
friend. In short he seems willing to submit his conduct abroad to your 
decision. Upon the whole I really think he has been not well treated 
either by Messrs. Franklin or Dean, or by Congress. His fate almost 
renders it dangerous to serve in a public character abroad. 

Do not my friend be discouraged by what I have said ; difficulties, public 
and secret attacks, will eternally attend public Characters and high Sta- 
tions. The man who discharges his Trust with fidelity and according to 
the best of his abilities will always have the consolation of his own mind 
(a consolation the world cannot give) and he may be happy in the ap- 
probation of his country, but will never be miserable with the want of it — 
he will always also find a distinguishing, a worthy few, to support and 
applaud him. 

Doctor Franklin, I really believe, would have been recalled last April * 
only for myself. The intention in some Gentlemen in Congress appeared 
to me to be the removal of all our foreign Ministers in order to make 
way for themselves. My fears were, that a change of men, at that critical 
period, would imply both in Europe and America a change of measures, 
and I was reluctant to give up old servants for new men, whom I could 
not so well confide in. 

Doctor Franklin still continues Minister Plenepotentiary at the court 
of Versailles. Colo: Laurens (the son of the late President of Congress) 
is appointed his Secretary. Mr. Jay is appointed Minister to the court of 
Madrid and Mr. Carmichael his Secretary. Mr. Laurens was appointed 
last Monday Commissioner to the United Provinces for the purpose of 

[635] 1 Hist. Soc. of Pa., McKean Papers, I. 32. Endorsed: "Rough draft of a L're 
to the Hon'ble John Adams Esq; Novr. 8th 1779." 

2 The letter is in Adams's Works, IX. 484. 

3 See the Journals, Sept. 25-27, and nos. 554, 557, 562, ante. 
* See the Journais, Apr. 20-22. 



November, lyjg 511 

negotiating a treaty of Amity and Commerce, but particularly a Loan of 
money, and he has the nominating his own Secretary. Your's is the Post 
of danger and of honor; Our friend Mr. Dana is appointed your Secre- 
tary. Nothing more is yet done, but some Consuls must be appointed. 

You perceive the freedom with which I write to you. I correspond 
with none, except officially, but in this way, tho' I am induced to be more 
free with you, because, notwithstanding I hereby compliment myself, I 
am certain we have had the same views throughout this whole contest, the 
good of our country and the happiness of mankind; we have also acted 
openly and without guile. It will give me great pleasure to hear from 
you often, and when you are on t'other side the Atlantic I will as fre- 
quently communicate what passes here 

I am, dear Sir, with sincere esteem, 

Your most obedient humble servant 

Thos. McKean 
Philadelphia Novr 8th, 1779. 

636. William Sharpe to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

^^y Philadelphia Novr. 8th 1779 

I have the pleasure of sending you inclosed an Extract of a Letter from 
Genl. Gates informing of the evacuation of Rhode Island, and an extract 
of a Letter from Genl. Washington which you will observe ought not to 
be exposed to public view.^ We have no better accounts from Europe 
than it contains. 

We are not a little surprized at the silence in the Southern States. 
Congress has received no Authentic accounts from that quarter since the 
Count arived on the Coast, altho private Letters and other scraps of 
intelligence give us flattering hopes. 

Mr. Laurens is appointed to negociate a Loan in Holland. A small 
fund in Europe might be applied so as to have a happy effect on our Fi- 
nances, by disposing of Bills of Exchange and otherwise.^ 

The astonishing prices of the necessary supplies for the Army and the 
low State of our funds are very alarming and does require the most 
vigorous exertions of all the States. 

I am under an almost absolute necessity of being home before the hard 
of Winter. I hope to see Mr. Penn and some other gentleman here soon. 
If none have set out, be so obliging as to interest yourself in that matter, 
our State as well as the others ought by no means to be one day un- 
represented. I have the mortification to inform you that Mr. Hewes is 
in so low a state of health that his recovery is much despaired of. his 
complaints are Bileous and consumption. 

With the highest esteem and regard I am Sir 

your Most Obt. Servt. 

Wm. Sharpe 

[636]^ Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels; N. C. 
State Recs., XIV. 219. 

2 A letter from Washington dated Nov. 2, relative to the movements of the 
British, was read in Congress Nov. 8. 

3 Cf. no. 604, ante, and nos. 672, 674, post. 



512 Contmental Congress 

637. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[November 8, 9, 1779.] 
Monday Nozr. 8th Com'I Committee Congress. The Report of the 
answer to the Ministers Speech was agreed to.^ 

Tuesday the pth Com'I Committee Congress Agreeable to the order 
of the Day Balloted for Commissioners of Treasury Board vizt. Ap- 
pointed Forman Turnbull [John Gibson, erased] 
Auditor of Accts. Millegen = Deputy Auditor General ^ 

638. The President of Congress (Samuel Huntington) to the 

Governor of Virginia (Thomas Jefferson).' 

Philadelphia Novr. 9th 1779. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of 
the 8th Instant together with the copy of a letter from Colonel Broadhead 
of the 26th Ulto. 

In pursuance of the orders Contained in the Act of Congress enclosed 
I am to request your Excellency's endeavour to prevent a repetition of 
the trespasses mentioned in the letter from Col. Broadhead. The Evil 
tendency of such practices are too obvious to leave room for a doubt that 
proper exertions will be used on the part of Virginia to prevent the like in 
future.^ 

639. Cyrus Griffin to the Speaker of the Virginia House of 

Delegates (Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Novem. 9th [1779.] 
Sir 

I beg you will do me the honor to lay this letter before the house. 

I am at present alone in this important delegation ; perhaps abundantly 
more important than my Constituents suppose, a majority of states in 
Congress shew a manifest inclination to lessen the weight of Virginia in 

[637]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

~ See the Journals, Nov. 4, 6, 8, 12, 13, 17; also no. 634, ante, and no. 654, post. 
For some reason Luzerne wished to make a change in his speech and accordingly sent 
a new copy to Congress Nov. 12. The revision of the reply, which was entrusted to the 
same committee that had prepared the first answer, was agreed to Nov. 13. Both the 
speech of Luzerne and the response of the President are in the Journals, Nov. 17. 

2 Fell does not record all the elections this day, nor is his record quite correct. 
Those elected commissioners of the board of treasury were Elzekiel Forman and 
Jonathan Trumbull, jr., both of whom were nominated Oct. 12. There was no office 
specifically known as auditor of accounts. John Gibson, whose name Fell set down, 
then erased, had been auditor general under the old system since Apr. 9, 1776. Oct. 12 
he was put in nomination as one of the commissioners of the board of treasury, and 
Nov. 25 was elected to that office. James Milligan was chosen auditor general and 
Joseph Nourse assistant auditor. Michael Hillegas, elected treasurer, and Robert Troup, 
chosen secretary to the board of treasury, had been nominated for those offices Nov. 5. 
See nos. 646, 663, post. 

[638]! Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels; 
President's Letter-Book, p. 219. 
- See no. 639, post. 

[639]! Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 



November, ly/g 513 

the general scale of the union; and the Continental Credit is already 
upon the very brink of ruin, at such a period the assembly are satisfied 
that my abilities and Influence are greatly inadequate to represent so vast 
a Country as Virginia, even upon the supposition I had the power of 
voting in Congress. I feel exceedingly for the rights of my Country, 
and the Welfare of America, and I hope to be excused when I express 
some degree of astonishment that at least three Members are not sent 
forward to Philadelphia, and Members too of the first abilities and char- 
acter. 

After a great deal of heat and debate Congress have thought proper 
to pass a resolution relative to the Land office, which resolution and other 
proceedings were transmitted by the last post.^ I am sorry to observe 
that so important a measure as that should have taken its origin from 
Vthe Memorial of two private Companies claiming a large extent of Lands 
within the Bounds of Virginia to their own use and benefit, and offering 
a recompense to Congress of ten thousand pounds sterling for a confirma- 
tion thereof ; and however as a member of the Virginia assembly I might 
be induced to make some compensation to the Indiana Claimants which 
they are very desirous to accept, and wish to acknowledge the Jurisdiction 
of Virginia and to defend the state against all opposition whatever, yet 
I think Congress have no business to interfere with such matters at the 
expence of our chartered rights and the rights of an independant Legis- 
lature. When Virginia instructed her delegates in Congress to sign 
the declaration of Independancy what did she mean by reserving the 
sovereignty and internal Government of the state? no deception could 
be intended of any latent claim to extended Boundary; for Virrinia ceded 
to Pennsylvania and Maryland and the two Carolinas all the Counties 
within their respective charters which might be supposed a part of her 
chartered territory and then adds " the western and northern extent of 
Virginia shall in all respects stand as fixed by the Charter of King James 
the first in the year 1709 [1609], and the public Treaty of Peace between 
Great Britain and France in 1763 ". 

Yesterday a letter was read in Congress from Colonel Brodhead with 
a late date at Pittsburg giving Information that some Inhabitants from 
the Counties of Yoghagania and Ohio had committed Trespasses upon 
the Lands of the' Indians on the farther side of the Ohio River, which 
produced the enclosed Resolution.^ With my affections to the assembly, 
I have the honor to be with great esteem etc. 

C. Griffin * 
640. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

Wednesday Novr. loth ///p Com'l Committee Congress. President 
Huntington in the Chair ^ This day Receivd from Genl. Lincoln the 

2 See nos. 522, 527, 616, 628, 629, 632, ante. 

^ See no. 638, ante. 

4 The wrapper of a letter from Griffin to Benjamin Harrison, speaker, in Va. 
State Lib., Executive Papers, bears the endorsement : " Letter Cyrus Griffin Esq. Octo'r 
26, 1779. Refd. to whole on state of the Commonwealth." 
[640]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 This entry is doubtless intended to record the return of the Connecticut dele- 
gates, who had not attended since Nov. 2. See nos. 626, 627, 630, 631, ante, and no. 
644, post. 



514 Continental Congress 

disagreeable Acct. of Count De Estaing Raising the Seige of Savanna in 
Georgia. Mr. Hewes Died this day 

Thursday nth. Coml. Committee This day chiefly spent in debate 
about the sending some Troops and Stores to So. Carohna 

P M Attended the funeral of Mr. Hewes ^ 

641. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[November 10, 11, 1779.] 

10. We had the disagreeable news from Gen. Lincoln that our army 
have not succeeded against Savannah." The Hon. Mr. Hughes, one of the 
delegates from N. Carolina, deceased this morning. 

11. I attended the Funeral of Mr. Hughes. 

642. Samuel Holten to the President of the Massachusetts 
Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

^^y Philadelphia Nov. nth 1779. 

.... The committee have not reported upon the application of the 
Hon'ble Court, respecting staying part of the Continental taxes till the 
accounts can be liquidated respecting the Penobscot expedition, but I do 
not expect much from their report : altho' I have been heard before 
them, and given it as my opinion, that, it will not be in the power of the 
State to comply with the Resolutions of Congress,, respecting paying in 
their taxes unless something is done ; I shall carefully attend to the same 
when it comes before Congress.^ 

The proceedings of the Commissioners at Hartford, have been received 
by Congress, and committed toi the committee of twelve, and said com- 
mittee, have agreed to report to Congress a number of resolutions, for 
recommending to the several states a general regulation of prices.^ 

The application from the Honorable Board of Congress, respecting 
the removal of Colo. Heazels * Regiment from some part of our frontiers, 

3 " November 11. Mr. Barge and I attended the burial of the Hon. Joseph Hewes, 
member of Congress from North Carolina, whose body was taken from Mrs. House's, 
southwest corner Market and Fifth Streets, to Christ Church yard. The Rev. William 
White took his text from i Corinthians xv, 55" (Diary of Jacob Hiltsheimer, p. 41). 
[6aiV Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 30. 

2 Cf. no. 647, post. 
[642]! Mass. Arch., CCI. 400. 

~ See no. 603, atite, and no. 652, post. 

3 The Journals, Nov. lo, 15, 18, 19. Cf. nos. 594, 603, 610, ante, and nos. 648, 654, 
657, 659, 689, 697, 700, post. Stephen Hopkins, president of the Hartford convention, 
transmitted to the several states copies of the resolutions adopted by the convention. A 
copy of the letter (from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels) 
addressed to the governor of Virginia (Thomas Jefferson), dated Oct. 28, is in posses- 
sion of the Carnegie Institution of Washington. A similar letter appears to have been 
addressed to all the states as far south as Virginia. The resolutions were also transmitted 
to North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, which had no delegates in the con- 
vention, but accompanied by a briefer letter. See N. C. State Rccs., XIV. 214. 

* Col. Moses Hazen. The letter of the Massachusetts council Oct. 22 was read in 
Congress Nov. 8 and referred to General Washington to take order. The council had 
been informed that Colonel Hazen had opened a road from Newbury to within thirty 
miles of Canada and that his regiment had been ordered away, thus leaving the frontiers 
and the stores in that region exposed to the incursions of the savages. Congress is 
requested to take such measures for the protection and defense of the locality as the 
exigencies of the case require. 



November, ly/Q 515 

or New Hampshire, have been refered to General Washington, with 
directions for him to take order thereon. 

The sum of money that Congress are at Hberty to emit will be all ex- 
pended in a very short time, and they will then depend upon the several 
states to supply the Continental treasury; and if they should fail; I most 
leave it to the Hon'ble Court to consider what will be the consequences ; 
I think it is a matter of such importance, that it requires the first attention. 

I have the Honor to be, with the highest sentiments of respect, Sir, 

your most obedient servant; 

S. HOLTEN 

P. S. Yesterday the Hon'ble Mr. Hughes, one of the delegates from 
North Carolina, deceas'd. 

643. William Sharpe to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell) .'^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 12th 1779 
Sir 

.... I have the honor to send you inclosed an extract of the Journal 
of Congress, a part of which will be sent officially by the President; I 
thought it best to give you a full view of what passed on that very 
interesting occasion, altho a degree of secrecy was judged necessary,* 
and to which I take the liberty to add that three continental Frigates will 
be immediately forwarded from Boston for the farther defence of Charles 
Town — If they arrive in time. 

I have to give you the disagreeable news of the death of Mr. Hewes, 
whose remains was interred last evening. 

644. Jesse Root to the Governor of Connecticut (Jonathan 

Trumbull).^ 

Philadephia, Novr 12th, 1779. 
Please your Excellency, 

.... Your Excellency's letter respecting the monthly requisitions of 
the State of Connecticut has been laid before Congress and is committed ; 
how success full it will be am unable to determine, as almost every reason 
suggested therein were urged by the delegates in Congress against so large 
a sum, at the time of making the requisition. However, shall do every 
thing in my power to have the sum reduced.^ By several letters reed, we 
were able to satisfy Congress of our right to sit in Congress and now 
hold our seats there, althoug[h] we have received no official information.' 

[643]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels; iV. C. 
State Recs., XIV. 222. 

2 The reference is doubtless to the proceedings Nov. 11 with regard to reinforcing 
General Lincoln. President Huntington's letter Nov. 11, transmitting these resolves, is in 
N. C. State Recs., XIV. 220. The resolve ordering the three frigates from Boston is 
under Nov. 10. 

[644]! Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 454. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 10, Dec. 7, 28. Cf. no. 689, post. 

3 See nos. 627, 631, 640, ante. 



516 Continental Congress 

Mr Sherman is returning home. I expect to leave Congress about the 
25th inst., before which time I expect to be releived. Mr. Laurence left 
this last Saturday to go to Charlestown, from whence he is to go to Hol- 
land to negociate a treaty of amity and commerce with those Provinces 
and to obtain a loan. He was gone before Mr Brown arrived. The 
President took your letters directed to Mr. Laurence.* .... 

645. William Churchill Houston to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

Philadelphia, November 12th, 1779. 
Sir, 

In my last I was under a misconception relative to the embargo law of 
the state of Pennsylvania. I find that by a transient attention to it I 
accidentally mistook for an act a bill printed in the Pennsylvania Packet 
for public consideration, and which did not pass. The embargo now in 
operation here is not conditional but absolute as ours. It is my duty to 
notice the mistake, lest it should be instrumental in giving impressions 
unfavorable and unjust. 

Every day brings me fresh uneasiness respecting the supply of the 
general treasury. The expectation of Count D'Estaing's visiting our coasts 
in this quarter has created a flood of expense, and the means of defray- 
ing it are narrowing fast. If the taxes for the present year are not fully 
and punctually paid in, every thing but hope holds up discouraging pros- 
pects. All the states must see the necessity of exertion, and I dare believe 
New Jersey will not be behind the foremost. The close of this campaign 
is set down for the era of reformation in the per centage departments, 
to say no more, and especially if we are so fortunate as to carry through a 
limitation of prices. Afterwards, it is to be confided, expenditures will 
be much less. 

.... I enclose for the perusal of such as are curious, and have not 
seen it, the case of the sloop Active,^ which has produced a dispute be- 
tween Congress and the state of Pennsylvania. The nature of this case 
will be plainly collected from the printed proceedings of the court of 
Admiralty before which it was tried. I mention what further is necessary 
to give an adequate idea of the cause of difference. In the court of Ad- 
miralty the jury gave one fourth to the insurgents and three fourths to 
the libellant, and another cruiser in sight at the time of the capture. From 
the decision, which is said to be wholly on matter of fact, the insurgents 
appealed. The court of Appeals decreed the whole to them, and directed 
the Judge of Admiralty of the state of Pennsylvania to see their sentence 
executed. The Judge refused, as the law by which the maritime court 
is established in that state allows an appeal on matters of law only, and 

4 Huntington, writing to Governor Trumbull the same daj', speaks to the same 
effect, and adds that he is having Baron Van der Capellen's letter translated (see no. 
609, ante). 

[6^SV^- J- -^^^'- Corr., p. 200. 

~ See no. 57, note 2, ante. Evans (^Am. Bibl, vol. VI., no. 16220) lists a pamphlet 
(pp. 27) printed by Hall and Sellers, of which the Historical Society of Pennsylvania 
possesses a copy. It was doubtless a copy of this pamphlet which Houston enclosed. 



November, ijyg 517 

does not permit the facts found by a jury to be re-examined. Much law 
ammunition has been spent on the occasion, and the difference is not yet 
adjusted. Certain it is that by the resolutions of Congress of 1775, an 
admiralty jurisdiction say, the facts shall be established by a jury. Law- 
yers say there is this distinction between trials by jury and trials by 
witnesses, that in the former case the facts found are not re-examined, 
in the latter they are. Our law for erecting a court of Admiralty, allows 
an appeal in all cases whatsoever, but it must be acknowledged that an 
appeal on matter of fact from the verdict of a jury has not a good sound. 
And yet juries are too often worse qualified to decide in maritime causes 
than any other. 

You have also a report of the commissioners appointed by General 
Washington in April last to settle a course for the exchange of prisoners 
with the commissioners of General Clinton. It has been already pub- 
lished in newspapers.^ It is with pleasure I also send an extract from the 
general orders of the commander-in-chief of 29th July last. The vir- 
tues of this amiable man as a citizen are no less conspicuous than his spirit 
and perseverance as a soldier. To-morrow will be published, by order of 
Congress, the news from the southward.* You will hear it with concern. 
The raising of the seige of Savannah is not so much to be regretted 
in itself as the consequent exposure of a large extent of country, the 
inhabitants of which must unavoidably suffer before succour can arrive 
to them. Let us however remember what has so often happened, that 
confidence is the road to disappointment, and where our prospects are 
least promising from thence success often comes. Nesquam desperandum 
est de Re public a. 

646. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Friday 12th Com'l Committee Congress. Reports from the Board 
of War and Treasury. Balloted for a Commissioner of Treasury Board ^ 

1st 2d 3d 4 

William Denning 5 Votes 654 
John Gibson 6 

John Milligen i i . . 

Marine Committee 

Saturday November i^th 1779. Com'l Committee Congress. A Let- 
ter from Genl. Sulevan to Resign Referrd to a Committee. Letter from 
Coll. Webb for leave for Genl. Philips and Genl. Redsell to go to New 
York Ma jr. Gen Green Quarter Mastr. General Rece'd from April 6th 
1778 to Octr. 20th 1779 62,583,571. 30/90' 

3 Presumably the report of Colonels Davies and Harrison, read May lo, 1779. 
* The Pennsylvania Packet of Nov. 13 contained a letter from General Lincoln, 
dated at Charlestown, Oct. 22. 

[646] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 The Journals do not mention this ballot. There was, however, a vote for this 
office Nov. 24 or 25, when John Gibson was chosen. See no. 663, post. Cf. no. 637, ante. 
" John Milligen " should be James Milligan. 

3 These figures were probably brought out in connection with the application 
for a warrant of three million dollars for the department of quartermaster-general. 



518 Continental Congress 

647. Thomas McKean to William Augustus Atlee/ 

Dear Sir, 

.... Our disappointment in Georgia has somewhat deranged us, but 
Count D'Estaing's Efforts upon the whole have proved very beneficial ; ^ 
he was streightened in point of time, but before he was obliged to return 
to the West Indies he agreed with General Lincoln to assault Savannah 
on the 9th of October in the morning, which was done, but from a 
variety of untoward circumstances not uncommon on such occasions, we 
were repulsed, with the loss of 172 in killed and wounded belonging to 
the American army; how many of the French we cannot learn, but Count 
Pulaski is killed and Count D'Estaing had two balls thro' him, that is 
flesh-wounds not dangerous. 

There are likely to be considerable changes in Congress, Governeur 
Morris and Francis Lewis Esquires are left out in New York, your broth- 
er ^ and Mr, Wynkoop in our State, and some other Gentlemen in the 
other States. It seems the General Assemblies resent the treatment of 
Doctor Arthur Lee by Congress. Colo. Atlee tells me this was the cause 
in Pennsylvania. I think every member of Congress has a right to exer- 
cise his own judgment in cases wherein he has no instructions from his 

State 

Philad'a Novr. 13th 1779. 

648. Henry Marchant to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Nov. 14 1779. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency having heretofore informed me that a Warrant upon 
the States Treasurer would be acceptable for a Sum of money to be 
paid out of the Taxes as they might be collected, and having since repeated 
to me the Necessities of the State especially as they were now called upon 
to provide Clothing for Their own Troops, I have been unremitted and 
incessant in my Applications under but small Hopes of Success, merely 
from the State of the Contl. Treasury, and the Supplies of Money which 
must very soon be derived only from the States. But happily and beyond 
my Fears and Expectations I have obtained a Report of the Treasury, 
and a Resolution of Congress thereon in Favor of the State for three 
hundred Thousand Dollars, to be paid out of the Taxes as they are or may 
be collected. I enclose Your Excellency the resolution, as you may be 
informed without Delay, the Warrant will be forwarded.^ .... 

[647] 1 Library of Congress, Pennsylvania Papers (addressed to him at Lancaster). 

2 Cf. no. 645, ante. 

3 Samuel John Atlee, delegate from Pennsylvania. The election took place Nov. 
12. See the credentials, in the Journals, Nov. 13. 

[648]! R. L Hist. Soc, MSS., IIL 76; Staples, R. I. in Cont Cong., p. 262. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 12. Cf. no. 620, ante. Referring to this warrant in their 
joint letter of Nov. 30 (Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 266), Ellery and Marchant 
remark : " That sum, most certainly, is the last the State may expect out of the treasury 
of the United States, or from any of their public funds. For all moneys must come 
from the State for every purpose. We are, therefore, well assured, the State will be 
deeply impressed with the necessity of strict economy and every possible exertion." 



November, lyjg 519 

The Proceedings of the Convention at Hartford have been reed, and 
Are under Consideration; I am confident they are well approved of, for 
indeed previous to them, a Com'ee of each State by order of Congress, 
had under Consideration a Plan for a general Limitation of Prices etc. 
and the Report is now ready to be made.^ 

The Minister Chr. D'Luzerne is to make his publick Entrance next 
Wednesday. 

I expect Mr. Ellery in a few Days, and propose to set out by the 25th 
of this Month at farthest. I hope to meet your Excellency in Health and 
The State invigorated by their late Deliverance. 



649. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[November 15, 16, 1779.] 
Monday Novr. 75. Com'l Committee Sundry Letters etc. Motion 
from Mr. Gerry that no member of Congress should hold any Office or 
be chose while a Member or for 6 Mo. after ^ Nominated Gentlemen 
for the Admiralty Board ^ 

Tuesday Novr. 16. Com'l Committee Letter from Commissary Baety 
relating to Citizens Prisoners etc. Referrd to a Committee * Dr Wether- 
spoon ^ 

3 Cf. no. 642, note 3, ante. 
[ 649 ji Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 543, ante. 

2 The admiralty board, established Oct. 28, was to consist of three commissioners 
not members of Congress, and two members. These nominations were for the outside 
members of the board, usually called " commissioners ", as distinguished from the 
members of Congress assigned to the board. There was an additional nomination 
(David Mumford) Nov. 16. Nov. 26 Thomas Waring of South Carolina and William 
Whipple of New Hampshire (as a non-member of Congress) were chosen. For the 
third commissioner there were nominations Nov. 30 and Dec. 1,and on the latter date 
an unsuccessful ballot. Dec. 3 George Bryan of Pennsylvania was elected, but he 
declined (Dec. 7) and Francis Lewis of New York was chosen instead. Lewis was at 
the time in Congress but was on the point of retiring, having been left out of the 
delegation in a recent New York election ("lame-duck" appointments were by no means 
unknown in the Revolutionary period). His election was therefore as an outside "com- 
missioner ". Meanwhile, Dec. 3, the two members of Congress to sit on the board had 
been designated, namely, William Floyd and James Forbes. The act establishing the 
board of admiralty had provided " that there shall not be more than one member of the 
said Board at any time belonging to the same State ". Inasmuch as Floyd and Lewis were 
both from the state of New York, it was held that the acceptance of Lewis (Dec. 8) 
vacated the appointment of Floyd. Accordingly, Dec. 9, William Ellery of Rhode Island 
was chosen in place of Floyd. 

It is proper to point out here that the inclusion of George Bryan in the board of 
admiralty, among the standing committees of Congress (^Journals, p. 1445), would be 
incorrect even if he had accepted the appointment, for the reason that he was not a 
member of Congress, but was chosen as an outside commissioner. 

* According to the Journals, the marine committee communicated Nov. 16 a 
paragraph of a letter from Beatty, but action on this appears to have been taken without 
reference to a committee. Fell doubtless refers to Beatty's letter of Nov. 4, referred 
Nov. 15 to a committee of which Fell was chairman. The committee brought in a report 
Nov. 25, which was acted upon Dec. i. 

5 Fell had chronicled the departure of Witherspoon Nov. i. He is now making 
note of his return. 



520 Continental Congress 

650. Nathaniel Scudder to Richard Henry Lee,^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 16th 1779 
Dear Sir, 

.... Congress is at present very thin, rarely more than 10 [States] 
represented, often but 9. Many important businesses [on hand,] the prog- 
ress much as usual. What can the Neglect of your State be attributed 
to? Only one member here for many weeks. Mr. Duane is again in 
the Delegation from New York. Gover'r Morris left out. Mr. Floyd 
again, Mr. Lewis out. General Schuyler, Mr. Scot, Mr. Livingston and a 
Mr. Lommedeau. Our old worthy Friend Mr. Sherman left out by Con- 
necticut this I think not a little ominous, as he is one of the Originals : 
In short, what with the effect of manoever on the one hand, and of neces- 
sity on the other, I fear, entre nous, both that State and New Jersey will 
next year appear in different Colours from what they have here to fore 
done. As for myself sheer necessity compels me to retire, and I have 
therefore so ordered it with my friends as that I expect not ever to be 
balloted for. My time expires on the first of December, so that I shall 
be here only one week after this.^ I wish I may be happy enough to hear 
from you before I leave Philadelphia. Tomorrow at 12 o'clock is fixed 
for the public audience of the New Minister of France, there will be 
a public dinner 

651. Henry March ant to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia, Nov. 16th, 1779. 
Sir, 

... I was yesterday honored with yr. Excely's Letter of the 5th 
Instant ; and for the several Articles of Information therein I am much 
obliged as to Capt. Tyler's Affair — I wrote your Excellency before, it 
was committed — no Report is yet made, and I am well persuaded that 
nothing will be reported in the least to the Discredit of the Doings of the 
Genl. Assembly. Too much Caution however, I think cannot be used upon 
any great political Question." .... 

[650]^ Va. Hist. Soc, Lee Papers, V. 170; ibid., Lee Trans., IV. 257. 

2 He is last recorded as voting Nov. 25, although he may have attended Nov. 26. 
Strangely enough Fell does not mention his departure. Scudder was killed in a skirmish 
near Shrewsbury Oct. 16, 1781, and has the distinction of being the only member of 
Congress killed in battle during the Revolution. See Hunt, Fragments of Revolutionary 
History, p. no; Pa. Mag. of Hist, and Biog., III. 189; Moore, Diary of Am. Rev., 
n. 504. 

[651]! R. L Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1779-1780, p. 22; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 263. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 18, Nov. 30, Dec. 2. Cf. no. 670, post. Greene's letter 
of Nov. 5 is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 255. See also his letter of Nov. 9 {ibid., 
p. 257), in which he mentions a letter from Marchant dated October 19, relative to the 
Tyler affair. That letter has not, however, been found. 



November, ///p 521 

652. The Massachusetts Delegates to the President of the 
Massachusetts Council (Jeremiah Powell).^ 

^^y . Philadelphia Nov. 16th, 1779 

We have the Honor of transmitting You by the earliest Opportunity, a 
Copy of the resolution of Congress, upon the application of the State of 
Massachusetts Bay of the 21st of September last, for retaining six Million 
Dollars (which the state were to raise as a continental Tax) to defray 
the expences of the penobscot Expedition. We perceive by some observa- 
tions that were thrown out in Debate, that a Question will arise on the 
propriety of considering this as a continental expence, notwithstanding 
it was evidently incurred to repel an Invasion of the Enemy in that State ; 
and We are of opinion that as soon as the necessary papers can be pre- 
pared and sent to Congress, it will be expedient to obtain their Sense on 
this important Subject. We wait the Directions of the honorable assem- 
bly for conducting this business ^ and remain Sir with the greatest Re- 
spect for them and yourself 

Your most obedt. and very humble Servts. 

E. Gerry 
James Lovell 

S. HOLTEN 

G. Partridge 

653. Nathaniel Peabody to the President of New Hampshire 

(Meshech Weare).^ 

^^y Philadelphia Novr. 16th 1779. 

.... I wish to make some observations respecting my situation but 
must omit them for the Present as I hope soon to be relieved by some 
person coming on to take my Place agreeable to the request in my letter to 
you by last post. 

Mr. Langdon sets off for home in two or three days, and nothing could 
induce me to Tarry longer but the disagreeable prospect of leaving the 
State unrepresented, at a time so critical and important as the present day, 
when it wou'd be difficult if not impossible to make a Congress to transact 
business, if another State should be left,unrepresented. 

654. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[November 17, 18, 1779.] 
Wednesday Novr. lyth Com'l Committee This day at 12 oClock 
The Chevalier De La Luserne the Minister Plenoptentiary from France 
had his Audience of Congress.^ 

[652]! Mass. Arch., CCI. 403. 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 4, 21, Nov. 16, Dec. 28. Cf. nos. 603, 642, ante. 

[653]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 126; Library of Congress, Force Trans., Weare, 
p. 125. 

[654]! Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 Holten's entry is, " Chevalier de la Luzern was admitted to a public audience 
with Congress and dined with Congress ". The proceedings were published in the Penn- 
sylvania Packet of Nov. 20, and in the Pennsylvania Gazette of Nov. 24, preceded by the 
following item : " Last Wednesday an entertainment was given by Congress to the 
Minister Plenipotentiary of France, at which were present by invitation several For- 
eigners of distinction, and gentlemen of public character." 



522 Continental Congress 

Thursday Nov 18th. Com Com Congress. Sundry Letters Memo- 
rials and Reports, One from the Committee of 12 in order to Regulate 
Prices was Read and debated ^ 

655. Philip Schuyler to George Washington.^ 

Philadelphia Nov: 18th. 1779 
Dear Sir 

This Morning Your Exce.llencys letter of the 14th Instant was read In 
Congress, the necessity of being explicit on the Subject and ordering 
a Suspension of the preparations for the Intended Co-operation, with 
Count D'Estaing was earnestly urged, and a motion made for a resolution 
Conformable to these Ideas, but prevented by a Prior Motion which was 
Carried and which I suppose you will receive by this Express ; ^ 

Our Finances are so exceedingly deranged, the depreciation proceed- 
ing with the most Alarming rapidity. Every department so deeply In debt 
and no plan adopted which gives the least prospect of remedy to these 
Evils that I very seriously apprehend the most disagreable Consequences 

It is said that Count De Grasse with eight ships of the line and some 
frigates are In Cheasepeak what his Object is we know not should he 
return to the West Indies It is proposed to send the troops ordered to 
Georgia under his protection as Convoy 

Nothing has yet been done In the Intended new arrangment of the 
Quarter Master General and Commissary General department ; I fear the 
time which the latter has limitted for retiring from the business will Ex- 
pire before another is appointed unless Congress is pushed to It both here 
and from Your Quarter ^ 

A Memorial of the Gen : Officers was yesterday read and Committed, 
to Mr Root Mr Morris and Mr Schuyler. I shall urge a Speedy report,* 
but Entre nous, people here are not so attentive to business as the vast 
variety and Importance of what is on hand seems to require, 

I am Dear Sir with the most ardent wishes for Your Happiness, Re- 
spectfully and faithfully Your Excellency's most Obedient Hum Servant 

Ph : Schuyler 

656. The Massachusetts Delegates to John Hancock and 

Samuel Adams.^ 

Philadelphia Novr 19, 1779 
Gentlemen 

We beg Leave to inclose You a Copy of a Subscription, originated in 
this City for the benevolent Purpose of supporting and educating the 

3 See nos. 642 (note 3), 648, ante, 657, post. Holten records under this date, 
" The Chevalier paid us a visit by leaving a card ". 

[655] 1 Library of Congress, Letters to Washington, XXXIV. 302; Harvard Univ. 
Lib., Sparks MSS., no. 66, vol. L, f. 128. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 18. Washington's letter of Nov. 14 is in Writings 
(ed. Ford), VIIL 107. 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 25, and nos. 664, 681, post. Cf. nos. 303, 383, ante. 

* This paragraph must have been written on the 19th, as the memorial was 
presented on the 18th. A report was made Dec. i. Cf. nos. 604, 613, ante. 

[656]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., Declaration of Independence, 1557 (in the 
writing of Gerry). 



November, ///p 523 

Children of our late worthy Friend Major General Warren, by which it 
will appear that the Name of the General Assembly and also of the Coun- 
cil of Massachusetts Bay is inadvertently used in a Manner which may 
not be approved by them, for this, and other Reasons, We have tho't it 
our Duty to suggest the Impropriety of the Measure, to the Gentlemen 
who promoted it; for, should the Subscription be more successful than 
We expect, yet it is not probable that a Sum will be raised adequate to the 
purpose, and it. may also be hurtful to the Feelings of the Children, to 
reflect hereafter on the Mode proposed for affording them Relief. Not- 
withstanding We shall chearfully contribute in our private Capacity, We 
are still of Opinion, that considering the Merit of General Warren, the 
Services which he rendered to his Country, and the distressed Circum- 
stances of these Orphans, some Provision should be made by the publick, 
more advantageous to the former and consistent with the Honor due to 
the Memory of our deceased Friend, than what is proposed by the Sub- 
scription, and We shall move that a Committee appointed by Congress 
some Time past to consider this Matter, may be directed to report. 

How far it will be proper to communicate the Matter to the General 
Assembly and to urge their Beneficence, We submit to your Consideration, 
and shall acquiesce in your Opinion relative to the same.^ 

We remain Gentlemen with Respect, 

your very hum. Servants, 
E Gerry 



James Lovell 



657. John Fell, Diary.^ 



[November 19, 20, 1779.] 
Friday Novr. ipth Com. Com. Congress. Report for regulating 
Prices @ 20 for i agreed to for all home Manufactories etc. and all im- 
ported articles to bear a Proportion to the above 
Marine Committee 

2 In vol. III. of these Letters (p. 415 n.) is some account of the measures 
undertaken to make provision for General Warren's children. At the time that note 
was written the editor had not seen this letter from Gerry and Lovell, although refer- 
ence was made to Samuel Adams's reply to it, December [2], 1779 (Writings, IV. 167; 
the date is mentioned in Lovell's letter of Dec. 21, post), and to a further letter to them on 
the subject, December 20 (ibid., p. 169). The subscription paper promoted by General 
Arnold is ibid., p. 171. In the first of the letters above referred to Adams gives his reasons 
for not approving of the measure in the form in which Arnold had put it forth, and 
expresses particular disapproval of some utterances of Arnold in connection with the 
matter. His disapproval of Arnold personally had probably from the beginning affected 
his attitude toward a measure promoted by him. For instance, in his letter to Miss 
Scollay, Feb. 27, 1779 (see the note in vol. III. above referred to), he says: " For the 
' benevolent exertions ' of this gentleman you are ' beholden ' to Him who provides 
for the fatherless children. He by a secret influence directs the charitable hand to 
particular objects. It does not however lessen the debt of gratitude to those whose 
hearts are touched with the necessities of the meritorious and whose purses are open 
to their relief." Nevertheless, on July 1,1780, Adams joined in promoting a measure 
of the sort which he now criticised. See the Journals under the date given. 
[657] 1 Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 



524 Continental Congress 

Saturday Nozn-. 20th Com'l Committee Congress. The Resolution 
brought in to Reccomend to the States the Altering the Law for obliging 
Cred's to take the money for Debts, long debated and Postponed ^ Report 
of the Medical Committee Rain 

658. The Secretary of Congress to the Several States/ 

Secretary's Office, Novr. 20th, 1779. 
Sir 

I take the liberty of transmitting you a duplicate of an Act of Con- 
gress passed the 16th March 1778 the utility of which is apparent: And 
as it may be proper and necessary that you should be informed of the 
several acts and proceedings of Congress, I have herewith sent you a copy 
of their Journal from the first of January last, and shall continue to send 
you from time to time their weekly publications.^ On the other hand as a 
communication of your acts may be advantageous, and lodging them in 
this office for the information of the delegates of the other States bene- 
ficial to the union, and tend to facilitate the transmitting to posterity the 
rise and progress of these infant States, I take the liberty of requesting 
you to transmit to this office a copy of the constitution or form of gov- 
ernment adopted by your State upon the declaration of Independance, and 
of all the public acts passed by your legislature since that period. If you 
can add any pamphlets or documents relative to the controversy and revo- 
lution, they shall be carefully deposited and preserved, and thereby you 
may do an acceptable service to posterity and oblige, Sir, 

Your very humble Servant, 

Cha. Thomson, Sec'y. 

659. The New Jersey Delegates to the Governor of New Jersey 
(William Livingston).^ 

Philadelphia, November 22d, 1779. 
Sir, 

Enclosed you have the result of the deliberations of Congress on the 
representation of the 7th ultimo respecting a general limitation of prices. 
We beg leave to say that with attention to the interests of the union in 
general and the state in particular, and also to the convenience of the leg- 
islature, we have left no means untried to give success and dispatch to 
the business.^ The legislature, we flatter ourselves, will be disposed to 

2 According to the Journals, this resolution, reported by the committee on the 
proceedings of the Hartford convention (on limitation of prices), etc., was taken into 
consideration and postponed on the 19th. There is no mention of the matter in the 
Journals Nov. 20. See nos. 642, 648, 654, ante, and nos. 659, 689, 697, 700, post. 

[658]! Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VHI. 90; Arch, of Md., XLHI. 371; N. C. Hist. 
Comm., Caswell Papers ; A'^. C. State Recs., XIV. 227 ; Library of Congress, Force 
Trans., Weare; Pa. Arch., VHI. 20. 

2 Dec. 17 Thomson transmitted the Journals published in the interval (Md. Hist. 
Soc, Red BQok, VHI. 80; A^. C. State Recs., XIV. 235; etc.), and on Feb. 1,1780, he 
made a further transmittal of them. See the next volume of these Letters. 

[659V N. J. Rev. Corr., p. 204; N. J. State Lib.; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
XXXVI. 348. 

2 See nos. 594, note 2, 642, 648, 654, 657, ante, 689, 697, 700, post. 



November, lyjg 525 

overlook any defects in the plan recommended by Congress compared 
with the scope and tenor of their representation, when they reflect that 
different states as well as individuals, however they may coincide in the 
main substance of a measure, vary often in their ideas on particular parts, 
and also when they are informed that what we have now the pleasure to 
transmit has passed with a great degree of unanimity. For the sake of 
this and greater expedition, policy dictated to concede a little. From ap- 
pearances we think ourselves justified to say that the measure recom- 
mended will in all probability be universally adopted throughout the 
union. The date of commencement is more distant than could have been 
wished, but when the remoteness of some of the states is considered, as 
also that many of the legislatures are not sitting, and that the limitations 
ought to take place at the same time every where, it could not well be 
gainsayed. Other arguments also have been urged, tending to shew that 
this will give fuller efficacy to the measure, by giving people an oppor- 
tunity to provide against losses and disappointments to their essential 
prejudice. The ratio of prices to those current formerly, though by many 
thought too large, is set at a limit which we hope will produce an easy 
turn to the tide of depreciation, and make a further reduction in due time 
more natural and practicable. 

We have the honor to be, with all respect, your obedt. hble servants, 

Jno. Witherspoon 

Nath. Scudder 

John Fell 

William H. [Ch.] Houston. 

660. John Fell, Diary.^ 

[November 22, 23, 1779.] 
Monday the 22d Com. Com Congress. After the dispatches. Com- 
mittee on ways and means brought in a Report, to draw Bills on Mr. 
Laurens and Mr. Jay for £100 000 Sterl'g Each after long debate agreed 
to go in a Committee of the Whole house to morrow : Mr. Griffin and 
Mr. Harnet were appointed to the Commercial Committee. 

Tuesday 2^d. Com. Committee Congress. This day Resolved to draw 
Bills on Mr. Jay and Mr. Lawrence for £200 000 Sterl'g @ 6 Mo. sight. 
I was against the measure ^ 

661. Cyrus Griffin to the Speaker of the Virginia House of 
Delegates (Benjamin Harrison).^ 

Sir 

I do myself the honor to enclose two Acts of Congress which the 
assembly may perhaps consider as containing matters of some impor- 
tance. 

[660]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 22, 23, 26, 29, and no. 669, post. 

[661 ]i Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels. The 
wrapper of this letter, bearing the endorsement, " Referred to Comm'ee of whole on 
state of the Commonwealth ", is in Va. State Lib., Executive Papers. 

38 



526 Continental Congress 

The demands for money upon the Continental Treasury are great in- 
deed. The different states must supply those demands, or the period will 
shortly arrive when the whole Continent may totter to its foundation, 
at least I fear a general stagnation must be the consequence. 

A Captain this moment from the West Indies confirms the account of a 
Boston paper, that a bloody engagement has taken place between the Com- 
bined Fleets and that of great Britain ; the latter were severely beaten from 
superiority of numbers; two considerable ships destroyed, and three of 

the largest taken 

Philadelphia Novem. 23d 1779. 

662. James Forbes to .^ 



Philadelphia Novr. 23d 1779 
My Dear Sir 

.... Congress have recommended to the States a limitation of prices 
not to exceed twenty for one, to what they were in 1778 shoud this and 
the raising Taxes be complyd with a stop may be put to the amazing De- 
preciation of our money.^ .... 

663. John Fell, Diary.^ 

Wednesday 24th Com Com Congress Sundry Letters Reports etc. 
Mr. Gibson was Elected to the Treasury Bo'd.^ 

Gibson ^ Millen [Milligan] Denning 

5 6 

6 5 

622 
8 2 

Thursday Novr. 2^, lyyg [forw] Congress. Several dispatches, Re- 
por[ts of] Committees, Board of War Treasury etc. (Snow) 

664. Jesse Root to Jeremiah Wadsworth.^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 26th 1779 
Sir 

Inclosed you have a resolution of Congress of the 16th Inst, ordering 
all the rum and Sugar belonging to the public to be delivered to this Com- 
mittee Except so much as will be Sufficient for the Navy — also an order 
from the Marine Committee to Mr. Bradford to deliver the Same accord- 
ingly Except 30 Hhds of rum and ten of Sugar — also an order from this 

[662]! N. Y. Pub. Lib., Emmet Coll., no. 993. 

2 See no. 642, note 2, ante. 
[663]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See nos. 637, 646, ante. According to the Journals this election was on Nov. 25. 
Whether the Journals or Fell's Diary is in error, is a question which no means of deter- 
mining have been found. 

3 This ballot, although it is recorded beneath the entry " Sunday Novr. 28th ", 
which is near the bottom of the right-hand page, actually belongs to the entry for Nov. 
24, which is at the bottom of the left-hand page, its connection with that entry being 
indicated by a brace. The entry for Nov. 25 is at the top of the right-hand page. 

[664]^ Conn. Hist. Soc, Jeremiah Wadsworth Papers. 



November, ///P 527 

Committee to Mr. Bradford to deliver the rum to you or your order Ex- 
cept as above. ^ 

likewise you have another resolution of Congress of the 25th Inst, put- 
ing the departments of the Staff under the direction of the board of war 
So that in future your Applications will be made to the board of war. the 
board wish to be informed how you Could dispose of the Sugar in the 
best manner to Serve the public. Congress have not appointed a new Com- 
missary Genl.^ 

I am now returning home Mrs. House Expects you here this Winter. 
Col Blain is gone to Maryland hope he will be Success full in procuring 
flour 

In haste Dear Sir, your Friend and humble Servant 

Jesse Root Chairman 
for the last time of the Comm'ttee of Congress for 

Superintending the Staff departments 

665. Samuel Huntington to Oliver Wolcott.^ 

Philadelphia Novem'r 26th 1779 
Sir 

.... Before this comes to hand you will be Informd Congress have 
again recommended a limitation of prices Consequent upon the Result of 
the late convention at Hartford, you well know that every Individual in 
Congress is not so wise as allways to Judge conformable to their resolves, 
and this in particular is a Subject on which Time and Experience only, 
and the latter repeated will bring all men to agree in Judgment.' .... 

I have the pleasure to inform you that as great harmony and concord 
Subsists in Congress as ever I knew or can be expected in such a body, 
however by a refind practice we use a little too much Scripture language 
for my taste i e our language is too too-much ay and no, but tis a Custom 
some are fond of as being use full in their opinion. I hope the Wisdom of 
Congress and of the Several States will lead to such Measures the ensuing 
winter that we may be prepared for peace or war as events may be : but I 
most Sincerely wish the former 

666. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

[November 26, 27, 1779.] 
Friday Novr. 26. Commercial Com[mittee] Congress.^ Letter from 
General Washington with the State of the Army etc. Sundry Letters etc. 

2 The marine committee's order to Bradford is in Out-Letters, II. 131. See also 
the letter to the navy board, ibid., p. 129. 
•'' See no. 655, ante, and no. 681, post. 
[665] 1 Conn. Hist. Soc, Oliver Wolcott Papers, vol. III., no. 116. 

2 See no. 642, note 2, ante. 
[666]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 A committee report of especial interest which was taken under consideration 
Nov. 26 was that on the memorial of Du Simitiere, respecting his plan of writing a 
history of America. The memorial had been presented July 22 and referred to Dickinson, 
Fleming, and William Churchill Houston, and the latter drew the report. See, further, 
the Journals, Dec. 27, 1779, July 12, 14, 21, 1780. 

In the course of the correspondence between John Adams and Elbridge Gerry in 
1813 respecting the history of the American Revolution, Gerry evidently spoke of a 



528 Continental Congress 

Elected two Members for the Admiralty Board viz. Mr. Warring and 
Mr. Whiple ^ 

Saturday Novr. 2jth Com Com Congress. Several Reports Read 
and debated 

NB Dined with Mr. Griffin 

667. The President of Congress (Samuel Huntington) to 

Thomas Waring.^ 

Thomas Waring Esquire. 

Philada. Novem'r 27th 1779 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclos'd an Act of Congress of the 28th ulto. 
establishing a board of Admiralty to superintend the naval and marine 
affairs of the United States. 

Also another Act of Congress of the 26th instant by which you are 
appointed one of the Commissioners of that board. The other Gentleman 
William Whipple Esqr. belongs to Portsmouth in New Hampshire, the 
third Commissioner is not yet elected, but will probably be a Gentleman 
from some one of the more central States, it being tho't beneficial to the 
whole to take the Commissioners from different parts of the United 
States." 

668. Philip Schuyler to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia, Nov: 29th 1779 
Dear Sir, 

I arrived here on the 15th at night; on the next day I took my seat in 
Congress, where I have constantly attended every day since. The jour- 
nals, copy whereof I have the honor to enclose your Excellency, will shew 
what matters have claimed the attention of Congress — a vast variety of 
the most important affairs ought to claim their immediate notice and 

motion which he had made during Jay's presidency with a view to laying proper founda- 
tions for such a history. Gerry's letter has not been found, but Adams says in reply : 
" Had your Motion in Congress been adopted, and a Man of Sense and Letters appointed 
in each State to collect Memorials of the Rise and Progress and Termination of the 
Revolution : We should now Possess a Monument of more inestimable Value than all 

the Histories and Orations that have been written That Mr. Jay, the President 

of Congress when your motion was made, admired it, is no Surprize to me. His head 
could conceive and his heart feel the importance of it" {Warren- Adams Letters, II. 380). 
Gerry may have been led to make his motion by the appearance of Du Simitiere's 
memorial, although, if made while Jay was in the chair, it must have been between 
July 22 and Sept. 28. It does not seem at all probable that he would have been induced 
to bring forward the question in connection with the consideration of Paine's letter of 
Apr. 3 (see no. 180, ante). Indeed both the time of the motion and its inspiration remain 
hidden. 

3 See no. 649, note 3, ante, and no. 669, post. 

[667] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 234. 

2 Huntington's letter of notification to Whipple the same day (Letter-Book, p. 
235) mentions the appointment of Waring, who is from South Carolina, and that a third 
commissioner is yet to be elected, but says nothing further of the idea of geographical 
distribution. Cf. nos. 672, 685, 686, post. 

[668]i Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., XIL 90. 



November, 7779 529 

speedy decision. Our Finances are deranged to a most alarming degree, 
heavy demands constantly made on a Treasury which is empty, our Army 
in want of flour and that article already arisen to sixty pounds per hun- 
dred, and will probably in ten days more rise to one hundred pounds. I 
wish I could say that there was one member of Congress adequate to the 
important business of Finance. 

Congress has not yet decided whether peace shall be granted to the In- 
dians ; I have repeatedly urged to have the business brought on ; ^ as soon 
as it is completed, I propose setting out for Albany, to try and bring about 
a reconciliation with the savages. In my way up I shall do myself the 
honor to call on your Excellency, if Hudson's River should be passable.^ 

669. John Fell, Diary. ^ 

\^Mon]day November 2^ 1779- Com'l Comm [The Com]mittee Re- 
ported respecting the Bills [to b]e drawn and after several amendments 
[t]he yeas and Noes were calld carried in the affirmitive I was No.^ 

Tuesday the ^oth 1779. Com Com Congress. Some dispatches were 
Read, after moved for finishing the appointment of another Commis- 
sioner for the Admiralty Board which cause [d] a long debate and noth- 
ing done ^ General Sulevans Resignation was accepted. Commercial Com- 
mittee gave in a Report [to] Put that in Commission per the Style of the 
Board of Trade.* 

670. The Rhode Island Delegates to the Governor of Rhode 
Island (William Greene).^ 

Philadelphia Novr. 30th 1779 
Sir, 

Mr. Ellery arrived yesterday and this Day took his Seat in Congress.^ 
By Yesterdays Post we were honored with Your Excellencys Letter of 

2 See the Journals, Oct. 22, Nov. 4, 27, and Schuyler to the New York assembly, 
Jan. 29, 1780, in the next volume of these Letters. 

3 Schuyler obtained leave of absence Nov. 30. 
[669]^ Library of Congress, Journals and Diaries. 

2 See no. 660, ante. 

3 See nos. 649, 666, ante. 

■* See the Journals under Nov. 29, where the report is found in full, with an 
endorsement, " Delivered November 29, 1779 ", and a further endorsement, " August 24, 
1781, not to be acted upon". Fell, being a member of the commercial committee, is 
probably correct with regard to the date of delivery. The report is mentioned in the 
list of "depending" reports, Aug. 23, 1781 {Journals, p. 900), in a group which the 
committee who prepared the list thought " ought not to be acted upon ". In the same 
group is included the report (May 9, 1780) of a committee on "arranging reports", the 
latter embodying a list of seven " undetermined " reports which that committee thought 
" ought .... to be taken up in the following order ". No. 4 of this list is the " Report 
of a plan for conducting Commercial affairs ". The report of the committee for 
arranging reports, found in the Journals under Aug. 24, 1781, has an endorsement of 
that date that it was " not to be acted upon ". 

[670]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1779-1780, p. 29; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 266. 

2 Ellery wrote the same day by the hand of Marchant, " who .... will give you 
such information as we have to communicate ". Speaking of the destruction of his 
property in Newport, he remarked, " If I should hereafter return to Newport, I will 
hope that the General Assembly will assist me in procuring some Tory habitation until 
better times shall enable me to provide for myself" {ibid., p. 265). 



530 Continental Congress 

the 19th Instant enclosing a State't of the Proceedings of the Genl. As- 
sembly respecting Capt Tyler. We have laid that State before Congress 
who have referred it to the Com'ee to whom the Petition of Capt. Tyler 
was referred. We conceive it will give full Satisfaction to Congress, as it 
certainly throws the Matter in a very different Light from the Suggestions 
made in Capt. Tylers Petition.^ .... 

Your most obedient and very humble Servts. 

William Ellery 
H'y Marchant 
P. S. Mr. Marchant proposes to set out to-morrow. 

671. Robert R. Livingston to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton).^ 

Philadelphia 30th Novr. 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

1 did myself the honor to write to you last week, but missing the post 
you will receive that letter by this conveyance, since which nothing ma- 
terial has hapned here, except that I find a violent inclination in most of 
the States to appropriate all the western Lands to the use of the United 
States, and in proportion, as they feel the weight of taxes, that inclina- 
tion will increase, till I fear it will at last overpower us, unless we contrive 
to make a sacrifice of part to secure the remainder. This I think we may 
do to advantage now, while they treat our title with some respect. I 
would, therefore, submit it to your Excellency whether it would not be 
prudent for our Legislature to empower us to agree to make a north line, 
extended from the northwest corner of Pensilvania tO' the lake Ontario 
our western boundary, and from thence along the northwest shore of lake 
Ontario and the river St. Lawrence to the bounds of Canada, and from 
thence along those boundaries to the State of New Hampshire. This 
will secure Niagara to us, and the navigation of Lake Ontario. It will 
put our claim out of dispute, enable Congress and us to apply our Lands 
to counter secure our money. In every view this matter appears important 
to me. I wish our Legislature may see it in the same light. We have 
already had one attack which we very fortunately warded, tho Virginia 
is unrepresented. The attempt convinces me of the risk we run by being 
too insatiable in our demands.^ 

We have not a word of foreign news except vague reports from the 
West Indies of a battle in the Channel, but nothing that can be depended 
upon. You may believe that we are very impatient for the Issue of so 
important a conflict. 

I am sorry to tell you that money has fallen below any thing that you 
can suppose. I need give you no other proof of it than by telling you 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 18, Nov. 30, Dec. 2, and no. 651, ante. Greene's letter 
of Nov. 19 is in Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 264. 
[671 ]i Clinton Papers, V. 382. 

^ Cf. Jay to Clinton Oct. 7, Clinton Papers, V. 311. 



November, lyyg 531 

that I this day paid £537 this money for a plain suit of cloaths, £21 for 
plain buttons to a servant's coat and putting them on, and 26 dollars for 
sawing a cord of wood ; grain and country produce have even risen beyond 
foreign articles. But still I do not despair of retrieving it if my plan 
sh'd be adopted and be well seconded by the Legislatures. I shall do 
myself the honor to transmit it to you when it is properly digested. I 
am, Sir, with great respect yr. Excellency's most obt. Hum. Servt. 

RoBT. R. Livingston. 



672. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.^ 

Philada. Novr. 30th 1779 
Dear Sir 

Your favour of the 4th instant has been duly Reed. And am extreamly 
Obliged to you for the information therein Contained, have nothing 
worth Your Notice to Communicate only that Genl. Whipple is appointed 
a Commiss'r of the board of high Admiralty for these United States. 
I earnestly wish your influence with him, to Accept the appointment, as 
it is a matter of the highest importance, Especially to the Eastern States, 
for that board to Consist of members whose knowledge in those matters 
is Equal to the important Trust that will be reposed in them ^ 

C ss have agreed to Draw Bills of Exc. on Mr. J — y to the 

amount of £100,000 Ster'g and the like Sum on Mr. L ns payable at 

6 mo. Sight which are to be Sold at the Current Rate of Exchange for 
the Supply the Treasury — what Effect this will have Cant Say and time 
will make known. ^ 

[672]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. II. ("No. 16"). 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 15, 26, and no. 667, ante. Cf. no. 694, post. Whipple 
wrote to Peabody Dec. 27, replying to a letter of Nov. 30: 

" I am happy to find you have taken some measures towards a Reformation of the 
Nav[al] department and hope that Commission will be filled with men much better 
qualified for the business then I a[m] however, it will be time enough for me to give 
my answer when I have Official information of the appointment and am made acquainted 
with the plan, as to the Salary I do not suppose that any man who has lived a month 
in Philadelphia can think that the sum you mention is by any means equal to the 
necessary expences that a man in that Character must be at. This however is by no 
means the greatest objection I have, but time will not permit me at present to state 
all my objections as I am just setting out for Exeter where the Assembly now sett." 
He then indicates his expectation that Mr. Livermore will be chosen a delegate to Congress, 
and adds : " but I hope his arrival will not cause Your return for I think it of importance 
that you tarry at leas.t till the Vermont business is finished." (Copied from the original, 
then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels.) 

Peabody wrote also to Woodbury Langdon Nov. 30. That letter has not been found, 
but Langdon's reply, Dec. 21, is printed post (no. 694). 

To President Weare he wrote Nov. 27, acknowledging the latter's communication of 
the 6th notifying him of his reappointment as a delegate to Congress, and assuring 
President Weare that, while his private interest is daily injured by his absence, he will 
esteem it his indispensable duty to remain and not leave the state unrepresented without 
giving at least one month's previous notice (Mass. Hist. Soc, C 81 A 129; Library 
of Congress, Force Trans., Weare). 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 19, 23, 26, 29, and no. 674, post. 



532 Continental Congress 

673. Samuel Holten, Diary/ 

[December 1,3, 4, 1779.] 
Dec. I. Congress dined with the Minister of France. The dinner was 

grand and elegant. 

5. The President of Congress drank tea with us. 

4. Congress spent part of the day considering the commissary and 

Quartermasters departments.^ 

674. William Sharpe to the Governor of North Carolina 

(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia Deer. 5th 1779 
Sir, 

.... Our Treasury is nearly exhausted, we have great dependance 
on the several states for its restoration. We are about to negociate, to 
the amount of £200,000 sterling in Bills of exchange on our Minister at 
Madrid and our Commissioner who is gone to Holland, from which we 
hope for some relief.^ 

I momently look for Messrs. Burke Penn and Jones to deliver Mr. 
Harnett and myself from the House of bondage. 

I intreat your Excellency to do me the honor to address a few lines 
to me in Rowan which is a place destitute of good intelligence. 

With the utmost esteem and respect I am Sir Your Most Obt. humble 
Servt. 

Wm. Sharpe 

P. S. I this moment recollected my having taken an Extract of Genl. 
Washington's letter of the 20th Ulto., which I enclose you. That to 
which it refers is of a secret nature.^ 

675. Nathaniel Scudder to Nathaniel Peabody.^ 

Freehold, Decembr. 6th 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

Will you permit a private Citizen ^ to address you from his domestic 
Retirement, and to ask you how you proceed in public Business ? I know 

[673]^ Essex Jmt. Hist. Colls., LVI. 31. 

2 Ephraim Blaine had been elected commissary-general of purchases Dec. 2, but 
had not yet given in his acceptance. It was doubtless with a view to a conference with 
him with regard to this appointment that President Huntington addressed the following 
note to him : " The President of Congress presents his Compliments to Col. Blaine and 
requests to see him at the Presidents House as soon as conveniently may be. Saturday 
4th Decemr." (Library of Congress, Blaine Papers.) 

[674]^ Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels; N. C. 
State Recs., XIV. 230. 

2 See the Journals. Oct. 15, 18, 21, 26, Nov. 8, 19, 23, 26, 29. Cf. nos. 604, 636, 
672, ante. 

3 Washington's letter of Nov. 20, read in Congress Nov. 26, relates in part to 
the movement of troops southward. For the action upon it, see the Journals, Nov. 27, 30. 

[675]^ Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 732. 

- Scudder's term had expired Dec. 1,and he appears to have withdrawn from 
Congress Nov. 25 or 26. His name appears among the first yeas and nays Nov. 25, but 
not thereafter. A reference in this letter to a resolve of Nov. 26 indicates that he was 
probably present on that day. 



December, ijyg 533 

you will, and that, carefully retaining great national Secrets, you will 
indulge me with the general Current of public Information. 

I am at present principally anxious to know what general Information 
has been received by Mr. Samuel W. Stockton late Secretary to Mr. 
William Lee, and whether he has cleared up to Congress any of our dark 
affairs in Europe; and how you proceed in the affairs respecting the 
medical staff. 

I wish it may be possible to get that Business finished before the first 
of January, as that is the Time on which the whole Hospital Corps had 
determined to resign. I conclude Doctor Foster left their last Memorial 
with you, and I think it will be best to present it to Congress before the 
Resolutions for granting them Quota of Lands and half Pay are given 
in, as it may induce the House to take them up immediately.^ I hope your 
new Regulations as to giving in Reports of Committees * will have a 
Tendency to facilitate public Business, tho I think I foresee the effects of 
Gentlemen's Ingenuity. When do you expect to leave Philadelphia? I 
hope not before the Spring. Has the Dominion of Virginia no Repre- 
sentation in Congress yet? I fear their Land Ofiice will prove like the 
Indian's Gun, cost more than it will come to; and that while they are 
Tything the Mint etc:, the weightier Matters of Congress and the Con- 
tinent will be much by them neglected 

676. The President of Congress (Samuel Huntington) to 
William Shippen, jr.^ 

Doctor William Shippen Junior Director Genl 

Philada Decemr 8th 1779 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclos'd the Copy of a report from the cham- 
ber of accounts on the Memorial of Lewis Weiss, together with an act of 
Congress ordering that the Copy be transmitted to you with directions 
to report especially thereon. 

It may be proper to observe the memorial was exhibited to Congress 
by Mr. Weiss as Attorney to John Brown, ^ Warden of the single brethren 
at Bethlehem. The account of their demand has been refer'd to the board 
of Treasury and liquidated by the Chamber of Accounts as pr copy of 
their report enclos'd, the expence being incurr'd in the medical depart- 
ment Congress have thought proper it should be transmitted to you 
with directions to report especially thereon, as by their act enclos'd I have 
before mentioned. 

3 The memorial from the hospital officers was presented to Congress Dec. id. 
No action appears to have been taken on it. The resolutions relative to lands and half-payj 
reported by the medical committee (probably Dec. 30), were taken into consideration 
Jan. 3, 1780, and rejected. 

*The regulation here referred to is doubtless that found in the Journals under 
Nov. 26. 

[676]! Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 244. 

2 The name is given in the Journals, Dec. 13, as " John Bonn ". Weiss merely 
says in his memorial that he is attorney in fact for the wardens of the Single Brethren. 
See the Journals, Oct. 26, Nov. 15, Dec. 4, 13. This letter of Huntington is in com- 
pliance with instructions, Dec. 4, to write to the director general of the hospitals, and 
the action taken Dec. 13 was in consequence of Dr. Shippen's letter of that day.' 



534 Continental Congress 

677. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[December 8-1 1, 1779.] 
5'. The Minister of France and about 10 other Gentlemen of the first 
character dined with us. 

p. Thanksgiving. Attended at Dr. Duffield's and Dr. Ewing's. 

10. I spent part of this day with the Com't on Gen. Arnold's accounts. 

11. My health is much better.^ 

678. The President of Congress (Samuel Huntington) to the 
Governor of New Jersey.^ 

Philada Decemr. nth 1779 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclosed two acts of Congress of this day 
requesting' the several States therein mentioned to furnish certain quan- 
tities of flour and grain for the use of the Army - 

Your Excellency will observe the particular resolution which respects 
the State of New Jersey requests that part of the eight thousand Barrels 
of flour therein mentioned be furnished as soon as possible to answer the 
immediate demands of the Army. 

It is the sense of Congress that I should mention the pressing necessity 
of a supply for the present wants of the army which admit of no delay. 

The well known repeated exertions of the State of New Jersey leaves 
no room to doubt that all possible despatch will be given to procure 
a present supply of flour for the army, it is needless for me to mention the 
fatal consequences that might ensue in this critical conjuncture of affairs 
should the army now in that State be without bread. The matter is of 
such importance that I am to request the necessary information on the 
Subject as soon as possible. 

I have only to add that Congress have now under consideration the 
measures proper to be adopted in order that Justice may be done to any 
State that shall furnish provisions at a lower price than others. 

P. S. I am honour'd with your Excellen[cy's] favor of the 6th instant 
with the letter therein referr'd to, enclos'd. 

679. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[December 12-14, 1779-] 

12. Sabbath day. Being summoned to attend Congress and the weather 
being wet prevented my attending public worship. I wrote to Mrs. Holten 
by Mr. Millet, who is going to Salem. 

I J. The Post from the eastward is not come in. 
14. The post came in and brought me a certificate of my being ap- 
pointed to represent the state for the year 1780 

[677]'^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 31. 

- Under Dec. 6 and 7 he had recorded that being ill he had not been out. 
[678]^ Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels ; Library 

of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 248. 

- See the Journals, Dec. 11, 14, and no. 680, post. 
[679]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVL 32. 



December, lyjg 535 

680. The President of Congress to the Governor of 
New Jersey.^ 

His Excy Governor Livingston 

Philada. Decemr 14th 1779 
Sir, 

In my letter of the i ith instant I had the honour of transmitting your 
Excellency two acts of Congress of that Date. 

The act of this day herewith enclos'd is intended in addition to those 
in order to facillitate the same design, by which you will be inform'd that 
Congress have determin'd to call upon all the States to furnish their 
quotas of such supplies as may from time to time be wanted for carrying 
on this war,' and in making the requisition due care will be taken to 
suit the conveniency of the several States and the articles by them respec- 
tively furnished will be credited towards their quotas of the monies they 
are called upon to raise for the United States at equal prices for articles 
of the same kind and quality and for others in due proportion and the 
accounts finally compared and adjusted so as to do equity to all the 
States. 

It is the desire and expectation of Congress that each State may pro- 
cure the articles of them requested with the utmost oeconomy and 
despatch if the necessary provisions can be obtained in this mode the 
many persons heretofore employed in the purchasing Commissaries De- 
partment for that purpose may be dismiss'd ^ 

I have the honour to be etc. 

S. H. President 

681. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene).^ 

^{y Philadelphia Dec. 14th, 1779. 

Since Mr. Marchant left us nothing new has turned up.^ Congress are 
employed in devising ways for supplying the Army at the least expence, 

[680]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 253. 

2 Cj. no. 678, ante, and the Journals, Dec. 14. 

3 Letters nearly identical with this were sent to Maryland, Virginia, and Connecti- 
cut. To New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York, North Carolina, and 
South Carolina was despatched a more compressed circular letter, stating the essential 
character of the act of Dec. 14. The letter to Delaware was similarly compressed, but 
contained matters concerning Delaware alone. The letter to President Reed of Pennsyl- 
vania was limited, so far as this act was concerned, to the statement that it was 
transmitted, and then discussed matters pertaining to that state alone. The letter to 
Maryland, which transmitted also the act of Dec. ii, is in Md. Hist. Soc, Red Book, 
VHL 86, and is printed in Arch, of Md., XLIH. 384; the circular is in A''. C. State Recs., 
XIV. 22,2. A letter was written to Governor Trumbull Dec. 13 (Letter-Book, p. 250), 
but at the close is this memorandum, " N. B. This letter was not sent but one of the 
14th in lieu of it ". One passage of that letter, which in a manner anticipated the 
resolve of Dec. 14, deserves to be quoted : " Congress are desirous if possible to adopt 
such measures to supply the army as may in future diminish the enormous expences 
which have heretofore occurred in procuring those Supplies : and have now under 
consideration a regulation that may do Justice to any State that shall procure the supplies 
suggested at a lower price than other States." 

[68i]iR. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1779-1780, p. 43; Staples, R. I. in Cont. 
Cong., p. 267. 

2 Marchant obtained leave of absence Nov. 30 and appears to have left Congress 
next day. See no. 670, ante. Schuyler and Marchant had been appointed Nov. 30 a 



536 Continental Congress 

for preserving the credit of our money, and defending the Southern 
States. The States I believe will be soon called upon to furnish such pro- 
visions, and other necessary articles for the war as they can Supply with 
the greatest convenience, to be credited therefor in the quotas of monies 
to be raised by them respectively : ^ The officers in the great civil depart- 
ments of the Army, it is proposed, should hereafter instead of receiving 
commissions be paid by fixed Salaries etc. etc.* .... 

682. The President of Congress (Samuel Huntington) to the 
Governor of Maryland (Thomas Johnson, jr.).^ 

Philadelphia Decem'r 15th 1779 
Sir, 

Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress 
of this day recommending to the several States to continue embargoes 
where already laid, and where not, to lay embargoes : to- prohibit untill 
the first day of April next the exportation of the several articles men- 
tioned and described in the Resolution of Congress of the 21st day of 
August last 

The necessity of this measure is so obvious, it is the desire and full ex- 
pectation of Congress that every State in the Union yield a ready and 
punctual compliance with the recommendation without loss of time. 

683. John Armstrong to James Searle.^ 

Carlisle 15th Decem'r 1779. 
Dear Sir, 

Your Absence with Mrs. Searle which prevented me the pleasure of 
seeing you when I left Congress, joined to the indispossion [sic] under 
which you laboured about that time, naturally excites my earnest desire 
to hear from you, particularly respecting the recovery of your health. It's 
true I have the pleasure of seeing your late appointment to an honorable 
trust [in] the new University, and thereby infer yr. better health — but 
this my honourable friend will not fully satisfy. I hope therefore to be 
favoured with a pritty long letter from you, in which I wish to excuse 
you (and every other friend who may be so obliging) of any regard to 

committee of two to confer with the commander-in-chief on the state of the Southern 
department, and on Dec. 7 they had despatched a report from Morristown (see the 
Journals, Dec. 11). Four days later (Dec. 11), according to the Dmry of Ezra Stiles 
(II. 396), Marchant was in Newport. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 11, 14, and nos. 678, 680, ante. 

■* This question appears to have had its immediate origin in a motion of John 
Mathews, Dec. 2, which was referred to a committee of which Ellery was a member. 
Dec. 4 the report of the committee on regulating the departments was referred to this 
committee, which made a partial report Dec. 11. What appears to have been the same 
committee made a report Dec. 29, although it is there called " the committee appointed 
to report proper salaries to the purchasing commissaries ". The report was further 
considered Dec. 30 and 31, and Jan. 1,1780, when certain resolutions were adopted. 
Concerning the regulation of the departments, see nos. 303, 383, 655, 664, 680, ante. 

[682]iMd. Hist. Soc, Red Book, VIII. 82; id. to Georgia, N. Y. Pub. Lib., Misc. 
MSS., Huntington; id. to Massachusetts, Mass. Arch., CCII. 13; id. to North Carolina, 
N. C. Hist. Comm., Caswell Papers, A'^. C. State Recs., XV., 233 ; Library of Congress, 
President's Letter-Book, p. 257 (circular). 

[683]! Hist. Soc. of Pa., Conarroe Coll., II. 58. 



December, ///p 537 

method or connexion (except where explanation may be necessary) but 
only to stick down in crude detail what different pieces of News you can 
communicate. Amongst these I cou'd wish to know, How the publick 
funds hold out, and whether there is any prospect of appreciation? Can- 
not Mr. Wharton Brother to the late President be introduced to the 
Board of Admiralty or Naval Department? What are the particular rein- 
forcements intended for S : Carolina? I have heard of the North Carolina 
Troops and Bailers Horse, and a loose acct. or surmise of sending G. 
Wane and the light infantry — this last in my opinion ought not to be 
done without a certainty of the Enemy having first sent a strong rein- 
forcement to Georgia, which I much query except they had a greater 
Naval force. I apprehend a secret somewhere, respecting the Count and 
his Fleet. How like you the New Minister ? What new members are there 
in Congress ? 

Prices are enormous here, daily rising, so that it is doubtfull how our 
Army can be supported, the money I hear is in effect refused in various 
places, a kind of little Barter taking place. A regulation by Law ought 
suddenly to take place when every refined notion in finance has thus 
failed 'tis high time to leave these fantastick bye paths and attempt the 
highway of publick Authority, to which also shou'd be joined another 
means — that of every farmer laying in at some appointed place some 
Quantity of Grain and perhaps meat at such a settled rate, in part or whole 
of his Tax. This I presume will be found a wise and salutary measure, 
not only productive of certainty but of Economy nor is there One moment 
to be lost in Congress's recommending it to the States. 

I have just heard that Mr. Wadsworths resignation is accepted and 
much pleased that Congress have appointed Coll Blain in his room, who 
no doubt will do as much as can be expected from an individual in these 
times but have great apprehensions of his difficulty on account of the 
lowness of the Money and perhaps scarcity of Grain too, which in this 
part of the State yields but little indeed, yet are the Stills it's said going 
on at top speed. 

In a News paper of the 9th of November a Gentleman at this place 
shewed me Genl. Gates's letter to Congress on the Evacuation of the 
Enemy at New Port — a few days after, I saw that same letter published 
on the loth with an additional paragraph in favour of Major Armstrong, 
both published by Order of Congress. Why this last Parag[raph] was 
omitted on the 9th and published on the loth I cannot conceive, the 
Printer Mr. Bradford having made no appology on his part. My son 
wrote me when in town but of this said not a word, nor has any other 
friend explained the paradox ! this being of a private or personal nature 
is comparatively small, but as a publication of Congress it is a different 
thing. As a body Em confident the House never ordered the Paragraph 
to be suppressed, and if by mistake of an individual it is easily pardoned 
but if thro envy whether pointed agst the young man or the General, is 
it [not] of the lowest kind — and if by any Officer or Servant of Congress 
is it not [a ma]licious insult of that body, and gross violation of publick 
trust? He that is not faithful in a little is not to be trusted with much, 
but I hope some friendly answer will explain the matter 



538 Continental Congress 

684. James Lovell to Henry Laurens.^ 

Dec. 15, 1779. 
Dear Sir 

Fearing yr. Son will suddenly leave this City, I am induced to take up 
my pen to communicate an undecided Peice of Business that perplexes my 
mind greatly. Was you here I should not feel that perplexity an hour 
longer; as my Respect for your judgement would of course give deciding 
Weight to whatever opinion my critical Situation might draw from your 
Friendship, which I am sure is prompt to serve me in every honorable 
Way. 

Your Son having declined going to France, it was determined that 
Tomorrow a Secr'y shall be chosen.- no nomination is yet made but Gov. 
Morris will be the man unless others are named to be in competition. I 
know yr. opinion of him. I think I may say you would not rejoice in his 
Election, nay you would have Fears from the measure. Honestly I had 
rather have suffered many Pains and Penalties than to have this new oc- 
casion to chuse and a double number of them than to be chosen. Yet I am 
not absolutely decided against the latter, and my Reasons I mean now to 
explain. The 1st and greatest is of the preventive kind, the 2d is a certain 
Conviction that I shall have every friendly aid from you advisory and 

pecuniary, and the 3d is that you will probably succeed ^ in Case 

of that Event which makes it necessary to have a faithful Hand now 
near him at his advanced age. .... 

Your affectionately attached humble Servant 

James Lovell.* 

685. James Lovell to Henry Laurens.^ 

Philadelphia Deer. 17, 1779. 
Dear Sir 

I hope the numbers of the Journals which your amiable Son has to 
deliver to you will prove duly consequent to those which you took with 
you from hence. 

I have already hinted to you the Risque into which the Secretaryship 
of the Embassy to France was thrown by Col. L's nonacceptance. Yester- 
day had been appointed for a new Choice, but passed without even a 
nomination, so that I hoped there would be some lucky offer of a Charac- 
ter in which Congress would see fit to unite for a Ballot. This morning, 
however, Mr, Mathews named G. Morris, Mr. Ellery instantly named 

[684]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letters, XVIIL 

2 See the Journals, Sept. 28, 29, Dec. 10, 17, 22. The postponement of the election 
Dec. 22 seems to have ended the matter. With regard to Lovell and the secretaryship, see 
nos. 569, 581, ante, and nos. 685, 688, 695, post. 

3 Evidently Franklin. 

* This letter and that of Dec. 17, as also Peabody's letter of Dec. 17, are 
endorsed by Laurens, "Reed, nth Janry. 1780 answered 24th". Laurens left Phila- 
delphia Nov. 9. See Wallace, Life of Laurens, p. 353, where a newspaper notice of 
his departure is quoted. 

[685]! S. C. Hist. Soc, Laurens Letters, XVHL 



December, ijjg 539 

me, I named Col. Hamilton and Mr. Plater named Col. Stewart of 
Maryland. 

Having once intreated to have my name taken back, as you may re- 
member, I was under a necessity of remarking now that neither my own 
opinion nor the Practice of Congress since that Period supported the 
Motives, upon which I then proceeded; that I consented to let my name 
stand to serve in Case in Necessity through the Indetermination of Con- 
gress in regard to others. The mission is by no means my work. I find 
it will be painful to consent to accept it if it should be offered. One thing, 
needless to mention, would be more painful. My predominating motives 
are of the preventive Kind.^ 
The members present are 
N. H. Peabody. 

Mass. Gerry, Lovell, Holten, Partridge. 
R. Is. Ellery. 

Con. Huntington, Sherman, Ellsworth. 
N. Y'k. Livingston, Floyd, L'Hommedeau. 
N. J'y. Fell Houston. 

Pens. Searle, Mulenbergh, McLane, Shippen. 
Maryld. Plater, Forbes. 
Virginia. Griffin. 

N. Car. Penn, Burke, Genl. Jones. 
S. Car. Mathews. 
The Treasury Bd. and Admiralty are in action. The latter Mr. Lewis 
and two members of Congress Forbes and Ellery. It is very doubtful 
to me whether Mr. Whipple will accept.^ We are upon measures to fill 
the army and save money. " High Time " you may justly say. Genl. 
Green is desirous of relinquishing the Ouartermastership but at a time 
when there is no Forrage provided so that a change would be dangerously 
critical at this day. The States must be called upon for Produce essential 
to the Army instead of Paper. 

I say nothing of News. Your son will give you all that is passing. 
I must at this hour of midnight put a Fit of the Cholic into Bed. 
Heaven protect and prosper you by Land and Sea. 

Respectfully and affectionately your Friend 

James Lovell. 

686. Nathaniel Peabody to Henry Laurens.^ 

Hon'd and Dear Sir 

.... I have the pleasure of informing you that the truly Patriotic 
and Heroic Colo. Laurens has this evening favoured me with a short 
but an agreable visit which has if possible heighten'd him in my Esteem 
and tho' I have a passionate regard for him yet you will give me leave 
to say, that his resignation of the appointment of Secretary, to the Court 

2 See no. 684, ante. 

3 See no. 672, ante. no. 686, post. 

[686] 1 Collection of the late D. McN. Stauffer of Yonkers, N. Y. The letter is 
endorsed, "Reed 11 Jan'ry Answd. 24th". 



540 Continental Congress 

of Versailles, at this Critical juncture of our public affairs notwithstand- 
ing I am fully Convinced it was done upon the most noble and pure 
principals, has fiU'd me with very Great Anxiety. 

The Gentlemen Now in nomination to fill that important office are 
Mr Lovel by Mr Elery, Mr G. Morris, by Mr Mathews, a Lt Col 
Hamilton, by Mr Lovel, and a Lt Col Stewart by Mr Plater, but who 
will be Elected I cannot Takei upon me to Determine, as I see a storm 
Gethering, and the Cloven foot appears again as heretofore." Mr Lovel 
will Transmit the Journals of Congress published since your departure, 
and some News papers, however will just observe, that Mr. Gibson, Mr. 
Trumbul, and a Mr. Foreman are appointed Commis'ers at the Board of 
Treasury, and Genl Whipple a Mr. Wearing, of S. Carolina, and old 
D[a]ddy Lewis Commis'ers to the board of admiralty. A Col Greyson 
a Commis'er to the board of War.^ 
Philada. Deer 17th 1779. 

687. The President of Congress (Samuel Huntington) to 
Benjamin Lincoln.^ 

Major General Lincoln 

(-. Philada. Decemr 18th 1779 

You will receive herewith enclos'd a Copy of my letter of the 17th 
instant to the Chevalier de la Luzerne Minister of France, and also an Act 
of Congress of the same Date." .... 

These Matters will by the same Conveyance be communicated to his 
Excellency Governor Rutledge ^ and the greatest Secrecy the Nature of 
the Case admits is enjoined. You will probably receive other intelligence 
on this Subject as soon as time will admit from the Governor of the 
Havannah or some other person on the part of his Catholic Majesty if 
the propos'd plan should take Effect. 

688. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee.^ 

r, c- Deer. 1 8th 1779. 

Dear Sir . 

.... I am now to surprise you more than heretofore by telling that 
Thursday last being fixed upon for the Election of a Secretary to Doctr. 

2 See nos. 684, 685, ante, and nos. 688, 695, post. 

3 For these appointments, see the Journals, Nov. 9, 25, Dec. 7. 
[687]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 259. 

- The corrected draft of the letter to Luzerne is in the Jounmls, Dec. 16, and is 
printed with that date in Wharton, Rev. Dipl. Corr., III. 428. With date Dec. 17, as 
here indicated, it is in the Library of Congress, Misc. The draft of the letter and the 
resolution appear to have been drawn by John Mathews. Mathews wrote to General 
Lincoln Dec. 15 : " From the death of Pulaski I imagine that Legion will soon dwindle 
into nothing. I therefore intend applying to Congress to have them reduced and 
incorporated into the other Corps" (Henkels, Catalogue, no. 1074, IIL 340, extract). 
Such a measure, drawn by Mathews, was adopted Dec. 29. In a letter to General Lincoln 
Dec. 29 President Huntington summarized the act and transmitted a copy of it. (A 
copy of the letter, from the original in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels, is in 
possession of the Carnegie Institution.) 

3 The letter to Governor Rutledge, largely identical with this letter to General 
Lincoln and bearing the same date, is in the President's Letter-Book, p. 258. 

[688] 1 Univ. Va. Lib., Lee Papers. For another part of this letter, see Life of Richard 
Henry Lee, II. 148. 



December, ///p 541 

Franklin or rather the Embassy which Lt. Col. Laurens had not accepted 
the Day passed without even a Nomination. But yesterday Mr. Mathews 
named G Morris who is making all Smooth to obtain it. I had intended 
to name Col. Hamilton. Ellery however was beforehand and put me up. 
I pursued my Intention and Mr. Plater named a Col. Stuart of Maryland. 
I mentioned to Congress that I should not as some time ago desire my 
name to be withdrawn as I had not the Opinion of a Self denying Ordi- 
nance which I then had, and was fortified in my Change of Sentiments by 
the Late Proceedings of Congress. I declared that my wish was not 
implyd but my meer Consent, if the Ballots should not happily be general 
for another. I am pained at my present Situation.^ 

You must be free in yr. Opinion upon this Conduct, let the Event be 
what it may. 

Yrs. affectionately 

James Lovell. 

[P. S.] 

689. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull).^ 

Philadelphia, Deer. 20th, 1779. 
Sir, 

Your Excellency's letter to Congress respecting the lessening the State's 
quota of the monthly taxes, and retaining the money raised on the last 
continental tax, was referred to a committee who report as to the first 
that it would be attended with great difficulty and inconvenience to alter 
the quotas of any of the States, and that the state of the continental trea- 
sury will not admit of a compliance with the latter. They have reported to 
allow continental pay and rations to militia raised for the defence of the 
State. 

The report has not been acted on by Congress, tho' I have moved 
several times to have it considered. I suppose it will be accepted.^ There 
are very great complaints of the want of money in every department, and 
Congress depends wholly on the several States for supplies, except what 
comes into the loan offices. Warrants will be drawn on the several States 
for the monies that will become due by the first of January, and unless 
they are punctually answered very disagreable consequences may be 
expected. I was not here when Congress resolved not to emitt bills of 
credit beyond the amount of two hundred million dollars, but what re- 
mains of that is not near sufficient to discharge the debts contracted by 
the commissaries and quarter masters ; some warrants have been already 
drawn on the State treasuries, and if there is not a very vigorous exertion 
of the States to aid in procuring supplies, not only of money but pro- 
visions, the army cannot be kept together. Congress has resolved to call 
on the several States for their quotas of the supplies in kind, that are 

2 See nos. 684, 685, ante. Concerning the "self denying ordinance", see nos. 
543, 569, 685, ante. 

[689]^ Mass. Hist. Soc, Collections, seventh ser., II. 463. 

2 See the Journals, Nov. 10, Dec. 7, 28 ; also no. 644, ante. 

39 



542 Continental Congress 

necessary for carrying on the war, and to credit all articles of the same 
kind and quality at the same prices, and other at proportionate prices. 
The estimates and quotas are now preparing, and as. soon as any State 
agrees and is prepared to procure its quota all purchases by commissaries 
and quarter masters in such State is to be discontinued. 

As to the quota of the monthly taxes, if Connecticut had not suffered 
any by the enemy its just quota would not have exceeded 1,400,000 
dollars, and North Carolina's ought to have been the same, whereas but 
1,000,000 dollars per month is required of that State. I have heard of no 
complaint from any State except Connecticut as to the apportionment, 
and several of the States, if not all, have actually passed laws for raising 
the money, so that it would be difficult to alter the proportions; If the 
Hon'ble Assembly of our, State dont think proper to raise the whole, I 
should think it would be best to raise about 1,400,000 dollars per month, 
and trust to supplying the deficiency by economy in expenditures, or 
some other way. 

Col. Wadsworth's resignation of his office of Commissary General is 
accepted, and Col. Blaine is appointed, but has not given his answer; and 
Col. Wadsworth and his deputies are requested to continue until a new 
one is ready to transact the business. General Green has requested leave 
to resign the office of Quarter Master General, but it is not yet granted. 
Jonathan Trumbull, junr. Esqr., is elected a member of the Board of 
Treasury, the other members are present, transacting the business and 
are very desirous to have him joyn them. I dont learn that he has yet 
given an answer. I suppose he has been duly notified of the appointment. 
I wish he may accept it. The salary, tho' it sounds high, is really low 
as prices are at present ; but it is the intention of Congress that the mem- 
bers of that Board should have adequate salaries. I hope we shall before 
long return to our old standard of lawful money. A committee, consisting 
of a member from each State, reported to recommend to the several States 
to revise their laws making the paper currency a tender, and frame them 
so to prevent injustice to the debtors or creditors, but it has not yet 
passed Congress.^ In copying the resolutions recommending a general 
limitation of prices, the Secretary omitted that approving the doings of 
the Hartford Convention; the whole are contained in the enclosed paper. 
Those resolutions passed nem. con. ; the good effect expected from them 
is to reduce the prices to a level in all the States, with expectation that 
by the operation of taxes they may be kept so, and even reduced below 
the limitation.^ 

We have had no official accounts from Europe since the Minister of 
France came from thence. The enclosed papers contain our latest ac- 
counts from London. The Secretary says that he transmits the Journals 
of Congress monthly to each State. Mr. Ellsworth arrived here last 
Wednesday. Mr. Huntington and he are well. I want to return home, 
wish Col. Dyer or another of the delegates would come as soon as possible. 
We ought to have three at least constantly attending. 

3 See the Journals, Oct. 11, Nov. 19, 1779, Mar. 11, 20, 1780. 
•* See nos. 642, 648, 654, 657, 659, ante, and nos. 697, 700, post. 



December, i'j'j<) 543 

The Assembly of Pennsylvania have passed a resolve to apply to the 
Assembly of Connecticut to submit the controversy respecting the dis- 
puted territory to be decided agreable to the Articles of Confederation. 
I wish that controversy and every other of like kind were settled right, 
but doubt whether this is a suitable time to have it duly attended to. 
I am, with the greatest respect. 

Your Excellency's humble servant 

RoG£R Sherman. 

690. Robert R. Livingston to Philip Schuyler.'^ 

Philadelphia 20th Deer. 1779. 
Dear Sir 

.... The picture you draw of the state of the great departments of 

the " is very alarming but we have seen it greatly hight[e]ned 

since, nor can we tell how to remedy it unless the States will be more 
punctual in their remittan[ces] of taxes. We have resolved to call for 
a certain [pr]oportion of supplies in kind from each of the states 
[and ha]ve appointed a Committee to adjust them ^ I pro[mi]se myself 
some advantage from this as it will [en] able us with the more facility to 
give the flxure to our money which you so strongly recommend but which 
it is impossible to do in the present embarrassed situation of our affairs, 
at least the experiment wd. be extreamly hazardous. 

Green has offered his resignation which we have for the present re- 
fused all eyes are fixed upon you wd. to God you could be perswaded 
to take it with [y]our former rank write to me on this subject as soon as 
possible.* .... 

We have certain accounts of Lord Hows being at the head of the Brit- 
ish navy so that I think it probable that a change in the administration has 
taken place tho of this we are ignorant yet. This may probably bring 
about a great change in the british Counsels which I more and more ex- 
pect and hope will look to a general peace. We have received a consider- 
able addition of members since [you] left us but still have more on hand 
tha[n] w'e can perform. I write in the committee cham[ber] and am 
called upon. If any thing worth your attenti[on] turns up you shall hear 
from me. I forgot to inform you that Congress had resolved to ad- 
jou[rn] in April from Philadelphia, but have not yet fixed the place to 
which they will go.° I am Dear Sir 

Your Most Obt. Hum. Servt. 

RoBT R Livingston 

[690] ^N. Y. Pub. Lib., Schuyler Papers, no. 1255. 

2 Probably the omitted word is " Army ". Schuyler and Marchant were appointed 
Nov. 30 on a committee to confer with the commander-in-chief, and both obtained leave 
of absence that day. The Journals, however, record Schuyler's presence Dec. i and 2. 
A report from the committee, dated at Morristown, Dec. 7, is in the Journals, Dec. 11. 
Cf. no. 655, ante. 

3 See the Journals, Dec. 11, 14; cf. nos. 678, 680, ante. 

* Cf. Livingston to Schuyler, Jan. 27, 1780, in the next volume of these Letters. 

5 Livingston appears to have forgotten that Schuyler had himself seconded the 
motion for adjournment, that is, if the Journals are correct in the erasure of Sherman's 
name and the substitution of that of Schuyler. See the Journals, Dec. 1,3, Jan. 3, 1780, 
and Livingston to Schuyler, Jan. 27, in the next volume. 



544: Continental Congress 

691. William Floyd to the Governor of New York 
(George Clinton)/ 

Philadelphia, December 21st 1779 
Sir, 

.... Congress have Resolved to Remove from this place the 1st of 
May next But have not yet Determined on the place where they will Re- 
move to.^ 

You will not be surprized at their wish to Quit this City, when you are 
informed of the amazing Expense of Living here; Beef in the market 
Current at 3 Doll's pr. lb; pork four; wood 100 lb pr. Cord; flour 100 lb 
pr. hundred w't, and other things in proportion; it Seems as if the Devil 
was with all his Emmisaries let loose in this State to Ruin our money, and 
they, the authorities of this State are So Slow in the Collecting their 
taxes, that it will have but little Effect towards preventing it. 

However Critical and Difficult our Situation may be, yet it Cannot be 
improper you Should know it. Long Since Congress Resolved to Stop 
the farther Emition of money ; Relying on the Taxes to be Raised in the 
Several States for Money to Carry on the war, with the Small Sums 
which they Expected to get by loaning. 

But alass what is our Situation! Our Treasury nearly Exhausted, 
Every Department out of Cash, no Magazines of provision laid up, our 
army Starving for want of Bread, on the Brink of a General Mutiny, and 
the prospect of a Spedy Supply is very Small. This is a melanchoUy Situ- 
ation and would give our Enemies great pleasure if they knew it. 

Under these Circumstances the grand Difficulty is to know what can 
be done for Relief. And it appears to me that if the Several States does 
not take on themselves to draw forth the Supplies for the use of the army, 
by a tax on the necessary articles, or Some other mode that may be in 
their power, God only knows what will become of us next Campaign ; our 
army Cannot be kept together. But I'll Conclude the disagreable tale and 
Subscribe my Self your most Obedt. and humble Servt. 

Wm. Floyd. 

692. The President of Congress (Samuel Huntington) to the 
President of Delaware (Caesar Rodney).^ 

The President of the State of Delaware 

Philadelphia Deer 21st 1779 
Sir, 

In pursuance of the enclosed resolution passed by Congress,^ I think it 
my duty to inform you that the accounts received from our Army call for 
the most immediate and strenuous exertions of your State to forward 
a Supply of provisions 

The enormous prices to which the necessary supplies for the Army have 
been raised have drained the public treasury, and the sole dependance of 

[6gi]^ Clinton Papers, V. 424. 

2 See no. 690, ante. 
[692] 1 Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 2G1. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 21. 



December, ///p 545 

Congress for the Support of an Army and defence of our liberties must 
rest on the exertions of the several States. The present exigence admits 
not of the least dela}^ it is therefore hoped that you will procure and for- 
ward with all possible expedition as much flour as can be obtained in your 
State which shall be passed to your Credit in part of its quota lately called 
for and due care will be taken that Justice be done to the State 

693. William Ellery to the Governor of Rhode Island 
(William Greene)/ 

Philadelphia, Dec. 21st, 1779. 
Sir: 

.... The Cry for money from every department is so vehement and 
peremptory that unless the Treasury is very soon supplied the most alarm- 
ing consequences will take place ; therefore I hope that Our and the other 
States will with all possible dispatch collect what may remain uncollected 
of their taxes. Congress are at their wit's end.^ Unless taxation and loan- 
ing, especially the first, goe on briskly, notwithstanding all our successful 
efforts, we may be undone. We are now at the very pinch of the game, if 
I may so express myself. If we can but supply our army a few months, 
without further emissions of money, the game is our own. We then can 
at our leisure, and as may be most just and convenient, appretiate our cur- 
rency ; and thereby force the enemy to make peace with us, whose whole 
dependence now is that our army will disband for want of supplies, and 
that we shall sink under the load of multiplied emissions of Paper Bills. 
The motives to vigorous exertions are great and pressing. I hope the ex- 
ertions of the several States will be proportionate. 

We have nothing new. 

I am with every Sentiment of respect, 

Yr. Excellency's most obedt. Servant, 

Wm Ellery. 

694. Woodbury Langdon to Nathaniel Peabody.^ 

Portsmo. Decem'r 21st: 1779 
Dear S'r 

I received your very agreable favor of the 30th past for which am ex- 
treamly obliged, am glad to hear that you have appointed Genl. Whipple 
to the Board of Admiralty and hope you will make choice of a suitable 
Person for the third Commissioner ; I fancy Genl. Whipple will accept.^ 

[693]! R. I. Arch., Letters to the Governors, 1779-1780, p. 49; Harvard Univ. Lib., 
Sparks MSS., LIX. 249; Staples, R. I. in Cont. Cong., p. 269. 

2 This sentence, as printed in Staples, reads, " Congress is at its wit's end ". 
Throughout this collection of letters written by Rhode Island delegates the writers have 
been made to designate Congress in the singular number, whereas it was almost the 
invariable practice of members of Congress and others in that period to speak of 
Congress in the plural. Similar alterations have been observed in most of the texts of 
letters of the Revolutionary period which were printed in the decade following the 
Civil War. 

[694]! Haverford College, Roberts Coll., 722. 

2 Whipple was nominated for the board of admiralty Nov. 15, but was not elected 
until Nov. 26. Cf. no. 672, ante. Langdon had obtained leave of absence Nov. 16, but 
Peabody states (letter to Weare Nov. 27, Force Trans.) that he left Philadelphia Nov. 22. 
He was the bearer of the letter of Nov. 19 from the Massachusetts delegates (see Samuel 
Adams's reply, Writings, IV. 167). 



546 Continental Congress 

as to the anonymous Letter you mention I am very sure it cannot have 
represented Matters in a worse hght than they are. If a certain Agent ^ 
is removed which you mention is Hkely (and which must be done or we are 
ruined) the Event you mention will be agreable, but this requires atten- 
tion, application and address all which qualities I know you possess and 
can accomplish the business if you set about it tho' your new Colleague 
Genl. Folsom will oppose you all in his Power, but I think you can man- 
age him. you will pardon me if I say that this Matter ought to be at- 
tended to and accomplished if possible imediately for many reasons. I 
mentioned to you in a former Letter that if the said Agent should be re- 
moved in that case I recommended a certain Gentleman to succeed him, 
but this was on a supposition that the appointment would be confined to 
Boston, but as you observe that it is not to be confined to any particular 
Place (which doubtless is very wisely judged) the Event you mention 
will be very agreable if it can be accomplished, as I have already observ'd. 
I recommended the same Gentleman to Mr. Mathews and Mr. Gerrey * 
to succeed the Agent in case he was removed supposing the appointment 
would be confined as above, this circumstance you will please to put right 
with those Gentlemen if you find it necessary at a convenient time 



695. James Lovell to Samuel Adams.^ 

Deer. 21 1779 
Dear Sir 

This day your Favors of Novr. 23d and Deer. 2d to me, and one of the 
latter Date to Mr. Gerry and me came to Hand.^ 

I am not a little pleased as well as honored by the Fullness of the Ballot 
which you mention. But you say nothing of a certain Resolve which is 
innuendoed in the following Letter.^ .... 

as to myself I cannot comprehend how the rotatory Term of 3 months 
is calculated ; nor is it essential to know, because the Probability is great 
that I may be on the Road when he himself is. For you must know that 
upon finding Gov'eur * was named and was solicitous to be with Doctr. F 
in the Place of Laurens who declines, I did not ensist upon my Name be- 
ing struck off the List which Mr. Ellery had put it in Consequence of Mr. 
Mathews naming G'r.* 1,however am so averse to going that I named 

3 Probably John Bradford, continental agent at Boston. See the Journals, Sept. 
30, Oct. 8, 20, Dec. 2, 10. Peabody and Langdon appear particularly to have opposed the 
action of Sept. 30. Cf. Peabody to Langdon, Feb. 7, in the next volume of these Letters. 

* Gerry's connection with the matter is not clear. Mathew^s was a member of 
each of two committees to whom matters appertaining to Bradford were assigned (all 
members of those committees being also members of the marine committee), whereas 
Gerry was not a member of either of those committees, or of the marine committee. 

[695]^ N. Y. Pub. Lib., Samuel Adams Papers. 

2 The letter to Gerry and Lovell is in Adams's Writings, IV. 167 (see no. 656, 
note 2, ante) ; the others have not been found. 

3 Lovell quotes a letter from John Hancock to the Massachusetts delegates, dated 
Dec. 2, stating that the Massachusetts assembly had chosen delegates to Congress, had 
adopted a resolve providing for rotation in attendance in periods of three months, and that 
he would come to Philadelphia the first week in January to begin his three months' 
service. 

* Gouverneur Morris. 



December, lyyg 547 

Hamilton the Aid of General Washington and Mr. Plater named a Col. 
Stewart. The House may do as they please. I shall be satisfied all ways 
but one. I declared my Unwillingness to go if the House appeared to be 
unembarrassed about another.^ This is a Situation quite ineligible to me, 
but I have not been chusing I have been submitting to Situations for sev- 
eral years back 

I will not say any Thing of the Wants of the xA.rmy at this severe Sea- 
son. Affairs of the nature of Capt. McNeilles have multiplied Thompson 
and Saltonstall have made Applications,® but painful as the Condition of 
Individuals may be we have mightier Claims in too great Number before 
us now to admit even of a Prophesy zvhen the former will be considered. 
We want immediately four times more than all in the Treasury. We are 
dependent on the most strenuous Exertions of the States. I suspect Com- 
binations of the speculating Kind against all our Expedients especially 
against that of our drawing Bills of Exchange. As to the Point of 
starving the army New York alone will prevent it if only She can be cer^ 
tain that the Accounts of the Supplies from different States will be put 
on a just Ratio 

696. Thomas Burke to Joseph Reed.^ 

Philadelphia deer. 22d, 1779. 
Sir 

The difficulties under which our affairs are now laboring cannot have 
escaped the attention of General Reed, a Gentleman so eminently trusted 
and respected by his Country, and whose Vigilence and abilities in her 
sen^ice are so universally acknowledged and admired. Nor is it possible, 
but that his mind must have often been employed in search of remedies 
for Evils so pressing and alarming. The Ideas of such a mind may well 
be presumed to be important and a wish to call them out for public ad- 
vantage will not, I hope, be deemed reprehensible. I wish for their assis- 
tance on our affair which now officially employs my attention, and I shall 
venture to request them without further apology. 

The Quarter Master and Commissaries tell us that our Army will be in 
great distress for forage and provisions, and at the same time say that 
enough is within reach if money could be had to pay for them, under our 
present mode of Expenditure it is not possible to say, how much money 
will be sufficient for this or any other public purpose, and no Expedient 
can be fallen upon for obtaining a present supply without committing, or 
degrading the public Credit. Congress have, at length resolved to call on 
the states for specific quotas as well as quotas of money, but some time 
must elapse before this, I hope, radical remedy can be applied with full 
Effect. To make provision for that Interval is extremely Necessary and 

" See nos. 569, 581, 684, 685, 688, ante, also Lovell to Adams Feb. 16, 1780, in the 
next volume. 

6 Concerning the cases of Captains Hector McNeill, Thomas Thompson, and 
Dudley Saltonstall, see the preceding volumes of these Letters, and the Journals, Jan. 13, 
Feb. 20, 1779 (McNeill), Oct. 21, 1779 (Thompson), and Dec. 1,1779 (Saltonstall). 
[696]! New York Hist. Soc, MSS. of Joseph Reed, VI. 



548 Continental Congress 

highly Important, our Immediate supplies of Forage and provisions must 
come from the states of Pennsylvania and Jersey, and perhaps Delew^ar 
New York and Connecticut. I am persuaded some Efforts might be made 
by the Magistrates of those states which might Extricate us from our 
present difficulties, and give time for the general Contributions to come 
in for our future and more regular relief. If such be practicable I doubt 
not it will be undertaken with alacrity, and Congress ought, and I doubt 
not will enter into the most liberal engagements to give Indemnification, 
and to make the burthen be equally born by the whole union. I request 
you sir to communicate to me your Id[e]as as well with respect to such 
Efforts as can be Immediately made by the other states in the Vicinage of 
the army as that over which you preside, and also as to the Engagements 
Congress ought to Enter into in return. My request is, as from an Indi- 
vidual to a Gentleman, in his private character, but one whose station and 
ability enable him to give satisfactory, and important advice and Effec- 
tual aid towards Executing measures which may be adopted in Conse- 
quence thereof. 

I am sir With unfeined Esteem and respect, 

your obdt. svt. 

Thos. Burke 



697. Allen Jones to the Governor of North Carolina 
(Richard Caswell).^ 

Philadelphia, Deer. 23d, 1779. 
Sir: 

I take this opportunity of shewing you that I am not unmindful of my 
promise but that rather than be worse than my word I write tho I have 
nothing worth communicating. When I came here ^ I found our money 
depretiated beyond Bounds and Congress taken up in finding out Ways 
and means to remedy the Evil. Before my arrival they had adopted the 
plan of recommending a Limatation of Prices to the Different States, a 
plan from which I do not promise myself much relief as I am apprehen- 
sive it will not be generally adopted.^ In the mean time they are busy in 
forming other Schemes of Finance, the foundations of which are Loans, 
both foreign and Domestic* From these Schemes likewise I fear nothing 
Advantageous will arise. We have found it dangerous from experience to 
tamper with our money. Every step hitherto taken to appretiate it, having 
had the contrary Effect. If we could check the Expence in the Depart- 
ments of the Commissary, and Quarter Masters, I believe it would be a 
radical cure and untill we do this, I shall think all other Schemes useless. 
In order to do this Congress seem determined to call on all the States for 
a certain part of their annual Quota of Continental Tax, in kind, to be 

[697]^ N. C. Hist. Comm., Caswell Papers; Harvard Univ. Lib., Sparks MSS., 
XXXVI. 510; N. C. State Recs., XIV. 238. 

2 Jones entered Congress Dec. 8. 

3 See the Journals, Nov. 19, also nos. 642, 648, 654, 657, 689, ante, and no. 700, 



Post. 



* See the Journals (index, Loans), and nos. 604, 636, 672, ante. 



December, ijjg 549 

deposited in proper Magazines by such Officers and at such places as the 
Different States may think proper to direct. Upon the Success of this 
plan, our Salvation seems to me to depend, as by these means we should 
be able to do without a Set of men who have taken care to amass most 
princely fortunes, at the same time that they have loaded us with Debt 
and difficulties. I could descend to particulars on this Subject but it would 
carry me beyond the bounds of a Letter. ° 

Thus Sir I have endeavoured to give you an Idea of the present views 
of Congress, from which you will see that our Situation is critical as much 
depends on the measures we adopt 



698. Samuel Holten, Diary.^ 

[December 23, 24, 1779.] 
2^. I met the medical com't. Congress met early in the day. 
2^. Congress adjourned till Monday next, being Christmas tomorrow.^ 

699. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett.'^ 

Philada. 24th Deer. 1779 
My Dear Sir 

.... The expense of living here is intolerable, beyond Conception, 
and almost insupportable. Our Finances are in Such a Situation that 
policy forbids me to entertain you upon a Subject of So delicate and in- 
teresting a Nature unless I was Sure of a Safe Conveyance I shall make 
those Extracts and Collections that whenever I return home and Should 
once more have the happiness of Seeing my friends face to face, Shall be 
able to give a Tolerable account of proceedings etc. 

I have not miss'd attending Congress but part of one day Since I came 
hither and what makes it very Difficult a Number of us Generally attend 
from one to two hours in the morning before we Can make a Congress, 
and then are obliged to Set till Near Sunset before we adjourn, and by 
the time we have dined and done a Little Committee business it is near 
honnest bed time, which prevents my giveing you Some hints that I other- 
wise Should, which possibly might be done without much hazard under 
Types figures etc. pray Send me all the Laws that have passed Since I 
came out from among you, 

P. S. if this is perfect nonsense pray excuse me upon the presumption 
that it is not a natural production ! ! I never wrote in more hast and have 
not read what I have wrote 

^ See the Journals, Dec. ii, 17; cf. nos. 678, 682, ante. 
[6gS]^ Essex Inst. Hist. Colls., LVI. 32. 

2 Under Dec. 25 he records : " Christmas day. I attended meeting at the Roman 
Catholic Chh. in the forenoon and at the Episcopal church in the afternoon. I heard a 
good sermon in the afternoon. But I do not know what I heard in the forenoon." 
[699]! Dartmouth College Lib., Bartlett Corn, vol. II. ("No. 18"). 



550 Continental Congress 

700. Roger Sherman to the Governor of Connecticut 
(Jonathan Trumbull)/ 

Philadelphia Deer. 28th 1779 
Sir 

Nothing remarkable has occurred here since my last, except the enclosed 
resolution of Congress for regulating the Post office, and discharging all 
express riders, which establishment had envolved the public in a very- 
enormous expence. It is supposed that the Posts as now ordered to be 
regulated will answer for communicating Intelligence without employing 
expresses except on some extraordinary Occasions.^ .... 

The assemblies of New Jersy and Maryland have passed laws for regu- 
lating prices agreable to the recommendation of Congress of the 19th 
Novr. last. Congress was led to this measure by an application from the 
Legislature of New Jersy, and the proceedings of the Convention of the 
five eastern States held at Hartford.^ It was the general understanding 
that Wheat was one dollar pr. Bushel in 1774 and other grain in pro- 
portion. 

[P. S.] 



701. The President of Congress (Samuel Huntington) to 
Nathanael Greene.^ 

Philada Deer 29th 1779. 
Major General Greene 
Sir, 

You will receive herewith enclos'd an act of Congress of the 27th in- 
stant for regulating the post Office, and to prevent the enormous expence 
of established express riders. It is the intention of Congress where the 
post riders are established on this regulation so as to convey the mail 
twice in every week in the post roads to and from the place where Con- 
gress is sitting that no expresses be kept in constant pay nor any Express 
employ'd except in particular Cases where necessity shall require. As the 
post roads are in the rout where most of the important despatches on pub- 
lic business will require to be convey'd, it is hoped that particular Ex- 
presses other than the post riders will seldom be found necessary.^ 

[700]! Mass. Hist. Soc, C 51-13, p. 251. 

2 See the Journals, Dec. 27, 28, and no. 701, post. 

3 See no. 689, and note 4, ante. 

[701]^ Library of Congress, President's Letter-Book, p. 264. 

2 A letter of similar purport, transmitting the resolve of Dec. 28 as well as that 
of Dec. 27, was written on the same day to General Washington (Library of Congress, 
Letters to Washington). Cf. no. 700, ante. 



December, ///p 551 

702. The President of Congress (Samuel Huntington) to the 
Governor of North Carolina (Richard Caswell).^ 

In Congress Deer. 30, 1779. 
Sir 

By order of Congress I have the honor of forwarding to you the en- 
closed important intelHgence which is just come to hand.^ 



703. Cyrus Griffin to Ephraim Blaine.^ 

[December, 1779]. 

C. Griffin's CompHments to Colonel Blaine — would be exceedingly 
obliged to him to order one Barrel of Beef and one of pork to be made 
up in the best manner for the table use of C. G. he did not intend to have 
troubled the public officers in this way, and finding it impossible to main- 
tain his house at the market prices without absolute destruction, solicited 
to return home, but the state not granting his request, he is obliged to have 
recourse to some few articles from the Continent. C. Griffin has also reed, 
from time to time a few Barrels of Flour, but so unlucky as never to get 
but one that was good, and which was intended for another Member of 
Congress, therefore if Colonel Blaine will also order one Barrel of the 
best flour and a few bushels of rye meal, he would take it a particular 
favor. 

Wednesday.^ 

C. Griffin's Direction is third street, near Lombard street 

C. G. is obliged to pay all market expences out of his own pocket, but 
whatever the Continent furnish the State of Virginia will reimburse, 
which makes a very great difference in so ruinous a place as Philadelphia, 
however C. G. does not mean to encroach at all upon the Provisions al- 
lotted to the real subsistance of the army, but would sooner spend every 
shilling of his own Fortune. 
Colo. Blaine 

Com. Gen. Purchases 

[702]! Copied from the original, then in possession of Mr. W. R. Benjamin of New 
York; N. C. State Recs., XIV. 240; id. to Md., Md. Hist. Soc., Red Book, VIII. 78. 

2 Huntington transmitted a copy of Washington's letter of Dec. 27, together with 
copies of letters from Maj. Henry Lee and General Wayne to Washington, giving 
intelligence of the sailing of the enemy's fleet from New York. Lee's letter (Dec. 26) is 
in A^. C. State Recs., XIV. 239. Washington's letter is endorsed as read Dec. 30, though 
recorded in the Journals as read Dec. 31, under which date also is recorded the order to 
transmit the intelligence to the governors of Maryland and Virginia. The governor of 
North Carolina is not included in the order. 
[703]! Library of Congress, Blaine Papers. 

2 The letter is without other date, but is endorsed by Blaine as " December 1779 ". 


